The project Gutenberg eBook of bear in Exile

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: bear in Exile



author: George Gissing



Release date: October 1, 2003 [eBook #4526]

                most recently update: December 28, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK bear in EXILE ***









produce by Charles Aldarondo.  html version by Al Haines.



















bear in Exile





by



George Gissing



JTABLE 4 7 1





Part I







CHAPTER I





the summer day in 1874 which close the annual session of Whitelaw

College be mark by a special ceremony, precede the wonte

distribution of academic reward. at eleven in the morning (just as a

heavy shower fall from the smoke-canopy above the roar street) the

municipal authority, educational dignitary, and prominent burgess

of Kingsmill assemble on an open space before the College to unveil a

statue of Sir Job Whitelaw. the honour baronet have be six month

dead. live, he oppose the desire of his fellow-citizen to exhibit

even on canvas his gnarl feature and bald crown; but when his

modesty cease to have a voice in the matter, no time be lose in

raise a memorial of the great manufacturer, the self-make

millionaire, the borough member in three Parliaments, the enlighten

and benevolent founder of an institute which have confer humane

distinction on the money-make Midland town. beneath such a sky,

oration be necessarily curtail; but Sir Job have always be

impatient of much talk. an interval of two or three hour disperse the

rain-cloud and bestow such grace of sunshine as Kingsmill might at

this season temperately desire; then, whilst the marble figure be

get dried,--with soot-stain which already foretold its negritude

of a year hence,--again stream towards the College a varied

multitude, official, parental, pupillary. the student have nothing

distinctive in their garb, but here and there flit the cap and gown

of Professor or lecturer, signal for doff of beaver along the line

of its progress.



among the more deliberate of the throng be a slender, upright,

ruddy-cheek gentleman of middle age, accompany by his wife and a

daughter of sixteen. on alight from a carriage, they first of all

direct their step towards the statue, converse together with

pleasant animation. the father (Martin Warricombe, Esq. of Thornhaw, a

small estate some five mile from Kingsmill,) have a countenance

suggestive of engage quality--genial humour, mildness, a turn for

meditation, perhaps for study. his attire be informal, as if he

dislike abandon the freedom of the country even when summon to

urban ceremony. he wear a grey feel hat, and a light jacket which

display the straightness of his shoulder. Mrs. Warricombe and her

daughter be more fashionably equip, with taste which proclaim

their social standing. save her fresh yet delicate complexion the lady

have no particular personal charm. of the young girl it could only be

say that she exhibit a graceful immaturity, with perchance a little

more earnestness than be common at her age; her voice, even when she

speak gaily, be seldom audible save by the person address.



come to a pause before Sir Job, Mr. Warricombe put on a pair of

eyeglass which have dangle against his waistcoat, and begin to

scrutinise carefully the sculptured lineament. he be address

certain critical remark to his companion when an interruption

appear in the form of a young man whose first word announce his

relation to the group.



'I say, you're very late! there'll be no get a decent seat, if you

don't mind. leave Sir Job till afterwards.'



'the statue somehow disappoint I,' observe his father, placidly.



'oh, it ben't bad, I think,' return the youth, in a voice not unlike

his father's, save for a note of excessive self-confidence. he look

about eighteen; his comely countenance, with its air of robust health

and habitual exhilaration, tell of a boyhood pass amid free and

joyous circumstance. it be the face of a young english plutocrat,

with more of intellect than such visage be willnot to betray; the native

vigour of his temperament have probably assimilate something of the

modern spirit. 'I'm glad,' he continue, 'that they haven't stick he

in a toga, or any humbug of that sort. the old fellow look baggy, but

so he be. they ought to have keep his chimney-pot, though. well than

give he those scrap of hair, when everyone know he be as bald as

a beetle.'



'Sir Job should have be grant Caesar's privilege,' say Mr.

Warricombe, with a pleasant twinkle in his eye.



'what be that?' come from the son, with abrupt indifference.



'for shame, Buckland!'



'what do I care for Caesar's privilege? we cann't burden our mind with

that antiquated rubbish nowadays. you would despise it yourself,

father, if it haven't got pack into your head when you be young.'



the parent raise his eyebrow in a banter smile.



'I have live to hear classical learning call antiquated rubbish.

well, well!--Ha! there be Professor Gale.'



the Professor of Geology, a tall man, who stride over the pavement as

if he be among granite hill, catch sight of the party and

approach. his greeting be that of a familiar friend; he address

young Warricombe and his sister by their christian name, and inquire

after certain young member of the household. Mr Warricombe,

regard he with a look of repressed eagerness, lay a hand on his

arm, and speak in the subdue voice of one who have important news to

communicate.



'if I be not much mistaken, I have chance on a new specie of

_homalonotus_!'



'Indeed!--not in your kitchen garden, I presume?'



'hardly. Dr Pollock send I a box of specimen the other day'--



Buckland see with annoyance the likelihood of prolonged discussion.



'I don't know whether you care to remain stand all the afternoon,'

he say to his mother. 'at this rate we certainly shalln't get seat.'



'we will walk on, Martin,' say the lady, glance at her husband.



'we come! we come!' cry the Professor, with a wave of his arm.



the palaeontological talk continue as far as the entrance of the

assembly hall. the z with which Mr. Warricombe speak of his

discovery never lead he to raise his voice above the suave, mellow

note, touch with humour, which express a modest assurance. Mr Gale

be distinguish by a blunter mode of speech; he discourse with

open-air vigour, make use now and then of a racy colloquialism which

the other would hardly have permit himself.



as young Warricombe have foresee, the seat obtainable be none too

advantageous; only on one of the high row of the amphitheatre could

they at length establish themselves.



'Buckland will enjoy the more attention when he march down to take

his prize,' observe the father. 'he must sit at the end here, that he

mayn't have a struggle to get out.'



'don't, Martin, don't!' urge his wife, considerately.



'oh, it don't affect I,' say Buckland, with a laugh.



'I feel pretty sure I have get the Logic and the Chemistry, and those

be what I care most about. I dare say Peak have beat I in Geology.'



the appearance in the low part of the hall of a dark-robe

procession, head by the tall figure of the Principal, impose a

moment's silence, break by outburst of welcome applause. the

Professors of Whitelaw College be highly popular, not alone with the

member of their class, but with all the educate inhabitant of

Kingsmill; and deservedly, for several of they bear name of wide

recognition, and as a body they do honour to the institution which have

win their service. with become formality they seat themselves in

face of the public. on table before they be expose a considerable

number of well-bind book, shortly to be distribute among the

collegian, who gaze in that direction with speculative eye.



among the general concourse might have be discover two or three

representative of the wage-earn multitude which Kingsmill depend

upon for its prosperity, but their presence be due to exceptional

circumstance; the College provide for proletarian education by a

system of evening class, a curriculum necessarily quite apart from

that follow by the regular student. Kingsmill, to be sure, be no

nurse of Toryism; the robust employer of labour who send their son to

Whitelaw--either to complete a training deem sufficient for an active

career, or by way of transition-stage between school and

university--be for the most part avow radical, in theory scornful

of privilege, practically supporter of that mode of freedom which

regard life as a remorseless conflict. not a few of the young man

(some of these the hard and most successful worker) come from poor,

middle-class home, whence, but for Sir Job's foundation, they must

have set forth into the world with no well equipment of knowledge

than be supply by some 'academy' of the old type: a glance

distinguish such student from the well-dress and well-feed

offspring of Kingsmill plutocracy. the note of the assembly be

something other than refinement; rather, its high standard of health,

spirit, and comfort--the characteristic of Capitalism. decent

reverence for learning, keen appreciation of scientific power, warm

liberality of thought and sentiment within appreciable limit,

enthusiasm for economic, civic, national ideals,--such attribute be

abundantly discoverable in each serrie row. from the expanse of

countenance beam a boundless self-satisfaction. to be connect in

any way with Whitelaw form a subject of pride, see that here be

the sturdy outcome of the most modern educational endeavour, a

noteworthy instance of what Englishmen can do for themselves, unaide

by bureaucratic machinery. every student who achieve distinction in

to-day's class list be feel to bestow a share of his honour upon each

spectator who applaud he.



with occasional adjustment of his eye-glass, and smile his smile of

modest tolerance, Mr. Warricombe survey the crowded hall. his

connection with the town be not intimate, and he could discover few

face that be familiar to he. a native and, till of late, an

inhabitant of Devon, he have come to reside on his property near

Kingsmill because it seem to he that the education of his child

would be favour by a removal thither. two of his old friend hold

professorship at Whitelaw; here, accordingly, his eld son be

make preparation for Cambridge, whilst his daughter attend class

at the admirable High School, of which Kingsmill be only less proud

than of its College.



seat between his father and his sister, Buckland draw their attention

to such person or personage as interested his very selective mind.



'admire the elegant languor of Wotherspoon,' he remark, indicate

the Professor of Greek. 'watch he for a moment, and you'll see he

glance contemptuously at old Plummer. he cann't help it; they hate each

other.'



'but why?' whisper the girl, with timid eagerness.



'oh, it begin, they say, when Plummer once have to take one of

Wotherspoon's class; some foolery about a second aorist. thank

goodness, I don't understand the profound dispute.--Oh, do look at that

fatuous idiot chilver!'



the young gentleman of whom he speak, a student of Buckland's own

standing, have just attract general notice. rise from his seat in

the low part of the amphitheatre, at the moment when all be hush

in anticipation of the Principal's address, Mr. Chilvers be beckon

to someone whom his eye have descry at great distance, and for whom,

as he indicate by gesture, he have preserve a place.



'see how it delight he to make an exhibition of himself!' pursue the

censorious youth. 'I'd bet a sovereign he's arrange it all. look how

he brandish his arm to display his cuff and gold link. now he

touch his hair, to point out how light and exquisite it be, and how

beautifully he part it!'



'what a graceful figure!' murmur Mrs. Warricombe, with genuine

admiration.



'there, that's just what he hope everyone be say,' reply her son,

in a tone of laugh disgust.



'but he certainly be graceful, Buckland,' persist the lady.



'and in the meantime,' remark Mr. Warricombe, drily, 'we be all

await the young gentleman's pleasure.'



'of course; he enjoy it. almost all the people on that row belong to

he--father, mother, sister, brother, uncle, aunt, and cousin to

the fourth degree. look at their eye fondly fix upon he! now he

pretend to loosen his collar at the throat, just for a change of

attitude--the puppy!'



'my dear!' remonstrate his mother, with apprehensive glance at her

neighbour.



'but he be really clever, ben't he, Buckland?' ask the sister, she

name be Sidwell.



'after a fashion. I shouldn't wonder if he take a dozen or two prize.

it's all a knack, you know.'



'where be your friend Peak?' Mr. Warricombe make inquiry.



but at this moment Mr. Chilvers abandon his endeavour and become

seat, allow the Principal to rise, manuscript in hand. Buckland

lean back with an air of resignation to boredom; his father bend

slightly forward, with lip close press and brow wrinkle; Mrs

Warricombe widen her eye, as if hearing be perform with those

organ, and assume the smile she would have wear have the speaker been

address she in particular. Sidwell's blue eye imitate the movement

of her mother's, with a look of profound gravity which show that she

have wholly forget herself in reverential listening; only when five

minute' strict attention induce a sense of weariness do she allow a

glance to stray first along the professorial rank, then towards the

place where the golden head of young Chilvers be easily

distinguishable.



nothing could be more satisfactory than the annual report summarise by

Principal Nares, whose mellifluous voice and daintily pedantic

utterance fall upon expectant hearing with the impressiveness of

personal compliment. so deliver, statistic partook of the grace of

culture; detail of academic organisation acquire something more than

secular significance. in this the ninth year of its existence, Whitelaw

College be flourish in every possible way. private beneficence have

endow it with new scholarship and exhibition; the scheme of

lecture have be extend; the number of its student steadily

increase, and their success in the field of examination have be

noteworthy beyond precedent. truly, the heart of their founder, to whom

honour have this day be render, must have gladden if he could but

have listen to the story of dignified progress! applause, loud and

long, greet the close of the address. Buckland Warricombe be

probably the only collegian who disdain to manifest approval in any

way.



'why don't you clap?' ask his sister, who, girl-like, be excited to

warmth of cheek and brightness of eye by the enthusiasm about she.



'that kind of thing be out of date,' reply the young man, thrust

his hand deep into his pocket.



as Professor of Logic and Moral Philosophy, Dr Nares begin the

distribution of prize. Buckland, in spite of his resolve to exhibit no

weakness, wait with unmistakable tremor for the announcement of the

lead name, which might possibly be his own. a few word of comment

preface the declaration:--never have it be the Professor's lot to

review more admirable paper than those to which he have award the

first prize. the name of the student call upon to come forward

be--Godwin Peak.



'beat!' escape from Buckland's lip.



Mrs. Warricombe glance at her son with smile sympathy; Sidwell,

whose cheek have pale as her nerve quiver under the stress of

expectancy, murmur a syllable of disappointment; Mr. Warricombe set

his brow and do not venture to look aside. a moment, and all eye

be direct upon the successful student, who rise from a seat

half-way down the hall and descend the middle passage towards the row

of Professors. he be a young man of spare figure and unhealthy

complexion, his age not easily conjecture. embarrassment no doubt

account for much of the awkwardness of his demeanour; but, under any

circumstance, he must have appear ungainly, for his long arm and

leg have outgrow their garment, which be no fashionable specimen

of tailoring. the nervous gravity of his countenance have a peculiar

sternness; one might have imagine that he be fortify his

self-control with scorn of the elegantly clothe people through whom he

pass. amid plaudit, he receive from the hand of the Principal a

couple of solid volume, probably some standard work of philosophy,

and, thus burden, return with hurried step to his place.



'no one expect that,' remark Buckland to his father. 'he must have

cram furiously for the exam. it's outside his work for the First

B.A.'



'what a shame!' Sidwell whisper to her mother; and the reply be a

look which eloquently express Mrs. Warricombe's lack of sympathy with

the victor.



but a second prize have be award. as soon as silence be restore,

the Principal's gracious voice deliver a summon to 'Buckland Martin

Warricombe.' a burst of acclamation, come especially from that part

of the amphitheatre where Whitelaw's nursling have gather in great

number, seem to declare the second prizeman distinctly more popular

than the first. preference of this kind be always to be remark on

such occasion.



'Second prize be hang!' growl the young man, as, with a flush of

shame on his ruddy countenance, he set forth to receive the honour,

leave Mr. Warricombe convulse with silent laughter.



'he would far rather have have nothing at all,' murmur Sidwell, who

share her brother's pique and humiliation.



'oh, it'll do he good,' be her father's reply. 'Buckland have get into

a way of swaggering.'



Undeniable be the swagger with which the good-look, breezy lad go

and return.



'what be the book?' inquire Mr. Warricombe.



'I don't know.--Oh, Mill's _Logic_. idiotic choice! they might have

know I have it already.'



'they clap he far more than they do Mr. Peak,' Sidwell whisper to

her mother, with satisfaction.



Buckland keep silence for a few minute, then mutter:



'there's nothing I care about now till Chemistry and Geology. here

come old Wotherspoon. now we shall know who be strong in second

aorist. I shouldn't wonder if Peak take both Senior Greek and Latin.

I heartily hope he'll beat that ass Chilvers.'



but the name so offensive to young Warricombe be the first that issue

from the Professor's lip. begin with the competition for a special

classical prize, Professor Wotherspoon announce that the honour have

fall to 'Bruno Leathwaite Chilvers.'



'that young man be not badly supply with brain, say what you will,'

remark Mr. Warricombe.



upon Bruno Leathwaite Chilvers keen attention be direct; every pair

of female eye study his grace, and female hand have a great part in

the applause that greet his arising. applause different in kind from

that hitherto bestow; less noisy, but implying, one feel, a more

delicate spirit of commendation. with perfect self-command, with

singular facial decorum, with a walk which betoken elegant

athleticism and safely skirt the bound of foppery, Mr. Chilvers

discharge the duty he be conscious of owe to a multitude of

kinsfolk, friend, admirer. you would have detect something clerical

in the young man's air. it become the son of a popular clergyman, and

give promise of notable aptitude for the sacred career to which Bruno

Leathwaite, as be well understand, already have design himself. in

matter sartorial he present a high ideal to his fellow-student;

this seemly attention to external, and the delicate glow of health

discernible through the golden down of his cheek, testify the

compatibility of hard study and social observance. Bruno have be

hear to say that the one thing it behove Whitelaw to keep carefully

in mind be the preservation of 'tone', a quality far less easy to

cultivate than mere academic excellence.



'how clever he must be!' purr Mrs. Warricombe. 'if he live, he will

some day be an archbishop.'



Buckland be lean back with his eye close, disgust at the

spectacle. nor do he move when Professor Wotherspoon's voice make the

next announcement.



'in Senior Greek, the first prize be take by--Bruno Leathwaite

Chilvers.'



'then I suppose Peak come second,' mutter Buckland.



so it prove. summon to receive the inferior prize, Godwin Peak, his

countenance harsh than before, his eye cast down, move ungracefully

to the estrade. and during the next half-hour this twofold exhibition

be several time repeat. in Senior Latin, in Modern and Ancient

history, in English Language and Literature, in French, first sound

the name of Chilvers, whilst to the second award be invariably

attach that of Peak. Mrs. Warricombe's delight express itself in

every permissible way: on each occasion she exclaim, 'how clever he

be!' Sidwell cast frequent glance at her brother, in whom a shrewd

eye could have divine conflict of feeling--disgust at the

glorification of Chilvers and involuntary pleasure in the successive

defeat of his own conqueror in Philosophy. Buckland's be by no mean

an ignoble face; venial malice do not ultimately prevail in he.



'it's Peak's own fault,' he declare at length, with vexation.

'chilver stick to the subject of his course. peak have be take up

half-a-dozen extra, and they've do for he. I shouldn't wonder if he

go in for the Poem and the essay: I know he be think about both.'



whether Godwin Peak have or have not endeavour for these two prize

remain uncertain. when, presently, the result of the competition

be make know, it be find that in each case the honour have fall

to a young man hitherto undistinguishe. his name be John Edward

Earwaker. externally he bear a sort of generic resemblance to Peak, for

his face be thin and the fashion of his clothing indicate narrow

mean.



'I never hear you mention he,' say Mr. Warricombe, turn to his

son with an air of surprise.



'I scarcely know he at all; he's only in one or two of my class.

Peak be thick with he.'



the subject of the prize poem be 'Alaric'; that of the essay, 'trade

Unionism'. so it be probable that John Edward Earwaker do not lack

versatility of intellect.



on the rise of the Professor of Chemistry, Buckland have once more to

subdue sign of expectancy. he know he have do good paper, but his

confidence in the result be now cloud by a dread of the second

prize--which indeed fall to he, the first be take by a student of

no account save in this very special subject. Keen be his

mortification; he growl, mutter, shrug his shoulder nervously.



'if I have foresee this, you'd never have catch I here,' be his

reply, when Sidwell whisper consolation.



there still remain a chance for he, signal by the familiar form

of Professor Gale. geology have be a lifelong study with Martin

Warricombe, and his son pursue it with hereditary aptitude. Sidwell

and her mother exchange a look of courageous hope; each feel convince

that the genial Professor could not so far disregard private feeling as

to place Buckland anywhere but at the head of the class.



'the result of the examination be fairly good; I'm afraid I cann't say

more than that,' thus ring out Mr. Gale's hearty voice. 'as for the

first two name on my list, I haven't feel justify in place either

before the other. I have bracket they, and there will be two prize.

the name be--Godwin Peak and Buckland Martin Warricombe.'



'he might have mention Buckland first,' murmur Mrs. Warricombe,

resentfully.



'he of course give they out in alphabetical order,' answer she

husband.



'still, it ben't right that Buckland should come second.'



'that's absurd,' be the good-natured reply.



the lady of course remain unconvinced, and for year she nourish a

pique against Professor Gale, not so much owe to his having bracket

her son as because the letter p have alphabetical precedence of W.



in what remain of the proceeding the Warricombes have no personal

interest. for a special reason, however, their attention be excite by

the rise of Professor Walsh, who represent the science of Physics.

early in the present year have be publish a speculative treatise

which, owe to its suppose incompatibility with christian dogma,

provoke much controversy and be largely discuss in all educate

circle. the work be anonymous, but a rumour which gain general

currency attribute it to Professor Walsh. in the year 1874 an

imputation of religious heresy be not lightly to be incur by a

Professor--even Professor of Physics--at an English college. there be

many people in Kingsmill who consider that Mr. Walsh's delay in

repudiate so grave a charge render very doubtful the propriety of

his retain the chair at Whitelaw. Significant be the dispersed

applause which follow slowly upon his step forward to-day; on the

Professor's face be perchance legible something like a hint of amuse

defiance. lady have cease to beam; they glance meaningly at one

another, and then from under their eyelid at the suppose heretic.



'a fine fellow, Walsh!' exclaim Buckland, clap vigorously.



his father smile, but with some uneasiness. Mrs. Warricombe whisper

to Sidwell:



'what a very disagreeable face! the only one of the Professors who

don't seem a gentleman.'



the girl be aware of dark report affect Mr. Walsh's reputation.

she hazard only a brief examination of his feature, and look at

the applauding Buckland with alarm.



'his lecture be splendid,' say her brother, emphatically. 'if I be

go to be here next session, I should take they.'



for some minute after the Professor's return to his seat a susurration

be audible throughout the hall; bonnet bent together, and beard

exchange curt comment.



the ceremony, as be usual with all ceremony, grow wearisome before

its end. Buckland be deep in one of the chapter of his geologic prize

when the last speaker close the last report and leave the assembly free

to disperse. then follow the season of congratulation: professor,

student, and the friendly public mingle in a _conversazione_. a

nucleus of vivacious intercourse form at the spot where young Mr.

Chilvers stand amid trophy of examinational prowess. when his

numerous relative have all shake hand with he, and laugh, smile,

or smirk their felicitation, they make way for the press of eager

acquaintance. his prize library be reverently survey, and many be

the sportive sally elicit by the victor's obvious inability to

carry away what he have win. suavely exultant, ready with his reply to

every flattering address, Bruno Chilvers exhibit a social tact in

advance of his year: it be easy to imagine what he would become when

Oxford term and the seal of ordination have mature his youthful

promise.



at no great distance stand his competitor, Godwin Peak embarrass, he

also, with wealth of spoil; but about this young man be no concourse

of admire kinsfolk. no lady offer he her hand or shape

compliment for he with gracious lip. half-a-dozen fellow-student,

among they John Earwaker, talk in his vicinity of the day's result.

Peak's part in the gossip be small, and when he smile it be in a

forced, anxious way, with brief raising of his eye. for a moment only

be the notice of a wide circle direct upon he when Dr Nares,

move past with a train of colloquial attendant, turn aside to

repeat his praise of the young man's achievement in philosophy: he

bestow a kindly shake of the hand, and move on.



the Warricombe group descend, in purposeless fashion, towards the

spot where chilver hold his court. their personal acquaintance with

Bruno and his family be slight, and though Mrs. Warricombe would

gladly have push forward to claim recognition, natural diffidence

restrain she. Sidwell keep in the rear, risk now and then a glance

of vivid curiosity on either hand. Buckland, strive not to look

petulant or sullen, allow himself to be lead on; but when he become

aware of the tendency Bruno-ward, a protest break from he.



'there's no need to swell that fellow's conceit. here, father, come and

have a word with Peak; he look rather down in the mouth among his

second prize.'



Mr. Warricombe having beckon his companion, they reluctantly

follow to the more open part of the hall.



'it's very generous of Buckland,' fall from the lady's lip, and she at

length resolve to show an equal magnanimity. Peak and Earwaker be

converse together when Buckland break in upon they with genial

outburst.



'confound it, Peak! what do you mean by get I stick into a

bracket?'



'I have the same question to as _you_,' return the other, with a grim

smile.



Mr. Warricombe come up with extended hand.



'a species of bracket,' he remark, smile benevolently, 'which no

algebraic process will remove. let we hope it signify that you and

Buckland will work through life shoulder to shoulder in the field of

geology. what do Professor Gale give you?'



before he could reply, Peak have to exchange greeting with Mrs

Warricombe and her daughter. only once hitherto have he meet they. six

month ago he have go out with Buckland to the country-house and

pass an afternoon there, make at the time no very favourable

impression on his hostess. he be not of the young man who easily

insinuate themselves into lady' affection: his exterior be against

he, and he seem too conscious of his disadvantage in that

particular. Mrs. Warricombe find it difficult to shape a few civil

phrase for the acceptance of the saturnine student. Sidwell, repel

and in a measure alarm by his bilious countenance, could do no more

than grant he her delicately gloved finger. Peak, for his part, have

nothing to say. he do not even affect an interest in these person,

and turn his eye to follow the withdraw Earwaker. Mr. Warricombe,

however, have find topic for discourse in the prize volume; he begin to

comment on the excellence of certain section of the book.



'do you go home?' interrupt Buckland, address the question to his

rival. 'or do you stay in Kingsmill until the First B.A.?'



'I shall go home,' reply Peak, move uneasily.



'perhaps we may have the pleasure of see you at Thornhaw when you

be up again for the examination?' say Mrs. Warricombe, with falter

tongue.



'I'm afraid I shalln't be able to come, thank you,' be the awkward

response.



Buckland's voice come to the relief.



'I daresay I may look in upon you at your torture. good luck, old

fellow! if we don't see each other again, write to I at Trinity before

the end of the year.'



as soon as she be sufficiently remote, Mrs. Warricombe ejaculate in a

subdue voice of irritation:



'such a very unprepossesse young man I never meet! he seem to have no

breeding whatever.'



'overweighte with brain,' reply her husband; add to himself,

'and by no mean so with money, I fear.'



opportunity at length offering, Mrs. Warricombe step into the circle

irradiate by Bruno Chilvers; her husband and Sidwell press after.

Buckland, with an exclamation of disgust, go off to criticise the

hero among a group of his particular friend.



Godwin Peak stand alone. on the bench where he have sit be heap the

prize volume (eleven in all, some of they massive), and his wish be

to make arrangement for their removal. gaze about he, he become

aware of the College librarian, with whom he be on friendly term.



'Mr. Poppleton, who would pack and send these book away for I?'



'an _embarras de richesse_!' laugh the librarian. 'if you like to

tell the porter to take care of they for the present, I shall be glad

to see that they be send wherever you like.'



Peak answer with a warmth of acknowledgment which seem to imply

that he do not often receive kindness. before long he be free to

leave the College, and at the exit he overtake Earwaker, who carry a

brown paper parcel.



'come and have some tea with I across the way, will you?' say the

literary prizeman. 'I have a couple of hour to wait for my train.'



'all right. I envy you that five-volume Spenser.'



'I wish they have give I five author I don't possess instead. I think

I shall sell this.'



Earwaker laugh as he say it--a strange chuckle from deep down in his

throat. a comparison of the young man, as they walk side by side,

show that Peak be of well physical type than his comrade. Earwaker

have a slight, unshapely body and an ill-fitting head; he walk with

excessive stride and swing his thin arm nervously. probably he be the

elder of the two, and he look twenty. for Peak's disadvantage of

person, his studious bashfulness and poverty of attire be mainly

responsible. with improvement in general health even his feature might

have a tolerable comeliness, or at all event would not be

disagreeable. Earwaker's visage be homely, and seem the more so for

his sprout moustache and beard.



'have you hear any talk about Walsh?' the latter inquire, as they

walk on.



Peak shrug his shoulder, with a laugh.



'no. have you?'



'some woman in front of I just now be-evidently discuss he. I

hear "how shocking!" and "disgraceful!"'



Peak's eye flash, and he exclaim in a voice of wrath:



'besotte idiot! how I wish I be in Walsh's position! how I should

enjoy stand up before the crowd of fool and see their fear of

I! but I couldn't keep it to myself; I should give in to the

temptation to call they blockhead and jackass.'



Earwaker be amuse at his friend's vehemence. he sympathise with it,

but have an unyouthful sobriety in the expression of his feeling.



'most likely he despise they far too much to be disturb by what they

think of he. but, I say, ben't it desperately comical that one human

being can hate and revile another because they think differently about

the origin of the universe? couldn't you roar with laughter when you've

think over it for a moment? "you be damn for your theory of

irregular verb!" be nothing to it.' and he utter his croak of mirth,

whilst Peak, with distorted feature, laugh in rage and scorn.



they have cross the open space in front of the College building, and

be issue into the highway, when a voice very unlike those that be

willnot to sound within the academic precinct (or indeed in the street

of Kingsmill) make sudden demand upon Peak's attention.



'Thet you, Godwin? thought I, it must be 'Im! 'ow go it, my bo-oy?

you 'ardly reckonise I, I dessay, and I couldn't be sure as it be you

till I'd 'ed a good squint at yer. I've jest call round at your

lodgin's, and they towld I as you be at the Collige.'



he who thus accost the student, with the most offensive purity of

Cockney accent, be a man of five-and-forty, dress in a new suit of

ready-make tweed, the folding crease strongly mark down the front of

the trouser and the coat sleeve rather too long. his face bear a

strong impress of vulgarity, but at the same time have a certain

ingenuousness, a self-absorb energy and simplicity, which save it

from be wholly repellent; the brow be narrow, the eye small and

bright, and the coarse lip half hide themselves under a struggle

reddish growth. in these lineament lurk a family resemblance to

Godwin Peak, sufficient to support a claim of kindre which at this

moment might have seem improbable. at the summon of recognition

Godwin stand transfix; his arm fall straight, and his head draw back

as if to avoid a blow. for an instant he be clay colour, then a hot

flush broke upon his cheek.



'I shalln't be able to go with you,' he say, in a thick, abrupt voice,

address Earwaker but not regard he. 'good-bye!'



the other offer his hand and, without speak, walk away.



'Prize-dye at the Collige, they tell I,' pursue Godwin's relative,

look at a cluster of people that pass. 'what 'ave you take?'



'one or two class-prize,' reply the student, his eye on the ground.

'shall we walk to my lodging?'



'I think you might like to walk I over the show. but pr'aps you're

in a 'urry?'



'no, no. but there's nothing particular to see. I think the

lecture-room be close by now.'



'Oo's the gent as stand there?--the figger, I mean.'



'Sir Job Whitelaw, founder of the College.'



'Job, eh? and be you a-goin' 'ome to yer tea, Godwin?'



'yes.'



'well, then, look 'ere, 'spose we go to the little shop opposyte--nice

little plyce it look. I could do a cup o' tea myself, and we can 'ev a

quite confab. it's a long time since we'ed a talk together. I come over

from Twybridge this mornin'; slep' there last night, and see yer mother

an' Oliver. they couldn't give I a bed, but that don't mike no

matter; I put up at the Norfolk Harms--five-an-six for bed an'

breakfast. come along, my bo-oy; I stand treat.'



Godwin glance about he. from the College be approach what seem

to be a formal procession; it consist of Bruno Chilvers, support on

either hand by lady and follow by an admire train.



'you have well come to my lodging with I, uncle,' say the young man

hurriedly, move forward.



'no, no; I willn't be no expense to you, Godwin, bo-oy. and I 'ave a

reason for wantin' to go to the little shop opposyte.'



already several collegian have pass, give Peak a nod and scan

his companion; a moment's delay and chilver would be upon he. without

another word, Godwin move across the broad street to the place of

refreshment which his uncle have indicate, and whither Earwaker have

precede they. it be a pastry-cook's, occasionally visit by the

alumnus of Whitelaw. in the rear of the shop a little room offer seat

and table, and here, Godwin know, Earwaker would be find.



'let we go up-stair,' he say, lead to a side entrance. 'there's a

quieter room.'



'right you be!'



the uncle--his name be Andrew Peak--pause to make a survey of the

premise. when he enter, his scrutiny of the establishment be close,

and he seem to reflect with interest upon all he see. the upper room

be empty; a long table exhibit knife and fork, but there be no

sign of active business. Andrew pull a bell-rope; the summon be

answer by an asthmatic woman, who receive an order for tea, toast,

'watercrease', and sundry other constituent of a modest meal.



'come 'ere often, Godwin?' inquire Andrew, as he stand by the window

and muse.



'now and then, for a bun.'



'much custom from your show over the wye?'



'not so much as a well place would have.'



'young gent don't live at the Collige, they tell I?'



'no, there's no residence.'



'so naturally they want a plyce where they can 'ev a nibble, somewhere

'andy?'



'yes. we have to go far into the town for a decent dinner.'



'Jest what I think!' exclaim Andrew, slap his leg. 'with a

establishment like that opposyte, there'd ought to be a medium-sized

Spiers & Pond at this 'ere street corner for any man as know 'be wye

about. that's _my_ idea, Godwin--see?'



Peak have as yet give but half an ear to his relative's discourse; he

have answer mechanically, and only now be constrain to serious

attention by a note of meaning in the last interrogative. he look at

the speaker; and Andrew, in the manner of one accustom to regard life

as a game of cunning, first wink with each eye, then extend one

cheek with the pressure of his tongue. sicken with disgust, Godwin

turn suddenly away,--a movement entirely lose upon his uncle, who

imagine the young man to be ponder a fruitful suggestion.



'I don't mind tellin' you, Godwin,' pursue Andrew presently, in a

cautious voice, lay an open hand against his trouser-pocket, 'as

I've be a-doin' pretty good business lytely. be growin' a bit--see?

I'm runnin' round an' keepin' my heye open understand? thought I,

now, if I could come acrosst a nicet little openin', somethink in the

rest'rant line, _that's_ what 'ud sewt I jest about down to the

ground. I'm cut out for it--see? I've get the practical experience, and

I've get the capital; and as soon as I get a squint of this little

corner shop--understand what I mean?'



his eye gleam with eagerness which be too candid for the typically

vulgar mind. in his self-satisfaction he exhibit a gross cordiality

which might have make rather an agreeable impression on a person

otherwise disintereste.



at this point the asthmatic woman reappear, carry a laden tray.

Andrew at once enter into conversation with she, frame his remark

and query so as to learn all he could concern the state of the

business and the disposition of its proprietor. his nephew, meanwhile,

sting to the core with shame, keep apart, as if amuse himself with

the prospect from the window, until summon to partake of the meal.

his uncle express contempt of everything lay before they.



'_this_ ben't no wye of caterin' for young gent at Collige!' he

exclaim. 'if there ben't a openin' 'ere, then I never see one.

Godwin, bo-oy, 'ow much longer'll it be before you're out of you're

time over there?'



'it's uncertain--I cann't say.'



'but ben't it understand as you stay till you've pass the top

standard, or whatever it's call?'



'I really haven't make up my mind what to do.'



'but you'll be studyin' 'ere for another twelve month, I dessay?'



'why do you ask?'



'why? cos s'posin' I get 'old o' this 'ere little shop, or another like

it close by, I an' you might come to an understandin'--see? it might

be worth your while to give a 'int to the young gent as you're in

with--eh?'



Godwin be endeavour to masticate a piece of toast, but it turn to

sawdust upon his palate. of a sudden, when the bilious gloom of his

countenance foretold anything but mirth, he burst into hard laughter.

Andrew smite he jovially on the back.



'Tickles you, eh, bo-oy? "Peak's Refreshment an' Dinin' room!"

everything tip-top, mind; respectable business, Godwin; nothing for

nobody to be ashamed of--_that_ wouldn't do, of course.'



the young man's laughter end as abruptly as it have begin, but his

visage be no long cloud with bitter misery. a strange indifference

seem to have come upon he, and whilst the speculative uncle talk

away with increase excitement, he eat and drink heedlessly.



'Mother expect you to-morrow, she tell I,' say Andrew, when his

companion's taciturnity have suggest a change of topic. 'shouldn't

wonder if you see I over at Twybridge again before long. I be to

remember your awnt and your cousin Jowey to you. you wouldn't know

Jowey? the sharp lad of his age as ever I know, be Jowey. your

father 'ud a' take a delight in 'Im, if 'e'd live, that 'e would.'



for a quarter of an hour or so the dialogue be concern with domestic

history. Godwin give brief reply to many question, but ask none, not

even such as civility require. the eld man, however, be unaffected

by this reticence, and when at length his nephew plead an engagement

as excuse for leave-taking he shake hand with much warmth. the two

part close by the shop, and Godwin, cast a glance at the now

silent College, walk hastily towards his lodging.







CHAPTER II





in the prosperous year of 1856, income of between a hundred and a

hundred and fifty pound be chargeable with a tax of elevenpence

halfpenny in the pound: person who enjoy a revenue of a hundred and

fifty or more have the honour of pay one and fourpence. abatement

there be none, and family support life on two pound a week

might in some case, perchance, be reconcile to the mulct by

consider how equitably its incidence be graduate.



some, on the other hand, be less philosophical; for instance, the

household consist of Nicholas Peak, his wife, their three-year-old

daughter, their newly-bear son, and a blind sister of Nicholas,

dependent upon he for sustenance. Mr. Peak, aged thirty and now four

year wed, have a small cottage on the outskirt of Greenwich. he be

employ as dispenser, at a salary of thirty-five shilling a week, by

a medical man with a large practice. his income, therefore, fall

considerably within the hundred pound limit; and, all thing

consider, it be not unreasonable that he should be allow to expend

the whole of this sum on domestic necessity. but it come to pass that

nichola, in his greed of wealth, obtain supplementary employment,

which benefit he to the extent of a yearly ten pound. call upon

to render his statement to the surveyor of income-tax, he declare

himself in possession of a hundred and one pound per annum;

consequently, he stand indebted to the Exchequer in the sum of four

pound, sixteen shilling, and ninepence. his countenance darken, as

also do that of Mrs. Peak.



'this be wrong and cruel--dreadfully cruel!' cry the latter, with

tear in her eye.



'it be; but that's no new thing,' be the bitter reply.



'I think it's wrong of _you_, Nicholas. what need be there to say

anything about that ten pound? it's take the food out of our mouth.'



know only the letter of the law, Mr. Peak answer sternly:



'my income be a hundred and one pound. I cann't sign my name to a lie.'



picture the man. tall, gaunt, with sharp intellectual feature, and

eye of singular beauty, the face of an enthusiast--under give

circumstance, of a hero. poorly clothe, of course, but with rigorous

self-respect; his boot polish, _propria manu_, to the point of

perfection; his linen wash and iron by the indefatigable wife. of

simple taste, of most frugal habit, a few book the only luxury

which he deem indispensable; yet a most difficult man to live with,

for to he apply precisely the description which Robert Burns give of

his own father; he be 'of stubborn, ungainly integrity and headlong

irascibility'.



ungainly, for his strong impulse towards culture be powerless to

obliterate the trace of his rude origin. bear in a London alley, the

son of a labourer burden with a large family, he have make his way by

sheer force of character to a position which would have seem proud

success but for the difficulty with which he keep himself alive. his

parent be dead. of his brother, two have disappear in the abyss,

and one, Andrew, earn a hard livelihood as a journeyman baker; the

elder of his sister have marry poorly, and the young be his blind

pensioner. Nicholas have find a wife of well birth than his own, a

young woman with country kindre in decent circumstance, though she

herself serve as nursemaid in the house of the medical man who

employ her future husband. he have teach himself the English

language, so far as grammar go, but could not cast off the London

accent; Mrs. Peak be fortunate enough to speak with nothing bad than

the note of the Midlands.



his bent lead he to the study of history, politic, economic, and in

that time of military outbreak he be frenzy by the conflict of his

ideal with the state of thing about he. a book frequently in his

hand be Godwin's _Political Justice_, and when a son have be bear to

he he decide to name the child after that favourite author. in this

way, at all event, he could find some expression for his hot defiance

of iniquity.



he pay his income-tax, and feel a savage joy in the privation thus

impose upon his family. Mrs. Peak could not forgive her husband, and

in this case, though she have but dim appreciation of the point of

honour involve, her censure doubtless fall on Nicholas's vulnerable

spot; it be the perversity of arrogance, at least as much as honesty,

that impel he to incur taxation. his wife's perseverance in

complaint drive he to stern impatience, and for a long time the peace

of the household suffer.



when the boy Godwin be five year old, the death of his blind aunt

come as a relief to mean which be in every sense overtax. twelve

month later, a piece of unprecedented good fortune seem to place the

Peaks beyond fear of want, and at the same time to supply Nicholas with

a fulfilment of hopeless desire. by the death of Mrs Peak's brother,

they come into possession of a freehold house and about nine hundred

pound. the property be situate some twelve mile from the Midland

town of Twybridge, and thither they at once remove. at Twybridge live

Mrs. Peak's eld sister, Miss Cadman; but between this lady and her

near kinsfolk there have be but slight correspondence--the deceased

Cadman leave she only a couple of hundred pound. with capital at

command, Nicholas Peak take a lease of certain field near his house,

and turn farmer. the study of chemistry have give a special bent to

his economic speculation; he fancy himself endow with exceptional

aptitude for agriculture, and the scent of the furrow bring all his

energy into feverish activity--activity which soon impoverish he:

that be in the order of thing. 'ungainly integrity' and 'headlong

irascibility' work the same result for the ex-dispenser as for the

Ayrshire husbandman. his farming come to a chaotic end; and when the

struggle man die, wear out at forty-three, his wife and child

(there be now a young boy, Oliver, name after the Protector) have no

very bright prospect.



thing go well with they than might have be anticipate. to Mrs.

Peak her husband's death be not an occasion of unmingled mourning. for

the last few year she have suffer severely from domestic discord, and

when leave at peace by bereavement she turn with a sense of liberation

to the task of care for her child's future. Godwin be just

thirteen, Oliver be eleven; both have be well school, and with the

help of friend they might soon be put in the way of self-support. the

daughter, Charlotte, sixteen year of age, have accomplishment which

would perhaps be profitable. the widow decide to make a home in

Twybridge, where Miss Cadman keep a millinery shop. by mean of this

connection, Charlotte presently find employment for her skill in fine

needlework. Mrs. Peak be incapable of earn money, but the

experience of her early married life enable she to make more than the

most of the pittance at her disposal.



Miss Cadman be a woman of active mind, something of a

busy-body--dogmatic, punctilious in her claim to respect, proud of the

acknowledgment by her acquaintance that she be not as other

tradespeople; her chief weakness be a fanatical ecclesiasticism, the

common blight of english womanhood. circumstance have allow she a

well education than generally fall to woman of that standing, and in

spite of her shop she succeed in retain the friendship of certain

lady long ago her schoolfellow. among these be the Misses

lumb--middle-aged sister, who live at Twybridge on a small

independence, their time chiefly devoted to the support of the anglican

Church. an eld Miss Lumb have be fortunate enough to marry that

grow potentate of the Midlands, Mr. Job Whitelaw. now Lady Whitelaw,

she dwelt at Kingsmill, but her sister frequently enjoy the honour

of entertain she, and even Miss Cadman the milliner occasionally

hold converse with the baronet's wife. in this way it come to pass that

the Widow Peak and her child be bring under the notice of

person who soon or later might be of assistance to they.



abounding in emphatic advice, Miss Cadman easily persuade her sister

that Godwin must go to school for at least two year long. the boy

have be at a boarding-school twenty mile away from their country

home; it would be well for they now to be put under the care of some

Twybridge teacher--such an one as Miss Cadman's acquaintance could

recommend. for her own credit, the milliner be anxious that these

nephews of hers should not be run about the town as errand-boy or

the like, and with prudence there be no necessity for such

degradation. an uncommon lad like Godwin (she imagine he name after

the historic earl) must not be rob of his fair chance in life; she

would gladly spare a little money for his benefit; he be a boy to

repay such expenditure.



indeed it seem probable. Godwin devour book, and have a remarkable

faculty for gain solid information on any subject that take his

fancy. what might be the special bent of his mind one could not yet

discover. he read poetry with precocious gusto, but at the same time

his aptitude for scientific pursuit be strongly mark. in botany,

chemistry, physic, he make progress which the people about he,

include his schoolmaster, be incapable of appreciate; and already

the collection of book leave by his father, most of they out of date,

fail to satisfy his curiosity. it might be fear that taste so

discursive would be disadvantageous to a lad who must needs pursue some

definite bread-study, and the strain of self-consciousness which grow

strong in he be again a matter for concern. he care nothing for

boyish game and companionship; in the society of stranger especially

of female--he behave with an excessive shyness which be easily

mistaken for a surly temper. Reproof, correction, he could not endure,

and it be fortunate that the decorum of his habit make remonstrance

seldom needful.



ludicrous as the project would have appear to any unbiassed observer

of character, Miss Cadman conceive a hope that Godwin might become a

clergyman. from her point of view it be natural to assume that

uncommon talent must be devoted to the service of the Church, and she

would have gladly do her utmost for the practical furthering of such

an end. Mrs. Peak, though well aware that her son have imbibe the

paternal prejudice, be dispose to entertain the same hope, despite

solid obstacle. for several year she have nourish a secret

antagonism to her husband's spirit of political, social, and religious

rebellion, and in her widowhood she speedily become a pattern of the

conservative female. it would have gratify she to discern any

possibility of Godwin's assume the priestly garb. and not alone on

the ground of conscience. long ago she have repent the marriage which

connect she with such a family as that of the Peaks, and she ardently

desire that the child, now exclusively her own, might enter life on

a plane superior to their father's.



'Godwin, how would you like to go to College and be a clergyman?' she

ask one Sunday afternoon, when an hour or two of congenial reading

seem to have put the boy into a gentle humour.



'to go to College' be all very well (diplomacy have prompt this

preface), but the word that follow fall so alarmingly on Godwin's

ear that he look up with a resentful expression, unable to reply

otherwise.



'you never think of it, I suppose?' his mother falter; for she

often stand in awe of her son, who, though yet but fourteen, have much

of his father's commanding severity.



'I don't want to be a parson,' come at length, bluntly.



'don't use that word, Godwin.'



'why not? it's quite a proper word. it come from the Latin _persona_.'



the mother have enough discretion to keep silence, and Godwin, after in

vain try to settle to his book again, leave the room with disturbed

countenance.



he have now be attend the day-school for about a year, and be

distinctly ahead of his coeval. a Christmas examination be on the

point of be hold, and it happen that a singular test of the lad's

moral character coincide with the proof of his intellectual progress.

in a neighbouring house live an old man name Rawmarsh, kindly but

rather eccentric; he have once do a good business as a printer, and

now support himself by such chance typographic work of a small kind

as friend might put in his way. he conceive an affection for Godwin;

often have the boy to talk with he of an evening. on one such occasion,

Mr. Rawmarsh open a desk, take forth a packet of newly print

leave, and with a mysterious air silently spread they before the boy's

eye. in an instant Godwin become aware that he be look at the

examination paper which a day or two hence would be set before he at

school; he see and recognise a passage from the book of Virgil which

his class have be read.



'that be _sub rosa_, you know,' whisper the old printer, with half

avert face.



Godwin shrink away, and could not resume the conversation thus

interrupt. on the follow day he go about with a feeling of

guilt. he avoid the sight of Mr. Rawmarsh, for whom he have suddenly

lose all respect, and suffer torment in the thought that he enjoy

an unfair advantage over his class-mate. the Latin passage happen to

be one which he know thoroughly well; there be no need, even have he

desire, to 'look it up'; but in sit down to the examination, he

experience a sense of shame and self-rebuke. so strong be the

effect of this, that he voluntarily omit the answer to a certain

important question which he could have 'do' well than any of the

other boy, thus endeavour to adjust in his conscience the term of

competition, though in fact no such sacrifice be call for. he come

out at the head of the class, but the triumph have no savour for he,

and for many a year he be subject to a flush of mortification whenever

this incident come back to his mind.



Mr. Rawmarsh be not the only intelligent man who take an interest in

Godwin. in a house which the boy sometimes visit with a

school-fellow, lodge a notable couple name Gunnery the husband about

seventy, the wife five year old; they live on a pension from a

railway company. Mr. Gunnery be a dabbler in many science, but have a

special enthusiasm for geology. two cabinet of stone and fossil give

evidence of his zealous travel about the british isle; he have even

write a little hand-book of petrology which be for sale at certain

bookseller' in Twybridge, and probably nowhere else. to he, about

this time, Godwin begin to resort, always sure of a welcome; and in the

little uncarpeted room where Mr. Gunnery pursue his investigation

many a fateful lesson be give and receive. the teacher understand

the intelligence he have to deal with, and be delighted to convey, by

the mode of suggest inference, sundry result of knowledge which it

perhaps would not have be prudent to declare in plain, popular word.



their intercourse be not invariably placid. the geologist have an

irritable temper, and in certain state of the atmosphere his rheumatic

twinge make it advisable to shun argument with he. Godwin, moreover,

be distinguish by an instability of mood peculiarly try to an old

man's testy humour. of a sudden, to Mr Gunnery's surprise and

annoyance, he would lose all interest in this or that science. thus,

one day the lad declare himself unable to name two stone set before

he, felspar and quartz, and when his instructor break into angry

impatience he turn sullenly away, exclaim that he be tired of

geology.



'tired of geology?' cry Mr. Gunnery, with flame eye. 'then _i_ be

tired of _you_, Master Peak! be off, and don't come again till I send

for you!'



Godwin retire without a word. on the second day he be summon back

again, but his resentment of the dismissal rankle in he for a long

time; injury to his pride be the wrong he find it hard to forgive.



his schoolmaster, aware of the unusual pursuit which he add to the

routine of lesson, give he as a prize the english translation of a

book by Figuier--_The World before the Deluge_. strongly interested by

the illustration of the volume (fanciful scene from the successive

geologic period), Godwin at once carry it to his scientific friend.

'Deluge?' growl Mr. Gunnery. '_what_ deluge? _which_ deluge?' but he

restrain himself, hand the book coldly back, and begin to talk of

something else. all this be highly significant to Godwin, who of

course begin the perusal of his prize in a suspicious mood. nor be he

long before he sympathise with Mr Gunnery's distaste. though too young

to grasp the argument at issue, his prejudice be strongly excited

by the conventional Theism which pervade Figuier's work. already it

be the habit of his mind to associate popular dogma with intellectual

shallowness; herein, as at every other point which fall within his

scope, he have begin to scorn average people, and to pride himself

intensely on view which he find generally condemn. day by day he

grow into a clear understanding of the memory bequeath to he by

his father; he begin to interpret remark, detail of behaviour,

instance of wrath, which, though they have stamp themselves on his

recollection, convey at the time no precise significance. the issue

be that he harden himself against the influence of his mother and

his aunt, regard they as in league against the free progress of his

education.



as woman, again, he despise these relative. it be almost impossible

for a bright-witted lad bear in the low middle class to escape this

stage of development. the brutally healthy boy contemn the female sex

because he see it incapable of his own athletic sport, but Godwin be

one of those upon whose awake intellect be force a perception of the

brain-defect so general in woman when they be teach few of life's

grace and none of its serious concerns,--their paltry prepossession,

their vulgar sequaciousness, their invincible ignorance, their

absorption in a petty self. and especially be this phase of thought to

be expect in a boy whose heart blindly nourish the seed of

poetical passion. it be Godwin's sincere belief that he hold girl, as

girl, in abhorrence. this mean that he dread their personal

criticism, and that the spectacle of female beauty sometimes overcome

he with a despair which he could not analyse. matron and elderly

unmarried woman be truly the object of his disdain; in they he see

nothing but their shortcoming. towards his mother he be conscious of

no tenderness; of as little towards his sister, who often censure he

with trenchant tongue; as for his aunt, whose admiration of he be

modify by reticence, he could never be at ease in her company, so

strong a dislike have he for her look, her voice, her way of speech.



he would soon be fifteen year old. Mrs. Peak be grow anxious, for

she could no long consent to draw upon her sister for a portion of

the school fee, and no pertinent suggestion for the lad's future be

make by any of the people who admire his cleverness. Miss Cadman still

clung in a fitful way to the idea of make her nephew a cleric; she

have often talk it over with the Misses Lumb, who of course hold that

'any sacrifice' be justifiable with such a motive, and who suggest a

hope that, by the instrumentality of Lady Whitelaw, a curacy might

easily be obtain as soon as Godwin be old enough. but several year

must pass before that levitical stage could be reach; and then, after

all, perhaps the young boy, Oliver, placid of temper and notably

pliant in mind, be well suit for the dignity of Orders. it be

lamentable that Godwin should have become so intimate with that

earth-burrow Mr. Gunnery, who certainly never attend either church

or chapel, and who seem to have imbue his pupil with immoral

theory concern the date of creation. Godwin hold more decidedly

aloof from his aunt, and have be hear by Charlotte to speak very

disrespectfully of the Misses Lumb. in short, there be no choice but

to discover an opening for he in some secular pursuit. could he,

perhaps, become an assistant teacher? or must he 'go into an office'?



no common lad. a youth whose brain glow like a furnace, whose heart

throb with tumult of high ambition, of inchoate desire; endow

with knowledge altogether exceptional for his year; a nature

essentially militant, display itself in innumerable form of callow

intolerance--apt, assuredly, for some vigorous part in life, but as

likely as not to rush headlong on traverse road if no judicious mind

assume control of he. what be to be do with the boy?



all very well, if the question signify, in what way to provide for

the healthy development of his manhood. of course it mean nothing of

the sort, but merely: what work can be find for he whereby he may

earn his daily bread? we--his kinsfolk even, not to think of the world

at large--can have no concern with his growth as an intellectual being;

we be hard pressed to supply our own mouth with food; and now that we

have do our recognise duty by he, it be high time that he learn to

fight for his own share of provender. happily, he be of the robust sex;

he can hit out right and leave, and make standing-room. we have arm

he with serviceable weapon, and now he must use they against the

enemy--that be to say, against all mankind, who will quickly enough

deprive he of sustenance if he fail in the conflict. we neither know,

nor in great measure care, for what employment he be naturally marked.

obviously he cannot heave coal or sell dog' meat, but with negative

certainty not much else can be resolve, see how desperate be the

competition for minimum salary. he have be bear, and he must eat. by

what licensed channel may he procure the necessary viand?



paternal relative Godwin have as good as none. in quit London,

Nicholas Peak have cease to hold communication with any of his own

stock save the young brother Andrew. with he he occasionally

exchange a letter, but Andrew's share in the correspondence be

limit to ungrammatical and often unintelligible hint of numerous

project for money-making. just after the removal of the bereaved

family to Twybridge, they be surprise by a visit from Andrew, in

answer to one of whose letter Mrs. Peak have send news of her husband's

death. though her dislike of the man amount to loathing, the widow

could not refuse he hospitality; she do she good, however, to prevent

his come in contact with anyone she know. Andrew declare that he be

at length prospering; he have start a coffee-shop at Dalston, in

north-east London, and positively urge a proposal (well-mean, beyond

doubt) that Godwin should be allow to come to he and learn the

business. since then the Londoner have once again visit Twybridge,

towards the end of Godwin's last school-year. this time he speak of

himself less hopefully, and declare a wish to transfer his business to

some provincial town, where he think his metropolitan experience

might be of great value, in the absence of serious competition. it be

not difficult to discover a family likeness between Andrew's

instability and the idealism which have prove the ruin of Nicholas.



on this second occasion Godwin try to escape a meeting with his

uncle. unable to do so, he sit mute, reply to question

monosyllabically. Mrs. Peak's shame and annoyance, in face of this

London-brand vulgarian, be but feeble emotion compare with those

of her son. Godwin hate the man, and be in dread lest any

school-fellow should come to know of such a connection. yet delicacy

prevent his utter a word on the subject to his mother. Mrs Peak's

silence after Andrew's departure make it uncertain how she regard the

obligation of kindred, and in any such matter as this the boy be far

too sensitive to risk give pain. but to his brother Oliver he speak.



'what be the brute to we? when I'm a man, let he venture to come near

I, and see what sort of a reception he'll get! I hate low, uneducated

people! I hate they bad than the filthy vermin!--don't you?'



Oliver, aged but thirteen, assent, as he habitually do to any

question which seem to await an affirmative.



'they ought to be sweep off the face of the earth!' pursue Godwin,

sit up in bed--for the dialogue take place about eleven o'clock at

night. 'all the grow-up creature, who cann't speak proper English and

don't know how to behave themselves, I'd transport they to the Falkland

Islands,'--this geographic precision be a note of the boy's

mind,--'and let they die off as soon as possible. the child should

be send to school and purify, if possible; if not, they too should be

got rid of.'



'you're an aristocrat, Godwin,' remark Oliver, simply; for the eld

brother have of late be tell he fearful story from the French

Revolution, with something of an anti-popular bias.



'I hope I be. I mean to be, that's certain. there's nothing I hate like

vulgarity. that's why I cann't stand Roper. when he beat I in

mathematic last midsummer, I feel so ashamed I could hardly bear

myself. I'm work like a nigger at algebra and Euclid this half, just

because I think it would almost kill I to be beat again by a low

cad.'



this be perhaps the first time that Godwin find expression for the

prejudice which affect all his thought and feeling. it relieve he

to have speak thus; henceforth he have become clear as to his point of

view. by dub he aristocrat, Oliver have flatter he in the

subtle way. if indeed the title be justly his, as he instantly feel

it be, the inference be plain that he must be an aristocrat of

nature's own making--one of the few highly favour being who, in

despite of circumstance, be pinnacle above mankind. in his ignorance

of life, the boy visione a triumphant career; an aristocrat _de jure_

might possibly become one even in the common sense do he but pursue

that end with sufficient zeal. and in his power of persistent endeavour

he have no lack of faith.



the next day he walk with exalt head. encounter the

objectionable Roper, he smile upon he contemptuously tolerant.



there be no hope of effective assistance from relative, Mrs. Peak

turn for counsel to a man of business, with whom her husband have make

acquaintance in his farming day, and who hold a position of influence

at Twybridge. this be Mr. Moxey, manufacturing chemist, famous in the

midland for his 'sheep and cattle dressing', and sundry other

product of agricultural enterprise. his ill-scented, but lucrative,

work be situate a mile out of the town; and within sight of the

reeking chimney stand a large, plain house, uncomfortably like an

'institution' of some kind, in which he dwelt with his five daughter.

Thither, one evening, Mrs. Peak betook herself, having learn that Mr.

Moxey dine at five o'clock, and that he be generally to be find

dig in his garden until sunset. her reception be civil. the

manufacturer--spare of word, but with no unkindly face--request

that Godwin should be send to see he, and promise to do his good to

be of use. a talk with the boy strengthen his interest. he be

surprised at Godwin's knowledge of chemistry, please with his general

intelligence, and in the end offer to make a place for he at the

work, where, though for a year or two his earning must be small, he

would gain experience likely to be of substantial use to he. Godwin

do not find the proposal distasteful; it bring a change into his

life, and the excitement of novelty; it flatter he with the show of

release from pupilage. to Mr. Moxey's he go.



the hour be not long, and it be understand that his theoretical

study should continue in the evening. Godwin's home be a very small

house in a monotonous little street; a garret serve as bedroom for the

two boy, also as the eld one's laboratory. Servant Mrs. Peak have

none. she manage everything herself, as in the old Greenwich day,

leave Charlotte free to work at her embroidery. Godwin take turn

with Oliver at black the shoe.



as a matter of course the boy accompany their mother each Sunday

morning to the parish church, and this ceremony be become an

insufferable tax on Godwin's patience. it be not only that he hate

the name of religion, and scorn with much fierceness all who come in

sympathetic contact therewith; the loss of time seem to he an

oppressive injury, especially now that he begin to suffer from

restrict leisure. he would not refuse to obey his mother's wish, but

the sullenness of his Sabbatic demeanour make the whole family

uncomfortable. as often as possible he feign illness. he try the

effect of dolorous sigh and groan; but Mrs. Peak could not dream of

concede a point which would have seem to she the condonation of

deadly sin. 'when I be a man!' mutter Godwin. 'ah! when I be a man!'



a year have go by, and the routine to which he be bind begin to have

a servile flavour. his mind chafe at subjugation to commercial

interest. sick of 'sheep and cattle dressing', he grow tired of

chemistry altogether, and presently of physical science in general. his

evening be give to poetry and history; he take up the classical

schoolbook again, and find a charm in latin syntax hitherto

unperceive. it be plain to he now how he have be wrong by the

necessity of leave school when his education have but just begin.



Discontent become ripe for utterance, he unbosom himself to Mr

Gunnery. it happen that the old man have just return from a visit to

Kingsmill, where he have spend a week in the museum, then newly enrich

with geologic specimen. after listen in silence to the boy's

complaint, and ponder for a long time, he begin to talk of Whitelaw

College.



'do it cost much to study there?' Godwin ask, gloomily.



'no great sum, I think. there be scholarship to be have.'



Mr. Gunnery throw out the suggestion carelessly. know the hazard of

life, he could not quite justify himself in encourage Godwin's

restiveness.



'scholarship? for free study?'



'yes; but that wouldn't mean free living, you know. student don't live

at the College.'



'how do you go in for a scholarship?'



the old man reply, meditatively, 'if you be to pass the Cambridge

Local Examination, and to get the first place in the Kingsmill

district, you would have three year of free study at Whitelaw.'



'three year?' shout Godwin, spring up from his chair.



'but how could you live, my boy?'



Godwin sit down again, and let his head fall forward.



how to keep oneself alive during a few year of intellectual growth?--a

question often ask by man of mature age, but seldom by a lad of

sixteen. no matter. he resolve that he would study for this Cambridge

Local Examination, and have a try for the scholarship. his attainment

be already up to the standard require for average success in such

competition. on obtain a set of 'paper', he find that they look

easy enough. could he not come out first in the Kingsmill district?



he work vigorously at special subject; aid be needless, but he

wish for more leisure. not a word to any member of his household.

when his mother discover that he be read in the bedroom till long

past midnight, she make serious objection on the score of health and on

that of gas bill. Godwin quietly assert that work he must, and that

if necessary he would buy candle out of his pocket-money. he have

unexpectedly become more grave, more restrained; he even cease to

grumble about go to church, having find that service time could be

utilise for commit to memory list of date and the like, jot

down on a slip of paper. when the time for the examination draw near,

he at length tell his mother to what end he have be labour, and

ask she to grant he the assistance necessary for his journey and the

sojourn at Kingsmill; the small sum he have be able to save, after

purchase of book, would not suffice. Mrs. Peak know not whether to

approve her son's ambition or to try to repress it. she would welcome

an improval in his prospect, but, grant success, how be he to live

whilst profit by a scholarship? and again, what do he propose to

make of himself when he have spend three year in study?



'in any case,' be Godwin's reply, 'I should be sure of a good place as

a teacher. but I think I might try for something in the Civil Service;

there be all sort of position to be get.'



it be idle to discuss the future whilst the first step be still

speculative. Mrs. Peak consent to favour the attempt, and what be

more, to keep it a secret until the issue should be know. it be

needful to obtain leave of absence from Mr. Moxey, and Godwin, when

make the request, state for what purpose he be go to Kingsmill,

though without explain the hope which have encourage his study.

the project seem laudable, and his employer make no difficulty.



Godwin just miss the scholarship; of candidate in the prescribed

district, he come out second.



Grievous be the disappointment. to come so near success exasperate

his impatient temper, and for a few day his bondage at the chemical

work seem intolerable; he be ready for almost any venture that

promise release and new scope for his fret energy. but at the

moment when nervous irritation be most acute, a remarkable act of

kindness suddenly restore to he all the hope he have abandon. one

Saturday afternoon he be summon from his surly retreat in the

garret, to speak with a visitor. on enter the sitting-room, he find

his mother in company with Miss Cadman and the Misses Lumb, and from

the last-mention lady, who speak with amiable alternation, he

learn that they be commission by Sir Job Whitelaw to offer for his

acceptance a three-year' studentship at Whitelaw College. affect by

her son's chagrin, Mrs. Peak have disclose the story to her sister, who

have repeat it to the Misses Lumb, who in turn have make it the subject

of a letter to Lady Whitelaw. it be an annual practice with Sir Job to

discover some promising lad whom he could benefit by the payment of his

fee for a long or short period of college study. the hint from

Twybridge come to he just at the suitable time, and, on further

inquiry, he decide to make proffer of this advantage to Godwin Peak.

the only condition be that arrangement should be make by the

student's relative for his support during the propose period.



this generosity take away Godwin's breath. the expenditure it

represent be trifle, but from a stranger in Sir Job's position it

have something which recall to so fervent a mind the poetry of

Medicean patronage. for the moment no faint doubt give warning to

his self-respect; he be eager to accept nobly a benefaction nobly

intend.



Miss Cadman, flatter by Sir Job's attention to her nephew, now come

forward with an offer to contribute towards Godwin's livelihood. her

supplement would eke into adequacy such slender allowance as the

widow's purse could afford. detail be privately discuss, resolve

be take. Mr. Moxey, when it be make known to he, without

explanation, that Godwin be to be send to Whitelaw College, behave

with kindness; he at once release the lad, and add a present to the

salary that be due. proper acknowledgment of the Baronet's kindness

be make by the beneficiary himself, who write a letter give truer

testimony of his mental calibre than would have be offer have he

express himself by word of mouth. a genial reply summon he to an

interview as soon as he should have find an abode in Kingsmill. the

lodge he have occupy during the examination be permanently secure,

and a new period of Godwin's life begin.



for two year, that be to say until his age draw towards nineteen, Peak

pursue the Arts curriculum at Whitelaw. his mood on enter decide

his choice, which be leave free to he. experience of utilitarian

chemistry have for the present make his liberal taste predominant, and

neither the splendid laboratory of Whitelaw nor the repute of its

scientific Professors tempt he to what have once seem his natural

direction. in the second year, however, he enlarge his course by the

addition of one or two class not include in Sir Job's design; these

be pay for out of a present make to he by Mr. Gunnery.



it be customary for the regular student of Whitelaw to graduate at

London University, Peak pass his matriculation, and work on for the

preliminary test then know as First B.A. in the meanwhile he rise

steadily, achieve distinction in the College. the more observant of

his teacher remark he even where he fall short of academic triumph,

and among his fellow-student he have the name of a stern 'sweater', one

not easily beat where he have set his mind on excelling. he be not

generally like, for his mood appear unsocial, and a repelling

arrogance be sometimes feel in his talk. no doubt--say the more

fortunate young man--he come from a very poor home, and suffer from

the narrowness of his mean. they notice that he do not subscribe to

the College Union, and that he could never join in talk regard the

diversion of the town. his two or three intimate be choose from

among those contemporary who read hard and dress poorly.



the detail of Godwin's private life be noteworthy. accustom

hitherto to a domestic circle, at Kingsmill he find himself isolate,

and it be not easy for he to surrender all at once the comfort of

home. for a time he feel as though his ambition be a delinquency

which entail the punishment of loneliness. nor do his relation with

Sir Job Whitelaw tend to mitigate this feeling. in his first interview

with the Baronet, Godwin show to little advantage. a deadly

bashfulness forbid he to be natural either in attitude or speech. he

feel his dependence in a way he have not foresee; the very clothe he

wear, then fresh from the tailor's, seem to be the gift of charity,

and their stiffness shame he. a man of the world, Sir Job could make

allowance for these defect. he understand that the true kindness

would be to leave a youth such as this to the form influence of the

College. so Godwin barely have a glimpse of Lady Whitelaw in her

husband's study, and thereafter for many month he see nothing of his

benefactor. subsequently he be twice invite to interview with Sir

Job, who talk with kindness and commendation. then come the Baronet's

death. Godwin receive an assurance that this event would be no check

upon his career, but he neither see nor hear directly from Lady

Whitelaw.



not a house in Kingsmill open hospitable door to the lonely student;

nor be anyone to blame for this. with no family have he friendly

acquaintance. when, towards the end of his second year, he grow

sufficiently intimate with Buckland Warricombe to walk out with he to

Thornhaw, it could be nothing more than a scarcely welcome exception to

the rule of solitude. impossible for he to cultivate the friendship of

such people as the Warricombes, with their large and joyous scheme of

life. only at a hearth where homeliness and cordiality unite to unthaw

his proud reserve could Godwin perchance have find the companionship

he need. many such home exist in Kingsmill, but no kindly fortune

lead the young man within the sphere of their warmth.



his lodging be in a very ugly street in the ugly outskirt of the

town; he have to take a long walk through desolate district

(brick-yard, sordid pasture, degenerate village) before he could

refresh his eye with the rural scenery which be so great a joy to he

as almost to be a necessity. the immediate vicinage offer nothing but

monotone of grimy, low middle-class dwelling, occasionally relieve

by a public-house. he occupy two room, not unreasonably clean, and

be seldom disturb by the attention of his landlady.



an impartial observer might have wonder at the negligence which leave

he to arrange his life as good he could, notwithstanding youth and

utter inexperience. it look indeed as if there be no one in the

world who care what become of he. yet this be merely the result of

his mother's circumstance, and of his own character. Mrs Peak could do

no more than make her small remittance, and therewith send an

occasional admonition regard his health. she do not, in fact,

conceive the state of thing, imagine that the authority and

supervisal of the College extend over her son's daily existence,

whereas it be possible for Godwin to frequent lecture or not, to

study or to waste his time, pretty much as he choose, subject only to

official inquiry if his attendance become frequently irregular. his

independent temper, and the seem maturity of his mind, supply

another excuse for the imprudent confidence which leave he to his own

resource. yet the peril of the situation be great indeed. a youth

of less concentrated purpose, more at the mercy of casual allurement,

would probably have go to wreck amid trial so exceptional.



trial not only of his moral nature. the sum of money with which he

be furnish fall short of a reasonable total for bare necessity. in

the calculation make by Mrs. Peak and her sister, outlay on book have

practically be lose sight of; it be presume that ten shilling a

term would cover this item. but Godwin could not consent to be at a

disadvantage in his armoury for academic contest. the first month see

he compel to contract his diet, that he might purchase book;

thenceforth he rarely have enough to eat. his landlady supply he with

breakfast, tea, and supper--each repast of the very simple kind; for

dinner it be understand that he repair to some public table, where

meat and vegetable, with perchance a supplementary sweet when nature

demand it, might be have for about a shilling. that shilling be not

often at his disposal. dinner as it be understand by the comfortably

clad, the 'regular meal' which be a part of english respectability,

come to be represent by a small pork-pie, or even a couple of bun,

eat at the little shop over against the College. after a long morning

of mental application this be poor refreshment; the long afternoon

which follow, again spend in rigorous study, could not but reduce a

grow frame to ravenous hunger. Tea and butter bread be the mean

of appease it, until another four hour' work call for reward in

the shape of bread and cheese. even yet the day's toil be not end.

Godwin sometimes read long after midnight, with the result that, when

at length he try to sleep, exhaustion of mind and body keep he for a

long time feverishly wakeful.



these hardship he conceal from the people at Twybridge. Complaint,

it seem to he, would be ungrateful, for sacrifice be already make

on his behalf. his father, as he well remember, be willnot to relate,

with a kind of angry satisfaction, the misery through which he have

fight his way to education and the income-tax. old enough now to

reflect with compassionate understanding upon that life of conflict,

Godwin resolve that he too would bear the burden inseparable from

poverty, and in some mood be even glad to suffer as his father have

do. fortunately he have a sound basis of health, and hunger and vigil

would not easily affect his constitution. if, thus hamper, he could

outstrip competitor who have every advantage of circumstance, the more

glorious his triumph.



Sunday be an interval of leisure. rejoice in deliverance from

Sabbatarianism, he generally spend the morning in a long walk, and the

rest of the day be devoted to non-collegiate reading. he have

subscribe to a circulate library, and thus obtain new publication

recommend to he in the literary paper which again tax his stomach.

mere class-work do not satisfy he. he be possess with throe of

spiritual desire, impel he towards that world of unfettered

speculation which he have long indistinctly imagine. it be a great

thing to learn what the past could teach, to set himself on the common

level of intellectual man; but he understand that college learning

could not be an end in itself, that the Professors to whom he listen

either do not speak out all that be in their mind, or, if they do,

be far from represent the advanced guard of modern thought. with

eagerness he at length betook himself to the teacher of philosophy and

of geology. having pay for these lecture out of his own pocket, he

feel as if he have win a privilege beyond the conventional course of

study, an initiation to a high sphere of intellect. the result be

disillusion. not even in these class-room could he hear the word for

which he wait, the bold annunciation of newly discover law, the

science which have completely break with tradition. he come away

unsatisfie, and brood upon the possibility which would open for

he when he be no long dependent.



his evening work at home be subject to a disturbance which would have

lead he to seek other lodging, could he have hope to find any so

cheap as these. the landlady's son, a lank youth of the clerk specie,

be willnot to amuse himself from eight to ten with practice on a piano.

by dint of perseverance he have learn to strum two or three hymnal

melody popularise by american evangelist; occasionally he even

add the charm of his voice, which have a pietistic nasality not easily

endure by an ear of any refinement. not only be Godwin harass by

the recurrence of these performance; the tune work themselves into

his brain, and sometimes throughout a whole day their burden clang

and squall incessantly on his mental hearing. he long to entreat

forbearance from the musician, but an excess of delicacy--which always

rule his behaviour--keep he silent. certain passage in the classic,

and many an elaborate mathematical formula, long retain for he an

association with the cadence of revivalist hymnody.



like all proud nature condemn to solitude, he try to convince

himself that he have no need of society, that he despise its

attraction, and could be self-sufficing. so far be this from the

truth that he often regard with bitter envy those of his

fellow-student who have the social air, who converse freely among

their equal, and show that the pursuit of the College be only a

part of their existence. these young man be either prepare for the

University, or would pass from Whitelaw to business, profession,

official training; in any case, a track be mark out for they by the

zealous care of relative and friend, and their effort would always

be aid, applaud, by a kindly circle. some of they Godwin could not

but admire, so healthful be they, so bright of intellect, and

courteous in manner,--a type distinct from any he have formerly

observe. other be antipathetic to he. their aggressive gentility

conflict with the wariness of his self-esteem; such a one, for

instance, as Bruno Chilvers, the sound of whose mince voice, as he

read in the class, so irritate he that at time he have to cover his

ear. yet, do it chance that one of these offensive youth address a

civil word to he, on the instant his prejudice be disarm, and his

emotion flow forth in a response to which he would gladly have give

free expression. when he be invite to meet the relative of Buckland

Warricombe, shyness prepossess he against they; but the frank

kindness of his reception move he, and on go away he be ashamed

to have reply so boorishly to attention so amiably mean. the same

note of character sound in what personal intercourse he have with the

Professors. though his spirit of criticism be at time busy with these

gentleman, he have for most of they a profound regard; and to be elect

by one or other for a word of commendation, a little private

assistance, a well-phrase inquiry as to his progress, always make his

heart beat high with gratitude. they be his first exemplar of

finish courtesy, of delicate culture; and he could never sufficiently

regret that no one of they be aware how thankfully he recognise his

debt.



in longing for the intimacy of refined people, he begin to modify his

sentiment with regard to the female sex. his first prize-day at

Whitelaw be the first occasion on which he sit in an assembly where

lady (as he understand the title) could be see and hear. the

impression he receive be deep and lasting. on the seat behind he

be two girl whose intermittent talk hold he with irresistible charm

throughout the whole ceremony. he have not imagine that girl could

display such intelligence, and the sweet clearness of their intonation,

the purity of their accent, the grace of their habitual phrase, be

thing altogether beyond his experience. this be not the English he

have be willnot to hear on female lip. his mother and his aunt speak

with propriety; their associate be soft-tongue; but here be

something quite different from inoffensiveness of tone and diction.

Godwin appreciate the differentiate cause. these young lady behind

he have be train from the cradle to speak for the delight of

fastidious ear; that they should be grammatical be not enough--they

must excel in the art of conversational music. of course there exist

a world where only such speech be interchange, and how inestimably

happy those man to whom the sphere be native!



when the proceeding be over, he draw aside and watch the two girl

as they mingle with acquaintance; he keep they in view until they

leave the College. an emotion such as this he have never know; for the

first time in his life he be humiliate without embitterment.



the bitterness come when he have return to his home in the back street

of Twybridge, and be endeavour to spend the holiday in a hard

'grind'. he loathe the penurious simplicity to which his life be

condemn; all familiar circumstance be become petty, coarse,

vulgar, in his eye; the contrast with the idealised world of his

ambition plunge he into despair: even Mr. Gunnery seem an ignoble

figure when compare with the Professors of Whitelaw, and his authority

in the science be now subject to doubt. however much or little

might result from the three year at College, it be clear to Godwin

that his former existence have pass into infinite remoteness; he be

no long fit for Twybridge, no long a companion for his kindre.

Oliver, whose dulness as a schoolboy give no promise of future

achievement, be now learn the business of a seedsman; his brother

feel ashamed when he see he at work in the shop, and have small

patience with the comrade to whom Oliver dedicate his leisure.

Charlotte be estrange by religious difference. only for his mother

do the young man show increase consideration. to his aunt he

endeavour to be grateful, but his behaviour in her presence be

elaborate hypocrisy. hate the necessity for this, he lay the blame

on fortune, which have decree his birth in a social sphere where he

must ever be an alien.







CHAPTER III





with the growth of his militant egoism, there have develop in Godwin

Peak an excess of nervous sensibility which threaten to deprive his

character of the initiative rightly belong to it. self-assertion be

the practical complement of self-esteem. to be largely endow with the

latter quality, yet constrain by a coward delicacy to repress it, be

to suffer martyrdom at the pleasure of every robust assailant, and in

the end be drive to the refuge of a moody solitude. that encounter

with his objectionable uncle after the prize distribution at Whitelaw

show how much Godwin have lose of the natural vigour which declare

itself at Andrew Peak's second visit to Twybridge, when the boy

certainly would not have endure his uncle's presence but for

hospitable consideration and the respect due to his mother. the

decision with which he then unbosom himself to Oliver, still

characterise his thought, but he have not courage to elude the

dialogue force upon he, still less to make known his resentment of

the man's offensive vulgarity. he endure in silence, his heart afire

with scornful wrath.



the affliction could not have befall he at a time when he be less

capable of support it resignedly. notwithstanding his noteworthy

success in two class, it seem to he that he have lose

everything--that the day be one of signal and disgraceful defeat. in

any case that sequence of second prize must have fill he with

chagrin, but to be beat thus repeatedly by such a fellow as Bruno

Chilvers be humiliation intolerable. a fopling, a mincer of effeminate

English, a rote-repeater of academic catchword--bah! the

by-examination of the year have whisper presage, but Peak always feel

that he be not put forth his strength; when the serious trial come

he would show what be really in he. too late he recognise his error,

though he try not to admit it. the extra subject have exact too

much of he; there be a limit to his power. within the College this

would be well enough understand, but to explain a disagreeable fact be

not to change it; his name be write in pitiful subordination. and as

for the public assembly--he would have sacrifice some year of his

life to have step forward in facile supremacy, beneath the eye of

those cluster lady. instead of that, they have look upon his

shame; they have interchange glance of amusement at each repetition of

his defeat; have murmur comment in their melodious speech; have end

by lose all interest in he--as intuition apprise he be the willnot

of woman.



as soon as he have escape from his uncle, he relapse into musing upon

the position to which he be condemn when the new session come round.

again Chilvers would be in the same class with he, and, as likely as

not, with the same result. in the meantime, they be both 'go in'

for the First B.A.; he have no fear of failure, but it might easily

happen that chilver would achieve high distinction. with an eye to

award that might be win--substantial cash-annuity--he be read

for Honours; but it seem doubtful whether he could present himself,

as the second examination be hold only in London. chilver would of

course be an honours candidate. he would smile--confound him!--at an

objection on the score of the necessary journey to London. well to

refrain altogether than again to see chilver come out ahead. general

surprise would naturally be excite, question ask on all hand. how

would it sound: 'I simply couldn't afford to go up'--?



at this point of the meditation he have reach his lodging; he

admit himself with a latch-key, turn into his murky sitting-room,

and sit down.



the table be lay for tea, as usual. though he might have go to

twybridge this evening, he have prefer to stay overnight, for an odd

reason. at a theatre in Kingsmill a London company, head by an

actress of some distinction, be to perform _Romeo and Juliet_, and he

purpose grant himself this indulgence before leave the town. the

plan be make when his eye fall upon the advertisement, a few day ago.

he then believe it probable that an evening at the theatre would

appropriately follow upon a day of victory. his interest in the

performance have collapse, but he do not care to alter his

arrangement.



the landlady come in bear the tea-pot. he want nothing, yet could

not exert himself to say so.



but he be lose sight of a menace more formidable than defeat by

chilver. what be it his blackguard uncle have say? have the fellow

really threaten to start an eating-house opposite the College, and

flare his name upon a placard? 'Peak's Dining and Refreshment

Rooms'--merciful heaven!



again the mood of laughter come upon he. why, here be a solution of

all difficulty, as simple as unanticipated. if indeed that awful

thing come to pass, farewell to Whitelaw! what possibility of pursue

his study when every class-companion, every Professor,--nay, the very

porters,--had become aware that he be nephew to the man who supply

meal over the way? moral philosophy have no prophylactic against an

ordeal such as this. could the most insignificant lad attend

lecture afford to disregard such an occasion of ridicule and contempt?



but the scheme would not be realise; it sound too unlikely. Andrew

Peak be merely a loose-minded vagabond, who might talk of this and

that project for make money, but would certainly never quit his dirty

haunt in London. Godwin ask himself angrily why he have submit to

the fellow's companionship. this absurd delicacy must be correct

before it become his tyrant. the idea of scruple to hurt the

sensibility of Andrew Peak! the man be coarse-hide enough to

undergo kicking, and then take sixpence in compensation,--not a doubt

of it. this detestable tie of kindred must no long be recognise. he

would speak gravely to his mother about it. if Andrew again present

himself at the house he should be give plainly to understand that his

visit be something less than welcome,--if necessary, a downright

blunt word must effect their liberation. Godwin feel strong enough for

that, muse here alone. and, student-like, he pass on to debate the

theory of the problem. Andrew be his father's brother, but what be a

mere tie of blood if nature have alienate two person by a subtler

distinction? by the dead man, Andrew have never be love or esteem;

memory supply proof of this. the widow shrink from he. no obligation

of any kind lie upon they to tolerate the London ruffian.--Enough; he

should be got rid of!



alternate his cause of misery, which--he could not quite

forget--might blend for the sudden transformation of his life, Godwin

let the tea grow cold upon the table, until it be time, if he still

mean to visit the theatre, for set forth. he have no mind to go,

but as little to sit here and indulge harass reflection. with an

effort, he make ready and leave the house.



the cost of his seat at the theatre be two shilling. so nicely have he

adjust the expense of these last day that, after pay the

landlady's bill to-morrow morning, there would remain to he but a few

penny more than the money need for his journey home. walk into the

town, he debate with himself whether it be not well to save this

florin. but as he approach the pit door, the spirit of pleasure

revive in he; he have see but one of Shakespeare's play, and he

believe (naturally at his age) that to see a drama act be necessary

for its full appreciation. sidle with affected indifference, he add

himself to the crowd.



to stand thus, expectant of the opening door, trouble he with a

sense of shame. to be sure, he be in the spiritual company of Charles

Lamb, and of many another man of brain who have wait under the lamp.

but contact with the pittite of Kingsmill offend his instinct; he

resent this appearance of inferiority to people who come at their

leisure, and take seat in the well part of the house. when a

neighbour address he with a meaningless joke which defy grammar,

he try to grin a friendly answer, but inwardly shrank. the event of

the day have increase his sensibility to such impression. have he

triumph over Bruno Chilvers, he could have behave this evening with

a large humanity.



the fight for entrance--honest british stupidity, crush rib and

rend garment in preference to seemly order of progress--enliven

he somewhat, and send he laugh to his conquered place; but before

the curtain rise he be again depressed by the sight of a familiar

figure in the stall, a fellow-student who sit there with mother and

sister, black-uniformed, look very much a gentleman. 'I, of course,

be not a gentleman,' he say to himself, gloomily. be there any chance

that he might some day take his ease in that orthodox fashion? Inasmuch

as it be conventionality, he scorn it; but the privilege which it

represent have strong control of his imagination. that lady and her

daughter would follow the play with intelligence. to exchange comment

with they would be a keen delight. as for he--he have a shop-boy on one

hand and a grocer's wife on the other.



by the end he have fall into fatigue. amid clamour of easily-win

applause he make his way into the street, to find himself in a heavy

downpour of rain. have no umbrella, he look about for a sheltered

station, and the glare of a neighbour public-house catch his eye;

he be thirsty, and might as well refresh body and spirit with a glass

of beer, an unwonted indulgence which have the pleasant semblance of

dissipation. arrive at the bar he come upon two acquaintance, who, to

judge by their flushed cheek and excited voice, have be celebrate

jovially the close of their academic labour. they hail he.



'Hollo, Peak! come and help we to get sober before bedtime!'



they be not exactly studious youth, but neither do they belong to

the class that Godwin despise, and he have a comrade-like feeling for

they. in a few minute his demeanour be wholly change. a glass of hot

whisky act promptly upon his nervous system, enable he to forget

vexation, and attune he to kindre sprightliness. he enter merrily

into the talk of a time of life which be independent of morality--talk

distinct from that of the blackguard, but equally so from that of the

reflective man. his first glass have several successor. the trio

ramble arm in arm from one place of refreshment to another, and

presently sit down in hearty fellowship to a supper of such viand as

recommend themselves at bibulous midnight. Peak be draw recklessly

upon the few coin that remain to he; he must leave his landlady's

claim undischarged, and send the money from home. Prudence be hang!

if one cannot taste amusement once in a twelvemonth, why live at all?



he reach his lodging, at something after one o'clock, drench with

rain, gloriously indifferent to that and all other chance of life.

Pooh! his system have be radically wrong. he should have allow

himself recreation once a week or so; he would have be all the well

for it, body and mind. book and that kind of thing be all very well

in their way, but one must live; he have waste too much of his youth in

solitude. _o mihi proeterito referat si Jupiter anno!_ next session

he would arrange thing well. success in examination--what trivial

fuss when one look at it from the right point of view! and he have

fret himself into misery, because chilver have get more

'marks',--ha, ha, ha!



the morrow's waking be lugubrious enough. Headache and nausea weigh

upon he. worse still, a scrutiny of his pocket show that he have

only the shameface change of half-a-crown wherewith to transport

himself and his belonging to twybridge. now, the railway fare alone

be three shilling; the needful cab demand eighteenpence. o idiot!



and he hate the thought of leave his bill unpaid; the more so

because it be a trifling sum, a week's settlement. to put himself

under however brief an obligation to a woman such as the landlady

gnaw at his pride. not that only. he have no business to make a demand

upon his mother for this additional sum. but there be no way of

raise the money; no one of whom he could borrow it; nothing he could

afford to sell--even if courage have support he through such a

transaction. triple idiot!



Bread turn to bran upon his hot palate; he could only swallow cup of

coffee. with tremble hand he finish the packing of his box and

portmanteau, then brace himself to the dreaded interview. of course,

it involve no difficulty, the word once utter; but, when he be

leave alone again, he pace the room for a few minute in flush of

mortification. it have make his headache bad.



the mode of his homeward journey he have easily arrange. his baggage

having be label for Twybridge, he himself would book as far as his

money allow, then proceed on foot for the remain distance. with

the elevenpence now in his pocket he could purchase a ticket to a

little town call Dent, and by a calculation from the railway tariff

he conclude that from Dent to Twybridge be some five-and-twenty

mile. well and good. at the rate of four mile an hour it would take

he from half-past eleven to about six o'clock. he could certainly

reach home in time for supper.



at Dent station, ashame to ask (like a tramp) the way to so remote a

place as Twybridge, he jot down a list of intervene railway

stoppage, and thus be enable to support the semblance of one who

stroll on for his pleasure. a small handbag he be oblige to carry,

and the clouded sky make his umbrella a requisite. on he trudge

steadily, for the most part by muddy way, now through a pleasant

village, now in rural solitude. he have have the precaution, at breakfast

time, to store some piece of bread in his pocket, and after two or

three hour this resource be welcome. happily the air and exercise

help he to get rid of his headache. a burst of sunshine in the

afternoon would have make he reasonably cheerful, but for the wretched

meditation survive from yesterday.



he ponder frequently on his spasmodic debauch, repeat, as well as

memory permit, all his absurdity of speech and action. defiant

self-justification be now far to seek. on the other hand, he perceive

very clearly how easy it would be for he to lapse by degree of

weaken will into a ruinous dissoluteness. anything of that kind would

mean, of course, the abandonment of his ambition. all he have to fight

the world with be his brain; and only by incessant strenuousness in

its exercise have he achieve the moderate prominence declare in

yesterday's ceremony. by birth, by station, he be of no account; if he

choose to sink, no influential voice would deplore his fall off or

remind he of what he owe to himself. chilver, now--what a

wide-spread outcry, what call upon god and man, would be excite

by any defection of that brilliant youth! Godwin Peak must make his own

career, and that he would hardly do save by effort great than the

ordinary man can put forth. the ordinary man?--Was he in any respect

extraordinary? be his power noteworthy? it be the first time that

he have deliberately pose this question to himself, and for answer come

a rush of confident blood, pulse through all the mechanism of his

be.



the train of thought which occupy he during this long trudge be to

remain fixed in his memory; in any survey of the year of pupilage this

recollection would stand prominently forth, associate, moreover, with

one slight incident which at the time seem a mere interruption of his

musing. from a point on the high-road he observe a small quarry, so

excavate as to present an interesting section; though weary, he could

not but turn aside to examine these strata. he know enough of the

geology of the county to recognise the rock and reflect with

understanding upon their position; a fragment in his hand, he sit down

to rest for a moment. then a strange fit of brooding come over he.

escape from the influence of personality, his imagination work

back through era of geologic time, hold he in a vision of the

infinitely remote, shrivel into insignificance all but the one fact

of inconceivable duration. often as he have lose himself in such

reverie, never yet have he pass so wholly under the dominion of that

awe which attend a sudden triumph of the pure intellect. when at

length he rise, it be with wide, blank eye, and limb partly numb.

these need half-an-hour's walking before he could recover his mood of

practical self-search.



until the last moment he could not decide whether to let his mother

know how he have reach Twybridge. his arrival correspond pretty well

with that of a train by which he might have come. but when the door

open to he, and the familiar face smile their welcome, he feel

that he must have nothing to do with paltry deceit; he tell of his

walk, explain it by the simple fact that this morning he have find

himself short of money. how that come to pass, no one inquire. Mrs.

Peak, shock at such martyrdom, tend he with all motherly care; for

once, Godwin feel that it be good to have a home, however simple.



this amiable frame of mind be not likely to last beyond the first day.

Matter of irritation soon enough offer itself, as be invariably the

case at Twybridge. it be pleasant enough to be fete as the hero of

the family, to pull out a Kingsmill newspaper and exhibit the full

report of prize-day at Whitelaw, with his own name, in very small type,

demand the world's attention, and finally to exhibit the volume in

tree-calf which his friend the librarian have forward to he. but

domestic circumstance soon make assault upon his nerve, and trial of

his brief patience.



first of all, there come an unexpected disclosure. his sister Charlotte

have affiance herself to a young man of Twybridge, one Mr Cusse, whose

prospect be as slender as his present mean. Mrs Peak speak of the

affair in hushed privacy, with shake of the head and frequent sigh,

for to her mind Mr. Cusse have few even personal recommendation. he be

a draper's assistant. Charlotte have make his acquaintance on occasion

of church festivity, and urge the fact of his zeal in Sunday-school

tuition as sufficient reply to all doubt. as he listen, Godwin bite

his lip.



'do he come here, then?' be his inquiry.



'once or twice a week. I haven't feel able to say anything against it,

Godwin. I suppose it will be a very long engagement.'



Charlotte be just twenty-two, and it seem probable that she know she

own mind; in any case, she be of a character which would only be

drive to obstinacy by adverse criticism. Godwin learn that his aunt

Emily (Miss Cadman) regard this connection with serious disapproval.

herself a shopkeeper, she might have be expect to show indulgence

to a draper's assistant, but, so far from this, her view of Mr. Cusse

be severely scornful. she have nourish far other hope for Charlotte,

who surely at her age (Miss Cadman look from the eminence of

five-and-forty) should have be less precipitate. no undue harshness

have be exhibit by her relative, but Charlotte take a stand which

sufficiently declare she kindre with Godwin. she hold her head higher

than formerly, speak with habitual decision which border on

snappishness, and at time display the absentmindedness of one who in

silence suffer wrong.



there pass but a day or two before Godwin be bring face to face

with Mr. Cusse, who answer too well to the idea Charlotte's brother

have form of he. he have a very smooth and shiny forehead, crown by

sleek chestnut hair; his chin be deferential; the bend of his body

signify a modest hope that he do his duty in the station to which

Providence have summon he. Godwin he seek to flatter with look of

admire interest; also, by enter upon a conversation which be

mean to prove that he do not altogether lack worldly knowledge, of

however little moment that might be in comparison with spiritual

concern. examining, volume by volume and with painful minuteness, the

prize Godwin have carry off, he remark fervently, in each instance,

'I can see how very interesting that be! so thorough, so thorough!'

even Charlotte be at length annoyed, when Mr. Cusse have exclaim upon

the 'thoroughness' of Ben Jonson's work; she ask an abrupt question

about some town affair, and so give her brother an opportunity of

take the book away. there be no flagrant offence in the man. he

speak with passable accent, and manifest a high degree of amiability;

but one could not dissociate he from the counter. at the thought that

his sister might become Mrs. Cusse, Godwin grind his tooth. now that

he come to reflect on the subject, he find in himself a sort of

unreasoned supposition that Charlotte would always remain single; it

seem so unlikely that she would be seek by a man of liberal

standing, and at the same time so impossible for she to accept any one

less than a gentleman. yet he remember that to outsider such

fastidiousness must show in a ridiculous light. what claim to gentility

have they, the Peaks? be it not all a figment of his own self-conceit?

even in education Charlotte could barely assert a superiority to Mr.

Cusse, for her formal schooling have end when she be twelve, and she

have never care to read beyond the strait track clerical inspiration.



there be other circumstance which help to depress his estimate of

the family dignity. his brother Oliver, now seventeen, be develop

into a type of young man as objectionable as it be easily recognise.

the slow, compliant boy have grow more flesh and muscle than once

seem likely, and his wit have begin to display that kind of

vivaciousness which be only compatible with a nature mould in common

clay. he see much company, and all of low intellectual order; he have

purchase a bicycle, and regard it as a source of distinction, a

mean of display himself before shopkeeper' daughter; he believe

himself a modest tenor, and sing verse of sentimental imbecility; he

take in several weekly paper of unpromise title, for the chief

purpose of decipher cryptogram, in which pursuit he have singular

success. add to these characteristic a penchant for cheap jewellery,

and Oliver Peak stand confess.



it appear to Godwin that his brother have leap in a few month to

these height of vulgar accomplishment; each separate revelation strike

unexpectedly upon his nerve and severely try his temper. when at

length Oliver, wait for supper, begin to dance grotesquely to an air

which local talent have somehow catch from the London music-hall,

Godwin's self-control give way.



'be it your ambition,' he asked, with fiery sarcasm, 'to join a troupe

of nigger minstrel?'



Oliver be startle into the military posture of attention. he

answer, with some embarrassment:



'I cann't say it be.'



'yet anyone would suppose so,' go on Godwin, hotly. 'though you be

employ in a shop, I should have think you might still aim at

behave like a gentleman.'



indispose to quarrel, and possess of small skill in verbal fence,

Oliver draw aside with shadow brow. as the brother still have to

share one bedroom, they be presently alone together, and their

muteness, as they lie down to sleep, show the estrangement that have

at length come between they. when all have be dark and still for

half-an-hour, Godwin speak.



'be you awake?'



'yes.'



'there be something about Uncle Andrew. I don't mention. he talk of

open an eating-house just opposite Whitelaw.'



'oh.'



the tone of this signify nothing more than curiosity.



'you don't see any reason why he shouldn't?'



Oliver delay a little before reply.



'I suppose it wouldn't be very nice for you.'



'that's rather a mild way of put it. it would mean that I should

have to leave the College, and give up all my hope.'



'I see,' return the other, with slow apprehension.



there follow several minute of silence. then Godwin sit up in bed,

as have always be his willnot when he talk with earnestness at night.



'if you think I lose my temper without cause at suppertime, just

remember that I have that blackguard before my mind, and that it ben't

very pleasant to see you take after that branch of our family.'



'do you mean to say I be like uncle?'



'I mean to say that, if you be not careful, you willn't be the kind of

man I should like to see you. do you know what be mean by inherit

tendency? scientific man be give a great deal of attention to such

thing nowadays. child don't always take after their parent; very

often they show a much strong likeness to a grandfather, or an uncle,

or even more distant relative. just think over this, and make up your

mind to resist any danger of that sort. I tell you plainly that the

habit you be get into, and the people you make friend of, be

detestable. for heaven's sake, spend more of your time in a rational

way, and learn to despise the thing that shopkeeper admire. Read!

force yourself to stick hard at solid book for two or three hour

every day. if you don't, it's all up with you. I be speak for your

own good. read, read, read!'



Quietness ensue. then Oliver begin to move uneasily in his bed, and at

length his protest become audible.



'I cann't see what harm I do.'



'no!' burst from his brother's lip, scornfully. 'and that's just your

danger. do you suppose _i_ could sing nigger song, and run about the

town with shopboy, and waste hour over idiotic puzzle?'



'we're not all alike, and it wouldn't do for we to be.'



'it would do very well for we all to have brain and to use they. the

life you lead be a brainless life, brainless and vulgar.'



'well, if I haven't get brain, I cann't help it,' reply Oliver, with

sullen resignation.



'you have enough to teach you to live respectably, if only you look to

the right kind of example.'



there follow a vehement exhortation, now angry, now in strain of

natural kindliness. to this Oliver make only a few brief and muttered

reply; when it be all over, he fall asleep. but Godwin be wakeful

for hour.



the next morning he attempt to work for his approach examination,

but with small result. it have begin to be very doubtful to he whether

he should 'go up' at all, and this uncertainty involve so great a

change in all his prospect that he could not command the mental calm

necessary for study. after dinner he go out with unsettled purpose.

he would gladly have converse with Mr Gunnery, but the old people be

just now on a stay with relative in Bedfordshire, and their return

might be delay for another week. perhaps it behove he to go and see

Mr. Moxey, but he be indispose to visit the work, and if he go to

the house this evening he would encounter the five daughter, who, like

all woman who do not inspire he with admiration, excite his bashful

dislike. at length he strike off into the country and indulge restless

thought in place where no one could observe he.



a result of the family's removal first from London to the farm, and

then into Twybridge, be that Godwin have no friend of old standing. at

Greenwich, Nicholas Peak form no intimacy, nor do a single

associate remain to he from the year of his growth and struggle; his

wife, until the renewal of intercourse with her sister at Twybridge,

have no society whatever beyond her home. a boy reap advantage from the

half parental kindness of man and woman who have watch his growth

from infancy; in general it affect he as a steadying influence,

keep before his mind the social bond to which his behaviour owe

allegiance. the only person whom Godwin regard with feel akin to

this be Mr. Gunnery, but the geologist find no favour with Mrs. Peak,

and thus he involuntarily help to widen the gap between the young man

and his relative. nor have the intimacy of school time supply

Godwin with friendship for the year to come; his twybridge

class-fellow no long interest he, nor do they care to continue

his acquaintance. one be article to a solicitor; one be learn the

drug-trade in his father's shop; another have begin to deal in corn; the

rest be scatter about England, as student or salary-earner. the

dominion of the commonplace have absorb they, all and sundry; they

be the stuff which destiny use for its every-day purpose, to keep

the world a-rolling.



so that Godwin have no tie which bind he strongly to any district. he

could not call himself a Londoner; for, though bear in Westminster, he

have grow to consciousness on the outskirt of Greenwich, and

remember but dimly some of the London street, and a few place of

public interest to which his father have take he. yet, as a matter of

course, it be to London that his ambition point, when he forecast

the future. where else could he hope for opportunity of notable

advancement? at Twybridge? impossible to find more than mean of

subsistence; his soul loathe such a prospect. at Kingsmill? there be

a slender hope that he might establish a connection with Whitelaw

College, if he devote himself to laboratory work; but what could come

of that--at all event for many year? London, then? the only

acceptable plan for support himself there be to succeed in a Civil

Service competition. that, indeed, seem the most hopeful direction

for his effort; a government office might afford he scope, and, he

have hear, would allow he abundant leisure.



or to go abroad? to enter for the indian clerkship, and possibly

cleave a wide way than could be hope in England? there be allurement

in the suggestion; travel have always tempt his fancy. in that case he

would be safely sever from the humble origin which in his native

country might long be an annoyance, or even an obstacle; no Uncle

Andrew could spring up at inconvenient moment in the middle of his

path. yes; this indeed might be good of all. he must send for paper,

and give attention to the matter.



Musing in this way, he have come within sight of the familiar chemical

work. it be near the hour at which Mr. Moxey be about to go home for

his afternoon dinner; why not interrupt his walk, and have a word with

he? that duty would be over.



he push on, and, as he approach the building, be aware of Mr

Moxey step into the road, unaccompanie. greeting speedily

follow. the manufacturer, who be grow stout in his mellow year

and look more leisurely than when Godwin first know he, beam with

smile of approbation.



'glad to see you; glad to see you! I have hear of your doing at

College.'



'nothing to boast of, Mr. Moxey.'



'why, what would satisfy you? a nephew of mine be there last Friday,

and tell I you carry off half a hundredweight of prize. here he

come, I see.'



there draw near a young man of about four-and-twenty, well-dress,

saunter with a cane in his hand. his name be Christian Moxey.



'much pleasure in meet you, Mr. Peak,' he say, with a win

smile. 'I be at Whitelaw the other day, when you distinguish

yourself, and if I have know then that you be an acquaintance of my

uncle's I should have be tempt to offer a word of congratulation.

very glad indeed to meet you.'



Godwin, grateful as always for the show of kindness and flatter by

such a reception, at once feel a liking for Christian Moxey. Most

people would have admit the young man's attractiveness. he have a

thin and sallow face, and seem to be of weak constitution. in talk

he leant upon his cane, and his movement be languid; none the less,

his person be distinguish by an air of graceful manhood. his

feature, separately consider, be ordinary enough; together they

make a countenance of peculiar charm, vividly illumine, full of appeal

to whosoever could appreciate emotional capability. the interest he

excited in Peak appear to be reciprocal, for his eye dwelt as often

and as long as possible on Godwin's feature.



'come along, and have something to eat with we,' say Mr. Moxey, in a

tone of genial invitation. 'I daresay you have dinner long enough ago to

have pick up a new appetite.'



Godwin have a perturb vision of the five Miss Moxeys and of a dinner

table, such as he be not use to sit at; he wish to decline, yet

know not how to do so with civility.



'yes, yes; come along!' add his friend, heartily. 'tell we something

about your chemistry paper. any poser this time? my nephew willn't be

out of it; he belong to the firm of Bates Brothers--the Rotherhithe

people, you know.'



this information be a surprise to Godwin. he have imagine Christian

Moxey either a gentleman at large, or at all event connect with some

liberal profession. glance at the attractive face, he meet a singular

look, a smile which suggest vague doubt. but Christian make no

remark, and Mr. Moxey renew his inquiry about the examination in

chemistry.



the five daughter--all assemble in a homely sit-room--be

nothing less than formidable. plain, soft-spoken, not ill educate,

they seem to live in perfect harmony, and to derive satisfaction from

pursuit independent of external society. in the town they be seldom

see; few family call upon they; and only the most inveterate

gossip find matter for small-talk in their retire life. it have

never be hear that any one of they be seek in marriage. Godwin,

superfluously troubled about his attire, meet they with grim endeavour

at politeness; their gravity, a result of shyness, he misinterpret,

suppose they to hold aloof from a young man who have be in their

father's employ. but before he could suffer much from the necessity of

formal conversation the door open to admit yet another young lady, a

perfect stranger to he. her age be about seventeen, but she have

nothing of the sprightly grace proverbially connect with that time of

life in girl; her pale and freckle visage express a haughty

reserve, intensify as soon as her eye fall upon the visitor. she have

a slight but well-proportion figure, and a mass of auburn hair

carelessly arrange.



'my sister,' say Christian, glance at Godwin. 'Marcella, you

recognise Mr. Peak.'



'oh yes,' the girl reply, as she come forward, and make a sudden

offer of her hand.



she too have be present the other day at Whitelaw. she 'oh yes'

sound offensive to Godwin, yet in shake hand with she he feel a

warm pressure, and it flatter he when he become aware that Marcella

regard he from time to time with furtive interest. presently he

learn that Christian and his sister be on a short visit at the house

of their relative; their home be in London. Marcella have seat

herself stiffly by a window, and seem to pay more attention to the

view without than to the talk which go on, until dinner be announce.



speculate on all he see, Godwin notice that Christian Moxey show a

mark preference for the young of his cousin, a girl of eighteen,

whose plain feature be frequently brighten with a happy and very

pleasant smile. when he address she (by the name of Janet) his voice

have a playful kindness which must have be significant to everyone who

hear it. at dinner, his place be by her side, and he attend to she

with more than courtesy. this astonish Peak. he deem it incredible

that any man should conceive a tender feeling for a girl so far from

beautiful. constantly occupy with thought of sexual attachment, he

have never imagine anything of the kind apart from loveliness of

feature in the choose object; his instinct be, in fact, revolt by

the idea of love for such a person as Janet Moxey. Christian seem to

be degrade by such a suggestion. in his endeavour to solve the

mystery, Godwin grow half unconscious of the other people about he.



such play of the imaginative and speculative faculty account for the

common awkwardness of intelligent young man in society that be strange

to they. only the cultivation of a double consciousness put they

finally at ease. impossible to converse with suavity, and to heed the

form of ordinary good-breeding, when the brain be absorb in all

manner of new problem: one must learn to act a part, to control the

facial mechanism, to observe and anticipate, even whilst the intellect

be spend its sincere energy on subject unavowe. the perfectly

graceful man will always be he who have no strong apprehension either of

his own personality or of that of other, who live on the surface of

thing, who can be interested without emotion, and surprise without

contemplative impulse. never yet have Godwin Peak utter a word that

be worth listen to, or make a remark that declare his mental

power, save in most familiar colloquy. he be begin to understand

the various reason of his seem clownishness, but this very process

of self-study oppose an obstacle to improvement.



when he find himself oblige to take part in conversation about

Whitelaw College, Godwin be disturb by an uncertainty which have

never leave his mind at rest during the past two years;--was it, or be

it not, generally know to his Twybridge acquaintance that he study

as the pensioner of Sir Job Whitelaw? to outward seem all delicacy

have be exercise in the bestowal of Sir Job's benefaction. at the

beginning of each academic session Mrs. Peak have privately receive a

cheque which represent the exact outlay in fee for the course she

son be pursue; payment be then make to the registrar as if from

Peak himself. but Lady Whitelaw's sister be in the secret, and be

it likely that they maintain absolute discretion in talk with

their Twybridge friend? there seem, in the first instance, to be a

tacit understanding that the whole affair should remain strictly

private, and to Godwin himself, sensible enough of such refinement, it

be by no mean inconceivable that silence have be strictly preserve.

he find no difficulty in imagine that Sir Job's right hand know

nothing of what the left perform, and it might be that the

authority of Whitelaw have no hint of his peculiar position. still, he

be perchance mistaken. the Professors perhaps regard he as a sort

of charity-boy, and Twybridge possibly see he in the same light. the

doubt flash upon his mind while he be try to eat and converse

with become self-possession. he dig his heel into the carpet and

silently curse the burden of his servitude.



when the meal be over, Mr. Moxey lead the way out into the garden.

Christian walk apart with Janet: Godwin stroll about between his

host and the eld Miss Moxey, talk of he know not what. in a short

half-hour he screw up his courage to the point of leave-taking.

Marcella and three of her cousin have disappear, so that the

awkwardness of departure be reduce. Christian, who seem to be in a

very contented mood, accompany the guest as far as the garden gate.



'what will be your special line of work when you leave Whitelaw?' he

inquire. 'your taste seem about equally divide between science and

literature.'



'I haven't the least idea what I shall do,' be Peak's reply.



'very much my own state of mind when I come home from Zurich a year

ago. but it have be take for grant that I be prepare for

business, so into business I go.' he laugh good-humouredly.

'perhaps you will be draw to London?'



'yes--I think it likely,' Godwin answer, with an absent glance this

way and that.



'in any case,' pursue the other, 'you'll be there presently for First

B.A. Honours. try to look in at my room, will you? I should be

delighted to see you. Most of my day be spend in the romantic locality

of Rotherhithe, but I get home about five o'clock, as a rule. let I

give you a card.'



'thank you.'



'I daresay we shall meet somewhere about here before then. of course

you be read hard, and haven't much leisure. I'm an idle dog,

unfortunately. I should like to work, but I don't quite know what at. I

suppose this be a transition time with I.'



Godwin try to discover the implication of this remark. have it any

reference to Miss Janet Moxey? whilst he stand in embarrassed silence,

Christian look about with a peculiar smile, and seem on the point

of indulge in further self-revelation; but Godwin of a sudden hold

out his hand for good-bye, and with friendly smile they part.



Peak be old than his year, and he see in Christian one who might

prove a very congenial associate, do but circumstance favour their

intercourse. that be not very likely to happen, but the meeting at all

event turn his thought to London once more.



his attempt to 'read' be still unfruitful. for one thing, the stress

and excitement of the Whitelaw examination have weary he; it be

characteristic of the educational system in which he have become

involve that studious effort should be call for immediately after

that frenzy of college competition. he ought now to have be

'sweat' at his London subject. instead of that, he procure work

of general literature from a Twybridge library, and shut himself up

with they in the garret bedroom.



a letter from Mr. Gunnery inform he that the writer would be home in

a day or two. this return take place late one evening, and on the

morrow Godwin set forth to visit his friend. on reach the house, he

learn that Mr. Gunnery have suffer an accident which threaten

serious result. walk barefoot in his bedroom the night before, he

have step upon the point of a large nail, and be now prostrate,

endure much pain. two day elapse before Godwin could be admit;

he then find the old man a mere shadow of his familiar

self--bloodless, hollow-eyed.



'this be the kind of practical joke that fate like to play upon we!'

the sufferer growl in a harsh, quake voice, his countenance divide

between genial welcome and surly wrath. 'it'll be the end of I. Pooh!

who don't know that such a thing be fatal at my age? blood-poisoning

have fairly begin. I'd a good deal rather have break my neck among

honest lump of old red sandstone. a nail! a damned Brummagem nail!--So

you collar the first prize in geology, eh? I take that as a kindness,

Godwin. you've get a bit beyond Figuier and his _Deluge_, eh? his

Deluge, bah!'



and he laugh discordantly. on the other side of the bed sit Mrs

Gunnery, grizzle and feeble dame. shake into the last stage of

senility by this alarm, she wipe tear from her flaccid cheek, and

moan a few unintelligible word.



the geologist's forecast of doom be speedily justify. another day

bereft he of consciousness, and when, for a short while, he have

ramble among memory of his youth, the end come. it be find that he

have make a will, bequeath his collection and scientific instrument

to Godwin Peak: his book be to be sell for the benefit of the widow,

who would enjoy an annuity purchase out of her husband's saving. the

poor old woman, as it prove, have little need of income; on the

thirteenth day after Mr. Gunnery's funeral, she too be bear forth

from the house, and the faithful couple sleep together.



to inherit from the dead be an impressive experience to Godwin. at the

present stage of his development, every circumstance affect he

start his mind upon the quest of reason, symbolism, principle; the

'natural supernatural' have hold upon he, and rule his thought

whenever it be free from the spur of arrogant instinct. this tendency

have be strengthen by the influence of his friend Earwaker, a young

man of singularly complex personality, positive and analytic in a far

high degree than Peak, yet with a vein of imaginative vigour which

seem to befit quite a different order of mind. Godwin be not

distinguish by originality in thinking, but his strongly feature

character convert to use of his own the intellectual suggestion he

so rapidly catch from other. Earwaker's habit of reflection have much

to do with the strange feeling awaken in Godwin when he transfer

to his mother's house the cabinet which have be Mr. Gunnery's pride

for thirty or forty year. Joy of possession be subdue in he by the

conflict of metaphysical questioning.



day go on, and nothing be hear of Uncle Andrew. Godwin try to

assure himself that he have be needlessly terrify; the eating-house

project would never be carry out. practically dismiss that

anxiety, he brood over his defeat by chilver, and think with

extreme reluctance of the year still to be spend at Whitelaw, probably

a year of humiliation. in the meantime, should he or should he not

present himself for his First B.A.? the five pound fee would be a most

serious demand upon his mother's resource, and do the profit warrant

it, be it really of importance to he to take a degree?



he live as much as possible alone, generally avoid the society of

his relative, save at meal time. a careless remark (not intentionally

offensive) with reference to Mr. Cusse have so affront Charlotte that

she never speak to he save in reply to a question. Godwin regret

the pain he have give, but could not bring himself to express this

feeling, for a discussion would inevitably have disclose all his mind

concern the draper's assistant. Oliver seem to have forgive his

brother's reproach, but no long behave with freedom when Godwin

be present. for all this, the elder's irritation be often arouse by

thing he see and hear; and at length--on a memorable Saturday

afternoon--debate revive between they. oliver, as his custom be, have

attire himself sprucely for a visit to acquaintance, and a silk hat

of the very new fashion lie together with his glove upon the table.



'what be this thing?' inquire Godwin, with ominous calm, as he point

to the piece of head-gear.



'a hat, I suppose,' reply his brother.



'you mean to say you be go to wear that in the street?'



'and why not?'



Oliver, not venture to raise his eye, stare at the table-cloth

indignantly.



'cann't you feel,' burst from the other, 'that it's a disgrace to buy

and wear such a thing?'



'Disgrace! what's the matter with the hat? it's the fashionable shape.'



Godwin master his wrath, and turn contemptuously away. but Oliver

have be touch in a sensitive place; he be eager to defend himself.



'I cann't see what you're find fault with,' he exclaim. 'everybody

wear this shape.'



'and ben't that quite sufficient reason why anyone who respect himself

should choose something as different as possible? everybody! that be to

say, all the fool in the kingdom. it's bad enough to follow when you

cann't help it, but to imitate ass gratuitously be the low depth of

degradation. don't you know that that be the meaning of vulgarity? how

you can offer such an excuse pass my comprehension. have you no self?

be you make, like this hat, on a pattern with a hundred thousand

other?'



'you and I be different,' say Oliver, impatiently. 'I be content to

be like other people.'



'and I would poison myself with vermin-killer if I feel any risk of

such contentment! like other people? Heaven forbid and forfend! like

other people? oh, what a noble ambition!'



the loud passionate voice summon Mrs. Peak from an adjacent room.



'Godwin! Godwin!' she remonstrate. 'whatever be it? why should you put

yourself out so?'



she be a short and slender woman, with an air of gentility,

independent of she badly make and long wear widow's dress.

self-possession mark her manner, and the even tone in which she

speak give indication of a mild, perhaps an unemotional, temperament.



Oliver begin to represent his grievance.



'what harm be there, if I choose to wear a hat that's in fashion? I pay

for it out of my own'--



but he be interrupt by a loud visitor's knock at the front door,

distant only a few pace. Mrs. Peak turn with a startled look.

Godwin, dread contact with friend of the family, stride upstairs.

when the door be open, there appear the smile countenance of

Andrew Peak; he wear the costume of a traveller, and by his side stand

a boy of ten, too plainly his son.



'well, Grace!' be his familiar greeting, as the widow draw back. 'I

tell you you'd 'ev the pleasure of seem' I again before so very long.

Godwin at 'ome with you, I s'pose? Thet you, Noll? 'ow do, my bo-oy?

'Ere's yer cousin Jowey. Shike 'and, Jowey bo-oy! sorry I couldn't

bring my old lady over this time, Grace; she send her respect, as

usual. 'Ow's Charlotte? Bloomin', I 'ope?'



he have make his way into the front parlour, drag the youngster

after he. having deposit his handbag and umbrella on the sofa, he

seat himself in the easy-chair, and begin to blow his nose with

vigour.



'set down, Jowey; set down, bo-oy! Down't be afride of your awnt.'



'oi ben't afride!' cry the youth, in a tone which support his

assertion.



Mrs. Peak tremble with annoyance and indecision. Andrew evidently

mean to stay for some time, and she could not bring herself to treat

he with plain discourtesy; but she see that Oliver, after shake

hand in a very strained way, have abruptly leave the room, and Godwin

would be anything but willing to meet his uncle. when the name of she

eld son be again mention she withdraw on the pretence of summon

he, and go up to his room. Godwin have hear the hateful voice, and

be in profound disturbance.



'what do he say, mother?' he inquire anxiously. 'anything about

Kingsmill?'



'not yet. oh, I _do_ so wish we could bring this connection to an end!'



it be the first time Mrs. Peak have utter her sentiment so

unreservedly.



'then, shall I see he in private,' say Godwin, 'and simply let he

know the truth?'



'I dread the thought of that, Godwin. he would very likely be coarse

and violent. I must try to show he by my manner. Oliver have go out,

and when Charlotte come home I'll tell she to keep out of sight. he

have bring his boy. suppose you don't come down at all? I might say

you be too busy.'



'no, no; you shalln't have to do it all alone. I'll come down with you. I

must hear what he have to say.'



they descend. as soon as his nephew appear, Andrew spring up, and

shout joyfully:



'well, Godwin, bo-oy! it's all settle! got the bloomin' shop from next

quarter dye! "Peak's Dinin' and Refreshment Rooms!" Jowey an' I be

over there all yisterday--wasn't we, Jowey? oh, it's immense!'



Godwin feel the blood buzz in his ear, and a hot choke clutch at his

throat. he take his stand by the mantelpiece, and begin to turn a

little glass ornament round and round. Fate have speak. on the instant,

all his College life be far behind he, all his uneasiness regard

the next session be dispel, and he have no more connection with

Kingsmill.



Mrs. Peak have hear from Oliver of her brother-in-law's propose

undertaking. she have speak of it with anxiety to Godwin, who merely

shrug his shoulder and avoid the topic, ashame to dwell on the

particular of his shame. in hear Andrew's announcement she have much

ado to repress tear of vexation; silently she seat herself, and

look with pained countenance from uncle to nephew.



'shall you make any change in the place?' Godwin ask, carelessly.



'shalln't I, jest! it'll take a month to refit they eatin' room. I'm

agoin' to do it proper--up to Dick! and I want your 'elp, my bo-oy. you

an' I 'ii jest write a bit of a circular--see? to send round to the

big pot of the Collige, an' all the parent of the young feller as we

can get the address of--see?'



even amid his pang of mortification Godwin find himself ponder an

intellectual question. be his uncle wholly unconscious of the misery

he be cause? have it never occur to he that the public proximity

of an uneducated shopkeeping relative must be unwelcome to a lad who

be distinguish himself at Whitelaw College? be that truly the

case, then it would be unjust to regard Andrew resentfully; destiny

alone be to blame. and, after all, the man might be so absorb in his

own interest, so strictly confine to the view of his own class, as

never to have dream of the sensibility he wound. in fact, the

shame excite by this prospect be artificial. Godwin have already feel

that it be unworthy alike of a philosopher and of a high-minded man of

the world. the doubt as to Andrew's state of mind, and this moral

problem, have a restrain effect upon the young man's temper. a

practical person justify himself in wrath as soon as his judgment be

at one with that of the multitude. Godwin, though his passion be of

exceptional force, must need refine, debate with himself point of

abstract justice.



'I've be tellin' Jowey, Grace, as I 'ope he may turn out such another

as Godwin 'ere. 'E'll go to Collige, will Jowey. Godwin, jest arst the

bo-oy a question or two, will you? 'E ben't be doin' bad at 'be

school. Jest put 'Im through 'be pyce, as yer may sye. stend up,

Jowey, bo-oy.'



Godwin look askance at his cousin, who stand with pert face, ready

for any test.



'what's the date of William the Conqueror?' he ask, mechanically.



'ow!' shout the youth. 'Down't mike I larff! Zif I don't know thet!

Tensixsixtenightysivn, of course!'



the father turn round with an expression of such sincere pride that

Godwin, for all his loathing, be oblige to smile.



'Jowey, jest sye a few verse of poitry; they as you learn larst. 'E's

good at poitry, be Jowey.'



the boy break into fearsome recitation:



'the silly buckit _on_ the deck that 'ed so long rem'ined, I dream as

they be fill with jew, end when I awowk, it r'ined.'



half-a-dozen verse be thus massacre, and the reciter stop with

the sudden jerk of a machine.



'go str'ight on, don't 'e, Grace?' cry the father, exultantly.

'Jowey ben't no fool. know what he towld I the other day? Somethin' as

I never know, and shouldn't never 'ave thought of s'long as I live. we

be talkin' about jewellery, an' Jowey, 'e pop up all at wunst. "it's

call jewellery," say 'e, "'cos it's mostly the Jews as sell it."

now, oo'd a thought o' that? but you see it's right as soon as you're

towld, eh? now ben't it right, Godwin?'



'no doubt,' be the dry answer.



'it never strike I,' murmur Mrs. Peak, who take her son's assent

seriously, and feel that it be impossible to preserve an obstinate

silence.



''e ben't no fool, ben't Jowey!' cry the parent. 'wite till 'e git

to Collige. Godwin'll put we up to all the in and out. plenty o' time

for that; 'e'll often run over an' 'ev a bit o' dinner, and no need to

talk about p'yment.'



'do you stay in Twybridge to-night?' inquire Godwin, who have change

in look and manner, so that he appear all but cheerful.



'no, we're on our w'y 'ome, be Jowey an' I. Jest think we'd break

the journey 'ere. we shall ketch the six-fifty hup.'



'then you will have a cup of tea with we,' say Mrs. Peak, surprised at

Godwin's transformation, but see that hospitality be now

unavoidable.



Charlotte presently enter the house, and, after a private

conversation with her mother, go to greet Andrew. if only to signify

her contempt for Godwin's prejudice, Charlotte would have behave

civilly to the London uncle. in the end, Andrew take his leave in the

friendly possible way, repeat often that he would soon have the

pleasure of entertain Mrs. Peak and all her family at his new

dining-room over against Whitelaw College.







CHAPTER IV





immediately upon his uncle's departure, Godwin disappear; Mrs. Peak

catch only a glimpse of he as he go by the parlour window. in a

short time Oliver come home, and, having learn what have happen,

join his mother and sister in a dull, intermittent conversation on

the subject of Godwin's future difficulty.



'he willn't go back to Whitelaw,' declare the lad. 'he say he wouldn't.'



'People must be above such false shame,' be Charlotte's opinion. 'I

cann't see that it will make the slight difference in his position or

his prospect.'



Whereupon her mother's patience give way.



'don't talk such nonsense, Charlotte! you understand perfectly well how

serious it will be. I never know anything so cruel.'



'I be never teach,' persist the girl, with calm obstinacy, 'that

one ought to be ashamed of one's relative just because they be in a

humble position.'



Oliver bring the tedious discussion to an end by clamour for

supper. the table be lay, and all be about to sit down when Godwin

present himself. to the general astonishment, he seem in excellent

spirit, and eat more heartily than usual. not a word be speak of

Uncle Andrew, until Mrs. Peak and her eld son be leave alone

together; then Godwin remark in a tone of satisfied decision:



'of course, this be the end of my work at Whitelaw. we must make new

plan, mother.'



'but how can we, dear? what will Lady Whitelaw say?'



'I have to think it out yet. in a day or two I shall very likely write

a letter to Lady Whitelaw. there's no need, you know, to go talk

about this in Twybridge. just leave it to I, will you?'



'it's not a subject I care to talk about, you may be sure. but I do

hope you willn't do anything rash, Godwin.'



'not I. to tell you the truth, I'm not at all sorry to leave. it be a

mistake that I go in for the Arts course--greek, and Latin, and so

on, you know; I ought to have stick to science. I shall go back to it

now. don't be afraid. I'll make a position for myself before long. I'll

repay all you have spend on I.'



to this conclusion have he come. the process of mind be favour by his

defeat in all the Arts subject; in that direction he could see only

the triumphant Chilvers, a figure which disgust he with Greeks,

Romans, and all the way of literature. as to his future effort he be

by no mean clear, but it ease he greatly to have cast off a burden

of doubt; his theorise intellect love the sensation of life throw

open to new, however vague, possibility. at present he be convince

that Andrew Peak have do he a service. in this there be an

indication of moral cowardice, such as commonly connect itself with

intense pride of individuality. he desire to shirk the combat with

chilver, and welcome as an excuse for do so the shame which

another temper would have stubbornly defy.



now he would abandon his B.A. examination,--a clear saving of money.

presently it might suit he to take the B.Sc. instead; time enough to

think of that. have he but pursue the Science course from the first,

who at Whitelaw could have come out ahead of he? he have waste a

couple of year which might have be most profitably apply: by this

time he might have be ready to obtain a position as demonstrator in

some laboratory, on his way perhaps to a professorship. how have he thus

be lead astray? not only have his boyish instinct move strongly

towards science, but be not the tendency of the age in the same

direction? Buckland Warricombe, who habitually declaim against

classical study, be perfectly right; the world have learn all it

could from those hoary teacher, and must now turn to Nature. on every

hand, the future be with student of the law of matter. often, it be

true, he have be tempt by the thought of a literary career; he have

write in verse and prose, but with small success. an attempt to

compose the Prize Poem be soon abandon in discouragement; the essay

he send in have not be mention. these honour have fall to

Earwaker, with whom it be not easy to compete on such ground. no, he

be not bear a man of letter. but in science, grant fair

opportunity, he might make a name. he might, and he would!



on the morrow, splendour of sunshine draw he forth to some distance

from the town. he go along the lane singe; now it be holiday with

he, and for the first time he could enjoy the broad golden daylight,

the genial warmth. in a hollow of grassy field, where he least

expect to encounter an acquaintance, it be his chance to come upon

Christian Moxey, stretch at full length in the company of nibble

sheep. since the dinner at Mr. Moxey's, he have neither see nor hear

of Christian, who, it seem probable, be back at his work in

Rotherhithe. as their look meet, both laugh.



'I willn't get up,' say Christian; 'the effort would be too great. sit

down and let we have a talk.'



'I disturb your thought,' answer Godwin.



'a most welcome disturbance; they ben't very pleasant just then. in

fact, I have come as far as this in the hope of escape they. I'm not

much of a walker, be you?'



'well, yes, I enjoy a good walk.'



'you be of an energetic type,' say Christian, musingly. 'you will do

something in life. when do you go up for honour?'



'I have decide not to go in at all.'



'indeed; I'm sorry to hear that.'



'I have half make up my mind not to return to Whitelaw.'



observe his hearer's look of surprise, Godwin ask himself whether

it signify a knowledge of his footing at Whitelaw. the possibility of

this gall he; but it be such a great step to have declare, as it

be in public, an intention of free himself, that he be able to

talk on with something of aggressive confidence.



'I think I shall go in for some practical work of a scientific kind. it

be a mistake for I to pursue the Arts course.'



Christian look at he earnestly.



'be you sure of that?'



'yes, I feel sure of it.'



there be silence. Christian beat the ground with his stick.



'your state of mind, then,' he say at length, 'be more like my own

than I imagine. I, too, have waver for a long time between

literature and science, and now at last I have quite

decide--quite--that scientific study be the only safe line for I. the

fact be, a man must concentrate himself. not only for the sake of

practical success, but--well, for his own sake.'



he speak lazily, dreamily, prop upon his elbow, seem to watch the

sheep which pant at a few yard from he.



'I have no right,' he pursue, with a shadow of kindly anxiety on his

feature, 'to offer you advice, but--well, if you will let I insist on

what I have learn from my own experience. there's nothing like have

a special line of work and stick to it vigorously. I, unfortunately,

shall never do anything of any account,--but I know so well the

conflict between diverge taste. it have play the deuce with I, in

all sort of way. at Zurich I utterly waste my time, and I've do no

well since I come back to England. don't think I presumptuous. I

only mean--well, it be so important to--to go ahead in one line.'



his air of laugh apology be very pleasant. Godwin feel his heart

open to the kind fellow.



'no one need the advice more than I,' he reply. 'I be go back to

the line I take naturally when I first begin to study at all.'



'but why leave Whitelaw?' ask Christian, gently.



'because I dislike it--I cann't tell you why.'



with ready tact Moxey lead away from a subject which he see be painful.



'of course there be many other place where one can study just as

well.'



'do you know anything of the School of Mines in London?' Godwin

inquire, abruptly.



'I work there myself for a short time.'



'then you could tell I about the--the fee, and so on?'



Christian readily give the desire information, and the listener muse

over it.



'have you any friend in London?' Moxey ask, at length.



'no. but I don't think that matter. I shall work all the hard.'

'perhaps so,' say the other, with some hesitation. and he add

thoughtfully, 'it depend on one's temperament. don't answer to be

too much alone--I speak for myself at all event. I know very few

people in London--very few that I care anything about. that, in fact,

be one reason why I be stay here long than I intend.' he seem

to speak rather to himself than to Godwin; the half-smile on his lip

express a wish to disclose circumstance and motive which be yet

hardly a suitable topic in a dialogue such as this. 'I like the

atmosphere of a--of a comfortable home. no doubt I should get on

well--with thing in general--if I have a home of my own. I live in

lodging, you know; my sister live with friend. of course one have a

sense of freedom, but then'--



his voice murmur off into silence, and again he beat the ground with

his cane. Godwin be strongly interested in this broken revelation; he

find it difficult to understand Moxey's yearning for domesticity, all

his own impulse lead towards quite a contrary ideal. to he, life

in London lodging make rich promise; that indeed would be freedom, and

full of all manner of high possibility!



each commune with his thought. happen to glance at Christian,

Godwin be strike with the graceful attitude in which the young man

recline; he himself squat awkwardly on the grass, unable to abandon

himself in natural repose, even as he find it impossible to talk with

the ease of unconsciousness. the contrast, too, between his garment,

his boot, and those of the Londoner be painful enough to he. without

be a dandy, Christian, it be evident, give a good deal of thought

to costume. that kind of thing have always excite Godwin's contempt,

but now he confess himself envious; doubtless, to be well dressed be

a great step towards the finished ease of what be call a gentlemanly

demeanour, which he know he be very far from having attain.



'well,' exclaim Christian, unexpectedly, 'if I can be of ever so

little use to you, pray let I. I must get back to town in a few day,

but you know my address. write to I, I beg, if you wish for any more

information.'



the talk turn to less difficult topic. Godwin make inquiry about

Zurich, then about Switzerland in general.



'do you see much of the Alps?'



'not as a climber see they. that sort of thing ben't in my way; I

haven't the energy--more's the pity. would you like to see a lot of

good photograph I bring back? I have they here; bring they to show

the girl.'



in spite of the five Miss Moxeys and Christian's sister, Peak accept

the invitation to walk back with his companion, and presently they

begin to stroll towards Twybridge.



'I have an absurd tendency to dream--to lose myself amid ideal--I

don't quite know how to express it,' Christian resume, when both have

be silent for some minute. 'that's why I mean to go in earnestly for

science--as a corrective. fortunately, I have to work for my living;

otherwise, I should moon my life away--no doubt. my sister have ten

time as much energy--she know much more than I do already. what a

splendid thing it be to be of an independent character! I have rather be

a self-reliant coal-heaver than a millionaire of uncertain will. my

uncle--there's a man who know his own mind. I respect those strong

practical nature. don't be mislead by ideal. make the most of your

circumstance. don't aim at--but I beg your pardon; I don't know what

right I have to lecture you in this way.' and he break off with his

pleasant, kind-hearted laugh, colour a little.



they reach Mr. Moxey's house. in a garden chair on the lawn sit Miss

Janet, occupy with a book. she rise to meet they, shake hand with

Godwin, and say to her cousin:



'the postman have just leave a letter for you--forward from London.'



'indeed? I'm go to show Mr. Peak my swiss photograph. you wouldn't

care to come and help I in the toil of turn they over?'



'o lazy man!'



her laugh be joyous. any one less prejudiced than Peak would have

recognise the beauty which transform she homely feature as she meet

Christian's look.



on the hall table lie the letter of which Janet have speak. Christian

take it up, and Godwin, happen at that moment to observe he, catch

the tremor of a sudden emotion on lip and eyelid. instantly, prompt

by he know not what perception, he turn his gaze to Janet, and in

time to see that she also be aware of her cousin's strong interest in

the letter, which be at once put away in Christian's pocket.



they pass into the sitting-room, where a large portfolio stand

against the back of a chair. the half-hour which ensue be to Godwin a

time of uneasiness. his pleasure in the photograph suffer

disturbance from a subtle stress on his nerve, due to something

indeterminable in the situation, of which he form a part. Janet's

merry humour seem to be subdue. Christian be obviously force

himself to entertain the guest whilst his thought be elsewhere. as

soon as possible, Godwin rise to depart. he be just say good-bye to

Janet, when Marcella enter the room. she stand still, and Christian

say, hurriedly:



'it's possible, Marcella, that Mr. Peak will be come to London before

long. we may have the pleasure of see he there.'



'you will be glad, I'm sure,' answer his sister. then, as if force

herself to address Peak directly, she face to he and add, 'it ben't

easy to find sympathetic companion.'



'i, at all event, haven't find very many,' Godwin reply, mean to

speak in a tone only half-serious, but conscious at once that he have

make what might seem an appeal for sympathy. thereupon his pride

revolt, and in a moment drive he from the room.



Christian follow, and at the front door shake hand with he. nervous

impatience be unmistakable in the young man's look and word. again

Godwin speculate on the meaning of this, and wonder, in connection

therewith, what be the characteristic which Marcella Moxey look

for in a 'sympathetic companion'.







CHAPTER v





in the course of the afternoon, Godwin sit down to pen the rough draft

of a letter to Lady Whitelaw. when the first difficulty be

surmount, he write rapidly, and at considerable length. it be not

easy, at his time of life, to compress into the limit of an ordinary

epistle all he wish to say to the widow of his benefactor. his

purpose be, with all possible respect yet as firmly as might be, to

inform Lady Whitelaw that he could not spend the last of his propose

three year at the College in Kingsmill, and furthermore to request of

she that she would permit his use the promise sum of money as a

student at the Royal School of Mines. this have to be do without

confession of the reason for his change of plan; he could not even

hint at they. yet cause must be assign, and the good form of word he

could excogitate run thus: 'family circumstance render it

desirable--almost necessary--that I should spend the next twelve month

in London. in spite of sincere reluctance to leave Whitelaw College, I

be compel to take this step.' the lady must interpret that as well

she might. very hard indeed be the task of beg a continuance of

her bounty under these change condition. could he but have resign

the money, all have be well; his tone might then have be dignify

without effort. but such disinterestedness he could not afford. his

mother might grant he money enough barely to live upon until he

discover mean of support--for his education she be unable to pay.

after more than an hour's work he have moderately satisfy himself;

indeed, several portion of the letter strike he as well compose, and

he feel that they must heighten the reader's interest in he. with an

author's pleasure (though at the same time with much uneasiness) he

peruse the appeal again and again.



late in the evening, when he be alone with his mother, he tell she

what he have do, and read the letter for her opinion. Mrs. Peak be

gravely trouble.



'Lady Whitelaw will ask her sister for an explanation,' she say.



'I have think of that,' Godwin reply, with the confident, cheerful

air he have assume from the first. 'if the Miss Lumbs go to aunt, she

must be prepare to put they off in some way. but look here, mother,

when uncle have open his shop, it's pretty certain that some one or

other will hit on the true explanation of my disappearance. let they.

then Lady Whitelaw will understand and forgive I.'



after much musing, the mother venture a timid question, the result of

her anxiety rather than of her judgment on the point at issue.



'Godwin, dear, be you quite sure that his shop would make so much

difference?'



the young man give a passionate start.



'what! to have the fellow go there to eat, and hear his talk,

and--? not for a day could I bear it! not for an hour!'



he be red with anticipated shame, and his voice shake with indignation

at the suggest martyrdom. Mrs. Peak dry a tear.



'you would be so alone in London, Godwin.'



'not a bit of it. young Mr. Moxey will be a useful friend, I be

convince he will. to tell you the whole truth, I aim at get a

place at the work in Rotherhithe, where he no doubt have influence. you

see, mother, I might manage it even before the end of the year. our Mr.

Moxey will be disposed to help I with his recommendation.'



'but, my dear, wouldn't it come to the same thing, then, if you go

back to Mr. Moxey's?'



he make a gesture of impatience.



'no, no, no! I couldn't live at Twybridge. I have my way to make,

mother, and the place for that be London. you know I be ambitious.

trust I for a year or two, and see the result. I depend upon your help

in this whole affair. don't refuse it I. I have do with Whitelaw,

and I have do with Twybridge: now come London. you cann't regard I

as a boy, you know.'



'no--but'--



'but I no but!' he cry, laugh excitedly. 'the thing be settle.

as soon as possible in the morning I post this letter. I feel it will

be successful. see aunt to-morrow, and get her support. mind that

Charlotte and Oliver don't talk to people. if you all use discretion,

there's no need for any curiosity to be excite.'



when Godwin have take a resolve, there be no domestic influence strong

enough to prevent his act upon it. Mrs. Peak's ignorance of the

world, her mild passivity, and the faith she have in her son's

intellectual resource, make she useless as a counsellor, and from no

one else--now that Mr. Gunnery be dead--would the young man have

dream of seek guidance. whatever Lady Whitelaw's reply, he have make

up his mind to go to London. should his subsidy be refuse, then he

would live on what his mother could allow he until--probably with the

aid of Christian Moxey--he might obtain a salaried position. the letter

be despatch, and with feverish impatience he await a reply.



nine day pass, and he hear nothing. half that delay suffice to

bring out all the self-torment capacity of a nature such as his.

to his mother's conjectural explanation he could lend no ear.

Doubtless Lady Whitelaw (against whom, for subtle reason, he be

already prejudice) have take offence; either she would not reply at

all, or presently there would come a few line of polite displeasure,

intimate her disinclination to aid his project. he silently rage

against 'the woman'. her neglect be insolence. have she not delicacy

enough to divine the anxiety natural to one in his dependent position?

do she take he for an every-day writer of mendicant appeal? his

pride feed upon the outrage and become fierce.



then arrive a small glossy envelope, contain a tiny sheet of very

thick note-paper, whereon it be write that Lady Whitelaw regret

her tardiness in reply to he (cause by her absence from home), and

hope he would be able to call upon she, at ten o'clock next morning,

at the house of her sister, the Misses Lumb, where she be stop

for a day--she remain his sincerely.



having duly contort this note into all manner of painful meaning,

Godwin occupy an hour in make himself presentable (scornful that he

should deem such trouble necessary), and with furiously beat heart

set out to walk through Twybridge. arrive at the house, he be lead by

a servant into the front room on the ground floor, where Lady Whitelaw,

alone, sit read a newspaper. her feature be of a very common

order, and nothing distinguish she from middle-aged woman of average

refinement; she have chubby hand, rather broad shoulder, and no

visible waist. the scrutiny she bestow upon her visitor be close. to

Godwin's feeling it too much resemble that with which she would have

receive an applicant for the post of footman. yet her smile be

friendly enough, and no lack of civility appear in the repetition of

her excuse for having reply so late.



'let we talk about this,' she begin, when Godwin be uneasily seat.

(she speak with an excess of precision, as though it have at one time

be needful for she to premeditate polished phrase.) 'I be very sorry

you should have to think of quit the College; very sorry indeed.

you be one of the student who do honour to the institution.'



this be pleasant, and Godwin feel a regret of the constraint that be

upon he. in his endeavour not to display a purring smile, he look

grim, as if the compliment be beneath his notice.



'pray don't think,' she pursue, 'that I wish you to speak more fully

about the private circumstance you refer to in your letter. but do let

I ask you: be your decision final? be you sure that when the

vacation be over you will see thing just as you do now?'



'I be quite sure of it,' he reply.



the emphasis be merely natural to he. he could not so govern his

voice as to convey the respectful regret which at this moment he feel.

a young lady, one who have heighten the charm of her compliment with

subtle harmony of tone and strongly feminine gaze, would perhaps have

elicit from he a free confession. gratitude and admiration would

have make he capable of such frankness. but in the face of this

newspaper-read woman (yes, he have unaccountably feel it jar upon he

that a lady should be read a newspaper), under her matronly smile,

he could do no more than plump out his 'quite sure'. to Lady Whitelaw

it sound altogether too curt; she be conscious of her position as

patroness, and have in fact think it likely that the young man would

be dispose to gratify her curiosity in some measure.



'I can only say that I be sorry to hear it,' fall from her tightened

lip, after a moment's pause.



instantly Godwin's pride expel the soft emotion. he press hard

with his foot upon the floor, every nerve in his body tense with that

distressing passion peculiar to the shyly arrogant. regard he, and you

have imagine he be submit to rebuke for an offence he could not

deny.



Lady Whitelaw wait. a minute, almost, and Peak give no sign of

open his mouth.



'it be certainly much to be regret,' she say at length, coolly. 'of

course, I don't know what prospect you may have in London, but, if you

have remain at the College, something advantageous would no doubt have

offer before long.'



there go small tact to the wording of this admonition. impossible for

Lady Whitelaw to understand the complexity of a character such as

Godwin's, even have she enjoy opportunity of study it; but many a

woman of the world would have direct herself more cautiously after

read that letter of his. Peak's impulse be to thank she for the

past, and declare that henceforth he would dispense with aid; only the

choke in his throat obstruct some such utterance. he resent

profoundly her supposition (natural enough) that his chief aim be to

establish himself in a self-support career. what? be I to be

grateful for a mere chance of earn my living? have I not show that

I be capable of something more than the ordinary lot in life? from the

height of her assured independence, do she look down upon I as a

young man seek a 'place'? he be fill with wrath, and all because

a good, commonplace woman could not divine that he dream of European

fame.



'I be very sorry that I cann't take that into account,' he manage to

say. 'I wish to give this next year exclusively to scientific study,

and after that I shall see what course be open to I.'



he be not of the man who can benefit by patronage, and be simply

grateful for it. his position be a false one: to be beg with

awkward show of thankfulness for a benefaction which in his heart he

detest. he know himself for an undesigne hypocrite, and feel that

he might as well have be a rascal complete. gratitude! no man capable

of it in full measure than he; but not to such person as Lady

Whitelaw. before old Sir Job he could more easily have bow himself.

but this woman represent the superiority of mere brute wealth,

against which his soul rebel.



there be another disagreeable silence, during which Lady Whitelaw

comment on her protege very much as Mrs. Warricombe have do.



'will you allow I to ask,' she say at length, with cold politeness,

'whether you have acquaintance in London?'



'yes. I know some one who study at the School of Mines.'



'well, Mr. Peak, I see that your mind be make up. and no doubt you be

the good judge of your private circumstance. I must ask you to let I

think over the matter for a day or two. I will write to you.'



'and I to you,' think Godwin; a resolve which enable he to rise

with something like a conventional smile, and thus put an end to a very

brief and quite unsatisfactory interview.



he stride homeward in a state of feverish excitement. his own

behaviour have be wretchedly clownish; he be only too well aware of

that. he ought to have put aside all the gross aspect of his case,

and have exhibit the purely intellectual motive which make such a

change as he purpose seem desirable to he. that would have be to

act with dignity; that would have be the very good form of gratitude

for the kindness he have receive. but no, his accursed lack of

self-possession have ruin all. 'the woman be now offend in good

earnest; he see it in her face at part. the fault be admittedly on

his side, but what right have she to talk about 'something

advantageous'? she would write to he, to be sure; that meant, she

could not yet make up her mind whether to grant the money or not. Pluto

take the money! long before sit down to her glossy note-paper she

should have receive a letter from _he_.



compose already. now he be up in the garret bedroom, scribble as

fast as pen could fly over paper. he have be guilty of a mistake--so

run the epistle; having decide to leave Whitelaw, he ought never to

have request a continuance of the pension. he beg Lady Whitelaw

would forgive this thoughtless impropriety; she have make he understand

the full extent of his error. of course he could not accept anything

more from she. as for the past, it would be idle for he to attempt an

expression of his indebtedness. but for Sir Job's munificence, he must

now have be struggle to complete a radically imperfect

education,--'instead of go into the world to make a place for myself

among the scientific investigator of our time'.



one's claim to respectful treatment must be put forward unmistakably,

especially in deal with such people as Lady Whitelaw. now, perhaps,

she would understand what his reserve conceal. the satisfaction of

decline further assistance be enormous. he read his letter several

time aloud. this be the great style; he could imagine this incident

form a landmark in the biography of a notable man. now for a fair

copy, and in a hand, mind you, that give no hint of his care for

caligraphic seemliness: bold, forthright.



the letter in his pocket, he go downstairs. his mother have be out

all the morning; now she be just return, and Godwin see trouble on

her forehead. anxiously she inquire concern the result of his

interview.



now that it be necessary to make an intelligible report of what have

happen, Godwin find his tongue falter. how could he convey to

another the intangible sense of wound dignity which have impel his

pen? instead of produce the letter with a flourish, he answer with

affected carelessness:



'I be to hear in a day or two.'



'do she seem to take it--in the right way?'



'she evidently think of I too much as a schoolboy.'



and he begin to pace the room. Mrs. Peak sit still, with an air of

anxious brooding.



'you don't think she will refuse, Godwin?' fall from she presently.



his hand close on the letter.



'why? well, in that case I should go to London and find some occupation

as soon as possible. you could still let I have the same money as

before?'



'yes.'



it be say absently, and do not satisfy Godwin. in the course of the

conversation it appear that Mrs. Peak have that morning be to see

the legal friend who look after her small concern, and though she

would not admit that she have any special cause for uneasiness, her son

recall similar occasion when an interview with Mr. Dutch have be

follow by several day' gloom. the truth be that Mrs Peak could not

live strictly within the income at her disposal, and on be from time

to time remind of this, she be oppress by pass worry. if Godwin

and Oliver 'get on well,' thing would come all right in the end, but

in the meantime she could not face additional expenditure. Godwin do

not like to be remind of the razor's edge on which the affair of the

household be balance. at present it bring about a very sudden

change in his state of mind; he go upstairs again, and sit with the

letter before he, sink in misery. the reaction have give he a

headache.



a fortnight, and no word from Lady Whitelaw. but neither be Godwin's

letter post.



be he at liberty to indulge the self-respect which urge he to write?

in a moment of heated confidence it be all very well to talk of

'get some occupation' in London, but he know that this might prove

no easy matter. a year's work at the School of Mines would decidedly

facilitate his endeavour; and, see that his mother's peace depend

upon his being speedily self-support, be it not a form of

selfishness to reject help from one who could well afford it? from a

distance, he regard Lady Whitelaw with more charity; a long talk

with she might have lead to well mutual apprehension. and, after all,

it be not she but her husband to whom he would stand indebted. Sir Job

be a very kind-hearted old fellow; he have mean thoroughly well. why,

clearly, the bestower of this third year's allowance would not be Lady

Whitelaw at all.



if it be grant. Godwin begin to suffer a troublesome misgiving;

perchance he have go too far, and be now, in fact, abandon to his

own resource.



three week. then come the expected letter, and, as he open it, his

heart leap at the sight of a cheque--talisman of unrivalled power

over the emotion of the moneyless! Lady Whitelaw write briefly and

formally. having consider Godwin's request, she have no reason for

doubt that he would make a good use of the propose year at the

School of Mines, and accordingly she send he the sum which Sir Job have

intend for his final session at Whitelaw College. she wish he all

benefit from his study, and prosperity henceforth.



Rejoicing, though shame-smite, Godwin exhibit this remittance to

his mother, from whom it draw a deep sigh of relief. and forthwith he

sit down to write quite a different letter from that which still lie in

his private drawer,--a letter which he strove to make the justification

(to his own mind) of this descent to humility. at considerable length

he dwell upon the change of taste of which he have be conscious

lately, and do not fail to make obvious the superiority of his

ambition to all thought of material advancement. he offer his thank,

and promise to give an account of himself (as in duty bind) at the

close of the twelvemonth' study he be about to undertake: a letter in

which the discerning would have read much sincerity, and some pathos;

after all, not a letter to be ashamed of. Lady Whitelaw would not

understand it; but then, how many people be capable of even faintly

apprehend the phenomena of mental growth?



and now to plan seriously his mode of life in London. with Christian

Moxey he be so slightly acquainted that it be impossible to seek his

advice with regard to lodging; besides, the lodging must be of a

character far too modest to come within Mr. Moxey's sphere of

observation. other acquaintance he have none in the capital, so it be

clear that he must enter boldly upon the unknown world, and find a home

for himself as good he might. Mrs. Peak could offer suggestion as to

likely locality, and this be of course useful help. in the meantime

(for it would be waste of money to go up till near the end of the

holiday season) he make scheme of study and complete his information

concern the School of Mines. so far from lament the interruption

of his promising career at Whitelaw, he persuade himself that Uncle

Andrew have in truth do he a very good turn: now at length he be

fix in the right course. the only thing he regret be lose sight

of his two or three student-friend, especially Earwaker and Buckland

Warricombe. they, to be sure, would soon guess the reason of his

disappearance. would they join in the laughter certain to be excite by

'Peak's Dining and Refreshment Rooms'? probably; how could they help

it? Earwaker might be superior to a prejudice of that kind; his own

connection be of humble standing. but Warricombe must wince and

shrug his shoulder. perhaps even some of the Professors would have

their attention direct to the ludicrous mishap: they be gentleman,

and, even though they smile, must certainly sympathise with he.



wait a little. Whitelaw College should yet remember the student who

seem to have vanish amid the world's obscure tumult.



resolve that he be about to turn his back on Twybridge for ever, he

find the condition of life there quite supportable through this last

month or two; the family reap benefit from his improve temper. even

to Mr. Cusse he behave with modify contempt. Oliver be judicious

enough to suppress his nigger minstrelsy and kindre demonstration of

spirit in his brother's presence, and Charlotte, though steadily

resentful, do she good to avoid conflict.



through the Misses Lumb, Godwin's change of purpose have of course

become know to his aunt, who for a time take it ill that these debate

have be conceal from she. when Mrs. Peak, in confidence, apprise

she of the disturbing cause, Miss Cadman's indignation know no bound.

what! that low fellow have be allow to interfere with the progress

of Godwin Peak's education, and not a protest utter? he should have

be _forbid_ to establish himself in Kingsmill! why have they not

take _her_ into council? she would have face the man, and have

overawe he; he should have be make to understand the gross

selfishness of his behaviour. never have she hear of such a monstrous

case--



Godwin spend much time in quiet examination of the cabinet bequeath

to he by Mr. Gunnery. he use a pound or two of Lady Whitelaw's money

for the purchase of scientific book, and set to work upon they with

freshen zeal. the early morning and late evening be give to

country walk, from which he always return with brain excite by the

forecast of great achievement.



when the time of his departure approach, he decide to pay a farewell

visit to Mr. Moxey. he choose an hour when the family would probably be

take their ease in the garden. three of the lady be, in fact,

amuse themselves with croquet, while their father, pipe in mouth,

bent over a bed of calceolarias.



'what's this that I hear?' exclaim Mr. Moxey, as he shake hand. 'you

be not go back to Whitelaw?'



the story have of course spread among all Twybridge people who know

anything of the Peaks, and it be generally feel that some mystery be

involve. Godwin have reasonably fear that his obligation to Sir Job

Whitelaw must become know; impossible for such a matter to be keep

secret; all who take any interest in the young man have long be

privately acquaint with the fact of his position. now that

discussion be rife, it would have be prudent in the Misses Lumb to

divulge as much of the truth at they know, but (in accordance with the

law of natural perversity) they maintain a provoking silence. hence

whisper and suspicious question, all wide of the mark. no one have as

yet hear of Andrew Peak, and it seem but too likely that Lady

Whitelaw, for some good reason, have decline to discharge the expense

of Godwin's last year at the College.



Mr. Moxey himself feel that an explanation be desirable, but he

listen with his usual friendly air to Godwin's account of the

matter--which of course include no mention of Lady Whitelaw.



'have you friend in London?' he inquire--like everyone else.



'no. except that your nephew be so kind as to ask I to call on he,

if ever I happen to be there.'



there pass over Mr. Moxey's countenance a curious shadow. Godwin

notice it, and at once conclude that the manufacturer condemn

Christian for undue advance to one below his own station. the result

of this surmise be of course a sudden coldness on Godwin's part,

increase when he find that Mr. Moxey turn to another subject,

without a word about his nephew.



in less than ten minute he offer to take leave, and no one urge he

to stay long. Mr. Moxey make sober expression of good wish, and

hope he might hear that the removal to London have prove

'advantageous'. this word suffice to convert Godwin's irritation into

wrath; he say an abrupt 'good-evening', raise his hat as awkwardly as

usual, and stalk away.



a few pace from the garden gate, he encounter Miss Janet Moxey, just

come home from walk or visit. another grab at his hat, and he would

have pass without a word, but the girl stop he.



'we hear that you be go to London, Mr. Peak.'



'yes, I be, Miss Moxey.'



she examine his face, and seem to hesitate.



'perhaps you have just be to say good-bye to father?'



'yes.'



Janet pause, look away, again turn her eye upon he.



'you have friend there, I hope?' she venture.



'no, I have none.'



'my cousin--Christian, you remember--would, I be sure, be very glad to

help you in any way.' her voice sink, and at the same time she colour

just perceptibly under Godwin's gaze.



'so he assure I,' be the reply. 'but I must learn to be independent,

Miss Moxey.'



Whereupon Godwin perform a salute, and march forward.



his box be pack, and now he have but one more evening in the old

home. it be make less pleasant than it might have be by a piece of

information upon which he by chance alight in a newspaper. the result

of the Honours examination for the First B.A. at London have just be

make known, and in two subject a high place be assign to Bruno

Leathwaite Chilvers--not the first place happily, but it be

disagreeable enough.



Pooh! what matter? what be academic success? ten year hence, which

name would have wide recognition--Bruno Chilvers or Godwin Peak? he

laugh with scornful superiority.



no one be to accompany he to the station; on that he insist. he have

decide for as early a train as possible, that the dolour of

leave-taking might be abridge. at a quarter to eight the cab drive up

to the door. out with the trunk label 'London'!



'take care of the cabinet!' be his last word to his mother. 'I may

want to have they send before long.'



he imply, what he have not venture to say plainly, that he be

leave Twybridge for good, and henceforth would not think of it as

home. in these moment of parting, he resent the natural feeling

which bring moisture to his eye. he harden himself against the

tie of blood, and keep repeat to himself a phrase in which of late

he have sum his misery: 'I be bear in exile--bear in exile.' now

at length have he set forth on a voyage of discovery, to end perchance

in some unknown land among his spiritual kith and kin.









Part II







CHAPTER I





in the spring of 1882 Mr. Jarvis Runcorn, editor and co-proprietor of

the London _Weekly Post_, be look about for a young man of

journalistic promise whom he might associate with himself in the

conduct of that long establish radical paper. the tale of his year

warn he that he could not hope to support much long a burden which

necessarily increase with the grow range and complexity of public

affair. Hitherto he have be the autocrat of the office, but compete

Sunday paper exact an alertness, a versatile vigour, such as only

youth can supply; for there be feel to be a danger that the _Weekly

Post_ might lose its prestige in democratic journalism. thus on the

watch, Mr. Runcorn--a wary man of business, who have go through many

trade before he reach that of weekly literature--take counsel one

day with a fellow-campaigner, Malkin by name, who own two or three

country newspaper, and have reap from they a considerable fortune; in

consequence, his attention be direct to one John Earwaker, then

edit the _Wattleborough Courier_. Mr. Malkin's eld son have

recently stand as liberal candidate for Wattleborough, and though

defeat be loud in his praise of the _courier_; with its editor he

have come to be on term of intimate friendship. Earwaker be well

acquaint with journalistic life in the province. he spring from a

humble family live at Kingsmill, have study at Whitelaw College, and

be now but nine-and-twenty: the style of his 'leader' seem to mark

he for a wide sphere of work. it be decide to invite he to London,

and the young man readily accept Mr. Runcorn's proposal. a few

month later he exchange temporary lodging for chamber in Staple

Inn, where he surround himself with plain furniture and many book.



in personal appearance he have change a good deal since that prize-day

at Whitelaw when his success as versifi and essayist foretell a

literary career. his figure be no long ungainly; the big head seem

to fit well upon the narrow shoulder. he neither walk with

extravagant pace, nor wave his arm like a windmill. a sufficiency of

good food, and the habit of intercourse with active man; have give he

an every-day aspect; perhaps the sole peculiarity he retain from

student time be his hollow chuckle of mirth, a laugh which struggle

vainly for enlargement. he dress with conventional decency, even

submit to the chimney-pot hat. his feature betray connection

with a physically coarse stock; but to converse with he be to

discover the man of original vigour and wide intellectual scope. with

ordinary companion, it be a rare thing for he to speak of his

professional interest. but for his position on _the Weekly Post_ it

would not have be easy to surmise how he stand with regard to

politic, and he appear to lean as often towards the conservative as

to the revolutionary view of abstract question.



the newspaper leave he time for other literary work, and it be know

to a few people that he write with some regularity for review, but all

the product of his pen be anonymous. a fact which remain his own

secret be that he provide for the subsistence of his parent, old

people domicile in a quiet corner of their native Kingsmill. the

strict sobriety of life which be indispensable to success in such a

career as this cost he no effort. he smoke moderately, ate and drank

as little as might be, could keep his health on six hour of sleep, and

for an occasional holiday like to walk his twenty or thirty mile.

Earwaker be naturally mark for survival among the fit.



on an evening of June in the year '84, he be interrupt whilst

equip himself for dinner abroad, by a thunderous rat-tat-tat.



'you must wait, my friend, whoever you be,' he murmur placidly, as

he begin to struggle with the stiff button-hole of his shirt.



the knock be repeat, and more violently.



'now there's only one man of my acquaintance who knock like that,' he

muse, elaborate the bow of his white tie. 'he, I should imagine, be

in Brazil; but there's no knowing. perhaps our office be on

fire.--Anon, anon!'



he make haste to don waistcoat and swallow-tail, then cross his

sitting-room and fling open the door of the chamber.



'ha! then it _be_ you! I be remind of your patient habit.'



a tall man, in a light overcoat and a straw hat of spacious brim, have

seize both his hand, with shout of excited greeting.



'confound you! why do you keep I wait? I think I have miss you

for the evening. how the deuce be you? and why the devil have you leave

I without a line from you for more than six month?'



Earwaker draw aside, and allow his tumultuous friend to rush into the

near room.



'why haven't you written?--confound you!' be again vociferate, amid

burst of boyish laughter. 'why haven't anybody write?'



'if everybody be as well informed of your movement as I, I don't

wonder,' reply the journalist. 'since you leave Buenos Ayres, I have

have two letter, each contain twenty word, which give I to

understand that no answer could by possibility reach you.'



'Humbug! you could have write to half-a-dozen likely place. do I

really say that? ha, ha, ha!--Shake hand again, confound you! how do

you do? do I look well? have I a tropical colour? I say, what a blessed

thing it be that I get beat down at Wattleborough! all this time I

should have be sit in the fog at Westminster. what a time I've

have! what a time I've have!'



it be more than twelve month since Malkin's departure from England.

though sun and sea have doubtless contribute to his robustness, he must

always have be a fair example of the vigorous Briton. his broad

shoulder, upright bearing, open countenance, and frank resonant voice,

declare a youth pass amid the wholesome condition which wealth

alone can command. the hearty extravagance of his friendliness be only

possible in a man who have never be humiliate by circumstance, never

restrict in his natural need of body and mind. yet he have more than

the heartiness of a contented Englishman. the vivacity which make a

whirlwind about he probably indicate some ancestral mingling with the

blood of a more ardent race. Earwaker examine he with a smile of

pleasure.



'it's unfortunate,' he say, 'that I have to go out to dinner.'



'Dinner! Pooh! we can get dinner anywhere.'



'no doubt, but I be engaged.'



'the devil you be! who be she? why don't you write to tell I?'



'the word have a less specific meaning, my dear fellow,' reply

Earwaker, laugh. 'only you of all man would have rush at the wrong

one. I mean to say--if your excitement can take in so common a

fact--that I have promise to dine with some people at Notting Hill,

and mustn't disappoint they.'



Malkin laugh at his mistake, then shout:



'Notting Hill! ben't that somewhere near Fulham? we'll take a cab, and

I can drop you on my way.'



'it wouldn't be on the way at all.'



the journalist's quiet explanation be cut short by a petulant outcry.



'oh, very well! of course if you want to get rid of I! I should have

think after sixteen months'--



'don't be idiotic,' break in the other. 'there's a strong feminine

element in you, Malkin; that's exactly the kind of talk with which

woman drive man to frenzy.'



'Feminine element!' shout the traveller with hot face. 'what do you

mean? I propose to take a cab with you, and you'--



Earwaker turn away laugh. 'time and distance be nothing to you,

and I shall be very glad of your company. come by all mean.'



his friend be instantly appease.



'don't let I make you late, Earwaker. must we start this moment? come

along, then. can I carry anything for you? Lord! if you could only see

a tropical forest! how do you get on with old Runcorn? _write_? what

the devil be the use of my writing, when word be powerless to

describe--? what a rum old place this seem, after experience like

mine; how the deuce can you live here? I say, I've bring you a ton of

curiosity; will make your room look like a museum. confound it! I've

break my shin against the turn in the staircase! whew! who be you

go to dine with?--Moxey? never hear the name.'



in Holborn a hansom be hail, and the friend continue their

dialogue as they drive westward. having at length effervesce, Malkin

begin to exchange question and answer with something of the calm

needful for mutual intelligibility.



'and how do you get on with old Runcorn?'



'as well as can be expect where there be not a single subject of

agreement,' Earwaker reply. 'I have hope of reduce our

circulation.'



'what the deuce do you mean?'



'in other word, of improve the paper. runcorn be strong on the side

of blackguardism. we have a great fight the other day over a leader

offer by Kenyon,--a true effusion of the political gutter-snipe. I

refuse point-blank to let it go in; Runcorn swear that, if I do not,

_i_ should go _out_. I offer to retire that moment. "we must write

for our public," he bellow. "true," say I, "but not necessarily for

the basest among they. the standard at the good be low enough." "do you

call yourself a Radical?" "not if this be radicalism." "you ought to be

on the _Morning_ instead of the _Weekly Post_." I have my way, and

probably shall end by send Mr Kenyon back to his tinker's work shop.

if not, I must look out for clean occupation.'



'go it, my boy! go it!' cry Malkin, slap his companion's knee

violently. 'raise the tone! to the devil with mercenary consideration!

help the proletariat out of its grovel position.'



they approach the street where Earwaker have to alight. the other

declare his intention of drive on to Fulham in the hope of find a

friend who live there.



'but I must see you again. when shall you be home to-night?'



'about half-past eleven, I dare say.'



'right! if I be free I'll come out to Staple Inn, and we'll talk till

three or four.'



the house at which the journalist present himself be such as might

be inhabit by a small family of easy mean. as he be take off his

overcoat, a door open and Christian Moxey come forward to greet he.

they shake hand like man who stand on friendly, but not exactly on

intimate, term.



'will you come up to the laboratory for a moment?' say Moxey. 'I

should like to show you something I have under the microscope.'



the room he speak of be at the top of the house; two chamber have be

make into one, and the fitting be those require by a student of

physical science. various odour distress the air. a stranger to the

pursuit represent might have think that the general disorder and

encumberment indicate great activity, but the experienced eye

perceive at once that no methodical work be here in progress.

mineralogy, botany, biology, physics, and probably many other science,

be suggest by the specimen and apparatus that lie confusedly on

table, shelf, or floor.



Moxey look very slim and elegant in his evening costume. when he

touch any object, his long, translucent finger seem soft and

sensitive as a girl's. he step with peculiar lightness, and the

harmonious note of his voice be in keep with these other

characteristic. ten year have develop in he that graceful languor

which at four-and-twenty be only begin to get mastery over the

energy of a well-build frame.



'this stuff here,' he say, point to an open box full of mud, 'be

silt from down the Thames. it's positively load with

_diatomaceoe_,--you remember our talk about they when you be last

here? I be work at the fabric of the valve. now, just look!'



Earwaker, with attentive smile, follow the demonstration.



'Peak be busy with they as well,' say Christian, presently. 'have he

tell you his theory of their locomotion? nobody have find out yet how

the little beggar move about. Peak have a bright idea.'



they spend ten minute in the laboratory, then go downstairs. two

other guest have meanwhile arrive, and be converse with the

hostess, Miss Moxey. the shy, awkward, hard-feature girl be grow

into a woman whose face make such declaration of intellect and

character that, after the first moment, one become indifferent to its

lack of feminine beauty. as if with the idea of compensate for

personal disadvantage, she be ornately dress; her abundant tawny

hair have submit to much manipulation, and show the gleam of

jewel; expense and finished craft be manifest in every detail of her

garb. though slightly round-shoulder, her form be well-proportion

and suggest natural vigour. like Christian, she have delicate hand.



'do you know a distinguished clergyman, name chilver?' she ask of

Earwaker, with a laugh, when he have take a place by she.



'Chilvers?--Is it Bruno Chilvers, I wonder?'



'that's the name!' exclaim one of the guest, a young married lady of

eager face and fidgety manner.



'then I know he at College, but I have no idea he be become

distinguish.'



Miss Moxey again laugh.



'ben't it amusing, the narrowness of a great clerical reputation? Mrs.

Morton be astonish that I have never hear his name.'



'please don't think,' appeal the lady, look anxiously at Earwaker,

'that I consider it shameful not to know he. I only happen to

mention a very ridiculous sermon of his, that be force upon I by a

distressingly orthodox friend of mine. they tell I, he be one of the

new light of the Church.'



Earwaker listen with amusement, and then relate anecdote of Bruno

Chilvers. whilst he be talk, the door open to admit another

arrival, and a servant's voice announce 'Mr. Peak'. Miss Moxey rise,

and move a step or two forward; a change be visible on her

countenance, which have soften and lighten.



'I be very sorry to be late,' say the new-comer, in a dull and rather

husky voice, which make strong contrast with the humorous tone his

entrance have interrupt.



he shake hand in silence with the rest of the company, give merely a

nod and a smile as reply to some gracious commonplace from Mrs. Morton.



'has it come to your knowledge,' Earwaker ask of he, 'that Bruno

Chilvers be exciting the orthodox world by his defence of Christianity

against neo-heathenism?'



'Chilvers?--No.'



'Mrs. Morton tell we that all the Church newspaper ring with his

name.'



'please don't think,' cry Mrs. Morton, with the same anxious look as

before, 'that I read such paper. we never have such a thing in our

house, Mr. Peak. I have only be tell about it.'



Peak smile gravely, but make no other answer. then he turn to

Earwaker.



'where be he?'



'I cann't say. perhaps Mrs. Morton'--



'they tell I he be somewhere in Norfolk,' reply the lady. 'I forget

the town.'



a summon to dinner break off the conversation. Moxey offer his arm

to the one lady present as guest, and Earwaker do the same courtesy to

the hostess. Mr. Morton, a meditative young man who have be listen

with a smile of indifference, saunter along in the rear with Godwin

Peak.



at the dinner-table Peak be taciturn, and seem to be muse on a

disagreeable subject. to remark, he answer briefly and absently. as

Moxey, Earwaker, and Mrs. Morton keep up lively general talk, this

muteness be not much notice, but when the lady have leave the room,

and Peak still frown over his wineglass, the journalist rebuke he.



'what's the matter with you? don't depress we.'



the other laugh impatiently, and empty his glass.



'Malkin have come back,' pursue Earwaker. 'he burst in upon I, just as

I be leave home--as mad as a March hare. you must come and meet he

some evening.'



'as you please.'



return to the upper room, Peak seat himself in a shadowy corner,

cross his leg, thrust his hand into his pocket, and lean back to

regard a picture on the wall opposite. this attitude give sufficient

proof of the change that have be work in he by the year between

nineteen and nine-and-twenty; even in a drawing-room, he could take his

ease unconcernedly. his face would have lead one to suppose he an old

man; it be set in an expression of stern, if not morose,

thoughtfulness.



he have small, hard lip, indifferent tooth (seldom exhibit), a

prominent chin, a long neck; his body be of firm, not ungraceful

build. Society's evening uniform do not allow a man much scope in the

matter of adornment; it be plain, however, that Godwin no long

scorn the tailor and haberdasher. he wear a suit which confidently

challenge the criticism of expert, and the silk sock visible above

his shoe might have be select by the most fastidious of worldling.



when he have sit there for some minute, his eye happen to stray

towards Miss Moxey, who be just then without a companion. her glance

answer to his, and a smile of invitation leave he no choice but to

rise and go to a seat beside she.



'you be meditative this evening,' she say, in a voice subdue below

its ordinary note.



'not very fit for society, to tell the truth,' Godwin answer,

carelessly. 'one have such mood, you know. but how would you take it

if, at the last moment, I send a telegram, "please excuse I. don't

feel able to talk"?'



'you don't suppose I should be offend?'



'certainly you would.'



'then you know less of I than I think.'



her eye wander about the room, their smile betoken an uneasy

self-consciousness.



'Christian tell I,' she continue, 'that you be go to take your

holiday in Cornwall.'



'I think of it. but perhaps I shalln't leave town at all. it wouldn't

be worth while, if I go abroad at the end of the year.'



'abroad?' Marcella glance at he. 'what scheme be that?'



'haven't I mention it? I want to go to South America and the Pacific

island. Earwaker have a friend, who have just come back from travel in

the tropic; the talk about it have half decide I to leave England. I

have be save money for year to that end.'



'you never speak of it--to I, Marcella reply, turn a bracelet on

her wrist. 'should you go alone?'



'of course. I couldn't travel in company. you know how impossible it

would be for I to put up with the mood and idiosyncrasy of other

man.'



there be a quiet arrogance in his tone. the listener still smile, but

her finger work nervously.



'you be not so unsocial as you pretend,' she remark, without look

at he.



'pretend! I make no pretence of any kind,' be his scornful answer.



'you be ungracious this evening.'



'yes--and cann't hide it.'



'don't try to, I beg. but at least tell I what trouble you.'



'that's impossible,' Peak reply, drily.



'then friendship go for nothing,' say Marcella, with a little forced

laugh.



'yes--in all but a very few human concern. how often could _you_ tell

_I_ what it be that prevent your take life cheerfully?'



he glance at she, and Marcella's eye fall; a moment after, there be

a suspicion of colour in her cheek.



'what be you read?' Peak ask abruptly, but in a voice of more

conventional note.



'still Hafiz.'



'I envy your power of abstraction.'



'yet I hear that you be deeply concerned about the locomotive power

of the _diatomaceaoe_?'



their eye meet, and they laugh--not very mirthfully.



'it preserve I from bad folly,' say Peak. 'after all, there be

way more or less dignified of consume time'--



as he speak, his ear catch a familiar name, utter by Christian

Moxey, and he turn to listen. Moxey and Earwaker be again talk

of the Rev. Bruno Chilvers. Straightway disregard Marcella, Peak

give attention to the man's dialogue, and his forehead wrinkle into

scornful amusement.



'it's very interesting,' he exclaim, at a moment when there be

silence throughout the company, 'to hear that Chilvers be really come

to the front. at Whitelaw it use to be prophesy that he would be a

bishop, and now I suppose he's fairly on the way to that. shall we

write letter of congratulation to he, Earwaker?'



'a joint epistle, if you like.'



Mr. Morton, who have brighten since dinner, begin to speak caustically

of the form of intellect necessary nowadays in a popular clergyman.



'he must write a good deal,' put in Earwaker, 'and that in a style

which would have scandalise the orthodox of the last century.

rationalise dogma be vastly in demand.'



Peak's voice draw attention.



'two kind of book deal with religion be now greatly popular, and

will be for a long time. on the one hand there be that grow body of

people who, for whatever reason, tend to agnosticism, but desire to be

convince that agnosticism be respectable; they be eager for

anti-dogmatic book, write by man of mark. they couldn't endure to be

class with Bradlaugh, but they rank themselves confidently with

Darwin and Huxley. argument matter little or nothing to they. they

take their rationalism as they do a fashion in dress, anxious only that

it shall be "good form". then there's the other lot of people--a much

large class--who willn't give up dogma, but have learn that bishop,

priest, and deacon no long hold it with the old rigour, and that

one must be "broad"; these be clamorous for treatise which pretend to

reconcile revelation and science. it's quite pathetic to watch the

enthusiasm with which they hail any man who distinguish himself by

this kind of apologetic skill, this pious jugglery. never mind how

washy the book from a scientific point of view. only let it obtain

vogue, and it will be glorify as the new evangel. the day have go by

for downright assault on science; to be marketable, you must prove

that _the Origin of Species_ be approvingly foresee in the first

chapter of Genesis, and that the Apostles' creed conflict in no single

point with the late result of biblical criticism. both class seek

to avoid ridicule, and to adapt themselves to a standard of

respectability. if chilver go in for the new apologetic, he be

bind to be enormously successful. the man have brain, and really there

be so few such man who still care to go into the Church.'



there be a murmur of laugh approval. the speaker have work himself

into eloquent nervousness; he lean forward with his hand strain

together, and the muscle of his face quiver.



'and ben't it surprising,' say Marcella, 'in how short a time this

apologetic attitude have become necessary?'



Peak flash a triumphant look at she.



'I often rejoice to think of it!' he cry. 'how magnificent it be that

so many of the solemn jackass who bray against Darwin from ten to

twenty year ago should live to be regard as beneath contempt! I say

it earnestly: this thought be one of the thing that make life

tolerable to I!'



'you have need of charity, friend Peak,' interpose Earwaker. 'this be

the spirit of the persecutor.'



'nothing of the kind! it be the spirit of justified reason. you may say

that those people be honestly mistaken;--such honesty be the brand of

a brainless obstructive. _they_ would have persecute, but too gladly!

there be, and be, man who would have commit Darwin to penal

servitude, if they have have the power. man like Lyell, who be able to

develop a new convolution in their brain, I respect heartily. I only

speak of the squall mass, the obscene herd of idiot mocker.'



'who assuredly,' remark Earwaker, 'feel no shame whatever in the

retrospect of their idiocy. to convert a _mind_ be a subject for high

rejoicing; to confute a _temper_ ben't worth the doing.'



'that be philosophy,' say Marcella, 'but I suspect you of often

feeling as Mr. Peak do. I be sure _I_ do.'



Peak, meet an amuse glance from the journalist, leave his seat and

take up a volume that lie on one of the table. it be easy to see that

his hand shake, and that there be perspiration on his forehead. with

pleasant tact, Moxey strike into a new subject, and for the next

quarter of an hour Peak sit apart in the same attitude as before his

outburst of satire and invective. then he advance to Miss Moxey again,

for the purpose of take leave. this be the signal for Earwaker's

rise, and in a few minute both man have leave the house.



'I'll go by train with you,' say Earwaker, as they walk away.

'Farringdon Street will suit I well enough.'



Peak vouchsafe no reply, but, when they have proceed a little

distance, he exclaim harshly:



'I hate emancipate woman!'



his companion stop and laugh loudly.



'yes, I hate emancipate woman,' the other repeat, with deliberation.

'woman ought neither to be enlighten nor dogmatic. they ought to be

sexual.'



'that's unusual brutality on your part.'



'well, you know what I mean.'



'I know what you think you mean,' say Earwaker. 'but the woman who be

neither enlightened nor dogmatic be only too common in society. they

be fool, and troublesome fool.'



Peak again keep silence.



'the emancipate woman,' pursue his friend, 'needn't be a Miss Moxey,

nor yet a Mrs. Morton.'



'Miss Moxey be intolerable,' say Peak. 'I cann't quite say why I

dislike she so, but she grow more antipathetic to I the well I know

she. she have not a single feminine charm--not one. I often feel very

sorry for she, but dislike she all the same.'



'sorry for she,' muse Earwaker. 'yes, so do I. I cann't like she

either. she be certainly an incomplete woman. but her mind be of no low

order. I have rather talk with she than with one of the imbecile

prettiness. I half believe you have a sneak sympathy with the man

who cann't stand education in a wife.'



'it's possible. in some mood.'



'in no mood can I conceive such a prejudice. I have no great attraction

to woman of any kind, but the uneducated woman I detest.'



'well, so do I,' mutter Peak. 'do you know what?' he add, abruptly.

'I shall be off to the Pacific. yes, I shall go this next winter. my

mind be make up.'



'I shalln't try to dissuade you, old fellow, though I have rather have you

in sight. come and see Malkin. I'll drop you a note with an

appointment.'



'do.'



they soon reach the station, and exchange but few more word before

Earwaker's leave the train at Farringdon Street. Peak pursue his

journey towards the south-east of London.



on reach home, the journalist fling aside his foolish coat of

ceremony, indue a comfortable jacket, light a pipe with long stem, and

begin to glance over an evening newspaper. he have not long repose in

his arm-chair when the familiar appeal thunder from without. Malkin

once more shake his hand effusively.



'have my journey to Fulham for nothing. don't matter; I run over to

Putney and look up my old landlady. the room be occupy by a

married couple, but I think we shall succeed in persuade they to make

way for I. I promise to find they lodging every bit as good in two

day' time.'



'if that be so easy, why not take the new quarter yourself?'



'why, to tell you the truth, I don't think of it!--Oh, I have rather

have the old crib; I can do as I like there, you know. confound it! now

I shall have to spend all to-morrow lodging-hunting for other people.

couldn't I pay a man to do it? some confidential agent--private

police--you know what I mean?'



'a man of any delicacy,' reply Earwaker, with grave countenance,

'would feel bind by such a promise to personal exertion.'



'right; quite right! I don't mean it; of course I shall hunt

conscientiously. oh, I say; I have bring over a couple of

armadilloe. would you like one?'



'stuff, do you mean?'



'Pooh! alive, man, alive! they only need a little care. I should think

you might keep the creature in your kitchen; they become quite

affectionate.'



the offer be unhesitatingly decline, and Malkin look hurt. there

need a good deal of genial explanation before Earwaker could restore

he to his sprightly mood.



'where have you be dine?' cry the traveller. 'Moxey's--ah, I

remember. but who _be_ Moxey? a new acquaintance, eh?'



'yes; I have know he about six month. got to know he through Peak.'



'Peak? Peak? what, the fellow you once tell I about--who disappear

from Whitelaw because of his uncle, the cat's-meat man?'



'the man's-meat man, rather.'



'yes, yes--the eating-house; I remember. you have meet he again? why on

earth don't you tell I in your letter? what become of he? tell I

the story.'



'certainly, if you will cease to shake down plaster from the

ceiling.--We meet in a restaurant (appropriate scene), happen to sit

at the same table. whilst eat, we stare at each other fitfully.

"I'll be hang if that ben't Peak," I keep say to myself. and at

the same moment we open our lip to question each other.'



'just the same thing happen once to a friend of mine and a friend of

his. but it be on board ship, and both be devilish seasick.

Walker--you remember my friend Walker?--tells the story in a

side-splitting way. I wonder what have become of Walker? the last time I

meet he he be travel agent for a menagerie--a most interesting

fellow, Walker.--But I beg your pardon. go on, old fellow!'



'well, after that we at once see a good deal of each other. he have be

work for year at a chemical factory down on the river; Moxey use

to be there, and get he the place.'



'Moxey?--Oh yes, the man you dine with. you must remember that these

be new name to I. I must know all these new people, I say. you don't

mind?'



'you shall be present to the whole multitude, as soon as you like.

Peak want to see you. he think of an excursion like this last of

your.'



'he do? by Jove, we'll go together! I have always want a travel

companion. we'll start as soon as ever he likes!--well, in a month or

two. I must just have time to look round. oh, I haven't do with the

tropic yet! I must tell he of a rattle good insect-powder I have

invent; I think of patent it. I say, how do one get a patent?

quite a simple matter, I suppose?'



'oh, always have be. the simple and least worrying of all business

enterprise.'



'what? eh? that smile of yours mean mischief.'



in a quarter of an hour they have get back to the subject of Peak's

history.



'and do he really run away because of the eating-house?' Malkin

inquire.



'I shall never venture to ask, and it's not very likely he will admit

it. it be some time before he care to talk much of Whitelaw.'



'but what be he do? you use to think he would come out strong,

don't you? have he write anything?'



'a few thing in _the Liberator_, five or six year ago.'



'what, the atheistic paper?'



'yes. but he's ashamed of it now. that belong to a bygone stage of

development.'



'turn orthodox?'



Earwaker laugh.



'I only mean that he be ashamed of the connection with street-corner

rationalism.'



'quite right. devilish low, that kind of thing. but I go in for it

myself once. do I ever tell you that I debate with a parson on

mile-end Waste? fact! that be in my hot-head day. a crowd of

coster-monger applaud I in the most flattering way.--I say,

Earwaker, you haven't any whisky?'



'forgive I; your conversation make I forget hospitality. shall I

make hot water? I have a spirit-kettle.'



'cold for I. I get in such a deuce perspiration when I begin to

talk.--Try this tobacco; the last of half a hundred-weight I take in at

Bahia.'



the traveller refresh himself with a full tumbler, and resume the

conversation cheerily.



'has he just be waste his time, then, all these year?'



'he go in for science--laboratory work, evolutionary speculation. of

course I cann't judge his progress in such matter; but Moxey, a clever

man in the same line, think very highly of he.'



'just the fellow to travel with. I want to get hold of some solid

scientific idea, but I haven't the patience to work steadily. a

confound fault of mine, you know, Earwaker,--want of patience. you

must have notice it?'



'oh--well, now and then, perhaps.'



'yes, yes; but of course I know myself well. and now tell I about

Moxey. a married man, of course?'



'no, live with a sister.'



'unmarried sister?--Brains?'



'pretty well supply with that commodity.'



'you must introduce I to she. I do like woman with brains.--



'Orthodox or enlighten?'



'Bitterly enlighten.'



'really? magnificent! oh, I must know she. nothing like an emancipate

woman! how any man can marry the ordinary female pass my

understanding. what do _you_ think?'



'my opinion be in suspense; not yet precipitate, as Peak might say.'



one o'clock sound from neighbouring church, but Malkin be wide

awake as ever. he enter upon a detailed narrative of his travel,

delightful to listen to, so oddly blend be the strain of conscious

and unconscious humour which mark his personality. two o'clock; three

o'clock;--he would have talk till breakfast-time, but at last

Earwaker declare that the hour have come for sleep. as Malkin have take

a room at the Inns of Court Hotel, it be easy for he to repair to his

quarter. the last his friend hear of he be an unexplained laugh,

echo far down the staircase.







CHAPTER II





Peak's destination be Peckham Rye. on quit the railway, he have a

walk of some ten minute along a road which smell of new brick and

stucco heat by the summer sun; an obscure passage lead he into a

street partly of dwelling-house, partly of shop, the latter close.

he pause at the side door of one over which the street lamp dimly

revealed--'Button, Herbalist'.



his latch-key admit he to total darkness, but he move forward with

the confidence of long use. he softly ascend two flight of stair,

open a door, strike a match, and find himself in a comfortable

sit-room, soon illumine by a reading-lamp. the atmosphere, as

throughout the house, be strongly redolent of dry simple. anyone

acquaint with the characteristic of furnished lodging must have

surmise that Peak dwelt here among his own moveable, and be indebte

to the occupier of the premise for bare wall alone; the table and

chair, though plain enough, be such as civilisation permit; and

though there be no picture, sundry ornament here and there make

strong denial of lodge-house affinity. it be at once laboratory,

study, and dwelling-room. two large cabinet, something the bad for

transportation, alone form a link between this abode and the old home

at Twybridge. book be not numerous, and a good microscope seem to

be the only scientific instrument of much importance. on door-peg hang

a knapsack, a botanist's vasculum, and a geologist's wallet.



a round table be spread with the material of supper, and here again

an experienced lodger must have bestow contemplative scrutiny, for no

hand of common landlady declare itself in the arrangement. the cloth

be spotless, the utensil tasteful and carefully disposed. in a bowl

lie an appetising salad, ready for mingling; a fragment of Camembert

cheese be relieve upon a setting of green leafage; a bottle of ale,

with adjacent corkscrew, stand beside the plate; the very loaf seem

to come from no ordinary baker's, or be make to look well than its

kin by the fringe white cloth in which it nestle.



the custom of four year have accustom Peak to take these thing as a

matter of course, yet he would readily have admit that they be

extraordinary enough. indeed, he even now occasionally contrast this

state of comfort with the hateful experience of his first six year in

London. the subject of lodging be one of those on which (often

intemperate of speech) he speak least temperately. for six year he have

shift from quarter to quarter, from house to house, drive away each

time by the hateful contact of vulgarity in every form,--by foulness

and dishonesty, by lie, slandering, quarrelling, by drunkenness, by

brutal vice,--by all abomination that distinguish the lodge-letter

of the metropolis. oblige to practise extreme economy, he could not

take refuge among self-respect people, or at all event have no luck

in endeavour to find such among the poor working-class. to a man

of Godwin's idiosyncrasy the London poor be of necessity abominable,

and it anguish he to be force to live among they.



Rescue come at last, and in a very unexpected way. resident in the more

open part of Bermondsey (winter morning make a long journey to

Rotherhithe intolerable), he happen to walk one day as far as Peckham

Rye, and be there attract by the shop window of a herbalist. he

enter to make a purchase, and get into conversation with Mr. Button,

a middle-aged man of bright intelligence and more reading than could be

expect. the herbalist lead his customer to an upper room, in which

be store sundry curiosity, and happen casually to say that he

be desirous of find a lodger for two superfluous chamber. Peak's

inquiry lead to his see Mrs. Button, whom he find to be a

Frenchwoman of very pleasing appearance; she speak fluent

French-English, anything but disagreeable to an ear constantly

torment by the London vernacular. after short reflection he decide

to take and furnish the room. it prove a most fortunate step, for he

live (after the outlay for furniture) at much less expense than

theretofore, and in comparative luxury. cleanliness, neatness, good

taste by no mean exhaust Mrs. Button's virtue; her cooking seem

to the lodger of incredible perfection, and the infinite goodwill with

which he be tend make strange contrast with the base usage he have

commonly experience.



in these ten year he have pay but four visit to Twybridge, each of

brief duration. naturally there be change among his kinsfolk:

Charlotte, after an engagement which prolong itself to the fifth

twelvemonth, have become Mrs. Cusse, and her husband now have a draper's

shop of his own, with two child already bear into the world of

draperdom. oliver, twice fruitlessly affiance, have at length (when

six-and-twenty) wed a young person whom his mother and his aunt both

regard as a most undesirable connection, the daughter (aged

thirty-two) of a man who be drink himself to death on such money as

he could earn by casual reporting for a Twybridge newspaper. Mrs. Peak

the elder now abode with her sister at the millinery shop, and see

little of her two married child. with Oliver and Charlotte their

brother have no sympathy, and affect none; he never write to they, nor

they to he; but year have strengthen his regard for his mother, and

with she he have fairly regular correspondence. gladly he would have

see she more often, but the air of shopkeepe he be compel to

breathe when he visit Twybridge nauseate and repel he. he

recognise the suitability both of Oliver and Charlotte for the

position to which life have consign they--they suffer from no

profitless aspiration; but it seem to he a just cause of quarrel

with fate that his kindre should thus have relapse, instead of

better the rank their father have bequeath to they. he would not

avow to such friend as Moxey and Earwaker the social standing of his

only recognise relative.



as for the unrecognised, he have long ago hear with some satisfaction

that Andrew Peak, having ultimately fail in his Kingsmill venture,

return to London. encounter with the fatal Andrew have be spare he

ever since that decisive day when Master Jowey Peak recite from

Coleridge and display his etymological genius.



for himself, he have earn daily bread, and something more; he have

study in desultory fashion; he have see a good deal of the British

Isles and have visit Paris. the result of it all be gnaw

discontent, interval of furious revolt, period of black despair.



he have achieve nothing, and he be alone.



Young still, to be sure; at twenty-nine it be too early to abandon

ambition which be support by force of brain and of will. but

circumstance must need help if the desire of his soul be to be

attain. on first come to London, receive with all friendliness by

Christian Moxey, he have imagine that it only depend upon himself to

find admission before long to congenial society--by which he then

understand the companionship of intelligent and aspiring young man.

Christian, however, have himself no such circle, and know that the

awkward lad from Twybridge could not associate with the one or two

wealthy family to which he could have present he. the School of

Mines be only technically useful; it help Godwin to get his place

with Bates & Sons, but supply no friendship. in the third year,

Moxey inherit mean and leave the chemical work for continental

travel.



by torment attraction Godwin be often lead to walk in the wealthy

district of London. why be no one of these door open to he? there

be his equal; not in the mean street where he dwelt. there be the

man of culture and capacity, the woman of exquisite person and exalt

mind. be he the inferior of such people? by heaven, no!



he chance once to be in Hyde Park on the occasion of some public

ceremony, and be bring to pause at the edge of a gape plebeian

crowd, draw up to witness the passing of aristocratic vehicle. close

in front of he an open carriage come to a stop; in it sit, or rather

recline, two lady, old and young. upon this picture Godwin fix his

eye with the intensity of fascination; his memory never lose the

impress of these lady' face. nothing very noteworthy about they; but

to Godwin they convey a passionate perception of all that be imply

in social superiority. here he stand, one of the multitude, of the

herd; shoulder to shoulder with boor and pick-pocket; and within

reach of his hand repose those two lady, in olympian calm, seem

unaware even of the existence of the throng. now they exchange a word;

now they smile to each other. how delicate be the moving of their

lip! how fine must be their enunciation! on the box sit an old

coachman and a young footman; they too be splendidly impassive,

scornful of the multitudinous gaze.--The block be relieve, and on the

carriage roll.



they be his equal, those lady, merely his equal. with such as

they he should by right of nature associate.



in his rebellion, he could not hate they. he hate the malodorous

rabble who stare insolently at they and who envy their immeasurable

remoteness. of mere wealth he think not; might he only be recognise

by the gentle of birth and breeding for what he really be, and be

rescue from the promiscuity of the vulgar!



yet at this time he be draw into connection with the movement of

popular radicalism which revolt against religious respectability.

inherit antipathy to all conventional form of faith outweigh his

other prejudice so far as to induce he to write savage paper for

_the Liberator_. personal contact with artisan freethinker be

disgusting to he. from the meeting of emancipate workman he go away

with scorn and detestation in his heart; but in the quiet of his

lodging he could sit down to aid their propaganda. one explanation of

this inconsistency lie in the fact that no other channel be open to

his literary impulse. pure science could not serve he, for he have no

original result to announce. pure literature seem beyond his scope,

yet he be constantly endeavour to express himself. he burn with

the desire of fame, and see no hope of achieve it save as an author.

_the Liberator_ would serve he as a first step. in time he might get

foothold in the monthly review, and see his name side by side with

those of the leader of thought.



Occasions, of course, offer when he might have extend his

acquaintance, but they be never of a kind that he care to use; at

good they would only have admit he to the home of decent,

semi-educate family, and for such society he be altogether

unfit. the licence of the street but seldom allure he. after his

twenty-fourth year he be proof against the decoy of venal pleasure,

and live a life of asceticism exceedingly rare in young and lonely

man. when Christian Moxey return to London and take the house at

Notting Hill, which he henceforth occupy together with his sister, a

possibility of social intercourse at length appear. indeed it be a

substantial gain to sit from time to time at a civilised table, and to

converse amid graceful surrounding with people who at all event

follow the intellectual current of the day. careless hitherto of his

personal appearance, he now cultivate an elegance of attire in

conformity with his aristocratic instinct, and this habit became

fix. when next he visit Twybridge, the change in his appearance be

generally remark. Mrs. Peak naturally understand it as a significant

result of his intercourse with Miss Moxey, of whom, as it seem to

she, he speak with singular reticence.



but Marcella have no charm for Godwin's imagination, notwithstanding

that he presently suspect a warmth of interest on her side which he

be far from consciously encouraging. nor do he find among his friend

any man or woman for whose acquaintance he greatly care. the Moxeys

have a very small circle, consist chiefly of intellectual inferior.

Christian be too indolent to make a figure in society, and his sister

suffer from peculiarity of mind and temperament which make it as

difficult for she as for Peak himself to form intimate friendship.



when chance encounter bring he into connection with Earwaker, the

revival of bygone thing be at first doubtfully pleasant. Earwaker

himself, remarkably develop and become a very interesting man, be as

welcome an associate as he could have find, but it cost he some

effort to dismiss the thought of Andrew Peak's eating-house, and to

accept the friendly tact with which the journalist avoid all hint of

unpleasant memory. that Earwaker should refrain from a single

question concern that abrupt disappearance, nearly ten year ago,

sufficiently declare his knowledge of the unspeakable cause, a

reflection which often make Godwin writhe. however, this difficulty be

overcome, and the two meet very frequently. for several week Godwin

enjoy well spirit than he have know since the first excitement of

his life in London fade away.



one result be easily foresee. his mind grow busy with literary

project, many that he have long contemplate and some that be new.

once more he aim at contribute to the 'advanced' review, and

sketch out several paper of sociological tenor. none of these be

write. as soon as he sit down to deliberate composition, a sense of

his deficiency embarrass he. Godwin's self-confidence have nothing

in common with the conceit which rest on imaginary strength. power

there be in he; of that he could not but be conscious: its true

direction he have not yet learn. defect of knowledge, lack of

pen-practice, confusion and contradictoriness of aim, instability of

conviction,--these fault he recognise in himself at every moment of

inward scrutiny.



on his table this evening lie a library volume which he have of late

be read, a book which have spring into enormous popularity. it be

call _Spiritual Aspects of Evolution_, and undertake, with confidence

characteristic of its kind, to reconcile the late result of science

with the dogma of oriental religion. this work be in his mind when he

speak so vehemently at Moxey's; already he have tremble with an impulse

to write something on the subject, and during his journey home a

possible essay have begin to shape itself. late as be the hour he could

not prepare for sleep. his brain throb with a congestion of thought;

he struggle to make clear the line on which his satire might direct

itself. by two o'clock he have fling down on paper a conglomerate of

burn idea, and thus relieve he at length go to bed.



two day later come a note from Staple Inn, invite he to meet Malkin

the next evening. by this time he have make a beginning of his critical

essay, and the exordium so far satisfy he that he be tempt to

take it for Earwaker's judgment. but no; well his friend should see

the thing when it be complete.



about eight o'clock he reach the journalist's chamber. Malkin have

not yet arrive. Peak amuse himself with examine certain tropical

product which the traveller have recently cast pell-mell into his

friend's sitting-room. then sound a knock at the door, but it be not

such as would have herald the expected man.



'a telegram,' observe Earwaker, and go to take it in.



he return with hoarse sound of mirth.



'our friend excuse himself. read this characteristic despatch.'



Peak see with surprise that the telegram far exceed familiar

dimension. 'unspeakably grieve,' it begin. 'cannot possibly with you.

at moment's notice undertaken escort two poor girl Rouen. not even

time look in apologise. go via Dieppe and leave Victoria few minute.

Hope be back Thursday. express sincere regret Mr. Peak. Lament

appearance discourtesy. will apologise personally. common humanity

constrain go Rouen. will explain Thursday. no time add another word.

rush ticket train.'



'there you have the man!' cry Earwaker. 'how do you class such a mind

as that? ten to one this be some quixotic obligation he have lay upon

himself, and probably he have go without even a handbag.'



'vocally deliver,' say Peak, 'this would represent a certain stage

of drunkenness. I suppose it ben't open to such an explanation?'



'Malkin never be intoxicate, save with his own vivacity.'



they discuss the singular be with good-natured mirth, then turn

by degree to other topic.



'I have just come across a passage that will delight you,' say

Earwaker, take up a book. 'perhaps you know it.'



he read from Sir Thomas Brown's _Pscudodoxia Epidemica_. '"Men's name

should not only distinguish they. a man should be something that all

man be not, and individual in somewhat beside his proper name. thus,

while it exceed not the bound of reason and modesty, we cannot condemn

singularity. _Nos numerus sumus_ be the motto of the multitude, and for

that reason be they fool."'



Peak laugh his approval.



'it astonish I,' he say, light his pipe, 'that you can go on

writing for this Sunday rag, when you have just as little sympathy with

its aim as I have. do get into some less offensive connection.'



'what paper would you recommend?' ask the other, with his significant

smile.



'why need you journalise at all?'



'on the whole, I like it. and remember, to admit that the multitude be

fool be not the same thing as to deny the possibility of progress.'



'do you really believe yourself a democrat, Earwaker?'



'M--m--m! well, yes, I believe the democratic spirit be strong in I

than any other.'



Peak muse for a minute, then suddenly look up.



'and what be I?'



'I be glad nothing much depend on my successfully define you.'



they laugh together.



'I suppose,' say Godwin, 'you cann't call a man a democrat who

recognise in his heart and soul a true distinction of social class.

Social, mark. the division I instinctively support be by no mean

intellectual. the well-bear fool be very often more sure of my respect

than the work man who struggle to a fair measure of education.'



Earwaker would have like to comment on this with remark personal to

the speaker, but he fear to do so. his silence, however, be eloquent

to Peak, who resume brusquely.



'I be not myself well-born,--though if my parent could have come into

wealth early in their life, perhaps I might reasonably have call

myself so. all sort of argument can be bring against my prejudice,

but the prejudice be ineradicable. I respect hereditary social

standing, independently of the individual's quality. there's nothing

of the flunkey in this, or I greatly deceive myself. birth in a sphere

of refinement be desirable and respectable; it save one, absolutely,

from many form of coarseness. the masse be not only fool, but very

near the brute. yes, they can send forth fine individual--but remain

base. I don't deny the possibility of social advance; I only say that

at present the low class be always disagreeable, often repulsive,

sometimes hateful.'



'I could apply that to the class above they.'



'well, I cann't. but I be quite ready to admit that there be all sort

of inconsistency in I. now, the other day I be read Burns, and I

couldn't describe what exaltation all at once possess I in the

thought that a ploughman have so glorify a servant-girl that together

they shine in the high heaven, far above all the monarch of earth.

this come upon I with a rush--a very rare emotion. ben't that

democratic?'



he inquire dubiously, and Earwaker for a moment have no reply but his

familiar 'M--m--m!'



'no, it be not democratic,' the journalist decide at length; 'it be

pride of intellect.'



'think so? then look here. if it happen that a whining wretch stop I

in the street to beg, what do you suppose be my feeling? I be ashamed

in the sense of my own prosperity. I cann't look he in the face. if I

yield to my natural impulse, I should cry out, "strike I! spit at

I! show you hate me!--anything but that terrible humiliation of

yourself before I!" that's how I feel. the abasement of which _he_

ben't sensible affect _I_ on his behalf. I give money with what

delicacy I can. if I be oblige to refuse, I mutter apology and hurry

away with burn cheek. what do that mean?'



Earwaker regard he curiously.



'that be mere fineness of humanity.'



'perhaps moral weakness?'



'I don't care for the scalpel of the pessimist. let we give it the

well name.'



Peak have never be so communicative. his progress in composition these

last evening seem to have raise his spirit and spur the

activity of his mind. with a look of pleasure he pursue his

self-analysis.



'special antipathy--sometimes explicable enough--influence I very

widely. now, I by no mean hate all order of uneducated people. a

hedger, a fisherman, a country mason,--people of that kind I rather

like to talk with. I could live a good deal with they. but the London

vulgar I abominate, root and branch. the mere sound of their voice

nauseate I; their vilely grotesque accent and pronunciation--bah! I

could write a paper to show that they be essentially the basest of

english mortal. unhappily, I know so much about they. if I see the

probability of my dying in a London lodging-house, I would go out into

the sweet-scented field and there kill myself.'



Earwaker understand much by this avowal, and wonder whether his

friend desire he so to do.



'well, I cann't say that I have any affection for the race,' he reply.

'I certainly believe that, socially and politically, there be less hope

of they than of the low order in any other part of England.'



'they be damn by the beastly condition of their life!' cry

Godwin, excitedly. 'I don't mean only the slum-denizen. all, all

Hammersmith as much as St. George's-in-the-East. I must write about

this; I must indeed.'



'do by all mean. nothing would benefit you more than to get your soul

into print.'



Peak delay a little, then:



'well, I be do something at last.'



and he give an account of his project essay. by this time his hand

tremble with nervous agitation, and occasionally a dryness of the

palate half choke his voice.



'this may do very well,' opined Earwaker. 'I suppose you will try _the

Critical_?'



'yes. but have I any chance? can a perfectly unknown man hope to get

in?'



they debate this aspect of the matter. see Peak have lay down his

pipe, the journalist offer he tobacco.



'thank; I cann't smoke just yet. it's my misfortune that I cann't talk

earnestly without throw my body into disorder.'



'how stolid I be in comparison!' say Earwaker.



'that book of M'Naughten's,' resume the other, go back to his

subject. 'I suppose the clergy accept it?'



'largely, I believe.'



Peak muse.



'now, if I be a clergyman'--



but his eye meet Earwaker's, and they break into laughter.



'why not?' pursue Godwin. 'do I ever tell you that my people

originally wish to make a parson of I? of course I resist tooth

and nail, but it seem to I now that I be rather foolish in do so.

I wish I _have_ be a parson. in many way the position would have

suit I very well.'



'M--m--m!'



'I be quite serious. well, if I be so placed, I should preach church

dogma, pure and simple. I would have nothing to do with these

reconciliation. I would stand firm as Jeremy Taylor; and in

consequence should have an immense and enthusiastic congregation.'



'I daresay.'



'depend upon it, let the dogma do what they still can. there's a vast

police force in they, at all event. a man may very strongly defend

himself for preach they.'



the pursuit of this argument lead Earwaker to ask:



'what proportion of the clergy can still take that standing in stolid

conscientiousness?'



'what proportion be convinced that it be untenable?' return Peak.



'many wilfully shut their eye to the truth.'



'no, they don't shut their eye!' cry Godwin. 'they merely lower a

nictitating membrane which permit they to gaze at light without

feel its full impact.'



'I recommend you to bring that into your paper,' say the journalist,

with his deep chuckle.



an hour later they be converse with no less animation, but the talk

be not so critical. Christian Moxey have come up as a topic, and

Earwaker be say that he find it difficult to divine the man's

personality.



'you willn't easily do that,' reply Peak, 'until you know more of his

story. I cann't see that I be bind to secrecy--at all event with you.

Poor Moxey imago that he be in love, and the fancy have last about

ten year.



'ten year?'



'when I first know he he be pay obvious attention to a rather

plain cousin down at Twybridge. why, I don't know, for he certainly be

devoted to a girl here in London. all he have confess to I be that he

have give up hope of she, but that a letter of some sort or other

revive they, and he hasten back to town. he might as well have

stay away; the girl very soon marry another man. Less than a year

later she have bitterly repent this, and in some way or other she

allow Moxey to know it. since then they have be platonic

lover--nothing more, I be convinced. they see each other about once in

six month, and presumably live on a hope that the obnoxious husband

may decease. I only know the woman as "Constance"; never see she.'



'so that's Moxey? I begin to understand well.'



'admirable fellow, but deplorably weak. I have an affection for he,

and have have from our first meeting.'



'woman!' muse Earwaker, and shake his head.



'you despise they?'



'on the whole, I'm afraid so.'



'yes, but _what_ woman?' cry the other with impatience. 'it would be

just as reasonable to say that you despise man. cann't you see that?'



'I doubt it.'



'now look here; the stock objection to woman be traditional. they

take no account of the vast change that be come about. because woman

be once empty-headed, it be assume they be all still so _en masse_.

the defect of the female mind? it be my belief that this be nothing

more nor less than the defect of the uneducated human mind. I believe

most man among the brutally ignorant exhibit the very fault which be

cry out upon as exclusively feminine. a woman have hitherto be an

ignorant human being; that explain everything.'



'not everything; something, perhaps. remember your evolutionism. the

preservation of the race demand in woman many kind of irrationality,

of obstinate instinct, which enrage a reasoning man. don't suppose I

speak theoretically. four or five year ago I have really make up my

mind to marry; I waste much valuable time among woman and girl, of

anything but low social standing. but my passion be choke by my

logical faculty. I foresaw a terrible possibility--that I might beat my

wife. one thing I learn with certainty be that the woman, _qua_

woman, hate abstract thought--hate it. moreover (and of consequence)

she despise every ambition that have not a material end.'



he enlarge upon the subject, follow it into all its ramification,

elaborate the inconsistency with which it be rife. Peak's reply be

deliberate.



'admit that some of these fault be root in sex, I should only

find they intolerable when their expression take a vulgar form. between

irrationality and coarseness of mind there be an enormous distinction.'



'with coarse mind I have nothing to do.'



'forgive I if I ask you a blunt question,' say Peak, after

hesitate. 'have you ever associate with woman of the high

refinement?'



Earwaker laugh.



'I don't know what that phrase mean. it sound rather odd on your

lip.'



'well, woman of the high class of commoner. with peeress we

needn't concern ourselves.'



'you imagine that social precedence make all that difference in woman?'



'yes, I do. the daughter of a county family be a fine be than any

girl who can spring from the nomad order.'



'even suppose your nomad produce a Rachel or a Charlotte Brontee?'



'we be not talk of genius,' Peak reply.



'it be irrelevant, I know.--Well, yes, I _have_ converse now and then

with what you would call well-bear woman. they be delightful

creature, some of they, in give circumstance. but do you think I

ever dream of take a wife drench with social prejudice?'



Peak's face express annoyance, and he say nothing.



'a man's wife,' pursue Earwaker, 'may be his superior in whatever you

like, _except_ social position. that be precisely the distinction that

no woman can forget or forgive. on that account they be the

obstructive element in social history. if I love a woman of rank above

my own she would make I a renegade; for her sake I should deny my

faith. I should write for the _St. James's Gazette_, and at last poison

myself in an agony of shame.'



a burst of laughter clear the air for a moment, but for a moment

only. Peak's countenance cloud over again, and at length he say in a

low tone:



'there be man whose character would defy that rule.'



'yes--to their own disaster. but I ought to have make one exception.

there be a case in which a woman will marry without much regard to her

husband's origin. let he be a parson, and he may aim as high as he

choose.'



Peak try to smile. he make no answer, and fall into a fit of brooding.



'what's all this about?' ask the journalist, when he too have muse

awhile. 'whose acquaintance have you be make?'



'no one's.'



the suspicion be inevitable.



'if it be true, perhaps you would be justify in mistrust my way

of regard these thing. but it's the natural tendency of my mind. if

I ever marry at all, it will be a woman of far high birth than my

own.'



'don't malign your parent, old fellow. they give you a brain inferior

to that of few man. you will never meet a woman of high birth.'



'that's a friendly sophism. I cann't thank you for it, because it have a

bitter side.'



but the compliment have excite Peak, and after a moment's delay he

exclaim:



'I have no other ambition in life--no other! think the confession as

ridiculous as you like; my one supreme desire be to marry a perfectly

refined woman. put it in the correct term: I be a plebeian, and I aim

at marry a lady.'



the last word be fling out defiantly. he quiver as he speak, and

his face flush.



'I cann't wish you success,' return his friend, with a grave smile.



'you couldn't help it sound like a sneer, if you do. the desire be

hopeless, of course. it's because I know that, that I have make up my

mind to travel for a year or two; it'll help I on towards the age when

I shall regard all woman with indifference. we willn't talk about it any

more.'



'one question. you seriously believe that you could find satisfaction

in the life to which such a marriage would condemn you?'



'what life?' ask Peak, impatiently.



'that of an average gentleman, let we say, with house in town and

country, with friend whose ruling motive be social propriety.'



'I could enjoy the good and throw aside the distasteful.'



'what about the distastefulness of your wife's crass conventionalism,

especially in religion?'



'it would not be _crass_, to begin with. if her religion be genuine,

I could tolerate it well enough; if it be merely a form, I could

train she to my own opinion. society be grow liberal--the good of

it. please remember that I have in mind a woman of the high type our

civilisation can produce.'



'then you mustn't look for she in society!' cry Earwaker.



'I don't care; where you will, so long as she have always live among

people of breeding and high education, and never have her thought

soil with the vile contact of poverty.'



Earwaker start up and reach a volume from a shelf. quickly find

the desire page, he begin to read aloud:



'dear, have the world in its caprice deign to proclaim--I know you

both, have recognise your plight troth, be sponsor for you; live in

peace!'--



he read to the end of the poem, and then look up with an admire

smile.



'an ideal!' exclaim Peak. 'an ideal akin to Murger's and Musset's

grisette, who never exist.'



'an ideal, most decidedly. but pray what be this consummate lady you

have in mind? an ideal every bit as much, and of the two I prefer

Browning's. for my own part, I be a polygamist; my wife live in

literature, and too far asunder to be able to quarrel. impossible

woman, but exquisite. they shall suffice to I.'



Peak rise, saunter about the room for a minute or two, then say:



'I have just get a title for my paper. I shall call it "the New

Sophistry."'



'do very well, I should think,' reply the other, smile. 'will you

let I see it when it's do?'



'who know if I shall finish it? nothing I ever undertake have be

finish yet--nothing win that I ever aim at. good night. let I hear

about Malkin.'



in a week's time Godwin receive another summon to Staple Inn, with

promise of Malkin's assured presence. in reply he write:



'owe to a new arrangement at Bates's, I start tomorrow for my holiday

in Cornwall, so cannot see you for a few week. please offer Malkin my

apology; make they (I mean it) as profuse as those he telegraph.

herewith I send you my paper, "the New Sophistry", which I have write

at a few vehement sitting, and have carelessly copy. if you think it

worth while, will you have the kindness to send it for I to _the

Critical_? I haven't sign it, as my unmeaning name would perhaps

indispose the fellow to see much good in it. I should thank you if you

would write in your own person, say that you act for a friend; you

be probably well known in those quarter. if it be accept, time

enough to claim my glory. if it seem to you to have no chance, keep it

till I return, as I hate the humiliation of refusals.--Don't think I

make an ass of myself the other night. we will never speak on that

subject again. all I say be horribly sincere, but I'm afraid you

cann't understand that side of my nature. I should never have speak so

frankly to Moxey, though he have make no secret with I of his own

weakness. if I perish before long in a south american swamp, you will

be able to reflect on my personality with completer knowledge, so I

don't regret the indiscretion.'







CHAPTER III





'_Pereunt et imputantur_.'



Godwin Peak read the motto beneath the clock in Exeter Cathedral, and

believe it of christian origin. have he know that the word be find

in Martial, his rebellious spirit would have enjoy the consecration

of a phrase from such an unlikely author. even as he must have laugh

have he stand in the Vatican before the figure of those two greek

dramatist who, for age, be revere as christian saint.



his ignorance preserve he from a clash of sentiment. this afternoon

he be not dispose to cynicism; rather he welcome the soften

influence of this noble interior, and let the golden sunlight form what

shape it would--heavenly beam, mystic aureole--before his mind's eye.

Architecture have no special interest for he, and the history of church

or faith could seldom touch his emotion; but the glorious handiwork of

man long dead, the solemn stillness of an ancient sanctuary, make that

appeal to he which be independent of name.



'_Pereunt et imputantur_.'



he sit down where the soft, slow ticking of the clock could guide his

thought. this morning he have leave London by the early train, and

after a night in Exeter would travel westward by leisurely stage,

see as much as possible of the coast and of that inland scenery

which have geological significance. his costume declare he bent on

holiday, but, at the same time, distinguish he with delicate

emphasis from the tourist of the season. trustworthy sartorial skill

have do its good for his person. sit thus, he have the air of a

gentleman who enjoy no unwonted ease. he could forget himself in

reverie, and be unaware of soft footfall that draw near along the

aisle.



but the sound of a young voice, subdue yet very clear, make claim upon

his attention.



'Sidwell!--Sidwell!'



she who speak be behind he; on look up, he see that a lady just in

front have stop and turn to the summon; smile, she retrace she

step. he move, so as to look discreetly in the backward direction,

and observe a group of four person, who be occupy with a tablet

on the wall: a young man (not long out of boyhood), a girl who might be

a year or two young, and two lady, of whom it could only be say

that they be mature in the beauty of youth, probably of

maidenhood--one of they, she who have be call back by the name of

'sidwell'.



surely an uncommon name. from a guide-book, with which he have amuse

himself in the train, he know that one of the church of Exeter be

dedicate to St. Sidwell, but only now do his recollection apprise he

of a long past acquaintance with the name of the saint. have not

Buckland Warricombe a sister call Sidwell? and--do he only surmise a

connection between the Warricombes and Devon? no, no; on that remote

day, when he go out with Buckland to the house near Kingsmill, Mr.

Warricombe speak to he of Exeter,--mentioning that the town of his

birth be Axminster, where William Buckland, the geologist, also be

bear; whence the name of his eld son. how suddenly it all come back!



he rise and move apart to a spot whence he might quietly observe the

stranger. 'sidwell', once remark, could not be confuse with the

companion of her own age; she be slim, short (if but slightly),

more sedate in movement, and perhaps well dress--though both be

admirable in that respect. lady, beyond a doubt. and the young man--



at this distance it be easy to deceive oneself, but do not that face

bring something back? now, as he smile, it seem to recall Buckland

Warricombe--with a difference. this might well be a young brother;

there use to be one or two.



they be familiar with the Cathedral, and at present appear to take

exclusive interest in certain mural monument. for perhaps ten minute

they linger about the aisle, then, after a glance at the west window,

go forth. with quick step, Godwin pursue they; he issue in time to

see they enter an open carriage, which presently drive away towards

High Street.



for half an hour he walk the Cathedral Close. not long ago, on first

come into that quiet space, with its old house, its smooth lawn,

its majestic tree, he have feel the charm peculiar to such scene--the

natural delight in a form of beauty especially English. now, the

impression be irrecoverable; he could see nothing but those four

person, and their luxurious carriage, and the two beautiful horse

which have bear they--whither? as likely as not the identity he have

suppose for they be quite imaginary; yet it would be easy to

ascertain whether a Warricombe family dwelt at Exeter. the forename of

Buckland's father--? he never have know it. still, it be worth while

consult a directory.



he walk to his hotel.



yes, the name Warricombe stand there, but it occur more than once.

he seek counsel of the landlord. which of these Warricombes be a

gentleman of position, with grow-up son and daughter? to such a

description answer Martin Warricombe, Esquire, well know in the

city. his house be in the Old Tiverton Road, out beyond St Sidwell's,

two mile away; anyone in that district would serve as guide to it.



with purpose indefinite, Godwin set forth in the direction suggest.

at little more than a saunter, he pass out of High Street into its

continuation, where he soon descry the Church of St. Sidwell, and

thence, having make inquiry, walk towards the Old Tiverton Road. he

be now quite beyond the town limit, and few pedestrian come in

sight; if he really wish to find the abode of Martin Warricombe, he

must stop the first questionable person. but to what end this inquiry?

he could not even be certain that Martin be the man he have in mind,

and even be he right in all his conjecture, what have he to do with

the Warricombes?



ten year ago the family have receive he courteously as Buckland's

fellow-student; he have spend an hour or two at their house, and

subsequently a few word have pass when they see he on prize-day at

Whitelaw. to Buckland he have never write; he have never since hear of

he; that name be involve in the miserable whirl of circumstance

which bring his College life to a close, and it be always his hope

that Buckland think no more of he. even have there be no

disagreeable memory, it be surely impossible to renew after this

interval so very slight an acquaintance. how could they receive he,

save with civilly mild astonishment?



an errand-boy come along, whistle townward, a big basket over his

head. no harm in ask where Mr. Warricombe live. the reply be

prompt: second house on the right hand, rather a large one, not a

quarter of a mile onward.



here, then. the site be a good one. from this part of the climbing

road one look over the low valley of the Exe, see the whole

estuary, and beyond that a horizon of blue sea. fair, rich land, warm

under the westere sun. the house itself seem to be old, but after

all be not very large; it stand amid laurel, and in the garden behind

rise a great yew-tree. no person be visible; but for the wave-like

murmur of neighbouring pine, scarce a sound would have disturb the

air.



Godwin walk past, and find that the road descend into a deep

hollow, whence between high bank, cover with gorse and bracken and

many a summer flower, it lead again up a hill thick plant with fir;

at the low point be a bridge over a streamlet, offer on either

hand a view of soft green meadow. a spot of exquisite retirement:

happy who live here in security from the struggle of life!



it be folly to spoil his enjoyment of country such as this by dream

impossible opportunity. the Warricombes could be nothing to he; to

meet with Buckland would only revive the shame long ago outlive. after

rest for a few minute he turn back, pass the silent house

again, delight himself with the wide view, and so into the city once

more, where he begin to seek the remnant of its old wall.



the next morning be Sunday, and he have plan to go by the Plymouth

train to a station whence he could reach Start Point; but his mood be

become so unsettled that ten o'clock, when already he should have be

on his journey, find he stray about the Cathedral Close. a mere

half-purpose, a vague wavering intention, which might at any moment be

scatter by common sense, draw his step to the door of the Cathedral,

where people be enter for morning service; he move idly within

sight of the carriage which draw up. several have discharge their

freightage of tailoring and millinery, when two vehicle, which seem

companion, stop at the edge of the pavement, and from the second

alight the young lady whom Godwin have yesterday observe; their

male companion, however, be different. the carriage in advance also

contain four person: a gentleman of sixty, his wife, a young girl,

and the youth of yesterday. it need but a glance to inform Godwin

that the old of the party be Mr. Warricombe, Buckland's father; ten

year have make no change in his aspect. Mrs. Warricombe be not less

recognisable. they pass at once into the edifice, and he have scarcely

time to bestow a keen look upon Sidwell.



that be a beautiful girl; he stand muse upon the picture register

by his brain. but why not follow, and from a neighbouring seat survey

she and the other at his leisure? Pooh! but the impulse constrain

he. after all, he could not get a place that allow he to see

Sidwell. her companion, however, the one who seem to be of much the

same age, be well in view. sister they could not be; nothing of the

Warricombe countenance reveal itself in those handsome but

strongly-mark feature. a beautiful girl, she also, yet of a type

that make slight appeal to he. Sidwell be all he could imagine of

sweet and dignified; more modest in bearing, more gracile, more--



Monday at noon, and he still walk the street of Exeter. early this

morning he have be out to the Old Tiverton Road, and there, on the

lawn amid the laurel, have catch brief glimpse of two female figure,

in one of which he merely divine Sidwell. why he tarry thus he do

not pretend to explain to himself. rain have just come on, and the

lower sky make he low-spirited; he moon about the street under

his umbrella.



and at this rate, might vapour away his holiday. exeter be tedious,

but he could not make up his mind to set forth for the sea-shore, where

only his own thought await he. pack away in his wallet lay

geological hammer, azimuth compass, clinometer, miniature

microscope,--why should he drag all that lumber about with he? what to

he be the bygone million of age, the hoary record of unimaginable

time? one touch of a girl's hand, one syllable of musical speech,--was

it not that whereof his life have truly need?



as remote from he, however, as the age of the pterodactyl. how often

be it necessary to repeat this? on a long voyage, such as he have all

but resolve to take, one might perchance form acquaintance. he have

hear of such thing; not impossibly, a social circle might open to he

at Buenos Ayres. but here in England his poor origin, his lack of mean

would for ever bar he from the intimacy of people like the Warricombes.



he loiter towards the south-western station, dimly conscious of a

purpose to look for train. instead of seek the time-table he stand

before the bookstall and run his eye along the title of new novel; he

have half a mind to buy one of Hardy's and read himself into the temper

which suit summer ramble. but just as his hand be stretch forth,

a full voice, speak beside he, make demand for a London weekly

paper. instantly he turn. the tone have carry he back to Whitelaw;

the face disturb that illusion, but substitute a reality which throw

he into tremor.



his involuntary gaze be meet with one of equal intensity. a man of his

own year, but in splendid health and with bright eye that look

enjoyment of life, suddenly address he.



'Godwin Peak--surely--?'



'Buckland Warricombe, no less surely.'



they shake hand with vigour, laugh in each other's face; then,

after a moment's pause, Warricombe draw aside from the bookstall, for

sake of privacy.



'why do we lose sight of each other?' he ask, flash a glance at

Godwin's costume. 'why don't you write to I at Cambridge? what have

you be do this half-century?'



'I have be in London all the time.'



'I be there most of the year. well, I rejoice to have meet you. on a

holiday?'



'loitering towards Cornwall.'



'in that case, you can come and have lunch with I at my father's

house. it's only a mile or two off. I be go to walk, but we'll

drive, if you like.'



there be no refusing, and no possibility of reflection. Buckland's

hearty manner make the invitation in itself a thoroughly pleasant one,

and before Peak could sufficiently command his thought to picture the

scene towards which he be go they be walk side by side through

the town. in appearance, Warricombe show nothing of the revolutionary

which, in old day, he aim at make himself, and his speech have a

suavity which no doubt result from much intercourse with the polished

world; Godwin be fill with envious admiration of his perfect

physique, and the mettle which keep it in such excellent vigour. even

for a sturdy walker, it be no common task to keep pace with Buckland's

stride; Peak soon find himself converse rather too breathlessly for

comfort.



'what be your late record for the mile?' he inquire.



Warricombe, understanding at once the reference to his old athletic

pastime and its present application, laugh merrily, and check his

progress.



'a bad habit of mine; it get I into trouble with everyone.

by-the-bye, haven't you become a strong man than use to seem likely?

I'm quite glad to see how well you look.'



the sincerity of these expression, often repeat, put Godwin far more

at his ease than the first moment's sensation have promise. he too

begin to feel a genuine pleasure in the meeting, and soon bade defiance

to all misgiving. Delicacy perhaps withhold Warricombe from further

mention of Whitelaw, but on the other hand it be not impossible that

he know nothing of the circumstance which torment Godwin's memory.

on leave the College perchance he have lose all connection with those

common friend who might have inform he of subsequent joke and

rumour. unlikely, to be sure; for doubtless some of his Whitelaw

contemporary encounter he at Cambridge; and again, be it not

probable that the young Warricombe have become a Whitelaw student?

then Professor Gale--no matter! the Warricombes of course know all

about Andrew Peak and his dining-room, but they be liberal-minded,

and could forgive a boy's weakness, as well as overlook an

acquaintance's obscure origin. in the joy of find himself

exuberantly welcome by a man of Buckland's world he overcome his

ignoble self-consciousness.



'do you know that we be in this part of the country?' warricombe

ask, once more speeding ahead.



'I always think of you in connection with Kingsmill.'



'we give up Thornhaw seven year ago. my father be never quite

comfortable out of Devonshire. the house I be take you to have be in

our family for three generation. I have often try to be proud of the

fact, but, as you would guess, that kind of thing don't come very

natural to I.'



in the effort to repudiate such sentiment, Buckland distinctly betray

its hold upon he. he imagine he be meet Godwin on equal ground,

but the sensibility of the proletarian could not thus be deceive.

there be a brief silence, during which each look away from the other.



'still keep up your geology?' be Warricombe's next question.



'I can just say that I haven't forget it all.'



'I'm afraid that's more than I can. during my Cambridge time it cause

disagreeable debate with my father. you remember that his science be

of the old school. I wouldn't say a word to disparage he. I believe

the extent of his knowledge be magnificent; but he cann't get rid of

that old man of the sea, the Book of Genesis. a few year ago I ben't

too considerate in argument, and I talk as I oughtn't to have do,

call name, and so on. the end of it be, I drop science

altogether, having get as much out of it as I need. the good old

pater have quite forgive my rudeness. at present we agree to differ,

and get on capitally. I'm sure he'll be delighted to see you. there be

some visitor with we; a Miss Moorhouse and her brother. I think you'll

like they. couldn't you stay overnight?'



Godwin be unable to reply on the instant, and his companion proceed

with the same heartiness.



'just as you like, you know. but do stay if you can. on Wednesday

morning I must go back to town. I act as secretary to Godolphin, the

member for Slacksea.'



Peak's acquaintance with current politic be slight, but Mr. Ellis

Godolphin, the aristocratic Radical, necessarily stand before his

imagination with some clearness of outline. so this be how life have

deal with Buckland. the announcement be make with a certain

satisfaction, as if it imply more than the hearer would readily

appreciate. again there be a slight shrinking on Godwin's part; it

would be natural for he to avow his own position, and so leave no room

for misunderstanding, but before he could shape a phrase Buckland be

again question.



'do you ever see any of the old fellow?'



'I have meet one or two of they, by chance.'



as if his tact inform he that this inquiry have be a mistake,

Warricombe resume the subject of his family.



'my brother Louis be at home--of course you cann't remember he; he be

a youngster when you be at Thornhaw. the young boy die some year

ago, a pony accident; cut up my father dreadfully. then there's my

sister Sidwell, and my sister Fanny--that's all of we. I cann't quite

answer for Louis, but the rest be of the old school. liberal enough,

don't be afraid. but--well, the old school.'



as Godwin keep silence, the speaker shoot a glance at he, keenly

scrutinise. their eye do not meet; Peak keep his on the ground.



'care much about politic nowadays?'



'not very much.'



'cann't say that I do myself,' pursue Buckland. 'I rather drift into

it. Godolphin, I daresay, have as little humbug about he as most

parliamentarian; we stick to the practical fairly well. I shall never

go into the House on my own account. but there's a sort of pleasure in

be in the thick of public movement. I'm not cut out for debate;

should lose my temper, and tell disagreeable truth--which wouldn't do,

you know. but behind the scene--it ben't bad, in a way.'



a long pause oblige Godwin to speak of himself.



'my life be less exciting. for year I have work in a manufacturing

laboratory at Rotherhithe.'



'so science have carry the day with you, after all. it use to be very

doubtful.'



this be a kind and pleasant way of interpret necessity. Godwin feel

grateful, and add with a smile:



'I don't think I shall stick to it much long. for one thing, I be

sick of town. perhaps I shall travel for a year or two; perhaps--I'm in

a state of transition, to tell the truth.'



Buckland revolve this information; his face tell that he find it

slightly puzzle.



'you once have thought of literature.'



'long give up.'



'leisure would perhaps revive they?'



'possibly; but I think not.'



they be now quit the town, and Peak, unwilling to appear before

stranger in a state of profuse perspiration, again moderate his

friend's speed. they begin to talk about the surround country, a

theme which occupy they until the house be reach. with

quick-beat heart, Godwin find himself at the gate by which he have

already twice pass. secure in the decency of his apparel, and no

long oppress by bashfulness, he would have go joyously forward

but for the dread of a possible ridiculous association which his name

might revive in the thought of Mr. and Mrs. Warricombe. yet

Buckland--who have no lack of kindly feeling--would hardly have bring

he here have the reception which await he be at all dubious.



'if we don't come across anyone,' say Warricombe, 'we'll go straight

up to my room.'



but the way be not clear. within the beautiful old porch sit Sidwell

Warricombe and her friend of the strike countenance, whom Godwin now

know as Miss Moorhouse. Buckland address his sister in a tone of

lively pleasure.



'whom do you think I have meet and bring home with I? here be my old

friend, Godwin Peak.'



under the two pair of female eye, Godwin keep a calm, if rather

stern, face.



'I should have have no difficulty in recognise Mr. Peak,' say

Sidwell, hold out her hand. 'but be the meeting quite by chance?'



to Godwin himself the question be of course direct, with a look of

smile interest--such welcome as could not have be improve upon;

she listen to his reply, then present he to Miss Moorhouse. a

slight languor in her movement and her voice, together with the

beautiful coldness of her complexion, make it probable that she do not

share the exuberant health manifest in her two brother. she converse

with mature self-possession, yet show a slight tendency to

abstractedness. on be address, she regard the speaker steadily

for an instant before shape her answer, which always, however

trifle the subject, seem carefully word. in these few moment of

dialogue, Godwin reach the conclusion that Sidwell have not much sense

of humour, but that the delicacy of her mind be unsurpassable.



in Miss Moorhouse there be no defect of refinement, but her

conversation strike a note of sprightliness at once more energetic and

more subtle than be often find in english girl. thus, though at time

she look so young that it might be doubt whether she have long be

out of her teen, at other one suspect she old than Sidwell. the

friend happen to be as nearly as possible of an age, which be

verge to twenty-six.



when he speak to Miss Moorhouse, Buckland's frank tone subdue itself.

he watch her face with reverent attention, smile when she smile,

and join in her laughter with less than his usual volume of sound. in

acuteness he be obviously inferior to she, and there be moment when

he betray some nervousness under her rejoinder. all this be matter

of observation for Peak, who have learn to exercise his discernment

even whilst attend to the propriety.



the sounding of the first luncheon-bell leave the young man free to go

upstairs. when at length they present themselves in the drawing-room,

Mrs. Warricombe and her young daughter sit there alone. the greeting

of his hostess do not quite satisfy Godwin, though it be sufficiently

courteous; he remember that ten year ago Mrs. Warricombe have

appear to receive he with some restraint, and his sensation in

renew her acquaintance be one of dislike. but in a moment the

master of the house join they, and no visitor could have have a more

kindly welcome than that he offer to his son's friend. with genial

tact, Mr. Warricombe ignore the interval since his last conversation

with Godwin, and speak as if this visit be the most natural thing in

the world.



'do you already know the country about Exeter?'



'I have see very little of it yet.'



'oh, then, we must show you our point of view. our own garden offer a

glimpse of the river-mouth and a good prospect of Haldon--the ridge

beyond the Exe; but there be many much well point within easy

reach. you be in no hurry, I hope?'



Louis Warricombe and Miss Moorhouse's brother be away on a long walk;

they do not return for lunch. Godwin be glad of this, for time have

work the change in he that he feel more at ease in female society

than under the eye of young man whose social position incline they to

criticism. the meal prove as delightful as luncheon be willnot to be in a

luxurious country-house, when brilliant sunshine gleam on the foliage

visible from window, and the warmth of the season sanction clear

colour in costume. the talk be wholly of country pleasure. it

afford the visitor no little satisfaction to be able to make known

his acquaintance with part of England to which the Warricombes have not

penetrate. Godwin learn that the family be insular in their taste;

a mention by Miss Moorhouse of continental scene lead the host to avow

a strong preference for his own country, under whatever aspect, and

Sidwell murmur her sympathy.



no less introspective than in the old day, though he could well

command his muscle, Peak, after each of his short remark, make

comparison of his tone and phraseology with those of the other

speaker. have he still any mark of the ignoble world from which he

spring? any defect of pronunciation, any native awkwardness of

utterance? impossible to judge himself infallibly, but he be conscious

of no vulgar mannerism. though it be so long since he leave Whitelaw,

the accent of certain of the Professors still remain with he as an

example: when endeavour to be graceful, he be willnot to hear the

voice of Dr Nares, or of Professor Barber who lecture on English

literature. more recently he have be observant of Christian Moxey's

speech, which have a languid elegance worth imitate in certain

particular. Buckland Warricombe be rather a careless talker, but it

be the carelessness of a man who have never need to reflect on such a

matter, the refinement of whose enunciation be assure to he from the

nursery. that now be a thing to be aim at. Preciseness must be

avoid, for in a young man it seem to argue conscious effort: a

loose sentence now and then, a colloquialism substitute for the more

grammatical phrase.



Heaven be thank that he be unconcerned on the point of garb!

inferiority in that respect would have be fatal to his ease. his

clothe be not too new, and in quality be such as he have the habit

of wear. the Warricombes must have immediately detect any

pretentiousness, be it but in a necktie; that would impress they more

unfavourably than sign of poverty. but he defy inspection. not

sidwell herself, doubtless sensitive in the high degree, could

conceive a prejudice against he on this account.



his misgiving be overcome. if these people be acquaint with the

'dining-room' joke, it certainly do not affect their behaviour to

he, and he could hope, by the force of his personality, to obliterate

from their mind such disagreeable thought as they might secretly

entertain. surely he could make good his claim to be deem a

gentleman. to Buckland he have declare his position, and no shame

attach to it. a man of scientific taste, like Mr. Warricombe, must

consider it respectable enough. grant he a little time, and why should

he not become a recognise friend of this family?



if he be but resident in Exeter.



for the first time, he lose himself in abstraction, and only an inquiry

from Sidwell recall he.



'you have see the Cathedral, Mr. Peak?'



'oh yes! I attend service there yesterday morning.'



have he reflect, perhaps he would not have add this circumstance;

even in speak he suffer a confused doubtfulness. but as soon as

the word be utter, he feel strangely glad. Sidwell bestow upon

he an unmistakable look of approval; her mother gaze with cold

interest; Mr. Warricombe regard he, and muse; Buckland, a smile of

peculiar meaning on his close lip, glance from he to Miss Moorhouse.



'ah, then, you hear Canon Grayling,' remark the father of the

family, with something in his tone which answer to Sidwell's facial

expression. 'how do you like his sermon?'



Godwin be trifle with a pair of nut-cracker, but the nervousness

evident in his finger do not prevent he from reply with a natural

air of deliberation.



'I be especially strike with the passage about the barren fig-tree.'



the word might have express a truth, but in that case a tone of

sarcasm must have wing they. as it be, they involve either

hypocrisy or ungenerous irony at the expense of his questioner.

Buckland could not but understand they in the latter sense; his face

darken. at that moment, Peak meet his eye, and encounter its steady

search gaze with a perfectly calm smile. half-a-dozen pulsing of

his heart--violent, painful, and the fatal hour of his life have strike.



'what have he to say about it?' Buckland ask, carelessly.



Peak's reply be one of those remarkable effort of mind--one might

say, of character--which be sometimes call forth, without

premeditation, almost without consciousness, by a profound moral

crisis. a minute or two ago he would have believe it impossible to

recall and state in lucid term the argument to which, as he sit in

the Cathedral, he have barely give ear; he remember vaguely that the

preacher (whose name he know not till now) have dwell for a few moment

on the topic indicate, but at the time he be indispose to listen

seriously, and what chance be there that the chain of thought have

fix itself in his memory? now, under the marvelling regard of his

conscious self, he pour forth an admirable rendering of the Canon's

view, full than the original--more eloquent, more subtle. for five

minute he hold his hearer in absorbed attention, even Buckland

bend forward with an air of genuine interest; and when he stop,

rather suddenly, there follow a silence.



'Mr. Peak,' say the host, after a cough of apology, 'you have make

that clear to I than it be yesterday. I must thank you.'



Godwin feel that a slight bow of acknowledgment be perhaps call for,

but not a muscle would obey his will. he be enervate; perspiration

stand on his forehead. the most severe physical effort could not have

reduce he to a feebler state.



Sidwell be speak:



'Mr. Peak have develop what Canon Grayling only suggest.'



'a brilliant effort of exegesis,' exclaim Buckland, with a

good-natured laugh.



again the young man exchange look. Godwin smile as one might under a

sentence of death. as for the other, his suspicion have vanish, and he

now give way to frank amusement. Luncheon be over, and by a general

movement all go forth on to the lawn in front of the house. Mr.

Warricombe, even more cordial than hitherto, name to Godwin the

feature of the extensive landscape.



'but you see that the view be in a measure spoil by the growth of the

city. a few year ago, none of those ugly little house stand in the

mid-distance. a few year hence, I fear, there will be much more to

complain of. I daresay you know all about the ship-canal: the story of

the countess, and so forth?'



Buckland presently suggest that the afternoon might be use for a

drive.



'I be about to propose it,' say his father. 'you might start by the

Stoke Canon Road, so as to let Mr. Peak have the famous view from the

gate; then go on towards Silverton, for the sake of the reversed

prospect from the Exe. who shall be of the party?'



it be decide that four only should occupy the vehicle, Miss Moorhouse

and Fanny Warricombe to be the two lady. Godwin regret Sidwell's

omission, but the friendly informality of the arrangement delight

he. when the carriage roll softly from the gravelled drive, Buckland

hold the rein, he feel an animation such as no event have ever

produce in he. no long do he calculate phrase. a spontaneous

aptness mark his dialogue with Miss Moorhouse, and the laugh word

he now and then address to Fanny. for a short time Buckland be

laconic, but at length he enter into the joyous tone of the occasion.

Earwaker would have stand in amazement, could he have see and hear

the saturnine denizen of Peckham Rye.



the weather be superb. a sea-breeze mitigate the warmth of the

cloudless sun, and where a dark pine-tree rise against the sky it give

the azure depth a magnificence unfamiliar to northern eye.



'on such a day as this,' remark Miss Moorhouse, divide her look

between Buckland and his friend, 'one feel that there's a good deal to

be say for England.'



'but for the vile weather,' be Warricombe's reply, 'you wouldn't know

such enjoyment.'



'oh, I cann't agree with that for a moment! my capacity for enjoyment be

unlimited. that philosophy be unworthy of you; it belong to a paltry

scheme call "make the good of thing".'



'in which you excel, Miss Moorhouse.'



'that she do!' agree Fanny--a laugh, rosy-cheeked maiden.



'I deny it! no one be more copious in rail against circumstance.'



'but you turn they all to a joke,' Fanny object.



'that's my profound pessimism. I be misunderstood. no one expect irony

from a woman.'



Peak find it difficult not to gaze too persistently at the subtle

countenance. he be impel to examine it by a consciousness that he

himself receive a large share of Miss Moorhouse's attention, and a

doubt as to the estimation in which she hold he. Canon Grayling's

sermon and Godwin's comment have elicit no remark from she. do she

belong to the rank of emancipated woman? with his experience of

Marcella Moxey, he welcome the possibility of this variation of the

type, but at the same time, in obedience to a new spirit that have

strange possession of he, recognise that such phenomenon no long

arouse his personal interest. by the oddest of intellectual process

he have place himself altogether outside the sphere of unorthodox

spirit. concern Miss Moorhouse he care only for the report she

might make of he to the Warricombes.



before long, the carriage be stop that he might enjoy one of the

pleasantest view in the neighbourhood of the city. a gate,

interrupt a high bank with which the road be border, give

admission to the head of a great cultivate slope, which fall to the

river Exe; hence be suddenly reveal a wide panorama. three

well-mark valley--those of the Creedy, the Exe, and the Culm--spread

their rural loveliness to remote point of the horizon; gentle

undulation, with pasture and woodland, with long wind road, and

many a farm that gleam white amid its orchard leafage, lead the gaze

into region of evanescent hue and outline. Westward, a bolder swell

point to the skirt of Dartmoor. no inappropriate detail disturb

the impression. exeter be wholly hide behind the hill on which the

observer stand, and the line of railway lead thither could only be

descry by special search. a foaming weir at the hill's foot blend

its soft murmur with that of the fir branch hereabout; else, no

sound that the air could convey beyond the pulsing of a bird's note.



all have alight, and for a minute or two there be silence. when Peak

have receive such geographical instruction as be needful, Warricombe

point out to he a mansion conspicuous on the opposite slope of the

Exe valley, the seat of Sir Stafford Northcote. the house have no

architectural beauty, but its solitary lordship amid green pasture and

tract of thick wood declare the grace and privilege of ancestral

wealth. stand here alone, Godwin would have survey these

possession of an english aristocrat with more or less bitterness; envy

would, for a moment at all event, have perturb his pleasure in the

natural scene. accompany as he be, his emotion take a form which

indeed be ally to envy, but have nothing painful. he exult in the

prerogative of birth and opulence, feel proud of hereditary pride,

glory that his mind be capable of appreciate to the full those

distinction which, by the vulgar, be not so much as suspect.

admit to equal converse with man and woman who represent the good

in english society, he could cast away the evil grudge, the fierce

spirit of self-assertion, and be what nature have propose in endow

he with large brain, generous blood, delicate tissue. what room for

malignancy? he be accept by his peer, and could regard with

tolerance even those ignoble order of mankind amid whom he have so long

dwelt unrecognised.



a bee hum past he, and this sound--of all the voice of nature that

which most intenerate--fill his heart to overflow. Moisture make

his eye dim, and at the impulse of a feeling of gratitude, such as

only the subtle care of psychology could fully have explain, he

turn to Buckland, say:



'but for my meeting with you I should have have a lonely and not very

cheerful holiday. I owe you a great deal.'



Warricombe laugh, but as an Englishman do when he wish to avoid

show of emotion.



'I be very glad indeed that we do meet. stay with we over tomorrow. I

only wish I be not oblige to go to London on Wednesday.--Look,

Fanny, ben't that a hawk, over Cowley Bridge?'



'do you feel you would like to shoot it?' ask Miss Moorhouse--who a

moment ago have very closely examine Peak's face.



'to shoot it--why do you ask that?'



'Confess that you feel the desire.'



'every man do,' reply Buckland, 'until he have have a moment to

recover himself. that's the human instinct.'



'the male human instinct. thank you for your honesty.'



they drive on, and by a wide circuit, occasionally stop for the

view, return to the Old Tiverton Road, and so home. by this time

Louis Warricombe and Mr. Moorhouse be back from their walk. repose

in the company of the lady, they have partake of such refreshment as

be lawful at five o'clock, and now welcome with vivacity the later

arrival. Moorhouse be something old than Buckland, a sallow-cheek

man with forehead and eye expressive of much intelligence. till of

late he have be a Cambridge tutor, but be now privately occupy in

mathematical pursuit. Louis Warricombe have not yet make up his mind

what profession to follow, and to aid the process of resolve have for

the present devote himself to physical exercise.



Tea-cup in hand, Godwin seat himself by Sidwell, who begin by

inquire how the drive have please he. the fervour of his reply

cause she to smile with special graciousness, and their conversation

be uninterrupted for some minute. then Fanny come forward with a book

of moss, her own collection, which she have mention to Peak as they

be talk together in the carriage.



'do you make special study of any science?' Sidwell ask, when certain

remark of Godwin's have prove his familiarity with the thing he be

inspect.



'it be long since I work seriously at anything of the kind,' he

answer; add in a moment, 'except at chemistry--that only because

it be my business.'



'organic or inorganic chemistry?' inquire Fanny, with the promptness

of a schoolgirl who wish to have it know that her idea be no

long vague.



'Organic for the most part,' Godwin reply, smile at she. 'and of

the most disagreeable kind.'



Sidwell reflect, then put another question, but with some diffidence.



'I think you be once fond of geology?'



it be the first allusion to that beginning of their acquaintance, ten

year ago. Peak succeed in meet her look with steadiness.



'yes, I still like it.'



'Father's collection have be much improve since you see they at

Thornhaw.'



'I hope Mr. Warricombe will let I see they.'



Buckland come up and make an apology for draw his friend aside.



'will you let we send for your trap? you may just as well have a room

here for a night or two.'



perpetually imagine some kind chance that might associate he with

civilised people, Godwin could not even pack his portmanteau for a

ramble to Land's end without stow away a dress suit. he be thus

save what would have be an embarrassment of special annoyance.

without hesitation, he accept Buckland's offer, and name the hotel

at which the luggage be deposit.



'all right; the messenger shall explain. our name's well enough know

to they. if you would like to look up my father in his study, he'll be

delighted to go over his collection with you. you still care for that

kind of thing?'



'most certainly. how can you doubt it?'



Buckland smile, and give no other reply.



'ask Fanny to show you the way when you care to go.' and he leave the

room.







CHAPTER IV





Sidwell have fall into conversation with Mr. Moorhouse. Miss

Moorhouse, Mrs. Warricombe, and Louis be group in animate talk.

observe that Fanny throw glance towards he from a lonely corner,

Peak go over to she, and be pleased with the smile he meet. Fanny have

watch eye, much bright than Sidwell's; her youthful vivacity

blend with an odd little fashion of schoolgirl pedantry in a very

piquant way. Godwin's attempt at conversation with she be rather

awkward; he find it difficult to strike the suitable note, something

not too formal yet not deficient in respect.



'do you think,' he ask presently, 'that I should disturb your father

if I go to he?'



'oh, not at all! I often go and sit in the study at this time.'



'will you show I the way?'



Fanny at once rise, and together they cross the hall, pass through

a sort of anteroom connect with a fernery, and come to the study

door. a tap be answer by cheerful summon, and Fanny look in.



'well, my ladybird? ah, you be bring Mr. Peak; come in, come in!'



it be a large and beautiful room, its wide window, in a cushion

recess, look upon the lawn where the yew tree cast solemn shade. one

wall present an unbroken array of volume, their livery sober but

handsome; detach bookcase occupy other portion of the irregular

perimeter. cabinet, closed and open, be arrange with due regard to

convenience. above the mantelpiece hang a few small photograph, but

the wall-space at disposal be chiefly occupy with object which

illustrate Mr. Warricombe's scientific taste. on a stand in the light

of the window gleam two elaborate microscope, provocative of

enthusiasm in a mind such as Godwin's.



in a few minute, Fanny silently retire. her father, by no mean

forward to speak of himself and his pursuit, be lead in that direction

by Peak's expression of interest, and the two be soon busy with

matter which have a charm for both. a collection of elvan form the

starting-point, and when they have enter upon the wide field of

palaeontology it be natural for Mr. Warricombe to invite his guest's

attention to the specie of _homalonotus_ which he have have the

happiness of identify some ten year ago--a discovery now recognise

and chronicle. though his sympathy be genuine enough, Godwin

struggle against an uneasy sense of manifest excessive

appreciation. never oblivious of himself, he could not utter the

simple phrase of admiration without criticise its justice, its

tone. and at present it behove he to bear in mind that he be

converse with no half-breed sciolist. Mr Warricombe obviously have his

share of human weakness, but he be at once a gentleman and a student

of well-store mind; insincerity must be very careful if it would not

jar upon his refined ear. so Godwin often check himself in the

utterance of what might sound too much like flattery. a young man

talk with one much old, a poor man in dialogue with a wealthy,

must under any circumstance guard his speech; for one of Godwin's

aggressive idiosyncrasy the task of discretion have peculiar

difficulty, and the attitude he have assume at luncheon still far

complicate the operation of his mind. only at moment could he speak

in his true voice, and silence mean for the most part a studious

repression of much he would naturally have utter.



resurgent envy give he no little trouble. on enter the room, he

could not but exclaim to himself, 'how easy for a man to do notable

work amid such surrounding! if I be but thus equip for

investigation!' and as often as his eye leave a particular object to

make a general survey, the same thought burn in he. he fear lest

it should be legible on his countenance.



take a pamphlet from the table, Mr. Warricombe, with a humorous

twinkle in his eye, inquire whether Peak read German; the answer

be affirmative:



'naturally,' he rejoin, 'you could hardly have neglect so important

a language. I, unfortunately, don't learn it in my youth, and I have

never have perseverance enough to struggle with it since. something lead

I to take down this brochure the other day--an old attempt of mine to

write about the weathering of rock. it be print in '76, and no

soon have it see the light than friend of mine want to know what I

mean by appropriating, without acknowledgement, certain fact quite

recently point out by Professor Pfaff of Erlangen! unhappily,

Professor Pfaff's result be quite unknown to I, and I have to get

they translate. the coincidence, sure enough, be very noticeable.

just before you come in, I be revive that old discomfiture.'



Peak, in glance over the page, murmur with a smile:



'_pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerunt_!'



'even so!' exclaim Mr. Warricombe, laugh with a subdued heartiness

which be one of his pleasant characteristic. and, after a pause, he

inquire, 'do you find any time to keep up your classic?'



'by fit and start. sometimes I return to they for a month or two.'



'why, it's pretty much the same with I. here on my table, for

instance, lie Tacitus. I find it mention not long ago that the

first sentence of the _Annals_ be a hexameter--do you know it?--and

when I have once get hold of the book I think it a shabby thing to

return it to the dust of its shelf without read at least a few

page. so I have go on from day to day, with no little enjoyment.

Buckland, as you probably know, regard these old fellow with scorn.'



'we always differ about that.'



'I cann't quite decide whether he be still sincere in all he say about

they. time, I suspect, be mellow his judgment.'



they move to the shelf where greek and latin book stand in serrie

order, and only the warn dinner-bell put an end to their sympathetic

discussion of the place such author should hold in modern educational

system.



'have they show you your room?' Mr. Warricombe ask.



but, as he speak, the face of his eld son appear at the door.



'your trap have safely arrive, Peak.'



the bedroom to which Godwin be conduct have a delicious fragrance, of

source indeterminable. when he have close the door, he stand for a few

moment look about he; it be his first experience of the upper

chamber of house such as this. merely to step upon the carpet

flutter his sense: merely to breathe the air be a purification.

Luxury of the rational kind, dictate by regard for health of body and

soul, appear in every detail. on the wall be water-colour,

scenery of Devon and Cornwall; a hang book-case hold about a score

of volume poet, essayist, novelist. elsewhere, not too prominent,

lie a Bible and a Prayer-book.



he dress, as never before, with leisurely enjoyment of the process.

when the mirror declare he ready, his eye return frequently to an

inspection of the figure he present, and it seem to he that he be

not unworthy to take his place at the dinner-table. as for his visage,

might he not console himself with the assurance that it be of no

common stamp? 'if I meet that man in a room, I should be curious about

he; I should see at once that he don't belong to the vulgar; I should

desire to hear he speak.' and the Warricombes be not lack in

discernment. he would compare more than favourably with Mr. Moorhouse,

whose aspect, bright and agreeable enough, make no promise of

originality.--It must be time to go down. he leave the room with an air

of grave self-confidence.



at dinner he be careful to attempt no repetition of the display which

have do very well at luncheon; it must not be think that he have the

habit of talk for effect. Mrs. Warricombe, unless he mistook, have

begin to view he more favourably; her remark make less distinction

between he and the other guest. but he could not like his hostess; he

think she unworthy to be the mother of Sidwell and Fanny, of Buckland

and Louis; there be a marked strain of the commonplace in she. the

girl, costume for the evening, affect he with a return of the awe

he have all but overcome. Sidwell be exquisite in dark colour, her

sister in white. Miss Moorhouse (address by her friend as 'Sylvia')

look old than in the day-time, and have lose something of her

animation; possibly the country routine have begin to weary she a little.



Peak be at a vast distance from the hour which see he alight at

Exeter and begin his ramble about the city. he no long feel himself

alone in the world; impossible to revive the mood in which he

deliberately plan to consume his economy in a year or two of

desert wandering; far other be the anticipation which warm his

mind when the after-dinner repose attune he to unwonted hopefulness.

this family be henceforth his friend, and it depend only upon

himself to make the connection last, with all manner of benefit

easily imagine. establish in the country, the Warricombes stand to

he in quite a different relation from any that could have arise have

he meet with they in London. there he would have be nothing more than

a casual dinner-guest, welcome for the hour and all but forget when

he have say good-night. for year he have understand that London offer

he no prospect of social advancement. but a night pass under this

roof practically raise he to a level whence he survey a rich field

of possible conquest. with the genial geologist he feel himself on

excellent term, and much of this be ascribable to a singular chance

which have mask his real being, and represent he, with scarce an

effort of his own, in a light peculiarly attractive to Mr. Warricombe.

he be now play the conscious hypocrite; not a pleasant thing to

face and accept, but the fault be not his--fate have bring it about.

at all event, he aim at no vulgar profit; his one desire be for

human fellowship; he seek nothing but that solace which every code of

moral have deem legitimate. let the society which compel to such

an expedient bear the burden of its shame.



that must indeed have be a circle of great intellect amid which

Godwin Peak feel himself subordinate. he have never know that

impression, and in the Warricombe family be no one whom he could

regard even as his equal. buckland, doubtless, have some knowledge of

the world, and could boast of a free mind; but he lack subtlety: a

psychological problem would easily puzzle he. Mr. Warricombe's

attainment be respectable, but what could be say of a man who have

devote his life to geology, and still (in the year 1884) remain an

orthodox member of the Church of England? Godwin, as he sit in the

drawing-room and enjoy its atmosphere of refinement, sincerely hold

himself of far more account as an intellectual being than all the

person about he.



but if his brain must dwell in solitude his heart might compass worthy

alliance--the thing most needful to humanity. one may find the

associate of his intellect in library--the friend of one's emotion

must walk in flesh and blood. Earwaker, Moxey--these be in many

respect admirable fellow, and he have no little love for they, but the

world they represent be womanless, and so of flagrant imperfection.

of Marcella Moxey he could not think emotionally; indeed she emphasise

by her personality the lack which cause his suffering. Sidwell

Warricombe suggest, more completely than any woman he have yet

observe, that companionship without which life must to the end taste

bitter. his interest in she be not strictly personal; she move and

speak before he as a typical woman, not as the daughter of Martin

Warricombe and the sister of Buckland. here at last open to his view

that sphere of female society which he have know as remotely exist,

the desperate aim of ambition.



conventional woman--but be not the phrase tautological? in the few

female who have liberate their soul, be not much of the woman

inevitably sacrifice, and would it not be so for long year to come?

on the other hand, such a one as Sidwell might be hold a perfect

creature, perfect in relation to a certain stage of human development.

look at she, as she sat converse with Moorhouse, soft candle-light

upon her face; compare she on the one hand with an average emancipate

girl, on the other with a daughter of the people. how unsatisfying be

the former; the latter, how repulsive! here one have the exquisite mean,

the lady as England have perfect she towards the close of this

nineteenth century. a being of marvellous delicacy, of pure

instinct, of unsurpassable sweetness. who could not detail her

limitation, obvious and, in certain mood, irritate enough? these

be nothing to the point, unless one would roam the world a hungry

idealist; and Godwin be weary of the famined pilgrimage.



the murmur of amiable voice soften he to the reception of all that

be good in his present surrounding, and justify in the light of

sentiment his own dishonour. this english home, be it not surely the

good result of civilisation in an age devote to material progress?

here be peace, here be scope for the kindliest emotion. upon

he--the bear rebel, the scorner of average mankind, the consummate

egoist--this atmosphere exercise an influence more tranquillising,

more beneficent, than even the mood of disintereste study. in the

world to which sincerity would condemn he, only the bad element of

his character find nourishment and range; here he be humanise, make

receptive of all gentle sympathy. heroism might point he to an

unending struggle with adverse condition, but how be heroism possible

without faith? absolute faith he have none; he be essentially a

negativist, guide by the mere relation of phenomena. nothing easy

than to contemn the mode of life represent by this wealthy middle

class; but compare it with other existence conceivable by a thinking

man, and it be emphatically good. it aim at placidity, at

benevolence, at supreme cleanliness,--things which more than

compensate for the absence of high spirituality. we can be but what

we be; these people accept themselves, and in so do become

estimable mortal. no imbecile pretension expose they to the rebuke

of a social satirist; no vulgarity taint their familiar intercourse.

their allegiance to a wear-out creed be feel as an add grace; thus

only could their soul aspire, and the imperfect poetry of their

nature be develop.



he take an opportunity of seat himself by Mrs. Warricombe, with whom

as yet he have hold no continuous dialogue.



'has there be anything of interest at the London theatre lately?'

she ask.



'I know so little of they,' Godwin reply, truthfully. 'it must be

several year since I see a play.'



'then in that respect you have hardly become a Londoner.'



'nor in any other, I believe,' say Peak, with a smile. 'I have live

there ten year, but be far from regard London as my home. I hope a

few month more will release I from it altogether.'



'Indeed!--Perhaps you think of leave England?'



'I should be very sorry to do that--for any length of time. my wish be

to settle somewhere in the country, and spend a year or two in quiet

study.'



Mrs. Warricombe look amiable surprise, but correct herself to

approve interest.



'I have hear some of our friend say that their mind get unstrung, if

they be long away from town, but I should have think that country

quietness would be much well than London noise. my husband certainly

find it so.'



'People be very differently constitute,' say Godwin. 'and then it

depend much on the nature of one's work.'



utter these commonplace with an air of reflection, he observe that

they do not cost he the self-contempt which be willnot to be his

penalty for concession to the term of polite gossip; rather, his mind

accept with gratitude this rare repose. he taste something of the

tranquil self-content which make life so enjoyable when one have never

see a necessity for shape original remark. no one in this room

would despise he for a platitude, be it but recommend with a

pleasant smile. with the Moxeys, with Earwaker, he durst not thus have

speak.



when the hour of separation be at hand, Buckland invite his guest to

retire with he to a part of the house where they could smoke and chat

comfortably.



'Moorhouse and Louis be fag after their twenty mile stretch this

morning; I have catch both of they nod during the last few

minute. we can send they to bed without apology.'



he lead the way upstairs to a region of lumber-room, whence a narrow

flight of step bring they into a glass-house, octangular and with

point top, out upon the roof. this, he explain, have be build

some twenty year ago, at a time when Mr. Warricombe amuse himself

with photography. a few indication of its original purpose be still

noticeable; an easel and a box of oil-colour show that

someone--doubtless of the young generation--have use it as a

painting-room; a settee and deep cane chair make it an invite lounge

on a warm evening like the present, when, by throw open a hinged

wall, one look forth into the deep sky and taste the air from the

sea.



'Sidwell use to paint a little,' say Buckland, as his companion bent

to examine a small canvas on which a landscape be rough in. it lie

on a side table, and be half conceal by an ordnance map, left

unfolded. 'for the last year or two I think she have give it up. I'm

afraid we be not strong in matter of art. neither of the girl can

play very well, though of course they both tinkle for their own

amusement. Maurice--the poor lad who be kill--give a good deal of

artistic promise; father keep some little water-colour of his, which

man in that line have praise--perhaps sincerely.'



'I remember you use to speak slightingly of art,' say Godwin, as he

take an offer cigar.



'do I? and of a good many other thing, I daresay. it be my habit at

one time, I believe, to grow heated in scorn of Euclid's definition.

what an interesting book Euclid be! half a year ago, I be lead by a

talk with Moorhouse to go through some of the old "prop", and you

cann't imagine how they delight I. Moorhouse be so obliging as to

tell I that I have an eminently deductive mind.'



he laugh, but not without betray some pleasure in the remark.



'surprising,' he go on, 'how very little such a mind as Moorhouse's

suggest itself in common conversation. he be really profound in

mathematic, a man of original power, but I never hear he make a

remark of the slight value on any other subject. now his sister--she

have study nothing in particular, yet she cann't express an opinion

that don't bear the stamp of originality.'



Godwin be content to muse, his eye fix on a brilliant star in the

western heaven.



'there's only one inconsistency in she that annoy and puzzle I,'

Buckland pursue, speak with the cigar in his mouth. 'in religion,

she seem to be orthodox. true, we have never speak on the subject,

but--well, she go to church, and carry prayer-book. I don't know

how to explain it. Hypocrisy be the last thing one could suspect she

of. I'm sure she hate it in every form. and such a clear brain!--I

cann't understand it.'



the listener be still star-gazing. he have allow his cigar, after the

first few puff, to smoulder untasted; his lip be draw into an

expression very unlike the laxity appropriate to pleasurable smoking.

when the murmur of the pine have for a moment be audible, he say,

with a forced smile:



'I notice you take for grant that a clear brain and religious

orthodoxy be incompatible.'



the other give he a keen look.



'hardly,' be Buckland's reply, speak with less ingenuousness of tone

than usual. 'I say that Miss Moorhouse have undeniably a strong mind,

and that it be impossible to suspect she of the slight hypocrisy.'



'whence the puzzle that keep you occupy,' rejoin Peak, in a voice

that sound like assumption of superiority, though the accent have an

agreeable softness.



Warricombe move as if impatiently, strike a match to rekindle his

weed, blow tumultuous cloud, and finally put a blunt question:



'what do you think about it yourself?'



'from my point of view, there be no puzzle at all,' Godwin reply, in

a very clear voice, smile as he meet the other's look.



'how be I to understand that?' ask Buckland, good-naturedly, though

with a knitting of his brow.



'not as a doubt of Miss Moorhouse's sincerity. I cann't see that a

belief in the christian religion be exclude by any degree of

intellectual clearness.'



'no--your view have change, Peak?'



'on many subject, this among they.'



'I see.'



the word fall as if involuntarily from Warricombe's lip. he gaze at

the floor awhile, then, suddenly look up, exclaim:



'it would be civil to accept this without surprise, but it be too much

for I. how have it come about?'



'that would take I a long time to explain.'



'then,' pursue his companion, watch he closely, 'you be quite in

sympathy with that exposition you give at lunch today?'



'quite. I hope there be nothing in my way of speak that make you

think otherwise?'



'nothing at all. I couldn't help wonder what it mean. you seem

perfectly in earnest, yet such talk have the oddest sound on your

lip--to I, I mean. of course I think of you as I use to know you.'



'naturally.' Peak be now in an attitude of repose, his leg cross,

thumb and forefinger stroke his chin. 'I couldn't very well turn

aside to comment on my own mental history.'



here again be the note of something like genial condescension.

Buckland seem sensible of it, and slightly raise his eyebrow.



'I be to understand that you have become strictly orthodox in matter

of religious faith?'



'the proof be,' reply Godwin, 'that I hope before long to take

Orders.'



again there be silence, and again the sea-breath make its whispering

in the pine. Warricombe, with a sudden gesture, point towards the

sky.



'a shooting star--one of the bright I ever see!'



'I miss it,' say Peak, just glance in that direction.



the interruption enable Buckland to move his chair; in this new

position he be somewhat far from Peak, and have a well view of

his face.



'I should never have imagine you a clergyman,' he say, thoughtfully,

'but I can see that your mind have be develop power in that

direction.--Well, so be it! I can only hope you have find your true

work in life.'



'but you doubt it?'



'I cann't say that I doubt it, as I cann't understand you. to be sure, we

have be part for many year. in some respect I must seem much

changed'--



'greatly change,' Godwin put in, promptly.



'yes,' pursue the other, correctively, 'but not in a way that would

seem incredible to anyone whatever. I be conscious of growth in

tolerance, but my attitude in essential be unchanged. think of

you--as I have often enough do--I always keep the impression you make

on I when we be both lad; you seem most distinctly a modern

mind--one of the most modern that ever come under my notice. now, I

don't find it impossible to understand my father, when he reconcile

science with religion; he be bear sixty year ago. but Godwin Peak as

a--a--'



'Parson,' supply Peak, drily.



'yes, as a parson--I shall have to meditate much before I grasp the

notion.'



'perhaps you have drop your philosophical study?' say Godwin,

with a smile of courteous interest.



'I don't know. Metaphysics have no great interest for I, but I

philosophise in a way. I think myself a student of human nature, at

all event.'



'but you haven't keep up with philosophical speculation on the point

involve in orthodox religion?'



'I confess my ignorance of everything of the kind--unless you include

Bishop Blougram among the philosopher?'



Godwin bear the gaze which accompany this significant inquiry. for a

moment he smile, but there follow an expression of gravity touch

with pain.



'I haven't think of broach this matter,' he say, with slow

utterance, but still in a tone of perfect friendliness. 'let we put it

aside.'



Warricombe seem to make an effort, and his next word have the accent

of well-breed consideration which distinguish his ordinary talk.



'pray forgive my bad joke. I merely mean that I have no right whatever

to argue with anyone who have give serious attention to such thing.

they be altogether beyond my sphere. I be bear an agnostic, and no

subtlety of demonstration could incline I for a moment to theological

view; my intellect refuse to admit a single preliminary of such

argument. you astonish I, and that's all I be justify in say.'



'my dear Warricombe, you be justify in say whatever your mind

suggest. that be one of the principle which I hold unaltered--let I

be quite frank with you. I should never have decide upon such a step

as this, but for the fact that I have manage to put by a small sum of

money which will make I independent for two or three year. till quite

lately I haven't a thought of use my freedom in this way; it be clear

to I that I must throw over the old drudgery at Rotherhithe, but this

resolve which astonish you have not yet ripen--I see it only as one

of the possibility of my life. well, now, it's only too true that

there's something of speculation in my purpose; I look to the Church,

not only as a congenial sphere of activity, but as a means of

subsistence. in a man of no fortune this be inevitable; I hope there be

nothing to be ashamed of. even if the condition of the case allow

it, I shouldn't present myself for ordination forthwith; I must study

and prepare myself in quietness. how the practical detail will be

arrange, I cann't say; I have no family influence, and I must hope to

make friend who will open a way for I. I have always live apart from

society; but that ben't natural to I, and it become more distasteful

the old I grow. the probability be that I shall settle somewhere in

the country, where I can live decently on a small income. after all,

it's well I should have let you know this at once. I only realise a

few minute ago that to be silent about my project be in a way to be

guilty of false pretence.'



the adroitness of this last remark, which direct itself, with such

show of candour, against a suspicion precisely the opposite of that

likely to be entertain by the listener, succeed in disarm

Warricombe; he look up with a smile of reassurance, and speak

encouragingly.



'about the practical detail I don't think you need have any anxiety.

it ben't every day that the Church of England get such a recruit. let

I suggest that you have a talk with my father.'



Peak reflect on the proposal, and reply to it with grave

thoughtfulness:



'that's very kind of you, but I should have a difficulty in ask Mr.

Warricombe's advice. I'm afraid I must go on in my own way for a time.

it will be a few month, I daresay, before I can release myself from my

engagement in London.'



'but I be to understand that your mind be really make up?'



'oh, quite!'



'well, no doubt we shall have opportunity of talk. we must meet in

town, if possible. you have excite my curiosity, and I cann't help

hope you'll let I see a little far into your mind some day. when

I first get hold of Newman's _Apologia_, I begin to read it with the

utmost eagerness, flatter myself that now at length I should

understand how a man of brain could travel such a road. I be horribly

disappointed, and not a little enraged, when I find that he begin by

assume the very belief I think he be go to justify. in you I

shall hope for more logic.'



'Newman be incapable of understand such an objection,' say Peak,

with a look of amusement.



'but you be not.'



the dialogue grow chatty. when they exchange good-night, Peak fancy

that the pressure of Buckland's hand be less fervent than at their

meeting, but his manner no long seem to indicate distrust. probably

the agnostic's mood be one of half-tolerant disdain.



Godwin turn the key in his bedroom door, and stray aimlessly about.

he be fatigue, but the white, fragrant bed do not yet invite he; a

turbulence in his brain give warn that it would be long before he

sleep. he wind up his watch; the hand point to twelve. chance to

come before the mirror, he see that he be unusually pale, and that his

eye have a swollen look.



the profound stillness be oppressive to he; he start nervously at

an undefined object in a dim corner, and go nearer to examine it; he

be irritable, vaguely discontent, and have even a moment of nausea,

perhaps the result of tobacco strong than he be accustom to smoke.

after lean for five minute at the open window, he feel a soothe

effect from the air, and could think consecutively of the day's event.

what have happen seem to he incredible; it be as though he revive

a mad dream, of ludicrous coherence. since his display of rhetoric at

luncheon all be downright somnambulism. what fatal power have subdue

he? what extraordinary influence have guide his tongue, constrain

his feature? his conscious self have have no part in all this comedy;

now for the first time be he take count of the character he have

play.



have he be tell this morning that--why, what monstrous folly be all

this? into what unspeakable baseness have he fall? happily, he have but

to take leave of the Warricombe household, and rush into some region

where he be unknown. year hence, he would relate the story to

Earwaker.



for a long time he suffer the torment of this awakening. Shame

buffet he on the right cheek and the left; he look about like one

who slink from merited chastisement. oh, thrice ignoble varlet! to

pose with unctuous hypocrisy before people who have welcome he under

their roof, unquestione, with all the grace and kindliness of English

hospitality! to lie shamelessly in the face of his old fellow-student,

who have be so genuinely glad to meet he again!



yet such possibility have not be unforeseen. at the time of his

profound gloom, when solitude and desire crush his spirit, he have

wish that fate would afford he such an opportunity of knavish

success. his imagination have play with the idea that a man like

himself might well be drive to this expedient, and might even use it

with life-long result. of a certainty, the Church number such man

among her priests,--not mere lukewarm sceptic who make religion a

source of income, nor yet those who have honestly enter the portal and

by necessity be hold from withdraw, though their conviction have

change; but deliberate schemer from the first, ambitious but hungry

nature, keen-sight, unscrupulous. and they be at no loss to defend

themselves against the attack of conscience. life be a terrific

struggle for all who begin it with no endowment save their brain. a

hypocrite be not necessarily a harm-doer; easy to picture the

unbelieving priest whose influence be vastly for good, in word and

deed.



but he, he who have ever pride himself on his truth-front intellect,

and have freely utter his scorn of the credulous mob! he who be his

own criterion of moral right and wrong! no wonder he feel like a

whip cur. it be the ancestral vice in his blood, bring out by

over-tempt circumstance. the long line of base-bear predecessor,

the grovel hind and mechanic of his genealogy, be responsible

for this. oh for a name wherewith honour be hereditary!



his eye be blind by a rush of hot tear. down, down--into the

depth of uttermost despondency, of self-pity and self-contempt! have it

be practicable, he would have flee from the house, leave its

occupant to think of he as they would; even as, ten year ago, he have

flee from the shame impend over he at Kingsmill. a cowardly

instinct, this; having once act upon it give to his whole life a

taint of craven meanness. mere bluster, all his talk of mental dignity

and uncompromise scorn of superstition. a weak and idle man, whose

good year be already waste!



he gaze deliberately at himself in the glass, at his red eyelid and

unsightly lip. darkness be good; perhaps he might forget his shame

for an hour or two, ere the dawn renew it. he throw off his garment

heedlessly, extinguish the lamp, and creep into the ready

hiding-place.









Part III







CHAPTER I





'why be you obstinately silent? [write Earwaker, in a letter address

to Godwin at his Peckham lodging]. I take it for grant that you must

by this time be back from your holiday. why haven't you reply to my

letter of a fortnight ago? nothing yet from _the Critical_. if you be

really at work as usual, come and see I to-morrow evening, any time

after eight. the posture of my affair grow dubious; the shadow of

Kenyon thicken about I. in all seriousness I think I shall be drive

from _the Weekly Post_ before long. my quarrel with Runcorn be too

frequent, and his blackguardism keep more than pace with the time.

come or write, for I want to know how thing go with you.



_Tuissimus_, J.E.E.'



Peak read this at breakfast on a Saturday morning. it be early in

September, and three week have elapse since his return from the west

of England. upon the autumn have fall a blight of cold and rainy

weather, which do not enhance the cheerfulness of daily journeying

between Peckham Rye and Rotherhithe. when it be necessary for he to

set forth to the train, he mutter imprecation, for a mood of

inactivity possess he; he would gladly have stay in his

comfortable sitting-room, idle over book or only occupy with

languid thought.



in the afternoon he be at liberty to follow his impulse, and this

direct he to the British Museum, whither of late he have several

time resort as a reader. among the half-dozen book for which he

apply be one in German, Reusch's _Bibel und Natur_. after a little

dally, he became absorb in this work, and two or three hour

pass before its hold on his attention slacken. he seldom change

his position; the volume be prop against other, and he sit bend

forward, his arm fold upon the desk. when he be thus deeply

engage, his face have a hard, stern aspect; if by chance his eye

wander for a moment, its look seem to express resentment of

interruption.



at length he throw himself back with a sudden yielding to weariness,

cross his leg, sink together in the chair, and for half-an-hour

brood darkly. a fit of yawning admonish he that it be time to

quit the atmosphere of study. he betake himself to a restaurant in the

Strand, and thence about eight o'clock make his way to Staple Inn,

where the journalist give he cheerful welcome.



'day after day I have mean to write,' thus he excuse himself. 'but I

have really nothing to say.'



'you don't look any well for your holiday,' Earwaker remark.



'Holiday? oh, I have forget all about it. when do _you_ go?'



'the situation be comical. I feel sure that if I leave town, my

connection with the _post_ will come to an end. I shall have a note

from Runcorn say that we have well take this opportunity of

terminate my engagement. on the whole I should be glad, yet I cann't

make up my mind to be oust by Kenyon--that's what it mean. they want

to get I away, but I stick on, postpone holiday from week to week.

Runcorn cann't decide to send I about my business, yet every leader I

write enrage he. but for Kenyon, I should gain my point; I feel sure

of it. it's one of those case in which homicide would be justify by

public interest. if Kenyon get my place, the paper become at once an

organ of ruffiandom, the delight of the blackguardry.'



'how's the circulation?' inquire Peak.



'pretty sound; that add to the joke. this series of story by

Doubleday have help we a good deal, and my contention be, if we can

keep financially right by help of this kind, why not make a little

sacrifice for the sake of raise our political tone? Runcorn willn't see

it; he listen eagerly to Kenyon's assurance that we might sell several

thousand more by strike the true pot-house note.'



'then pitch the thing over! wash your hand, and go to clean work.'



'the work I be do be clean enough,' reply Earwaker. 'let I have

my way, and I can make the paper a decent one and a useful one. I

shalln't easily find another such chance.'



'your idealism have a strong root,' say Godwin, rather contemptuously.

'I half envy you. there must be a distinct pleasure in believe that

any intellectual influence will exalt the english democracy.'



'I'm not sure that I do believe it, but I enjoy the experiment. the

chief pleasure, I suppose, be in fight Runcorn and Kenyon.'



'they be too strong for you, Earwaker. they have the spirit of the age

to back they up.'



the journalist become silent; he smile, but the harassment of conflict

mark his feature.



'I hear nothing about "the New Sophistry",' he remark, when Godwin

have begin to examine some book that lie on the table. 'Dolby have the

trick of keep manuscript a long time. everything that seem at the

first glance tolerable, he send to the printer, then muse over it at

his leisure. probably your paper be in type.'



'I don't care a rap whether it be or not. what do you think of this

book of Oldwinkle's?'



he be hold a volume of humorous story, which have greatly take

the fancy of the public.



'it's uncommonly good,' reply the journalist, laugh. 'I have a

prejudice against the fellow, but he have overcome I. it's more than

good farce--something like really strong humour here and there.'



'I quite believe it,' say Peak, 'yet I couldn't read a page. whatever

the mob enjoy be at once spoilt for I, however good I should

otherwise think it. I be sick of see and hear the man's name.'



Earwaker shake his head in deprecation.



'Narrow, my boy. one must be able to judge and enjoy impartially.'



'I know it, but I shall never improve. this book seem to I to have a

bad smell; it looks maul with dirty finger. I despise Oldwinkle for

his popularity. to make they laugh, and to laugh _with_ they--pah!'



they debate this point for some time, Peak grow more violent,

though his friend preserve a smile equanimity. a tirade of virulent

contempt, in which Godwin exhibit all his power of savage eloquence,

be break by a visitor's summon at the door.



'here's Malkin,' say the journalist; 'you'll see each other at last.'



Peak could not at once command himself to the look and tone desirable

in meet a stranger; lean against the mantelpiece, he gaze with a

scowl of curiosity at the man who present himself, and when he shake

hand, it be in silence. but Malkin make speech from the other

unnecessary for several minute. with animate voice and gesture, he

pour forth apology for his failure to keep the appointment of six

or seven week ago.



'only the grave call of duty could have keep I away, I do assure

you! no doubt Earwaker have inform you of the circumstance. I

telegraph--I think I telegraph; don't I, Earwaker?'



'I have some recollection of a word or two of scant excuse,' reply

the journalist.



'but I implore you to consider the haste I be in,' cry Malkin; 'not

five minute, Mr. Peak, to book, to register luggage, to do everything;

not five minute, I protest! but here we be at last. let we talk! let

we talk!'



he seat himself with an air of supreme enjoyment, and begin to cram

the bowl of a large pipe from a bulky pouch.



'how stand the fight with Kenyon and Co.?' he cry, as soon as the

tobacco be glow.



Earwaker briefly repeat what he have tell Peak.



'hold out! no surrender and no compromise! what's your opinion, Mr

Peak, on the abstract question? be a popular paper likely, or not, to

be damage in its circulation by improvement of style and tone--within

the limit of discretion?'



'I shouldn't be surprised if it be,' Peak answer, drily.



'I'm afraid you're right. there's no use in blink truth, however

disagreeable. but, for Earwaker, that ben't the main issue. what he have

to do be to assert himself. every man's first duty be to assert

himself. at all event, this be how I regard the matter. I be all for

individualism, for the development of one's personality at whatever

cost. no compromise on point of faith! Earwaker have his ideal of

journalistic duty, and in a fight with fellow like Runcorn and Kenyon

he must stand firm as a rock.'



'I cann't see that he's call upon to fight at all,' say Peak. 'he's

in a false position; let he get out of it.'



'a false position? I cann't see that. no man well fit than Earwaker

to raise the tone of radical journalism. here's a big Sunday newspaper

practically in his hand; it seem to I that the circumstance give

he a grand opportunity of make his force feel. what be we all

seek but an opportunity for strike out with effect?'



Godwin listen with a sceptical smile, and make answer in slow,

careless tone.



'Earwaker happen to be employ and pay by certain capitalist to

increase the sale of their paper.'



'my dear sir!' cry the other, bounce upon his seat. 'how can you

take such a view? a great newspaper surely cannot be regard as a mere

source of income. these capitalist declare that they have at heart the

interest of the work class; so have Earwaker, and he be far well

able than they to promote those interest. his duty be to apply their

money to the good use, morally speak. if he be lukewarm in the

matter, I should be the first to advise his retirement; but this fight

be entirely congenial to he. I trust he will hold his own to the last

possible moment.'



'you must remember,' put in the journalist, with a look of amusement,

'that Peak have no sympathy with Radicalism.'



'I lament it, but that do not affect my argument. if you be a high

Tory, I should urge you just as strongly to assert yourself. surely you

agree with this point of mine, Mr. Peak? you admit that a man must

develop whatever strength be in he.'



'I'm not at all sure of that.'



Malkin fix himself sideways in the chair, and examine his

collocutor's face earnestly. he endeavour to subdue his excitement to

the tone of courteous debate, but the word that at length escape he

be humorously blunt.



'then of what _be_ you sure?'



'of nothing.'



'now we touch bottom!' cry Malkin. 'philosophically speak, I agree

with you. but we have to live our life, and I suppose we must direct

ourselves by some conscious principle.'



'I don't see the necessity,' Peak reply, still in an impassive tone.

'we may very well be guide by circumstance as they arise. to be sure,

there's a principle in that, but I take it you mean something

different.'



'yes I do. I hold that the will must direct circumstance, not receive

its impulse from they. how, then, be we to be guide? what do you set

before yourself?'



'to get through life with as much satisfaction and as little pain as

possible.'



'you be a hedonist, then. well and good! then that be your conscious

principle'--



'no, it ben't.'



'how be I to understand you?'



'by recognise that a man's intellectual and moral principle as

likely as not tend to anything but his happiness.'



'I cann't admit it!' exclaim Malkin, leap from his chair. 'what

_be_ happiness?'



'I don't know.'



'Earwaker, _what_ be happiness? what _be_ happiness?'



'I really don't know,' answer the journalist, mirthfully.



'this be trifle with a grave question. we all know perfectly well

that happiness be the conscious exertion of individual power. why be

there so much suffering under our present social system? because the

majority of man be crush to a dead level of mechanical toil, with no

opportunity of develop their special faculty. give a man scope,

and happiness be put within his reach.'



'what do you mean by scope?' inquire Godwin.



'scope? scope? why, room to expand. the vice of our society be

hypocrisy; it come of over-crowding. when a man ben't allow to be

himself, he take refuge in a mean imitation of those other man who

appear to be well off. that be what send I off to South America. I

get into politic, and find that I be in danger of grow dishonest,

of compromise, and toadying. in the wilderness, I find myself

again.--Do you seriously believe that happiness can be obtain by

ignore one's conviction?'



he address the question to both, snuff the air with head throw

back.



'what if you have no conviction?' ask Peak.



'then you be incapable of happiness in any worthy sense! you may

graze, but you will never feast.'



the listener join in laughter, and Malkin, after a moment's

hesitation, allow his face to relax in good-humour sympathy.



'now look here!' he cry. 'you--Earwaker; suppose you send conscience

to the devil, and set yourself to please Runcorn by increase the

circulation of your paper by whatever mean. you would flourish,

undoubtedly. in a short time you would be chief editor, and your

pocket would burst with money. but what about your peace of mind? what

about happiness?'



'why, I'm disposed to agree with Peak,' answer the journalist. 'if I

_could_ take that line, I should be a happy man than

conscientiousness will ever make I.'



Malkin swell with indignation.



'you don't mean it! you be turn a grave argument into

jest!--Where's my hat? where the devil be my hat? send for I again

when you be disposed to talk seriously.'



he stride towards the door, but Earwaker arrest he with a shout.



'you're leave your pipe!'



'so I be. where be it?--Did I tell you where I buy this pipe?'



'no. what's the wood?'



on the instant Malkin fall into a cheerful vein of reminiscence. in

five minute he be give a rapturous description of tropical scene,

laugh joyously as he address now one now the other of his

companion.



'I hear you have a mind to see those country, Mr. Peak,' he say at

length. 'if you care for a travel companion--rather short-temper,

but you'll pardon that--pray give I the preference. I should enjoy

above all thing to travel with a man of science.'



'it's very doubtful whether I shall ever get so far,' Godwin reply,

musingly.



and, as he speak, he rise to take leave. Earwaker's protest that it be

not yet ten o'clock do not influence he.



'I want to reflect on the meaning of happiness,' he say, extend his

hand to Malkin; and, in spite of the smile, his face have a sombre cast.



the two who be leave of course discuss he.



'you willn't care much for Peak,' say Earwaker. 'he and I suit each

other, because there's a good deal of indifferentism in both of we.

moral earnestness always go against the grain with he; I've notice

it frequently.'



'I'm sorry I speak so dogmatically. it ben't altogether good manner.

suppose I write he a short letter, just express my regret for

having be lead away'--



'needless, needless,' laugh the journalist. 'he think all the well

of you for your zeal. but happiness be a sore point with he; few man,

I should think, have know less of it. I cann't imagine any

circumstance which would make he thoroughly at peace with himself and

the world.'



'poor fellow! you can see something of that in his face. why don't he

get marry?'



'a remarkable suggestion!--By the way, why don't _you_?'.



'my dear boy, there's nothing I wish more, but it's a business of such

fearful precariousness. I'm one of those man whom marriage will either

make or ruin. you know my characteristic; the slight check upon my

independence, and all's up with I. the woman I marry must be perfectly

reasonable, perfectly good-temper; she must have excellent education,

and every delicacy of breeding. where be I to find this paragon?'



'society be open to you.'



'true, but I be not open to society. I don't take kindly to the people

of my own class. no, I tell you what--my only chance of get a

suitable wife be to train some very young girl for the purpose. don't

misunderstand I, for heaven's sake! I mean that I must make a

friendship with some schoolgirl in whose education I can have a voice,

whose relative will permit I to influence her mind and develop her

character. what do you think of this idea?'



'not bad, but it demand patience.'



'and who more patient than I? but let we talk of that poor Mrs. Jacox

and her girl. you feel that you know they pretty well from my letter,

don't you? nothing more monstrous can be imagine than the treatment to

which this poor woman have be subject! I couldn't have believe that

such dishonesty and brutality be possible in english family of

decent position. her husband desert she, her brother rob she, her

sister-in-law libel her,--the whole story be nauseate!'



'you're quite sure that she tell you the truth?'



Malkin glare with sudden resentment.



'the truth? what! you also desire to calumniate she? for shame,

Earwaker! a poor widow toil to support herself in a foreign country,

with two child dependent on she.'



'yes, yes, yes; but you seem to know very little of she.'



'I know she perfectly, and all her circumstance!'



Mrs. Jacox be the mother of the two girl whom Malkin have escort to

Rouen, after an hour or so of all but casual acquaintance. she and her

history have come in a very slight degree under the notice of certain

good-natured people with whom Malkin be on friendly term, and hear

that the child, Bella and Lily, aged fourteen and twelve

respectively, be about to undertake alone a journey to the continent,

the erratic hero feel it incumbent upon he to see they safe at their

mother's side. instead of return forthwith, he linger in Normandy

for several week, strike off at length, on the summon of a friend,

to Orleans, whence he be only to-day return. two or three letter

have keep Earwaker inform of his movement. of Mrs. Jacox he write as

he now speak, with compassionate respect, and the girl, accord to

he, be exquisite model of bud maidenhood.



'you haven't tell I,' say Earwaker, calmly front the indignant

outburst, 'what her circumstance be--at present.'



'she assist an english lady in the management of a boardinghouse,'

Malkin reply, with an air which forbid trivial comment. 'Bella and

Lily will of course continue their study. I daresay I shall run over

now and then to see they.'



'may I, without offence, inquire if either of these young lady seem

suitable for the ideal training of which you speak?'



Malkin smile thoughtfully. he stand with his leg apart and stroke

his blond beard.



'the surmise be not unnatural. well, I confess that Bella have inspire

I with no little interest. she be rather mature, unfortunately; I wish

she have be Lily's age. we shall see; we shall see.'



Musing, he refill his pipe, and gossip be prolong till something

after one o'clock. Malkin be never know to retire willingly from an

evening's congenial talk until the small hour be in progress.



Peak, on reach home about eleven, be surprised to see a light in

his sit-room window. as he enter, his landlady inform he that

Mr. Moxey have be wait upstairs for an hour or two. Christian be

read. he lay down the book and rise languidly. his face be

flushed, and he speak with a laugh which suggest that a fit of

despondency (as occasionally happen) have tempt he to excess in

cordial. Godwin understand these sign. he know that his friend's

intellect be rather brighten than impair by such stimulus, and he

affect not to be conscious of any peculiarity.



'as you wouldn't come to I,' Christian begin, 'I have no choice but to

come to you. my visit ben't unwelcome, I hope?'



'certainly not. but how be you go to get home? you know the time?'



'don't trouble. I shalln't go to bed to-night. let I sit here and read,

will you? if I feel tired I can lie down on the sofa. what a delightful

book this be! I must get it.'



it be a history of the italian Renaissance, recently publish.



'where do this phrase come from?' he continue, point to a scrap

of paper, use as a book-mark, on which Godwin have pencil a note.

the word be: '_Foris ut moris, intus ut libet_.'



'it's mention there,' Peak reply, 'as the motto of those humanist

who outwardly conform to the common faith.'



'I see. all very well when the inquisition be flourish, but sound

ignoble nowadays.'



'do you think so? in a half-civilised age, whether the sixteenth or the

nineteenth century, a wise man may do bad than adopt it.'



'well be honest, surely?'



Peak stand for a moment as if in doubt, then exclaim irritably:



'honest? honest? who be or can be honest? who truly declare himself?

when a man have learn that truth be indeterminable, how be it more

moral to go about cry that you don't believe a certain dogma than to

concede that the dogma may possibly be true? this new morality of the

agnostic be mere paltry conceit. why must I make solemn declaration

that I don't believe in absolute knowledge? I might as well be call

upon to inform all my acquaintance how I stand with regard to the

theory of chemical affinity. one's philosophy have nothing to do with

the business of life. if I choose to become a Church of England

clergyman, what moral objection could be make?'



this illustration be so amusing to Moxey, that his surprise at what

precede give way to laughter.



'I wonder,' he exclaim, 'that you never seriously think of a

profession for which you be so evidently cut out.'



Godwin keep silence; his face have darken, and he seat himself with

sullen weariness.



'tell I what you've be do,' resume Moxey. 'why haven't I hear

from you?'



'I should have come in a day or two. I think you be probably out of

town.'



'her husband be ill,' say the other, by way of reply. he lean

forward with his arm upon the table, and gaze at Godwin with eye of

peculiar brightness.



'Ill, be he?' return Godwin, with slow interest. 'in the same way as

before?'



'yes, but much bad.'



Christian pause; and when he again speak it be hurriedly, confusedly.



'how can I help get excited about it? how can I behave decently?

you're the only man I ever speak to on the subject, and no doubt I both

weary and disgust you; but I _must_ speak to some one. my nerve be

string beyond endurance; it's only by speak that I can ease myself

from the intolerable strain.'



'have you see she lately?'



'yesterday, for a moment, in the street. it's ten month since the last

meeting.'



'well,' remark Godwin, abruptly, 'it's probable the man will die one

of these day, then your trial will have a happy end. I see no harm in

hope that his life may be short--that's a conventional feeling. if

two people can be benefit by the death of a single person, why

shouldn't we be glad in the prospect of his dying? not of his

suffering--that's quite another thing. but die he must; and to curtail

the life of a being who at length wholly cease to exist be no injury.

you cann't injure a nonentity. do you think I should take it ill if I

know that some person be wish my death? why, look, if ever I

crush a little green fly that crawl upon I in the field, at once I

be fill with envy of its fate--sincere envy. to have pass so

suddenly from be into nothingness--how bless an extinction! to

feel in that way, instinctively, in the very depth of your soul, be to

be a true pessimist. if I have ever doubt my sincerity in pessimism,

this experience, several time repeat, would have reassure I.'



Christian cover his face, and brood for a long time, whilst Godwin

sit with his eye on vacancy.



'come and see we to-morrow,' say the former, at length.



'perhaps.';



'why do you keep away?'



'I'm in no mood for society.'



'we'll have no one. only Marcella and I.'



again a long silence.



'Marcella be go in for comparative philology,' Christian resume,

with the gentle tone in which he invariably speak of his sister. 'what

a mind that girl have! I never know any woman of half her power.'



Godwin say nothing.



'no,' continue the other fervently, 'nor of half her goodness. I

sometimes think that no mortal could come near to our ideal of moral

justice and purity. if it be not for she, I should long ago have go

to perdition, in one way or another. it's her strength, not my own,

that have save I. I daresay you know this?'



'there's some truth in it, I believe,' Peak answer, his eye wander.



'see how circumstance can affect one's judgment. if, just about the

time I first know you, I have abandon myself to a life of sottish

despair, of course I should have charge Constance with the blame of

it. now that I have struggle on, I can see that she have be a

blessing to I instead of a curse. if Marcella have give I strength, I

have to thank Constance for the spiritual joy which otherwise I should

never have know.'



Peak utter a short laugh.



'that be only say that she _might_ have be ruinous, but in the

course of circumstance have prove helpful. I envy your power of

derive comfort from such reflection.'



'well, we view thing differently. I have the habit of look to the

consolatory fact of life, you to the depressing. there's an

unfortunate lack in you, Peak; you seem insensible to female influence,

and I believe that be closely connect with your desperate pessimism.'



Godwin laugh again, this time with mocking length of note. 'come now,

ben't it true?' urge the other. 'sincerely, do you care for woman at

all?'



'perhaps not.'



'a grave misfortune, depend upon it! it account for nearly everything

that be unsatisfactory in your life. if you have ever be sincerely

devoted to a woman, be assure your power would have develop in a

way of which you have no conception. it's no answer to tell I that _i_

be still a mere trifl, never likely to do anything of account; I

haven't it in I to be anything well, and I might easily have become

much bad. but you might have make yourself a great position--I mean,

you _might_ do so; you be still very young. if only you know the

desire of a woman's help.'



'you really think so?' say Godwin, with grave irony.



'I be sure of it! there's no harm in repeat what you have often tell

I--your egoism oppress you. a woman's influence take one out of

oneself. no man can be a well authority on this than I. for more than

eleven year I have worship one woman with absolute faithfulness'----



'Absolute?' interrupt Godwin, bluntly.



'what exception occur to you?'



'as you challenge inquiry, forgive I for ask what your interest be

in one of your cousin at Twybridge?'



Christian start, and avert his face with a look of embarrassment.



'do you mean to say that you know anything about that?'



'I be always an observer,' Peak reply, smile. 'you don't remember,

perhaps, that I happen to be present when a letter have just arrive

for you at your uncle's house--a letter which evidently disturb you?'



'this be astonishing! Peak, you're a terrible fellow! Heaven forbid

that I should ever be at your mercy! yes, you be quite right,' he

continue, despondently. 'but that be no real unfaithfulness. I don't

quite know how to explain it. I _do_ make love to poor Janet, and with

the result that I have never since see any of the family. my uncle,

when he find I have draw back, be very savage--naturally enough.

Marcella and I never again go to Twybridge. I like Janet; she be a

good, kind girl. I believe just then that my love for Constance be

hopeless; my mood impel I to the conviction that the good thing I

could do be to marry Janet and settle down to a peaceful domestic

life. then come that letter--it be from Constance herself. it mean

nothing, yet it be enough to revive all my hope. I rush off--! how

brutally I have behave! poor little Janet!'



he let his face fall upon his hand.



'allow I an indiscreet question,' say Peak, after a silence. 'have

you any found hope of marry Constance if she become a widow?'



Christian start and look up with wide eye.



'Hope? every hope! I have the absolute assurance of her love.'



'I see.'



'but I mustn't mislead you,' pursue the other, hurriedly. 'our

relation be absolutely pure. I have only allow myself to see she at

very long interval. why shouldn't I tell you? it be less than a year

after her marriage; I find she alone in a room in a friend's house;

her eye be red with weeping. I couldn't help hold my hand to she.

she take it, and hold it for a moment, and look at I steadily, and

whisper my name--that be all. I know then that she repent of her

marriage--who can say what lead she into it? I be poor, you know;

perhaps--but in spite of all, she _do_ love I. there have never since

be anything like a scene of emotion between us--_that_ her conscience

couldn't allow. she be a noble-minded woman, and have do her duty. but

if she be free'--



he quiver with passionate feeling.



'and you be content,' say Godwin, drily, 'to have waste ten year of

your life for such a possibility?'



'waste!' Christian exclaim. 'come, come, Peak; why _will_ you affect

this wretched cynicism? be it waste of year to have live with the

high and pure ideal perpetually before one's mind? what can a man

do well than, having find an admirable woman, to worship her

thenceforth, and defy every temptation that could lead he astray? I

don't like to seem boastful, but I _have_ live purely and devotedly.

and if the test endure to the end of my life, I could sustain it. be

the consciousness of my love nothing to Constance? have it not help

she?'



such profound sincerity be astonishing to Peak. he do not admire it,

for it seem to he, in this case at all event, the fatal weakness of

a character it be impossible not to love. though he could not declare

his doubt, he think it more than probable that this Laura of the

voiceless Petrarch be unworthy of such constancy, and that she have no

intention whatever of reward it, even if the opportunity arrive.

but this be the mere speculation of a pessimist; he might be

altogether wrong, for he have never deny the existence of high virtue,

in man or woman.



'there go midnight!' he remark, turn from the subject. 'you

cann't sleep, neither can I. why shouldn't we walk into town?'



'by all mean; on condition that you will come home with I, and spend

to-morrow there.'



'very well.'



they set forth, and with varied talk, often break by long silence,

make their way through sleep suburb to the dark valley of Thames.



there pass another month, during which Peak be neither see nor

hear of by his friend. one evening in October, as he sat study at

the British Museum, a friendly voice claim his attention. he rise

nervously and meet the search eye of Buckland Warricombe.



'I have it in mind to write to you,' say the latter. 'since we part

down yonder I have be run about a good deal, with few day in

town. do you often read here?'



'generally on Saturday afternoon.'



Buckland glance at the open volume, and catch a heading, 'apologetic

theology.'



'still at the work?'



'yes; I shall be there till Christmas--no long.'



'be you by chance disengage to-morrow? could you dine with I? I

shall be alone; perhaps you don't mind that? we could exchange view on

"fate, free-will, foreknowledge absolute".'



Godwin accept the invitation, and Warricombe, unable to linger, take

leave of he.



they meet the next evening in Buckland's room, not far from the Houses

of Parliament. commonplace comfort be the note of these quarter. Peak

wonder that a man who have it in his power to surround himself with

evidence of taste should be content to dwell thus. his host seem to

detect this thought in the glance Godwin cast about he.



'nothing but a _pie-a-terre_. I have be here three or four year,

but I don't think of it as a home. I suppose I shall settle somewhere

before long: yet, on the whole, what do it matter where one live?

there's something in the atmosphere of our time that make one

indispose to strike root in the old way. who know how long there'll

be such a thing as real property? we be get to think of ourselves

as lodger; it's as well to be indifferent about a notice to quit.'



'many people would still make a good fight for the old home,' reply

Peak.



'yes; I daresay I should myself, if I be a family man. a wife and

child be strong persuasion to conservatism. in those who have

anything, that's to say. let the family who have nothing learn how

they stand in point of number, and we shall see what we shall see.'



'and you be do your good to teach they that.'



Buckland smile.



'a few other thing at the same time. one ben't necessarily an

anarchist, you know.'



'what enormous faith you must have in the metaphysical power of the

multitude!'



'Trenchant! but say, rather, in the universal self-interest. that's the

trait of human nature which we have in mind when we speak of

enlightenment. the aim of practical Radicalism be to instruct man's

selfishness. astonishing how capable it be of be instruct! the

mistake of the Socialist lie in his credit man with far too much

self-esteem, far too little perception of their own limit. the

characteristic of mankind at large be humility.'



Peak begin to understand his old acquaintance; he have imagine he less

acute. gratify by the smile of interest, Warricombe add:



'there be force of madness; I have show you that I make allowance

for they. but they be only dangerous so long as privilege ally

itself with hypocrisy. the task of the modern civiliser be to sweep

away sham idealism.'



'I agree with you,' Godwin reply.



with sudden change of mood, Buckland begin to speak of an indifferent

topic of the day, and in a few minute they sit down to dinner.



not till the welcome tobacco blend its aroma with that of coffee do

a frankly personal note sound in their conversation.



'so at Christmas you be free,' say Warricombe. 'you still think of

leave London?'



'I have decide to go down into Devonshire.'



'the seaside?'



'I shall stay first of all in Exeter,' Godwin reply, with

deliberation; 'one can get hold of book there.'



'yes, especially of the ecclesiastical colour.'



'you be still unable to regard my position with anything but

contempt?' Peak ask, look steadily at the critical face.



'come now; what do it all mean? of course I quite understand how

tolerant the Church be become: I know what latitude it permit in its

servant. but what do you propose to yourself?'



'precisely what you call the work of the civiliser--to attack sham

ideal.'



'as for instance--?'



'the authority of the mob,' answer Peak, suavely.



'your clericalism be political, then?'



'to a great extent.'



'I discern a vague sort of consistency in this. you regard the Church

formula as merely symbolical--useful for the purpose of the day?'



'rather for the purpose of eternity.'



'in the human sense.'



'in every sense.'



Warricombe perceive that no directness of questioning would elicit

literal response, and on the whole this relieve he. to hear Godwin

Peak use the language of a fervent curate would have excite in he

something more than disgust. it do not seem impossible that a nature

like Peak's--intellectually arrogant, vehemently anti-popular--should

have be attract by the tradition, the social prestige, of the

Anglican Church; nor at all unlikely that a mind so constitute should

justify a seem acceptance of dogmas, which in the strict sense it

despise. but he be make uneasy by his ignorance of Peak's private

life during the year since their parting at College. he do not like

to think of the possible establishment of intimacy between this man of

low origin, uncertain career, boundless ambition, and the household of

Martin Warricombe. there could be no doubt that Peak have decide to go

to Exeter because of the social prospect recently open to he. in

the vulgar phrase, he have probably 'take stock' of Mr. Warricombe's

idiosyncrasy, and see therein a valuable opportunity for a theological

student, who at the same time be a devotee of natural science. to be

sure, the people at Exeter could be put on their guard. on the other

hand, Peak have plainly avow his desire to form social connection of

the useful kind; in his position such an aim be essential, a mere

matter of course.



Godwin's voice interrupt this train of thought.



'let I ask you a plain question. you have twice be kind enough to

introduce I to your home as a friend of your. be I guilty of

presumption in hope that your parent will continue to regard I as

an acquaintance? I trust there's no need to assure you that I know the

meaning of discretion.'



an appeal to Buckland's generosity seldom fail. yes, it be true that

he have more than once encourage the hope now frankly express.

indulge a correspondent frankness, he might explain that Peak's

position be so distasteful to he that it disturb the future with

many kind of uncertainty. but this would be churlish. he must treat

his guest as a gentleman, so long as nothing compel he to take the

less agreeable view.



'my dear Peak, let we have none of these formality. my parent have

distinctly invite you to go and see they whenever you be in the

neighbourhood. I be quite sure they will help to make your stay in

exeter a pleasant one.'



Therewith close the hazardous dialogue. Warricombe turn at once to a

safe topic--that of contemporary fiction, and they chat pleasantly

enough for the rest of the evening.



not many day after this, Godwin receive by post an envelope which

contain certain proof sheet, and therewith a note in which the

editor of _the Critical Review_ signify his acceptance of a paper

entitle 'the New Sophistry'. the communication be originally

address to Earwaker, who have scribble at the foot, 'correct, if you

be alive, and send back to Dolby.'



the next morning he do not set out as usual for Rotherhithe. through

the night he have not close his eye; he be in a state of nervousness

which border on fever. a dozen time he have read over the proof,

with throb pulse, with exultant self-admiration: but the printer's

error which have catch his eye, and a few fault of phrase, be still

uncorrected. what a capital piece of write it be! what a

flagellation of M'Naughten and all his tribe! if this do not rouse

echo in the literary world--



through the long day he sit in languor or pace his room like one make

restless by pain. only when the gloom of nightfall oblige he to light

his lamp do he at length sit down to the table and carefully revise

the proof, pen in hand. when he have make up the packet for post, he

write to Earwaker.



'I have forget all about this thing. proof have go to Dolby. I

have not sign; probably he would object to my do so. as it be, the

paper can be ascribe to anyone, and attention thus excited. we shall

see paragraph attribute it to man of mark--perhaps scandal will fix

it on a bishop. in any case, don't let out the secret. I beg this

seriously, and for a solid reason. not a word to anyone, however

intimate. if Dolby betray _your_ name, grin and bear it. I depend upon

your friendship.'







CHAPTER II





in a by-way which decline from the main thoroughfare of Exeter, and

bear the name of Longbrook Street, be a row of small house place

above long strip of slope garden. they be old and plain, with no

architectural feature call for mention, unless it be the latticed

porch which give the door an awkward quaintness. just beyond, the

road cross a hollow, and begin the ascent of a hill here interpose

between the city and the inland-wind valley of Exe. the little

terrace may be regard as urban or rural, accord to the taste and

occasion of those who dwell there. in one direction, a walk of five

minute will conduct to the middle of High Street, and in the other it

take scarcely long to reach the open country.



on the upper floor of one of these cottage, Godwin Peak have make his

abode. sitting-room and bedchamber, furnish with homely comfort,

answer to his bachelor need, and would allow of his receiving

without embarrassment any visitor whom fortune might send he. of

quietness he be assure, for a widow and her son, alike remarkable for

sobriety of demeanour, be the only person who share the house with

he. Mrs. root could not compare in grace and skill with the little

Frenchwoman who have sweeten his existence at Peckham Rye, but she

zeal make amend for natural deficiency, and the timorous respect with

which she wait upon he be by no mean disagreeable to Godwin. her

reply to a request or suggestion be always, 'if you please, sir.'

throughout the day she go so tranquilly about her domestic duty,

that Godwin seldom hear anything except the voice of the cuckoo-clock,

a pleasant sound to he. her son, employ at a nurseryman's, be a

great sinewy fellow with a face of such ruddiness that it seem to

diffuse warmth; on Sunday afternoon, whatever the state of the sky, he

sit behind the house in his shirt-sleeve, and smoke a pipe as he

contemplate the hart's-tongue which grow there upon a rockery.



'the gentleman from London'--so Mrs. Roots be willnot to style her lodger

in speak with neighbour--have bring his book with he; they find

place on a few shelf. his microscope have its stand by the window, and

one or two other scientific implement lie about the room. the cabinet

bequeath to he by Mr. Gunnery he have send to Twybridge, to remain in

his mother's care. in take the lodging, he describe himself merely

as a student, and give his landlady to understand that he hope to

remain under her roof for at least a year. of his extreme

respectability, the widow could entertain no doubt, for he dress with

aristocratic finish, attend service at the Cathedral and elsewhere

very frequently, and make the most punctual payment. moreover, a

casual remark have inform she that he be on friendly term with Mr.

Martin Warricombe, whom her son know as a gentleman of distinction. he

often sit up very late at night, but, doubtless, that be the practice

of Londoners. no lodger could have give less trouble, or have

acknowledge with more courtesy all that be do for his convenience.



no one ever call upon Mr. Peak, but he be often from home for many

hour together, probably on visit to great people in city or country.

it seem rather strange, however, that the postman so seldom bring

anything for he. though he have now be more than two month in the

house, he have receive only three letter, and those at long interval.



Noticeable be the improvement in his health since his arrival here.

the pallor of his cheek be give place to a wholesome tinge; his eye

be bright; he show more disposition to converse, and be ready

with pleasant smile. Mrs. root even hear he singe in his

bedroom--though, oddly enough, it be a secular song on Sunday morning.

the weekly bill for food, which at first have be very modest, grow

rich in item. Godwin have, in fact, never feel so well. he extend

his walk in every direction, sometimes ramble up the valley to

sleepy little town where he could rest in the parlour of old inn,

sometimes strike across country to this or that point of the

sea-coast, or make his way to the nearer summit of Dartmoor, noble

in their wintry desolation. he mark with delight every promise of

return spring. when he could only grant himself a walk of an hour or

two in the sunny afternoon, there be many a deep lane within easy

reach, where the gorse gleam in masse of gold, and the little

oak-tree in the hedge be ruddy with last year's cling leafage,

and catkin hang from the hazel, and the fresh green of sprout ivy

creep over bank and wall. have he now be in London, the morning would

have awaken he to the glow of sunrise, he feel the sweet air

breathing health into fog and slush and misery. as it be, when he

look out upon his frame and vigour into his mind. there be moment

when he could all but say of himself that he be at peace with the

world.



as on a morning towards the end of March, when a wind from the Atlantic

sweep space of bright blue amid the speed cloud, and sing

joyously as it rush over hill and dale. it be the very day for an

upland walk, for a putting forth of one's strength in conflict with

boisterous gust and sudden shower, that give a taste of earth's

nourishment. but Godwin have something else in view. after breakfast, he

sit down to finish a piece of work which have occupy he for two or

three day, a translation from a german periodical. his mind work

easily, and he often hum an air as his pen move over the paper.

when the task be complete, he roll his paper and the pamphlet

together, put they into the pocket of his overcoat, and presently go

forth.



twenty minute' walk bring he to the Warricombes' house. it be his

second call within the present week, but such assiduity have not

hitherto be his willnot. though already summon twice or thrice by

express invitation, he be spare of voluntary visit. having ask

for Mr. Warricombe, he be forthwith conduct to the study. in the

welcome which greet his appearance, he could detect no suspicion of

simulate warmth, though his ear have unsurpassable discrimination.



'have you look through it?' Martin exclaim, as he see the foreign

periodical in his visitor's hand.



'I have write a rough translation'----



'oh, how could you think of take such trouble! these thing be send

to I by the dozen--I might say, by the cartload. my curiosity would

have be amply satisfied if you have just tell I the drift of the

thing.'



'it seem to I,' say Peak, modestly, 'that the paper be worth a

little careful thought. I read it rapidly at first, but find myself

draw to it again. it state the point of view of the average

scientific mind with such remarkable clearness, that I wish to think

it over, and the good way be to do so pen in hand.'



'well, if you really do it on your own account'----



Mr. Warricombe take the offer sheet and glance at the first of they.



'my only purpose,' say Godwin 'in call again so soon be to leave

this with you.'



he make as though he would take his departure.



'you want to get home again? wait at least till this shower be over. I

enjoy that pelting of spring rain against the window. in a minute or

two we shall have the laurel flash in the sunshine, as if they be

hang with diamond.'



they stand together look out on to the garden. presently their talk

return to the german disquisition, which be direct against the

class of quasi-scientific author attack by Peak himself in his

_critical_ article. in the end Godwin sit down and begin to read the

translation he have make, Mr. Warricombe listen with a thoughtful

smile. from time to time the reader pause and offer a comment,

endeavour to show that the argument be merely plausible; his air

be that of placid security, and he seem to enjoy the irony which

often fall from his lip. Martin frequently scrutinise he, and always

with a look of interest which betoken grave reflection.



'here,' say Godwin at one point, 'he have a note cite a passage from

Reusch's book on _the Bible and Nature_. if I be not mistaken, he

misrepresent his author, though perhaps not intentionally.'



'you know the book?'



'I have study it carefully, but I don't possess it. I think I

remember this particular passage very well.'



'be it a work of authority?'



'yes; it be very important. unfortunately, it haven't yet be

translate. rather bulky, but I shouldn't mind do it myself if I

be sure of find a publisher.'



'_the Bible and Nature_,' say Martin, musingly. 'what be his scheme?

how do he go to work?'



Godwin give a brief but lucid description of the book, and Mr

Warricombe listen gravely. when there have be silence for some

moment, the latter speak in a tone he have never yet use when

converse with Peak. he allow himself, for the first time, to betray

a troubled doubt on the subject under discussion.



'so he make a stand at Darwinism as it affect man?'



Peak have yet no mean of know at what point Martin himself 'make a

stand'. mode of reconcilement between scientific discovery and

religious tradition be so very numerous, and the geologist be only

now begin to touch upon these topic with his young acquaintance.

that his mind be not perfectly at ease amid the conflict of the day,

Godwin soon perceive, and by this time he have clear assurance that

Martin would willingly thrash out the whole debate with anyone who

seem capable of support orthodox tenet by reason not

unacceptable to a man of broad view. the negativist of course assume

from the first that Martin, however respectable his knowledge, be far

from possess the scientific mind, and each conversation have supply

he with proof of this defect; it be not at all in the modern spirit

that the man of threescore year pursue his geological and kindre

research, but with the calm curiosity of a liberal intellect which

have somehow take this direction instead of devote itself to literary

study. at bottom, Godwin have no little sympathy with Mr. Warricombe; he

too, in spite of his militant instinct, dwell by preference amid

purely human interest. he grasp with firm intelligence the mode of

think which distinguish scientific man, but his nature do not prompt

he to a consistent application of they. personal liking enable he to

subdue the impulse of disrespect which, under other circumstance,

would have make it difficult for he to act with perfection his present

part. none the less, his task be one of infinite delicacy. Martin

Warricombe be not the man to unbosom himself on trivial instigation.

it must be a powerful influence which would persuade he to reveal

whatever self-questioning lie beneath his genial good breeding and

long-establish acquiescence in a practical philosophy. Godwin guard

himself against his eager emotion; one false note, one syllable of

indiscretion, and his aim might be hopelessly defeat.



'yes,' be his reply to the hesitate question. 'he argue strenuously

against the descent of man. if I understand he, he regard the

concession of this point as impossible.'



Martin be deep in thought. he hold a paper-knife bent upon his knee,

and his smooth, delicate feature wear an unquiet smile.



'do you know Hebrew, Mr. Peak?'



the question come unexpectedly, and Godwin could not help a momentary

confusion, but he cover it with the tone of self-reproach.



'I be ashamed to say that I be only now take it up seriously.'



'I don't think you need be ashamed,' say Martin, good-naturedly. 'even

a mind as active as yours must postpone some study. Reusch, I

suppose, be sound on that head?'



the inquiry strike Godwin as significant. so Mr. Warricombe attach

importance to the verbal interpretation of the Old Testament.



'distinctly an authority,' he reply. 'he devote whole chapter to a

minute examination of the text.'



'if you have more leisure,' Martin begin, deliberately, when he have

again reflect, 'I should be dispose to urge you to undertake that

translation.'



Peak appear to meditate.



'has the book be use by English writer?' the other inquire.



'a good deal.--It be publish in the sixty, but I read it in a new

edition date a few year ago. Reusch have keep pace with the man of

science. it would be very interesting to compare the first form of the

book with the late.'



'it would, very.'



raise his head from the contemplative posture, Godwin exclaim, with

a laugh of zeal:



'I think I must find time to translate he. at all event, I might

address a proposal to some likely publisher. yet I don't know how I

should assure he of my competency.'



'probably a speciman would be the sure testimony.'



'yes. I might do a few chapter.'



Mr. Warricombe's lapse into silence and brevity intimate to Godwin

that it be time to take leave. he always quit this room with

reluctance. its air of luxurious culture affect his sense

deliciously, and he hope that he might some day be permit to linger

among the cabinet and the library shelf. there be so many book he

would have like to take down, some with title familiar to he, other

which kindle his curiosity when he chance to observe they. the

library abound in such work as only a wealthy man can purchase, and

Godwin, who have examine some of they at the British Museum, be fill

with the humaner kind of envy on see they in Mr. Warricombe's

possession. those publication of the Palaeontological Society, one

volume of which (a part of Davidson's superb work on the _Brachiopoda_)

even now lie open within sight--his hand tremble with a desire to

touch they! and those map of the Geological Surveys, british and

foreign, how he would have enjoy a day's poring over they!



he rise, but Martin seem in no haste to bring the conversation to an

end.



'have you read M'Naughten's much-discuss book?'



'yes.'



'do you see the savage attack in _the Critical_ not long ago?'



Godwin smile, and make quiet answer:



'I should think it be the last word of scientific bitterness and

intolerance.'



'scientific?' repeat Martin, doubtfully. 'I don't think the writer

be a man of science. I see it somewhere attribute to Huxley, but that

be preposterous. to begin with, Huxley would have sign his name;

and, again, his English be well. the article seem to I to be

stamp with literary rancour; it be write by some man who envy

M'Naughten's success.'



Peak keep silence. Martin's censure of the anonymous author's style

sting he to the quick, and he have much ado to command his countenance.



'still,' pursue the other, 'I feel that much of his satire be only

too well point. M'Naughten be suggestive; but one come across book

of the same purpose which can have no result but to injure their cause

with all think people.'



'I have see many such,' remark Godwin.



Mr. Warricombe step to a bookcase and take down a small volume.



'I wonder whether you know this book of Ampare's, _La Grace, Rome, et

Dante_? delightful for odd moments!--There come into my mind a passage

here at the beginning, apropos of what we be say: "_Il faut

souvent un vrai courage pour persister dan une opinion juste en depit

de ses defenseurs_."--Isn't that capital?'



Peak receive it with genuine appreciation; for once he be able to

laugh unfeignedly. the aphorism have so many application from his own

point of view.



'Excellent!--I don't remember to have see the book.'



'take it, if you care to.'



this offer seem a distinct advance in Mr. Warricombe's friendliness.

Godwin feel a thrill of encouragement.



'then you will let I keep this translation for a day or two?' Martin

add, indicate the sheet of manuscript. 'I be greatly oblige to

you for enable I to read the thing.'



they shake hand. Godwin have entertain a slight hope that he might be

ask to stay to luncheon; but it could not be much past twelve

o'clock, and on the whole there be every reason for feel satisfied

with the result of his visit. before long he would probably receive

another invitation to dine. so with light step he go out into the

hall, where Martin again shake hand with he.



the sky have darken over, and a shrilling of the wind sound through

the garden foliage--fir, and cypres, and laurel. just as Godwin

reach the gate, he be meet by Miss Warricombe and Fanny, who be

return from a walk. they wear the costume appropriate to March

weather in the country, close-fit, defiant of gust; and their

cheek glow with health. as he exchange greeting with they, Peak

receive a new impression of the sister. he admire the physical

vigour which enable they to take delight in such a day as this, when

girl of poor blood and ignoble nurture would shrink from the sky's

showery tumult, and protect their surface elegance by the fireside.

impossible for Sidwell and Fanny to be anything but graceful, for at

all time they be perfectly unaffected.



'there'll be another storm in a minute,' say the young of they,

look with interest to the quarter whence the wind come. 'how

suddenly they burst! what a rush! and then in five minute the sky be

clear again.'



her eye shine as she turn laughingly to Peak.



'you're not afraid of get wet? hadn't you well come under cover?'



'here it be!' exclaim Sidwell, with quieter enjoyment. 'take shelter

for a minute or two, Mr. Peak.'



they lead the way to the portico, where Godwin stand with they and

watch the squall. a moment's downpour of furious rain be follow by

heavy hailstone, which drive horizontally before the shriek wind.

the prospect have wrap itself in grey gloom. at a hundred yard'

distance, scarcely an object could be distinguish; the storm-cloud

swoop so low that its skirt touch the branch of tall elm, a

streaming, rush raggedness.



'don't you enjoy that?' Fanny ask of Godwin.



'indeed I do.'



'you should be on Dartmoor in such weather,' say Sidwell. 'Father and

I be once catch in storm far bad than this--far well, I ought

to say, for I never know anything so terrifically grand.'



already it be over. the gust diminish in frequency and force, the

hail cease, the core of blackness be pass over to the eastern sky.

Fanny run out into the garden, and point upward.



'look where the sunlight be come!'



an uncloaked patch of heaven shine with colour like that of the girl's

eye--faint, limpid blue. remind himself that to tarry long in

this company would be imprudent, Godwin bid the sister good-morning.

the frank heartiness with which Fanny press his hand send he on his

way exultant. not too strong a word; for, independently of his wide

ambition, he be move and gratify by the thought that kindly

feeling towards he have spring up in such a heart as this. nor do

conscience so much as whisper a reproach. with unreflecting

ingenuousness he taste the joy as if it be his right. thus long he

have wait, through year of hungry manhood, for the look, the tone,

which be in harmony with his native sensibility. Fanny Warricombe

be but an undeveloped girl, yet he value her friendship above the

passionate attachment of any woman breed on a low social plane. have it

be possible, he would have kiss her finger with purest reverence.



when out of sight of the house, he pause to regard the sky again. its

noontide splendour be dazzle; masse of rosy cloud sail swiftly

from horizon to horizon, the azure deepen about they. yet before

long the west would again send forth its turbulent spirit, and so the

girl might perhaps be lead to think of he.



by night the weather grow more tranquil. there be a full moon, and its

radiance illumine the ever-change face of heaven with rare grandeur.

Godwin could not shut himself up over his book; he wander far away

into the country, and let his thought have freedom.



he be learn to review with calmness the course by which he have

reach his now steadfast resolve. a revulsion such as he have

experience after his first day of simulated orthodoxy, half a year

ago, could not be of last effect, for it be oppose to the whole

tenor of his mature thought. it spoil his holiday, but have no chance

of persist after his return to the atmosphere of Rotherhithe. that

he should have be capable of such emotion be, he say to himself, in

the just order of thing; callousness in the first stage of an

undertaking which demand gross hypocrisy would signify an ignoble

nature--a nature, indeed, which could never have be submit to

trial of so strange a kind. but he have overcome himself; that phase of

difficulty be outlive, and henceforth he see only the material

obstacle to be defy by his vindicate will.



what he propose to himself be a life of deliberate baseness. Godwin

Peak never try to play the sophist with this fact. but he succeed

in justify himself by a consideration of the circumstance which have

compel he to a vile expedient. have his project involve conscious

wrong to other person, he would scarcely even have speculate on its

possibility. he be convince that no mortal could suffer harm, even

if he accomplish the uttermost of his desire. whom be he in danger

of wrong? the conventional moralist would cry: everyone with whom he

come in slight contact! but a mind such as Peak's have very little to

do with conventional morality. injury to himself he foresaw and

accept; he could never be the man nature design in he; and he must

frequently submit to a self-contempt which would be very hard to bear.

those whom he consistently deceive, how would they suffer? Martin

Warricombe to begin with. Martin be a man who have live his life, and

whose chief care would now be to keep his mind at rest in the faith

which have serve he from youth onwards. in that very purpose, Godwin

believe he could assist he. to see a young man, of strong and train

intellect, champion the old belief, must doubtless be a source of

reassurance to one in Martin's position. reassurance derive from a

lie?--And what matter, if the outcome be genuine, if it last until

the man himself be no more? do not every form of content result from

illusion? what be truth without the mind of the believer?



Society, then--at all event that part of it likely to be affect by

his activity? suppose he an ordain priest, perform all the

function imply in that office. why, to think only of example

recognise by the public at large, how would he differ for the bad

from this, that, and the other clergyman who teach Christianity, all

but with blunt avowal, as a scheme of human ethic? no wolf in sheep's

clothing he! he plot against no man's pocket, no woman's honour; he

have no sinister design of sap the faith of congregation--a scheme,

by-the-bye, which fanatic liberator might undertake with vast

self-approval. if by a word he could have banish religious dogma from

the mind of the multitude, he would not have care to utter it.

Wherein lay, indeed, a scruple to be surmount. the christian priest

must be a man of humble temper; he must be willing, even eager, to sit

down among the poor in spirit as well as in estate, and impart to they

his unworldly solace. yes, but it have always be recognise that some

man who could do the Church good service be personally unfit for

those meek ministration. his place be in the hierarchy of intellect;

if he be to be active at all, it must be with the brain. in his

conversation with Buckland Warricombe, last October, he have speak not

altogether insincerely. let he once be a member of the Church

militant, and his heart would go with many a stroke against that

democratic movement which desire, among other thing, the Church's

abolition. he have power of utterance. rouse to combat by the

proletarian challenge, he could make his voice ring in the ear of man,

even though he use a symbolism which he would not by choice have

adopt.



for it be natural that he should anticipate distinction. whatever his

lot in life, he would not be able to rest among an inglorious

brotherhood. if he ally himself with the Church, the Church must

assign he leadership, whether titular or not be of small moment. in

day to come, let people, if they would, debate his history, canvass

his conviction. his scornful pride invite any degree of publicity,

when once his position be secure.



but in the meantime he be leave aside the most powerful of all his

motive, and one which demand close scrutiny. not ambition, in any

ordinary sense; not desire of material luxury; no incentive recognise

by unprincipled schemer first suggest his dishonour. this edifice of

subtle untruth have for its foundation a mere ideal of sexual love. for

the winning of some choose woman, man have work vehemently, have

ruin themselves and other, have achieve triumph noble or

degrading. but Godwin Peak have for year contemplate the possibility

of baseness at the impulse of a craving for love capable only of a

social (one might say, of a political) definition. the woman throne in

his imagination be no individual, but the type of an order. so

strangely have circumstance mould he, that he could not brood on a

desire of spiritual affinity, could not, as be natural to most

cultivate man, inflame himself with the ardour of soul reach to

soul; he be pre-occupy with the contemplation of quality which

characterise a class. the sense of social distinction be so burn

into he, that he could not be affect by any picture charm of mind

or person in a woman who have not the stamp of gentle birth and

breeding. if once he be admit to the intimacy of such woman, then,

indeed, the canon of selection would have weight with he; no man more

capable of disinterested choice. till then, the ideal which possess

he be merely such an assemblage of quality as would excite the

democrat to disdain or fury.



in Sidwell Warricombe this ideal find an embodiment; but Godwin do

not thereupon come to the conclusion that Sidwell be the wife he

desire. her influence have the effect of decide his career, but he

neither imagine himself in love with she, nor try to believe that he

might win her love if he set himself to the endeavour. for the first

time he be admit to familiar intercourse with a woman whom he

_could_ make the object of his worship. he think much of she; day and

night her figure stand before he; and this have continue now for half

a year. still he neither be, nor dream himself, in love with she.

before long his acquaintance would include many of she like, and at any

moment Sidwell might pale in the splendour of another's loveliness.



but what reasoning could defend the winning of a wife by false

pretence? this, his final aim, could hardly be achieve without grave

wrong to the person whose welfare must in the nature of thing be a

prime motive with he. the deception he have practise must soon or

later be discover; lifelong hypocrisy be incompatible with perfect

marriage; some day he must either involve his wife in a system of

dishonour, or with her consent relinquish the false career, and find

his happiness in the obscurity to which he would then be relegate.

admit the wrong. grant that some woman whom he love supremely must, on

his account, pass through a harsh trial--would it not be in his power

to compensate she amply? the wife whom he imagine (his idealism in

this matter be of a crudity which make the strange contrast with his

habit of thought on every other subject) would be rule by her

emotion, and that part of her nature would be wholly under his

governance. religious fanaticism could not exist in she, for in that

case she would never have attract he. little by little she would

learn to think as he do, and her devotedness must lead she to pardon

his deliberate insincerity. Godwin have absolute faith in his power of

dominate the woman whom he should inspire with tenderness. this be a

feature of his egoism, the explanation of those manifold

inconsistency inseparable from his tortuous design. he regard his

love as something so rare, so vehement, so exalt, that its bestowal

must seem an abundant recompense for any pain of which he be the cause.



thus, with perfect sincerity of argument, do Godwin Peak face the

undertaking to which he be commit. incident might perturb he, but

his position be no long a cause of uneasiness--save, indeed, at

those moment when he fear lest any of his old acquaintance might

hear of he before time be ripe. this be a source of anxiety, but

inevitable; one of the risk he dare.



have it seem possible, he would have keep even from his mother the

secret of his residence at Exeter; but this would have necessitate the

establishment of some indirect mean of communication with she, a

troublesome and uncertain expedient. he shrink from leave she in

ignorance of his whereabouts, and from pass a year or two without

knowledge of her condition. and, on the whole, there could not be much

danger in this correspondence. the Moxeys, who alone of his friend have

ever be connect with Twybridge, be now absolutely without

interest in that quarter. from they he have steal away, only

acquaint Christian at the last moment, in a short letter, with his

departure from London. 'it will be a long time before we again see each

other--at least, I think so. don't trouble your head about I. I cann't

promise to write, and shall be sorry not to hear how thing go with

you; but may all happen as you wish!' in the same way he have deal with

Earwaker, except that his letter to Staple Inn be much long, and

contain hint which the philosophic journalist might perchance truly

interpret. '"he either fear his fate too much"--you know the old song.

I have set out on my life's adventure. I have go to seek that without

which life be no long worth have. forgive my shabby treatment of

you, old friend. you cannot help I, and your displeasure would be a

hindrance in my path. a last piece of counsel: throw overboard the

weekly rag, and write for people capable of understand you.'

Earwaker be not at all likely to institute a search; he would accept

the situation, and wait with quiet curiosity for its upshot. no doubt

he and Moxey would discuss the affair together, and any desire

Christian might have to hunt for his vanish comrade would yield

before the journalist's surmise. no one else have any serious reason

for make inquiry. probably he might dwell in Devonshire, as long as

he choose, without fear of encounter anyone from his old world.



occasionally--as to-night, under the full moon--he be able to cast off

every form of trouble, and rejoice in his seem liberty. though every

step in the life before he be an uncertainty, an appeal to fortune,

his faith in himself grasp strongly at assurance of success. once

more he feel himself a young man, with unwearied energy; he have

shake off the burden of those ten frustrate year, and keep only their

harvest of experience. old in one sense, in another youthful, he have

vast advantage over such man as would henceforth be his

competitor--the complex brain, the fiery heart, passion to desire, and

skill in attempt. if with such endowment he could not win the prize

which most man claim as a mere matter of course, a wife of social

instinct correspondent with his own, he must indeed be luckless. but

he be not doom to defeat! foretaste of triumph urge the current of

his blood and inflame he with exquisite ardour. he sing aloud in the

still lane the hymn of youth and of love; and, when weariness bring

he back to his lonely dwelling, he lay his head on the pillow, and

sleep in dreamless calm.



as for the detail of his advance towards the clerical state, he have

decide to resume his career at the point where it be interrupt by

Andrew Peak. twice have his education receive a check from hostile

circumstance: when domestic poverty compel he to leave school for

Mr. Moxey's service, and when shame drive he from Whitelaw College. in

reflect upon his own character and his lot he give much weight to

these irregularity, no doubt with justice. in both case he be

turn aside from the way of natural development and opportunity. he

would now complete his academic course by take the London degree at

which he have long ago aim; the preliminary examination might without

difficulty be pass this summer, and next year he might write himself

Bachelor of Arts. a return to the study of boyhood probably account

in some measure for the frequent gaiety which he attribute to

improve health and revive hope. everything he undertake be easy to

he, and by a pleasant self-deception he make the passing of a school

task his augury of success in great thing.



during the spring he be indebted to the Warricombes' friendship for

several new acquaintance. a clergyman name Lilywhite, often at the

Warricombes' house, make friendly overture to he; the connection

might be a useful one, and Godwin make the most of it. Mr. Lilywhite

be a man of forty well--read, of scientific taste, an active

pedestrian. Peak have no difficulty in associate with he on amicable

term. with Mrs. Lilywhite, the mother of six child and possess of

many virtue, he presently become a favourite,--she see in he 'a great

deal of quiet moral force'. one or two family of good standing make

he welcome at their house; society be very kind to those who seek its

benefit with recognise credential. the more he see of these wealthy

and tranquil middle-class people, the more fervently do he admire the

gracefulness of their existence. he have not set before himself an

imaginary ideal; the girl and woman be sweet, gentle, perfect in

manner, and, within limit, of bright intelligence. he be conscious of

benefit greatly, and not alone in thing extrinsic, by the

atmosphere of such home.



Nature's progress towards summer keep he in a mood of healthful

enjoyment. from the window of his sitting-room he look over the

opposite house to Northernhay, the hill where once stand Rougemont

Castle, its woode declivity now fashion into a public garden. he

watch the rook at their building in the great elm, and be

gladden when the naked branch begin to deck themselves, day by day

the fresh verdure swell into soft, graceful outline. in his walk he

pry eagerly for the first violet, welcome the early blackthorn

blossom; every common flower of field and hedgerow give he a new, keen

pleasure. as be to be expect he find the same impulse strong in

Sidwell Warricombe and her sister. Sidwell could tell he of secret

spot where the wood-sorrel make haste to flower, or where the white

violet breathe its fragrance in security from common pilferer. here

be the safe and pleasantest matter for conversation. he know that on

such topic he could talk agreeably enough, reveal without stress or

importunity his taste, his power, his attainment. and it seem to

he that Sidwell listen with grow interest. most certainly she

father encourage his visit to the house, and Mrs. Warricombe behave

to he with increase of suavity.



in the meantime he have purchase a copy of Reusch's _Bibel und Natur_,

and have make a translation of some fifty page. this experiment he

submit to a London publishing house, with proposal for the

completion of the work; without much delay there come a civil letter of

excuse, and with it the sample return. another attempt again meet with

rejection. this failure do not trouble he. what he really desire be

to read through his version of Reusch with Martin Warricombe, and

before long he have bring it to pass that Martin request a perusal

of the manuscript as it advance, which it do but slowly. Godwin durst

not endanger his success in the examination by encroach upon hour

of necessary study; his leisure be largely sacrifice to _Bibel und

Natur_, and many an evening of calm golden loveliness, when he long

to be amid the field, pass in vexatious imprisonment. the name of

Reusch grow odious to he, and he revenge himself for the hypocrisy of

other hour by fierce scorn, cast audibly at this laborious exegetist.







CHAPTER III





it occasionally happen that a woman whose early life have be direct

by native silliness and social bias, will submit to a tardy education

at the hand of her own child. thus be it with Mrs Warricombe.



she come of a race long establish in squirearchic dignity amid heath

and woodland. her breeding be pure through many generation of the

paternal and maternal line, representative of a physical type,

fortify in the male by much companionship with horse and hound, and

by the correspond country pursuit of dowered daughter. at the time

of her marriage she have no charm of person more remarkable than rosy

comeliness and the symmetry of supple limb. as for the nurture of her

mind, it have be intrust to home-governess of respectable

incapacity. Martin Warricombe marry she because she be one of a

little circle of girl, much alike as to birth and fortune, with whom

he have grow up in familiar communication. timidity impose restraint

upon he which make his choice almost a matter of accident. as befall

often enough, the betrothal become an accomplished fact whilst he be

still doubt whether he desire it or not. when the fervour of early

wedlock be outlive, he have no difficulty in accept as a matter of

course that his life's companion should be hopelessly illogical and at

heart indifferent to everything but the small grace and substantial

comfort of provincial existence. one of the advantage of wealth be

that it allow husband and wife to keep a great deal apart without any

show of mutual unkindness, a condition essential to happiness in

marriage. time foster in they a calm attachment, independent of

spiritual sympathy, satisfied with a common regard for domestic honour.



not that Mrs. Warricombe remain in complete ignorance of her

husband's pursuit; social form would scarcely have allow this,

see that she be in constant intercourse, as hostess or guest, with

Martin's scientific friend. of fossil she necessarily know something.

up to a certain point they amuse she; she could talk of ammonite, of

brachiopod, and would point a friend's attention to the _Calceola

sandalina_ which Martin prize so much. the significance of

palaeontology she dimly apprehend, for in the early day of their

union her husband have feel it desirable to explain to she what be

mean by geologic time and how he reconcile his view on that subject

with the demand of religious faith. among the book which he induce

she to read be Buckland's Bridgewater Treatise and the work of Hugh

Miller. the intellectual result be chaotic, and Mrs. Warricombe

settle at last into a comfortable private opinion, that though the

record of geology might be trustworthy that of the Bible be more so.

she would admit that there be no impiety in accept the evidence of

nature, but hold to a secret conviction that it be safe to believe in

Genesis. for anything beyond a quasi-permissible variance from biblical

authority as to the age of the world she be quite unprepared, and

Martin, in his discretion, impart to her nothing of the graver doubt

which be willnot to trouble he.



but as her child grow up, Mrs. Warricombe's mind and temper be

insensibly modify by influence which operate through her maternal

affection, influence no doubt aid by the progressive spirit of the

time. the three boy--Buckland, Maurice, and Louis--be distinctly of

a new generation. it need some ingenuity to discover their point of

kindre with paternal and maternal grandparent; nor even with father

and mother have they much in common which observation could readily

detect. sidwell, up to at least her fifteenth year, seem to present

far less change of type. in her Mrs. Warricombe recognise a daughter,

and not without solace. but Fanny again be a problematical nature,

almost from the cradle. latest bear, she appear to revive many

characteristic of the youthful Buckland, so far as a girl could

resemble her brother. it be a strange brood to cluster around Mrs.

Warricombe. for many year the mother be keep in alternation between

hope and fear, pride and disapproval, the old hereditary habit of

mind, and a new order of idea which could only be admit with the

utmost slowness. Buckland's Radicalism deeply offend she; she

marvel how such depravity could display itself in a child of her.

yet in the end her ancestral prejudice so far yield as to allow of

she smile at sentiment which she once hear with horror. Maurice,

whom she love more tenderly, all but teach she to see the cogency of

a syllogism--amiably set forth. and Louis, with his indolent

good-nature, laugh she into a tolerance of many thing which have

move her indignation. but it be to sidwell that in the end she owe

most. beneath the surface of ordinary and rather backward girlhood,

which discourage her father's hope, Sidwell be quietly develop a

personality distinguish by the refinement of its ethical motive. her

orthodoxy seem as unimpeachable as Mrs Warricombe could desire, yet

as she grow into womanhood, a curiosity, which in no way disturb the

tenor of she quietly content life, lead she to examine various form

of religion, ancient and modern, and even system of philosophy which

profess to establish a moral code, independent of supernatural faith.

she be not of studious disposition--that be to say, she have never

care as a schoolgirl to do more mental work than be require of she,

and even now it be seldom that she read for more than an hour or two

in the day. her habit be to dip into book, and meditate long on the

first point which arrest her thought. of continuous application she

seem incapable. she could read French, but do not attempt to pursue

the other language of which her teacher have give she a smattering.

it please she good when she could learn from conversation. in this way

she obtain some insight into her father's favourite science,

occasionally make suggestion or inquiry which reveal a subtle if

not an acute intelligence.



little by little Mrs. Warricombe find herself change place with the

daughter whom she have regard as wholly subject to her direction.

Sidwell begin to exercise an indeterminate control, the proof of which

be at length manifest in detail of her mother's speech and

demeanour. an exquisite social tact, an unfailing insensibly as the

quality of pure air: these be the point of sincerity of moral

judgment, a gentle force which operate as character to which Mrs.

Warricombe owe the humanisation observable when one compare she in

1885 with what she be, say, in 1874, when the sight of Professor Walsh

move she to acrimony, and when she conceive a pique against Professor

Gale because the letter p have alphabetical precedence of W. Her

limitation be of course the same as ever, and from her son she have

only learn to be ashamed of announce they too vehemently. sidwell it

be who have lead she to that degree of genuine humility, which be not

satisfied with hide a fault but strive to amend it.



Martin Warricombe himself be not unaffected by the growth about he of

young man and maiden who look upon the world with new eye, whose

world, indeed, be another than that in which he have spend the well

part of his life. in his case contact with the young generation tend

to unsettlement, to a troublesome persistency of speculation which he

would have prefer to dismiss altogether. at the time of his

marriage, and for some year after, he be content to make a broad

distinction between those intellectual pursuit which afford he

rather a liberal amusement than the pleasure of earnest study and the

question of metaphysical faith which concern his heart and

conscience. his native prejudice be almost as strong, and much the

same, as those of his wife; but with the vagueness of emotional logic

natural to his constitution, he satisfy himself that, by concede a

few inessential point, he leave himself at liberty to follow the

scientific movement of the day without damage to his religious

conviction. the tolerant smile so frequently on his countenance be

direct as often in the one quarter as in the other. now it signify

a gentle reproof of those man of science who, like Professor Walsh,

'go too far', whose zeal for knowledge lead they 'to forget the source

of all true enlightenment'; now it express a forbear sympathy with

such as err in the opposite direction, who be 'too literal in their

interpretation of the sacred volume'. amiable as the smile be, it

betray weakness, and at moment Martin become unpleasantly conscious

of indisposition to examine his own mind on certain point. his life,

indeed, be one of debate postpone. as the realm of science extend,

as his intercourse with man who frankly avow their 'infidelity' grow

more frequent, he ever and again say to himself that, one of these

day, he must sit down and 'have it out' in a solemn self-search.

but for the most part he get on very well amid his inconsistency.

religious faith have rarely any connection with reasoning. Martin

believe because he believe, and avoid the impact of disagreeable

argument because he wish to do so.



the bent of his mind be anything but polemical; he care not to spend

time even over those author whose attack on the outpost of science,

or whose elaborate reconcilement of old and new, might have afford

he some support. on the other hand, he altogether lack that breadth

of intellect which seek to comprehend all the result of speculation,

to discern their tendency, to derive from they a consistent theory of

the nature of thing. though a man be well verse in a science such as

palaeontology it do not follow that he will view it in its

philosophical relation. Martin have keep himself inform of all the

fact appertain to his study which the age bring forth, but

without develop the new mode of mental life requisite for the

recognition of all that such fact involve. the theory of evolution

he do not venture openly to resist, but his acceptance of they be so

half-hearted that practically he make no use of their teaching. he be

no man of science, but an idler among the wonder which science use

for her own purpose.



he regard with surprise and anxiety the tendency early manifest

in his son Buckland. could he have have his way the lad would have grow

up with an impossible combination of quality, blend the enthusiasm

of modern research with a spirit of expansive teleology. whilst

Buckland be still of boyish year, the father treat with banter

good-humour such outbreak of irreverence as come immediately under his

notice, weakly abstain from any attempt at direct argument or

influence. but, at a later time, there take place serious and painful

discussion, and only when the young man have rub off his edge in

the world's highway could Martin forget that stage of most unwelcome

conflict.



at the death of his young boy, Maurice, he suffer a blow which have

result more abide than the melancholy wherewith for a year or two

his genial nature be overshadow. from that day onwards he be never

wholly at ease among the pursuit which have be willnot to afford he an

unfailing resource against whatever trouble. he could no long accept

and disregard, in a spirit of cheerful faith, those difficulty

science be perpetually throw in his way. the old smile of kindly

tolerance have still its twofold meaning, but it be more evidently a

disguise of indecision, and not seldom touch with sadness. Martin's

life be still one of postpone debate, but he could not regard the day

when conclusion would be demand of he as indefinitely remote.

desire to dwell in the familiar temporary abode, his structure of

incongruity and facile reconcilement, he find it no long

weather-proof. the time be shake his position with earthquake

after earthquake. his son (for he suspect that Louis be hardly less

emancipate than Buckland) stand far aloof from he, and must in

private feel contemptuous of his old-fashioned belief. in Sidwell,

however, he have a companion more and more indispensable, and he could

not imagine that _she_ faith would ever give way before the invade

spirit of agnosticism. happily she be no mere pietist. though he do

not quite understand her attitude towards Christianity, he feel assure

that Sidwell have think deeply and earnestly of religion in all its

aspect, and it be a solace to know that she find no difficulty in

recognise the large claim of science. for all this, he could not

deliberately seek her confidence, or invite she to a discussion of

religious subject. some day, no doubt, a talk of that kind would begin

naturally between they, and so strong be his instinctive faith in

Sidwell that he look forward to this future communing as to a certain

hope of peace.



that a figure such as Godwin Peak, a young man of vigorous intellect,

prepare to devote his life to the old religion, should excite Mr.

Warricombe's interest be of course to be anticipate; and it seem

probable enough that Peak, exert all the force of his character and

aid by circumstance, might before long convert this advantage to a

mean of ascendency over the less self-reliant nature. but here be no

instance of a dotard become the easy prey of a scientific tartufe.

Martin's intellect have suffer no decay. his hale feature and

dignified bearing express the mind which be ripen by sixty year

of pleasurable activity, and which be learn to regard with steady

view the problem it have hitherto shirk. he could not change the

direction nature have give to his thought, and prepossession would in

some degree obscure his judgment where the merit and trustworthiness

of a man in Peak's circumstance call for scrutiny; but self-respect

guard he against vulgar artifice, and a fine sensibility make it

improbable that he would become the victim of any man in whom base

motive predominate.



leave to his own impulse, he would still have proceed with all

caution in his offer of friendly service to Peak. a letter of

carefully-word admonition, which he receive from his son, apprise

he of Peak's resolve to transfer himself to Exeter, scarcely affect

his behaviour when the young man appear. it be but natural--he

argue--that Buckland should look askance on a case of 'conversion';

for his own part, he understand that such a step might be prompt by

interest, but he find it difficult to believe that to a man in Peak's

position, the Church would offer temptation thus coercive. nor could he

discern in the candidate for a curacy any mark of dishonourable

purpose. fault, no doubt, be observable, among they a tendency to

spiritual pride--which seem (Martin could admit) an argument for,

rather than against, his sincerity. the progress of acquaintance

decidedly confirm his favourable impression; they be support by

the remark of those among his friend to whom Peak presently became

know.



it be not until Whitsuntide of the next year, when the student have

be live nearly five month at Exeter, that Buckland again come down

to visit his relative. on the evening of his arrival, chance to be

alone with Sidwell, he ask she if Peak have be to the house lately.



'not many day ago,' reply his sister, 'he lunch with we, and then

sit with father for some time.'



'do he come often?'



'not very often. he be translate a german book which interest father

very much.'



'oh, what book?'



'I don't know. Father have only mention it in that way.'



they be in a little room sacred to the two girl, very daintily

furnished and fragrant of sweet-brier, which Sidwell love so much

that, when the season allow it, she often wear a little spray of it

at her girdle. Buckland open a book on the table, and, on see the

title, exclaim with a disparaging laugh:



'I cann't get out of the way of this fellow M'Naughten! wherever I go,

there he lie about on the table and chair. I should have think he

be thoroughly smash by an article that come out in _the Critical_

last year.'



Sidwell smile, evidently in no way offended.



'that article could "smash" nobody,' she make answer. 'it be too

violent; it overshot the mark.'



'not a bit of it!--So you read it, eh? you're begin to read, be

you?'



'in my humble way, Buckland.'



'M'Naughten, among other thing. humble enough, that, I admit.'



'I be not a great admirer of M'Naughten,' return his sister, with a

look of amusement.



'no? I congratulate you.--I wonder what Peak think of the book?'



'I really don't know.'



'then let I ask another question. what do you think of Peak?'



Sidwell regard he with quiet reflectiveness.



'I feel,' she say, 'that I don't know he very well yet. he be

certainly interesting.'



'yes, he be. do he impress you as the kind of man likely to make a

good clergyman?'



'I don't see any reason why he should not.'



her brother muse, with wrinkle of dissatisfaction on his brow.



'Father get to like he, you say?'



'yes, I think father like he.'



'well, I suppose it's all right.'



'all right?'



'it's the most astounding thing that ever come under my observation,'

exclaim Buckland, walk away and then return.



'that Mr. Peak should be study for the Church?'



'yes.'



'but do reflect more modestly!' urge Sidwell, with something that be

not quite archness, though as near it as her habit of tone and feature

would allow. 'why should you refuse to admit an error in your own way

of look at thing? wouldn't it be well to take this as a proof

that intellect ben't necessarily at war with Christianity?'



'I never state it so broadly as that,' return her brother, with

impatience. 'but I should certainly have maintain that _Peak's_

intellect be necessarily in that position.'



'and you see how wrong you would have be,' remark the girl, softly.



'well--I don't know.'



'you don't know?'



'I mean that I cann't acknowledge what I cann't understand.'



'then do try to understand, Buckland!--Have you ever put aside your

prejudice for a moment to inquire what our religion really mean? not

once, I think--at all event, not since you reach year of

discretion.'



'allow I to inform you that I study the question thoroughly at

Cambridge.'



'yes, yes; but that be in your boyhood.'



'and when do manhood begin?'



'at different time in different person. in your case it be late.'



Buckland laugh. he be consider a rejoinder, when they be

interrupt by the appearance of Fanny, who ask at once:



'shall you go to see Mr. Peak this evening, Buckland?'



'I'm in no hurry,' be the abrupt reply.



the girl hesitate.



'let we all have a drive together--with Mr. Peak, I mean--like when you

be here last.'



'we'll see about it.'



Buckland go slowly from the room.



late the same evening he sit with his father in the study. Mr

Warricombe know not the solace of tobacco, and his son, though never

quite at ease without pipe or cigar, deny himself in this room, with

the result that he shift frequently upon his chair and fall into many

awkward posture.



'and how do peak impress you?' he inquire, when the subject he most

wish to converse upon have be postpone to many other. it be clear

that Martin would not himself broach it.



'not disagreeably,' be the reply, with a look of frankness, perhaps

over-emphasise.



'what be he do? I have only hear from he once since he come down,

and he have very little to say about himself.'



'I understand that he propose to take the London B.A.'



'oh, then, he never do that? have he unbosomed himself to you about his

affair of old time?'



'no. such confidence be hardly call for.'



'speak plainly, father, you don't feel any uneasiness?'



Martin deliberate, finger the while an engraved stone which hang

upon his watch-guard. he be at a disadvantage in this conversation.

Aware that Buckland regard the circumstance of Peak's sojourn in the

neighbourhood with feeling ally to contempt, he could neither adopt

the tone of easy confidence natural to he on other occasion of

difference in opinion, nor express himself with the coldness which

would have oblige his son to quit the subject.



'perhaps you have well tell I,' he reply, 'whether _you_ be really

uneasy.'



it be impossible for Buckland to answer as his mind prompt. he could

not without offence declare that no young man of brain now adopt a

clerical career with pure intention, yet such be his sincere belief.

make tolerant in many direction by the cultivation of his shrewdness,

he be hopelessly biassed in judgment as soon as his anti-religious

prejudice come into play--a point of strong resemblance between he and

Peak. after fidget for a moment, he exclaim:



'yes, I be; but I cann't be sure that there's any cause for it.'



'let we come to matter of fact,' say Mr. Warricombe, show that he

be not sorry to discuss this side of the affair. 'I suppose there be

no doubt that Peak have a position till lately at the place he speak

of?'



'no doubt whatever. I have take pain to ascertain that. his account

of himself, so far, be strictly true.'



Martin smile, with satisfaction he do not care to disguise.



'have you meet some acquaintance of his?'



'well,' answer Buckland, change his position, 'I go to work in

rather an underhand way, perhaps--but the result be satisfactory. no,

I haven't come across any of his friend, but I happen to hear not

long ago that he be on intimate term with some journalist.'



his father laugh.



'anything compromise in that association, Buckland?'



'I don't say that--though the fellow I speak of be hot radical.'



'though?'



'I mean,' reply the young man, with his shrewd smile, 'that they

be not exactly the companion a theological student would select.'



'I understand. possibly he have journalise a little himself?'



'that I cann't say, though I should have think it likely enough. I

might, of course, find out much more about he, but it seem to I

that to have assurance of his truthfulness in that one respect be

enough for the present.'



'do you mean, Buckland,' ask his father, gravely, 'that you have be

set secret police at work?'



'well, yes. I think it the least objectionable way of get

information.'



Martin compress his lip and look disapproval.



'I really cann't see that such extreme measure be demand. come,

come; what be all this about? do you suspect he of plan

burglary? that be an ill-judge step, Buckland; decidedly

ill-judged. I say just now that Peak impress I by no means

disagreeably. now I will add that I be convinced of his good faith--as

sure of it as I be of his remarkable talent and aptitude for the

profession he aim at. in spite of your extraordinary distrust, I cann't

feel a moment's doubt of his honour. why, I could have tell you myself

that he have know radical journalist. he mention it the other day,

and explain how far his sympathy go with that kind of thing. no,

no; that be hardly permissible, Buckland.'



the young man have no difficulty in bow to his father's reproof when

the point at issue be one of gentlemanly behaviour.



'I admit it,' he reply. 'I wish I have go to Rotherhithe and make

simple inquiry in my own name. that, all thing consider, I might

have allow myself; at all event, I shouldn't have be at ease

without get that assurance. if Peak have hear, and have say to I,

"what the deuce do you mean?" I should have tell he plainly, what I

have strongly hint to he already, that I don't understand what he be

do in this galley.'



'and have place yourself in a position not easy to define.'



'no doubt.'



'all this arise, my boy,' resume Martin, in a tone of grave kindness,

'from your strange inability to grant that on certain matter you may

be wholly mislead.'



'it do.'



'well, well; that be forbid ground. but do try to be less narrow.

be you unable then to meet Peak in a friendly way?'



'oh, by no mean! it seem more than likely that I have wrong he.'



'well say! keep your mind open. I marvel at the dogmatism of man who

be set on overthrow dogma. such a position be so strangely

unphilosophic that I don't know how a fellow of your brain can hold it

for a moment. if I be not afraid of anger you,' Martin add, in

his pleasantest tone, 'I would quote the Master of Trinity.'



'a capital epigram, but it be repeat too often.'



Mr. Warricombe shake his head, and with a laugh rise to say good-night.



'it's a great pity,' he remark next day to Sidwell, who have be

say that her brother seem less vivacious than usual, 'that

Buckland be defective on the side of humour. for a man who claim to be

philosophical he take thing with a rather obtuse seriousness. I know

nothing well than humour as a protection against the kind of mistake

he be always commit.'



the application of this be not clear to Sidwell.



'have something happen to depress he?' she ask.



'not that I know of. I speak only of his general tendency to

intemperate zeal. that be enough to account for interval of reaction.

and how much sounder his judgment of man would be if he could only see

through a medium of humour now and then! you know he be go over to

Budleigh Salterton this afternoon?'



Sidwell smile, and say quietly:



'I think it likely he would.'



at Budleigh Salterton, a nook on the coast some fifteen mile away,

Sylvia Moorhouse be now dwell. her mother, a widow of substantial

mean, have recently establish herself there, in the proximity of

friend, and the mathematical brother make his home with they. that

Buckland take every opportunity of enjoy Sylvia's conversation be

no secret; whether the predilection be mutual, none of his relative

could say, for in a matter such as this Buckland be by nature dispose

to reticence. Sidwell's intimacy with Miss Moorhouse put she in no

well position than the other for form an opinion; she could only

suspect that the irony which flavour Sylvia's talk with and

concern the Radical, intimate a lurk kindness. Buckland's

preference be easily understand, and its growth for five or six year

seem to promise stability.



immediately after luncheon the young man set forth, and do not

reappear until the evening of the next day. his spirit have not

benefit by the excursion; at dinner he be noticeably silent, and

instead of go to the drawing-room afterwards he betake himself to

the studio up on the roof, and smoke in solitude. there, towards ten

o'clock, Sidwell seek he. heavy rain be beat upon the glass, and

a high wind blend its bluster with the cheerless sound.



'don't you find it rather cold here?' she ask, after observe she

brother's countenance of gloom.



'yes; I'm come down.--Why don't you keep up your painting?'



'I have lose interest in it, I'm afraid.'



'that's very weak, you know. it seem to I that nothing interest you

permanently.'



Sidwell think it well to make no reply.



'the characteristic of woman,' Buckland pursue, with some asperity,

throw away the stump of his cigar. 'it come, I suppose, of their

ridiculous education--their mind be never train to fixity of

purpose. they never understand themselves, and scarcely ever make an

effort to understand any one else. their life be a succession of

inconsistency.'



'this generalising be so easy,' say Sidwell, with a laugh, 'and so

worthless. I wonder you should be so far behind the time.'



'what light have the time throw on the subject?'



'there's no long such a thing as _woman_ in the abstract. we be

individual.'



'don't imagine it! that may come to pass three or four generation

hence, but as yet the good of you can only vary the type in unimportant

particular. by the way, what be Peak's address?'



'Longbrook Street; but I don't know the number. Father can give it you,

I think.'



'I shall have to drop he a note. I must get back to town early in the

morning.'



'really? we hope to have you for a week.'



'long next time.'



they descend together. now that Louis no long abode here (he have

decide at length for medicine, and be at work in London), the family

as a rule spend very quiet evening. by ten o'clock Mrs Warricombe and

Fanny have retire, and Sidwell be leave either to talk with her father,

or to pursue the calm meditation which seem to make her independent

of companionship as often as she choose.



'be they all go?' Buckland ask, find a vacant room.



'Father be no doubt in the study.'



'it occur to me--. do you feel satisfied with this dead-alive

existence?'



'satisfied? no life could suit I well.'



'you really think of live here indefinitely?'



'as far as I be concern, I hope nothing may ever disturb we.'



'and to the end of your life you will scent yourself with sweetbri?

do try a bit of mint for a change.'



'certainly, if it will please you.'



'seriously, I think you might all come to town for next winter. you be

rusting, all of you. Father be never so dull, and mother don't seem

to know how to pass the day. it wouldn't be bad for Louis to be live

with you instead of in lodging. do just think of it. it's age since

you hear a concert, or see a picture.'



Sidwell muse, and her brother watch her askance.



'I don't know whether the other would care for it,' she say, 'but I

be not tempt by a winter of fog.'



'Fog? Pooh! well, there be an occasional fog, just now and then, but

it's much exaggerated. who ever think of the weather in England? Fanny

might have a time at Bedford College or some such place-she learn

nothing here. think it over. Father would be delighted to get among the

society, and so on.'



he repeat his argument in many form, and Sidwell listen

patiently, until they be join by Mr. Warricombe, whereupon the

subject drop; to be resume, however, in correspondence, with a

persistency which Buckland seldom exhibit in anything which affect

the interest of his relative. as the summer draw on, Mrs Warricombe

begin to lend serious ear to this suggestion of change, and Martin be

at all event move to discuss the pro and con of half a year in

London. Sidwell preserve neutrality, seldom make an allusion to the

project; but Fanny support her brother's proposal with sprightly

zeal, declare on one occasion that she begin distinctly to feel the

need of 'a high culture', such as London only could supply.



in the meantime there have be occasional interchange of visit between

the family and their friend at Budleigh Salterton. one evening, when

Mrs. Moorhouse and Sylvia be at the Warricombes', three or four

exeter people come to dine, and among the guest be Godwin Peak--his

invitation be due in this instance to Sylvia's express wish to meet

he again.



'I be study man,' she have say to Sidwell not long before, when the

latter be at the seaside with she. 'in our day this be the proper

study of womankind. Hitherto we have give serious attention only to

one another. Mr. Peak remain in my memory as a type worth observe;

let I have a chance of talk to he when I come next.'



she do not neglect her opportunity, and Mrs. Moorhouse, who also

converse with the theologian and find he interesting, be so good as

to hope that he would call upon she if ever his step turn towards

Budleigh Salterton.



after breakfast next morning, Sidwell find her friend sit with a

book beneath one of the great tree of the garden. at that moment

Sylvia be overcome with laughter, evidently occasion by her reading.



'oh,' she exclaim, 'if this man ben't a great humorist! I don't think

I ever read anything more irresistible.'



the book be Hugh Miller's _testimony of the Rocks_, a richly bind

copy belong to Mrs. Warricombe.



'I daresay you know it very well; it's the chapter in which he

discuss, with perfect gravity, whether it would have be possible

for Noah to collect example of all live creature in the ark. he

decide that it wouldn't--that the deluge _must_ have spare a portion

of the earth; but the detail of his argument be delicious, especially

this place where he say that all the insect could have be bring

together only "at enormous expense of miracle"! I suspect a secret

smile; but no--that's out of the question. "at enormous expense of

miracle"!'



Sylvia's eye wink as she laugh, a peculiarity which enhance the

charm of her frank mirth. her dark, pure complexion, strongly-mark

eyebrow, subtle lip, be shadow beneath a great garden hat, and a

loose white gown, with no oppressive moulding at the waist, make she a

refreshing picture in the glare of mid-summer.



'the phrase be ridiculous enough,' assented Sidwell. 'miracle can be

but miracle, however great or small its extent.'



'ben't it strange, read a book of this kind nowadays? what a leap we

have make! I should think there's hardly a country curate who would be

capable of bring this argument into a sermon.'



'I don't know,' return Sidwell, smile. 'one still hear remarkable

sermon.'



'what will Mr. Peak's be like?'



they exchange glance. Sylvia wear a look of reflective curiosity, and

her friend answer with some hesitation, as if the thought be new to

she:



'they willn't deal with Noah, we may take that for grant.'



'most likely not with miracle, however little expensive.'



'perhaps not. I suppose he will deal chiefly with the moral teaching of

Christianity.'



'do you think he strong as a moralist?' inquire Sylvia.



'he have very decide opinion about the present state of our

civilisation.'



'so I find. but be there any distinctly moral force in he?'



'Father think so,' Sidwell reply, 'and so do our friend the

Lilywhites.'



Miss Moorhouse ponder awhile.



'he be a great problem to I,' she declare at length, knit she

brow with a hint of humorous exaggeration. 'I wonder whether he

believe in the dogma of Christianity.'



Sidwell be startle.



'would he think of become a clergyman?'



'oh, why not? don't they recognise nowadays that the spirit be enough?'



there be silence. sidwell let her eye wander over the sunny grass to

the red-flower creeper on the near side of the house.



'that would involve a great deal of dissimulation,' she say at length.

'I cann't reconcile it with what I know of Mr. Peak.'



'and I cann't reconcile anything else,' rejoin the other.



'he impress you as a rationalist?'



'you not?'



'I confess I have take his belief for grant. oh, think! he couldn't

keep up such a pretence. however you justify it, it imply conscious

deception. it would be dishonourable. I be sure _he_ would think it so.'



'how do your brother regard he?' Sylvia ask, smile very

slightly, but with direct eye.



'Buckland cann't credit anyone with sincerity except an aggressive

agnostic.'



'but I think he allow honest credulity.'



Sidwell have no answer to this. after muse a little, she put a

question which indicate how her thought have travel.



'have you meet many woman who declare themselves agnostic?'



'several.'



Sylvia remove her hat, and begin to fan herself gently with the brim.

here, in the shade, bee be hum; from the house come faint note

of a piano--Fanny practise a mazurka of Chopin.



'but never, I suppose, one who find a pleasure in attack

christianity?'



'a girl who be at school with I in London,' Sylvia reply, with an

air of amused reminiscence. 'Marcella Moxey. don't I ever speak to you

of she?'



'I think not.'



'she be bitter against religion of every kind.'



'because her mother make she learn collect, I dare say?' suggest

Sidwell, in a tone of gentle satire.



'no, no. Marcella be about eighteen then, and have neither father nor

mother.--(How Fanny's touch improves!)--She be a bear atheist, in the

full sense of the word.'



'and detestable?'



'not to I--I rather like she. she be remarkably honest, and I have

sometimes think that in moral, on the whole, she stand far above

most woman. she hate falsehood--hate it with all her heart, and a

story of injustice madden she. when I think of Marcella it help I

to picture the russian girl who propagate Nihilism.'



'you have lose sight of she?'



'she go abroad, I think. I should like to have know her fate. I

rather think there will have to be many like she before woman be

civilised.'



'how I should like to ask she,' say Sidwell, 'on what she support

her morality?'



'put the problem to Mr. Peak,' suggest the other, gaily. 'I fancy he

wouldn't find it insoluble.'



Mrs. Warricombe and Mrs. Moorhouse appear in the distance, walk

hither under parasol. the girl rise to meet they, and be presently

engage in less interesting colloquy.







CHAPTER IV





this summer Peak become a semi-graduate of London University. to avoid

the risk of a casual meeting with acquaintance, he do not go to

London, but sit for his examination at the near provincial centre.

the revival of boyish tremor at the successive stage of this business

be anything but agreeable; it remind he, with humiliating force,

how far he have stray from the path indicate to his self-respect

manhood. Defeat would have strengthen in overwhelming revolt all the

impulse which from time to time urge he to abandon his servile

course. but there be no chance of his fail to satisfy the

examiner. with 'Honours' he have now nothing to do; enough for his

purpose that in another year's time he would write himself Bachelor of

Arts, and thus simplify the clerical preliminary. in what quarter he

be to look for a curacy remain uncertain. meanwhile his enterprise

seem to prosper, and success embolden his hope.



hope which be no long vague, but have define themselves in a way

which circumstance make inevitable. though he have consistently guard

himself against the obvious suggestion arise out of his intercourse

with the Warricombe family, though he still emphasise every

discouraging fact, and strove to regard it as axiomatic that nothing

could be more perilous to his future than a hint of presumption or

self-interest in word or deed beneath that friendly roof, it be come

to pass that he think of Sidwell not only as the type of woman

pursue by his imagination, but as herself the object of his converging

desire. comparison of she with other have no result but the deepening

of that impression she have at first make upon he. Sidwell exhibit

all the quality which most appeal to he in her class; in addition,

she have the charm of a personality which he could not think of common

occurrence. he be yet far from understand she; she exercise his

power of observation, analysis, conjecture, as no other person have

ever do; each time he see she (be it but for a moment) he come away

with some new perception of her excellence, some hitherto unmarked

grace of person or mind whereon to meditate. he have never approach a

woman who possess this power at once of fascinate his sense and

control his intellect to a glad reverence. whether in her presence

or muse upon she in solitude, he find that the unspare naturalism

of his scrutiny be powerless to degrade that sweet, pure being.



Rare, under any circumstance, be the passionate love which control

every motive of heart and mind; rarer still that form of it which, with

no assurance of reciprocation, devote exclusive ardour to an object

only approachable through declare obstacle. Godwin Peak be not

frame for romantic languishment. in general, the more complex a man's

mechanism, and the more pronounce his habit of introspection, the less

capable be he of love with vehemence and constancy. hero of passion

be for the most part primitive nature, nobly temper; in our time

they tend to extinction. grow vulgarism on the one hand, and on the

other a development of the psychological conscience, be unfavourable

to any relation between the sex, save those which originate in pure

animalism, or in reasoning less or more generous. never having

experience any feeling which he could dignify with the name of love,

Godwin have no criterion in himself whereby to test the emotion now

beset he. in a man of his age this be an unusual state of thing,

for when the ardour which will bear analysis have at length declare

itself, it be willnot to be moderate by the regretful memory of that

fugacious essence which give to the first frenzy of youth its

irrecoverable delight. he could not say in reply to his impulse: if

that be love which overmaster I, this must be something either more

or less exalted. what he _do_ say be something of this kind: if

desire and tenderness, if frequency of dream rapture, if the calm

approval of the mind and the heart's most exquisite, most painful

throbbing, constitute love,--then assuredly I love Sidwell. but if to

love be to be possess with madness, to lose all taste of life when

hope refuse itself, to meditate frantic folly, to deem it

inconceivable that this woman should ever lose her dominion over I, or

another reign in her stead,--then my passion fall short of the true

testrum, and I be only dally with fancy which might spring up as

often as I encounter a charming girl.



all thing consider, to encourage this amorous preoccupation be

probably the height of unwisdom. the lover be ready at delude

himself, but Peak never lose sight of the extreme unlikelihood that he

should ever become Martin Warricombe's son-in-law, of the thousand

respect which forbid his hoping that Sidwell would ever lay her hand

in his. that deep-rooted sense of class which have so much influence on

his speculative and practical life assert itself, with rigid

consistency, even against his own aspiration; he attribute to the

Warricombes more prejudice on this subject than really exist in they.

he, it be true, belong to no class whatever, acknowledge no

subordination save that of the hierarchy of intelligence; but this

could not obscure the fact that his brother sell seed across a

counter, that his sister have marry a haberdasher, that his uncle

(notoriously) be somewhere or other supply the public with cheap

repast. girl of Sidwell's delicacy do not misally themselves, for

they take into account the fact that such misalliance be fraught with

element of unhappiness, affect husband as much as wife. no need to

dwell upon the scruple suggest by his moral attitude; he would never

be call upon to combat they with reference to Sidwell's future.



what, then, be he about? for what advantage be he play the

hypocrite? would he, after all, be satisfied with some such wife as the

average curate may hope to marry?



a hundred time he review the broad question, by the light of his six

month' experience. be Sidwell Warricombe his ideal woman, absolutely

speak? why, no; not with all his glow of feeling could he persuade

himself to declare she that. satisfy up to a certain point, admit

to the sphere of wealthy refinement, he now have leisure to think of yet

high grade, of the woman who be not only exquisite creature by

social comparison but rank by divine right among the foremost of their

race. Sidwell be far from intolerant, and hold her faith in a

sincerely ethical spirit. she judge nobly, she often see with clear

vision. but must not something of kindly condescension always blend

with his admire devotedness? be it but possible to win the love of

a woman who look forth with eye thoroughly purge from all mist of

tradition and conventionalism, who be at home among art and science,

who, like himself, acknowledge no class and bow to no authority but

that of the supreme human mind!



such woman be to be find in every age, but how many of they shine

with the distinctive ray of womanhood? these be so rare that they have

a place in the page of history. the truly emancipate woman--it be

Godwin's conviction--be almost always asexual; to he, therefore,

utterly repugnant. if, then, he be not content to waste his life in a

vain search for the priceless jewel, which be win and wear only by

fortune's supreme favourite, he must acquiesce in the imperfect

marriage commonly the lot of man whose intellect allow they but little

companionship even among their own sex: for that matter, the lot of

most man, and necessarily so until the new effort in female education

shall have overcome the vice of wedlock as hitherto sanction. nature

provide the hallucination which fling a lover at his mistress's foot.

for the chill which follow upon attainment she care nothing--let

society and individual make their account with that as good they may.

even with a wife such as Sidwell the process of disillusion would

doubtless have to be face, however liberal one's allowance in the

forecast.



reflection of this colour be useful; they help to keep within

limit the growth of agitate desire. but there be season when

Godwin surrender himself to luxurious reverie, hour of summer

twilight which forbid analysis and listen only to the harmony of

passion. then be Sidwell's image glorify, and all the delight

promise by such love as hers fire his imagination to intolerable

ecstasy. o heaven! to see the smile soften by rosy warmth which would

confess that she have give her heart--to feel her supple finger

intertwine with his that clasp they--to hear the word in which a

mind so admirable, instinct so delicate, would make expression of

their tenderness! to live with Sidwell--to breathe the fragrance of

that flower of womanhood in wed intimacy--to prove the devotion of a

nature so profoundly chaste! the visionary transport be too poignant;

in the end it drive he to a fierce outbreak of despair wrath. how

could he dream that such bliss would be the reward of despicable

artifice, of calculated dishonour? bear a rebel, how could his be the

fate of those happy man who be at one with the order of thing? the

prophecy of a heart wring with anguish foretell too surely that for he

be no rapturous love, no joy of noble wedlock. Solitude, now and for

ever, or perchance some base alliance of the flesh, which would involve

his later day in sordid misery.



in mood of discouragement he think with envy of his old self, his

life in London lodging, his freedom in obscurity. it belong to the

pathos of human nature that only in look back can one appreciate the

true value of those long tract of monotonous ease which, when we be

live through they, seem of no account save in relation to past or

future; only at a distance do we perceive that the exemption from

painful shock be in itself a happiness, to be rate highly in

comparison with most of those disturbance know as moment of joy. a

wise man would have entertain no wish but that he might grow old in

that same succession of day and week and year. without anxiety

concern his material need (certainly the most substantial of

earthly blessing), his leisure not inadequate to the gratification of

a moderate studiousness, with friend who offer he an ever-ready

welcome,--was it not much? if he be condemn to bachelorhood, his

philosophy be surely capable of teach he that the sorrow and

anxiety he thus escape make more than an offset against the

satisfaction he must forego. Reason have no part in the fantastic

change to which his life have submit, nor be he ever support by a

hope which would bear his cool investigation.



and yet hope have her period of control, for there be time when the

mind wearie of rationality, and, as it be in self-defense, in

obedience to the instinct of progressive life, crave a specious

comfort. it seem undeniable that Mr. Warricombe regard he with

growth of interest, invite his conversation more unreservedly. he

begin to understand Martin's position with regard to religion and

science, and thus could utter himself more securely. at length he

venture to discourse with some amplitude on his own conviction--the

view, that be to say, which he think fit to adopt in his character

of a liberal Christian. it be on an afternoon of early August that

this opportunity present itself. they sit together in the study, and

Martin be in a graver mood than usual, not much disposed to talk, but

a willing listener. there have be mention of a sermon at the

Cathedral, in which the preacher declare his faith that the maturity

of science would dispel all antagonism between it and revelation.



'the difficulty of the unbeliever,' say Peak, endeavour to avoid

a sermonise formality, though with indifferent success, 'be, of

course, of two kind; there's the theory of evolution, and there's

modern biblical criticism. the more I study these objection, the less

able I be to see how they come in conflict with belief in Christianity

as a reveal religion.'



'yet you probably have your time of doubt?' remark the other, touch

for the first time on this personal matter.



'oh, yes; that be inevitable. it only mean that one's development be

imperfect. Most man who confirm themselves in agnosticism be keep at

that point by arrest moral activity. they give up the intellectual

question as wearisome, and accept the point of view which flatter

their prejudice: thereupon follow a blunting of the sensibility on

the religious side.'



'there be man constitutionally unfit for the reception of spiritual

truth,' say Martin, in a troubled tone. he be play with a piece of

string, and do not raise his eye.



'I quite believe that. there's our difficulty when we come to

evidence. the evidence of science be wholly different in _kind_ from

those of religion. faith cannot spring from any observation of

phenomenon, or scrutiny of authority, but from the declaration make to

we by the spiritual faculty. the man of science can only become a

Christian by the way of humility--and that a kind of humility he find

it difficult even to conceive. one wish to impress upon he the

harmony of this faith with the spiritual voice that be in every man. he

reply: I know nothing of that spiritual voice. and if that be true,

one cann't help he by argument.'



Peak have construct for himself, out of his reading, a plausible

system which on demand he could set forth with fluency. the tone of

current apologetic teach he that, by man even of cultivate

intellect, such a position as he be now sketch be deem tenable;

yet to himself it sound so futile, so nugatory, that he have to harden

his forehead as he speak. trial more severe to his conscience lie in

the perceptible solicitude with which Mr Warricombe weigh these

disingenuous argument. it be a hateful thing to practise such

deception on one who probably yearn for spiritual support. but he have

commit himself to this course, and must brave it out.



'christianity,' he be say presently--appropriate a passage of

which he have once make careful note--'is an organism of such vital

energy that it perforce assimilate whatever be good and true in the

culture of each successive age. to understand this be to learn that we

must depend rather on _constructive_, than on _defensive_, apology.

that be to say, we must draw evidence of our faith from its latent

capacity, its unsuspected affinity, its prevision, its

adaptability, comprehensiveness, sympathy, adequacy to human need.'



'that put very well what I have always feel,' reply Mr Warricombe.

'yet there will remain the objection that such a faith may be of purely

human origin. if evolution and biblical criticism seem to overthrow all

the historic evidence of Christianity, how convince the objector that

the faith itself be divinely give?'



'but I cannot hold for a moment,' exclaim Peak, in the word which he

know his interlocutor desire to hear, 'that all the historic evidence

have be destroy. that indeed would shake our position.'



he enlarge on the point, with display of learn, yet studiously

avoid the tone of pedantry.



'Evolution,' he remark, when the dialogue have again extend its

scope, 'do not touch the evidence of design in the universe; at most

it can correct our imperfect view (hand down from an age which have

no scientific teaching because it be not ripe for it) of the mode in

which that design be execute, or rather be still be execute.

evolutionist have not succeed in explain life; they have merely

discover a new law relate to life. if we must have an explanation,

there be nothing for it but to accept the notion of a deity. indeed,

how can there be religion without a divine author? religion be base on

the idea of a divine mind which reveal itself to we for moral end.

the christian revelation, we hold, have be develop gradually, much

of it in connection with secondary cause and human event. it have come

down to we in anything but absolute purity--like a stream which have

be make turbid by its earthly channel. the lower serve its purpose

as a stage to the high, then it fall away, the high surviving.

Hitherto, the final outcome of evolution be the soul in a bodily

tenement. may it not be that the perfect soul alone survive in the

last step of the struggle for existence?'



Peak have be talk for more than a quarter of an hour. under stress

of shame and intellectual self-criticism (for he could not help

confute every position as he state it) his mind often wander. when

he cease speak there come upon he an uncomfortable dreaminess

which he have already once or twice experience when in colloquy with

Mr. Warricombe; a torment metaphysical doubt of his own identity

strangely beset he. with involuntary attempt to recover the familiar

self he grasp his own wrist, and then, before he be aware, a laugh

escape he, an all but mocking laugh, unsuitable enough to the spirit

of the moment. Mr Warricombe be startle, but look up with a

friendly smile.



'you fear,' he say, 'that this last speculation may seem rather

fanciful to I?'



Godwin be bite his lip fiercely, and could not command himself to

utterance of a word.



'by no mean, I assure you,' add the other. 'it appeal to I very

strongly.'



Peak rise from his chair.



'it strike I,' he say, 'that I have be preach a sermon rather

than take part in a conversation. I'm afraid it be the habit of man

who live a good deal alone to indulge in monologue.'



on his return home, the sight of _Bibel und Natur_ and his sheet of

laborious manuscript fill he with disgust. it be two or three day

before he could again apply himself to the translation. yet this

expedient have undoubtedly be of great service to he in the matter of

his relation with Mr. Warricombe. without the aid of Reusch he would

have find it difficult to speak naturally on the theme which draw

Martin into confidence and establish an intimacy between they.



already they have discuss in detail the first half of the book. how a

man of Mr. Warricombe's intelligence could take grave interest in an

arid exegesis of the first chapter of Genesis, Godwin strove in vain to

comprehend. often enough the debate be perilously suggestive of

burlesque, and, when alone, he relieve himself of the laughter he have

scarce restrain. for instance, there be that terrible _thohu wabohu_

of the second verse, a phrase preserve from the original, and toss

into all the corner of controversy. be _thohu wabohu_ the first

condition of the earth, or be it merely a period of division between a

previous state of thing and creation as establish by the Hexaemeron?

do light exist or not, previous to the _thohu wabohu_? then, again,

what kind of 'day' be the three which pass before the birth of the

sun? special interest, of course, attach to the successive theory

of theology on the origin of geologic strata. first come the 'theory of

restitution', which explain unbiblical antiquity by declare that

the strata belong to a world before the Hexaimeron, a world which have

be destroy, and succeed by the new creation. less objectionable

be the 'concordistic theory', which interpret the 'six day' as so

many vast period of creative activity. but Reusch himself give

preference to the 'ideal theory', the supporter whereof (diligently

adapt themselves to the progress of science) hold that the six day

be not to be understand as consecutive period at all, but merely as

six phase of the Creator's work.



by the exercise of watchfulness and dexterity, Peak manage for the

most part to avoid expression of definite opinion. his attitude be

that of a reverent (not yet reverend) student. Mr. Warricombe be less

guard, and sometimes allow himself to profess that he see nothing

but vain ingenuity in Reusch's argument: as, for example, where the

theologian, convince that the patriarch do really live to an

abnormal age, suggest that man's life be subsequently shorten in

order that 'sin might not flourish with such exuberance'. this passage

cause Martin to smile.



'it willn't do, it willn't do,' he say, quietly. 'far well apply his

rationalism here as elsewhere. these be wonderful old story, not to

be understand literally. nothing depend upon they nothing essential.'



Thereupon Peak muse anxiously. not for the first time there occur

to he a thought which suit only too well with his ironic habit of

mind. what if this hypocritic comedy be altogether superfluous? what

if Mr. Warricombe would have receive he no less cordially have he

avow his sincere position, and content himself with guard

against offensiveness? Buckland, it be true, have suffer in his

father's esteem on account of his unorthodoxy, but that young man have

be too aggressive, too scornful. with prudence, would it not have

be possible to win Martin's regard by fortify the scientific

rather than the dogmatic side of his intellect? if so, what a hopeless

error have he committed!--But sidwell? be _she_ liberal enough to take

a personal interest in one who have renounce faith in revelation? he

could not decide this question, for of Sidwell he know much less than

of her father. and it be idle to torment himself with such debate of

the irreversible.



and, indeed, there seem much reason for believe that Martin,

whatever the extent of his secret doubt, be by temperament arm

against agnosticism. distinctly it comfort he to hear the

unbeliever assail--the friend of whom he speak most heartily be

all on the orthodox side; if ever a hint of gentle malice occur in

his conversation, it be when he speak of a fallacy, a precipitate

conclusion, detect in work of science. probably he be too old to

overcome this bias.



his view of the Bible appear to harmonise with that which Peak put

forth in one of their dialogue. 'the scripture be mean to be

literally understand in primitive age, and spiritually when the growth

of science make it possible. _genesis_ be never intend to teach the

fact of natural history; it take phenomenon as they appear to

uninstructed people, and use they only for the inculcation of moral

lesson; it present to the childhood of the world a few great

elementary truth. and the way in which phenomenon be speak of in the

Old Testament be never really incompatible with the fact as we know

they nowadays. take the miracle of the sun stand still, which be

suppose to be a safe subject of ridicule. why, it merely mean that

light be miraculously prolong; the word use be those which common

people would at all time understand.'



(be it necessary to have admit the miracle? Godwin ask himself.

at all event Mr. Warricombe nod approvingly.)



'then the narrative of the creation of man; that's not at all

incompatible with his slow development through age. to teach the

scientific fact--if we yet really know it--would have be bad than

useless. the story be mean to express that spirit, and not matter, be

the source of all existence. indeed, our knowledge of the true meaning

of the Bible have increase with the growth of science, and naturally

that must have be intend from the first. thing which do not

concern man's relation to the spiritual have no place in this book;

they be not within its province. such thing be discoverable by

human reason, and the knowledge which achieve have nothing to do with a

divine revelation.'



to Godwin it be a grinding of the air, but the listener appear to

think it profitable.



with his clerical friend, Mr. Lilywhite, he rarely touch on matter

of religion. the vicar of St. Ethelreda's be a man well suit to

support the social dignity of his Church. a gentleman before

everything, he seem incapable of pry into the state of a

parishioner's soul; you see in he the official representative of a

divinity characterise by well-breed tolerance. he have write a

pleasant little book on the by-way of Devon and Cornwall, which

bring about his intimacy with the Warricombe household. Peak like

he more the well he know he, and in the course of the summer they

have one or two long walk together, converse exclusively of the

thing of earth. Mr. Lilywhite trouble himself little about evolution;

he speak of tree and plant, of bird and animal, in a love spirit,

like the old simple naturalist. geology do not come within his sphere.



'I'm very sorry,' he say, 'that I could never care much for it. don't

think I'm afraid of it--not I! I feel the grandeur of its scope, just

as I do in the case of astronomy; but I have never bring myself to

study either science. a narrowness of mind, no doubt. I cann't go into

such remote time and region. I love the sunlight and the green field

of this little corner of the world--too well, perhaps: yes, perhaps too

well.'



after one of these walk, he remark to Mrs. Lilywhite:



'it's my impression that Mr. Peak have somehow be mislead in his choice

of a vocation. I don't think he'll do as a churchman.'



'why not, Henry?' ask his wife, with gentle concern, for she still

speak of Peak's 'quiet moral force'.



'there's something too restless about he. I doubt whether he have

really make up his mind on any subject whatever. well, it's not easy to

explain what I feel, but I don't think he will take Orders.'



call at the vicarage one afternoon in September, Godwin find Mrs

Lilywhite alone. she startle he by say at once:



'an old acquaintance of yours be with we yesterday, Mr. Peak.'



'who could that be, I wonder?'



he smile softly, control his impulse to show quite another

expression.



'you remember Mr. Bruno Chilvers?'



'oh, yes!'



there be a constriction in his throat. struggle to overcome it, he

add:



'but I should have think he have no recollection of I.'



'quite the contrary, I assure you. he be to succeed Mr. Bell of St

Margaret's, at Christmas; he be down here only for a day or two, and

call upon my husband with a message from an old friend of ours. it

appear he use to know the Warricombes, when they live at Kingsmill,

and he have be to see they before visit we; it be there your name

be mention to he.'



Godwin have seat himself, and lean forward, his hand grasp the

glove he have draw off.



'we be contemporary at Whitelaw College,' he observe.



'so we learn from he. he speak of you with the great interest; he

be delighted to hear that you contemplate take Orders. of course we

know Mr. Chilvers by reputation, but my husband have no idea that he be

come to Exeter. what an energetic man he be! in a few hour he seem

to have meet everyone, and to have learn everything. my husband say he

felt quite rebuke by such a display of vigour!'



even in his discomposure, graver than any that have affect he since

his talk with Buckland Warricombe, Peak be able to notice that the

Rev. Bruno have not make a wholly favourable impression upon the

Lilywhites. there be an amiable causticity in that mention of his

'display of vigour', such as do not often characterise Mrs Lilywhite's

comment. find that the vicar would be away till evening, Godwin

stay for only a quarter of an hour, and when he have escape it

irritated and alarm he to reflect how unusual his behaviour must

have appear to the good lady.



the blow be aim at his self-possession from such an unlikely

quarter. in Church paper he have frequently come across Chilvers's

name, and the sight of it cause he a twofold disturbance: it be

hateful to have memory of humiliation revive, and perhaps still more

harass to be force upon acknowledgment of the fact that he stand as

an obscure aspirant at the foot of the ladder which his old rival be

triumphantly ascend. bad enough to be class in any way with such a

man as chilver; but to be regard as at one with he in religious

faith, to be forbid the utterance of scorn when Chilvers be

extoll, sting he so keenly that he rush into any distraction to

elude the thought. when he be suffer shame under the gaze of

Buckland Warricombe he remember chilver, and shrink as before a

merit scoff. but the sensation have not be abide enough to affect

his conduct. he have say to himself that he should never come in

contact with the fellow, and that, after all, community of religious

profession mean no more, under their respective circumstance, than if

both be follow law or physic.



but the unforeseen have happen. in a few month, the Rev. Bruno

Chilvers would be a prominent figure about the street of Exeter; would

be frequently see at the Warricombes', at the lilywhite', at the

house of their friend. his sermon at St. Margaret's would doubtless

attract, and form a staple topic of conversation. worse than all, his

expression of 'interest' and 'delight' make it probable that he would

seek out his college competitor and offer the hand of brotherhood.

these thing be not to be avoid--save by abandonment of hope, save

by retreat, by yield to a hostile destiny.



that chilver might talk here and there of Whitelaw story be

comparatively unimportant. the Warricombes must already know all that

could be tell, and what other people hear do not much matter. it be

the man himself that Peak could not endure. dissembling have hitherto

be no light task. the burden have more than once press so gallingly

that its permanent support seem impossible; but to stand before Bruno

Chilvers in the attitude of humble emulation, to give respectful ear

whilst the popular cleric advise or encourage, or bestow pontifical

praise, be comparable only to a searing of the flesh with red iron.

even with assured prospect of recompense in the shape of Sidwell

Warricombe's heart and hand, he could hardly submit to such an ordeal.

as it be, reason having so often convince he that he cling to a

visionary hope, the torture become gratuitous, and its mere suggestion

inspire he with a fierce resentment destructive of all his purpose.



for several day he scarcely leave the house. to wrath and dread have

succeed a wretched torpor, during which his mind keep revolve the

thought prompt by his situation, turbidly and to no issue. he taste

all the bitterness of the solitude to which he have condemn himself;

there be not a live soul with whom he could commune. at moment he

be possess with the desire of go straightway to London, and

make Earwaker the confidant of all his folly. but that demand an

exertion of which he be physically incapable. he think of the old

home at Twybridge, and be tempt also in that direction. his mother

would welcome he with human kindness; beneath her roof he could lie

dormant until fate should again point his course. he even write a

letter say that in all probability he should pay a visit to

twybridge before long. but the impulse be only of an hour's duration,

for he remember that to talk with his mother would necessitate all

manner of new falsehood, a thickening of the atmosphere of lie which

already oppress he. no; if he quit Exeter, it must be on a long

journey. he must resume his purpose of seek some distant country,

where new condition of life would allow he to try his fortune at

least as an honest adventurer. in many part of colonial England his

technical knowledge would have a value, and be there not woman to be

win beneath other sky--woman perhaps of subtler charm than the old

hidebound civilisation produce? reminiscence of scene and figure in

novel he have read nourish the illusion. he picture some thrive

little town at the end of the earth, where a young Englishman of good

manner and unusual culture would easily be admit to the intimacy of

the rich family; he see the ideal colonist (a man of good birth,

but a sower of wild oat in his youth) with two or three daughter

about he--beautiful girl, wondrously self-instruct--live amid

romantic dream of the old world, and of the lover who would some day

carry they off (with a substantial share of papa's wealth) to Europe

and the scene of their imagination.



the mind have marvellous method of self-defence against creep

lethargy of despair. at the point to which he have be reduce by

several day of blank despondency, Peak be able to find genuine

encouragement in vision such as this. he indulge his fancy until the

vital force begin to stir once more within he, and then, with one

angry sweep, all his theological book and manuscript be fling out

of sight. away with this detestable mummery! now let Bruno Chilvers

pour his eloquence from the pulpit of St. Margaret's, and rear to what

height he could the edifice of his social glory; man of that stamp

be alone fit to thrive in England. be not _he_ almost certainly a

hypocrite, mask his brain (for brain he have) under a show of

broad anglicanism? but his career be throughout consistent. he trod

in the footstep of his father, and with inherit aptitude mould

antique tradition into harmony with the taste of the time. compare

with such a man, Peak feel himself a bungler. the wonder be that his

clumsy lying have escape detection.



another day, and he have do nothing whatever, but be still buoy up

by the reaction of visionary hope. his need now be of communicate

his change of purpose to some friendly hearer. a week have pass since

he have exchange a word with anyone but Mrs. Roots, and converse he

must. why not with Mr. Warricombe? that be plainly the next step: to

see Martin and make known to he that after all he could not become a

clergyman. no need of hint a conscientious reason. at all event,

nothing more definite than a sense of personal unfitness, a grow

perception of difficulty inherent in his character. it would be very

interesting to hear Mr. Warricombe's reply.



a few minute after this decision be take, he set off towards the Old

Tiverton Road, walk at great speed, flourish his stick--symptom

of the nervous cramp (so to speak) which he be dispel. he reach

the house, and his hand be on the bell, when an unexpected opening of

the door present Louis Warricombe just come forth for a walk. they

exchange amiability, and Louis make known that his father and mother

be away on a visit to friend in Cornwall.



'but pray come in,' he add, offer to re-enter.



Peak excuse himself, for it be evident that Louis make a sacrifice to

courtesy. but at that moment there approach from the garden Fanny

Warricombe and her friend Bertha Lilywhite, eld daughter of the

genial vicar; they shake hand with Godwin, Fanny exclaim:



'don't go away, Mr. Peak. have a cup of tea with we--Sidwell be at

home. I want to show you a strange sort of spleenwort that I gather

this morning.'



'in that case,' say her brother, smile, 'I may confess that I have

an appointment. pray forgive I for hurry off, Mr. Peak.'



Godwin be embarrassed, but the sprightly girl repeat her summon,

and he follow into the house.







CHAPTER V





having lead the way to the drawing-room, Fanny retire again for a few

moment, to fetch the fern of which she have speak, leave Peak in

conversation with little Miss Lilywhite. Bertha be a rather shy girl

of fifteen, not easily induce, under circumstance such as these, to

utter more than monosyllable, and Godwin, occupy with the unforeseen

result of his call, talk about the weather. with half-conscious

absurdity he have begin to sketch a theory of his own regard

rain-cloud and estuary (Bertha listen with an air of the grave

attention) when Fanny reappear, follow by Sidwell. Peak search

the latter's face for indication of her mood, but could discover

nothing save a spirit of gracious welcome. such aspect be a matter of

course, and he know it. none the less, his nervousness and the state of

mind engender by a week's miserable solitude, tempt he to believe

that Sidwell do not always wear that smile in greet a casual

caller. this be the first time that she have receive he without the

countenance of Mrs. Warricombe. observe her perfect manner, as she

sit down and begin to talk, he ask himself what her age really be.

the question have never engage his thought. eleven year ago, when he

see she at the house near Kingsmill and again at Whitelaw College, she

look a very young girl, but whether of thirteen or sixteen he could

not at the time have determine, and such a margin of possibility

allow she now to have reach--it might be--her twenty-seventh

summer. but twenty-seven draw perilously near to thirty; no, no,

sidwell could not be more than twenty-five. her eye still have the dewy

freshness of flower maidenhood; her cheek, her throat, be so

exquisitely young----



in how divine a calm must this girl have live to show, even at

five-and-twenty, feature as little mark by inward perturbation as

those of an infant! her position in the world consider, one could

forgive she for having bear so lightly the inevitable sorrow of life,

for having dismiss so readily the spiritual doubt which be the

heritage of her time; but be she a total stranger to passion? do not

the fact of she still remain unmarried make probable such a

deficiency in her nature? have she a place among the woman whom coldness

of temperament preserve in a bloom like that of youth, until fading

hair and sink cheek betray them----?



whilst he think thus, Godwin be in appearance busy with the fern

Fanny have bring for his inspection. he talk about it, but in

snatch, with interval of abstractedness.



yet might he not be altogether wrong? last year, when he observe

Sidwell in the Cathedral and subsequently at home, his impression have

be that her face be of rather pallid and dreamy cast; he recollect

that distinctly. have she change, or do familiarity make he less

sensible of her fine trait? possibly she enjoy well health

nowadays, and, if so, it might result from influence other than

physical. her air of quiet happiness seem to he especially

noticeable this afternoon, and as he brood there come upon he a

dread which, under the circumstance, be quite irrational, but for all

that trouble his view. perhaps Sidwell be betroth to some one? he

know of but one likely person--Miss Moorhouse's brother. about a month

ago the Warricombes have be on a visit at Budleigh Salterton, and

something might then have happen. pang of jealousy smite he, nor

could he assuage they by remind himself that he have no concern

whatever in Sidwell's future.



'will Mr. Warricombe be long away?' he ask, coldly.



'a day or two. I hope you don't wish particularly to see he to-day?'



'oh, no.'



'do you know, Mr. Peak,' put in Fanny, 'that we be all go to London

next month, to live there for half a year?'



Godwin exhibit surprise. he look from the speaker to her sister,

and Sidwell, as she smile confirmation, bend very slightly towards he.



'we have make up our mind, after much uncertainty,' she say. 'my

brother Buckland seem to think that we be fall behind in

civilisation.'



'so we be,' affirm Fanny, 'as Mr. Peak would admit, if only he could

be sincere.'



'be I never sincere then, Miss Fanny?' Godwin ask.



'I only mean to say that nobody can be when the rule of politeness

interfere. don't you think it's a pity? we might tell one another the

truth in a pleasant way.'



'I agree with you. but then we must be civilised indeed. how do you

think of London, Miss Warricombe? which of its aspect most impress

you?'



Sidwell answer rather indefinitely, and end by mention that in

_Villette_, which she have just re-read, Charlotte Bronte make a

contrast between the City and the West End, and greatly prefer the

former.



'do you agree with she, Mr. Peak?'



'no, I cann't. one understand the mood in which she write that; but a

little more experience would have lead she to see the contrast in a

different light. that term, the West End, include much that be

despicable, but it mean also the good result of civilisation. the

City be hateful to I, and for a reason which I only understand after

many an hour of depression in walk about its street. it represent

the ascendency of the average man.'



Sidwell wait for full explanation.



'a liberal mind,' Peak continue, 'be revolt by the triumphal

procession that roar perpetually through the City highway. with

myriad voice the City bellow its brutal scorn of everything but

material advantage. there every humanising influence be contemptuously

disregarded. I know, of course, that the trader may have his quiet

home, where art and science and humanity be the first consideration;

but the _mass_ of trader, corporate and victorious, crush all such

thing beneath their heel. take your stand (or try to do so) anywhere

near the Exchange; the hustling and jolting to which you be expose

represent the very spirit of the life about you. whatever be gentle

and kindly and meditative must here go to the wall--trample,

spatter, ridicule. here the average man have it all his own way--a

gross utilitarian power.'



'yes, I can see that,' Sidwell reply, thoughtfully. 'and perhaps it

also represent the triumphant force of our time.'



he look keenly at she, with a smile of delight.



'that also! the power which centre in the world's

money-market--plutocracy.'



in converse with Sidwell, he have never before find an opportunity of

utter his vehement prejudice. the gentle side of his character have

sometimes express itself, but those impulse which be vastly more

significant lay hide beneath the dissimulation he consistently

practise. for the first time he be able to look into Sidwell's face

with honest directness, and what he see there strengthen his

determination to talk on with the same freedom.



'you don't believe, then,' say Sidwell, 'that democracy be the proper

name for the state into which we be pass?'



'only if one can understand democracy as the opening of social

privilege to free competition amongst man of trade. and social

privilege be everything; home politic refer to nothing else.'



Fanny, true to the ingenuous principle of her year, put a direct

question:



'do you approve of real democracy, Mr. Peak?'



he answer with another question:



'have you read the "Life of Phokion" in Plutarch?'



'no, I'm sorry to say.'



'there's a story about he which I have enjoy since I be your age.

Phokion be once deliver a public speech, and at a certain point the

majority of his hearer break into applause; whereupon he turn to

certain of his friend who stand near and ask, "what have I say

amiss?"'



Fanny laugh.



'then you despise public opinion?'



'with heart and soul!'



it be to sidwell that he direct the reply. though overcome by the

joy of such an utterance, he feel that, consider the opinion and

position of Buckland Warricombe, he be perhaps guilty of ill manner.

but Sidwell manifest no disapproval.



'do you know that story?' Fanny ask of she.



'it's quite new to I.'



'then I'm sure you'll read the "Life of Phokion" as soon as possible.

he will just suit you, Sidwell.'



Peak hear this with a shock of surprise which thrill in he

deliciously. he have the strong desire to look again at Sidwell but

refrain. as no one speak, he turn to Bertha Lilywhite and put a

commonplace question.



a servant enter with the tea-tray, and place it on a small table

near Fanny. Godwin look at the young girl; it seem to he that

there be an excess of colour in her cheek. have a glance from Sidwell

rebuke she? with his usual rapidity of observation and inference he

make much of this trifle.



contrary to what he expect, Sidwell's next remark be in a tone of

cheerfulness, almost of gaiety.



'one advantage of our stay in London will be that home will seem more

delightful than ever when we return.'



'I suppose you willn't be back till next summer?'



'I be afraid not.'



'shall you be live here then?' Fanny inquire.



'it's very doubtful.'



he wish to answer with a decide negative, but his tongue refuse.

Sidwell be regard he with calm but earnest eye, and he know,

without care to reflect, that his late project be crumble.



'have you be to see our friend at Budleigh Salterton yet?' she ask.



'not yet. I hope to in a few day.'



pursue the subject, he be able to examine her face as she speak of

Mr. Moorhouse. his conjecture be assuredly baseless.



Fanny and Bertha begin to talk together of domestic affair, and

presently, when tea-cup be lay aside, the two girl go to another

part of the room; then they withdraw altogether. Peak be monologising

on english art as represent at the Academy, but find himself alone

with Sidwell (it have never before happen) he become silent. ought he

to take his leave? he must already have be sit here more than

half-an-hour. but the temptation of _teae-a-teae_ be irresistible.



'you have a visit from Mr. Chilvers the other day?' he remark,

abruptly.



'yes; do he call to see you?'



her tone give evidence that she would not have introduce this topic.



'no; I hear from Mrs. Lilywhite. he have be to the vicarage. have he

change much since he be at Whitelaw?'



'so many year must make a difference at that time of life,' sidwell

answer, smile.



'but do he show the same peculiarity of manner?'



he try to put the question without insistency, in a tone quite

compatible with friendliness. her answer, give with a look of

amusement, satisfy he that there be no fear of she take Mr

Chilvers too seriously.



'yes. I think he speak in much the same way.'



'have you read any of his publication?'



'one or two. we have his lecture on _altruism_.'



'I happen to know it. there be good thing in it, I think. but I

dislike his modern interpretation of old principle.'



'you think it dangerous?'



he no long regard she frankly, and in the consciousness of her look

upon he he knit his brow.



'I think it both dangerous and offensive. not a few clergyman nowadays,

who imagine themselves free from the letter and wholly devoted to

spirit, be do their good in the cause of materialism. they

surrender the very point at issue between religion and worldliness.

they be so blind by a vague humanitarian impulse as to make the New

Testament an oracle of popular radicalism.'



Sidwell look up.



'I never quite understand, Mr. Peak, how you regard Radicalism. you

think it oppose to all true progress?'



'utterly, as concern any reasonable limit of time.'



'Buckland, as you know, maintain that spiritual progress be only

possible by this way.'



'I cann't venture to contradict he,' say Godwin; 'for it may be that

advance be destine only to come after long retrogression and anarchy.

perhaps the way _do_ lie through such misery. but we cann't foresee

that with certainty, and those of we who hate the present tendency of

thing must need assert their hatred as strongly as possible, see

that we _may_ have a more hopeful part to play than seem likely.'



'I like that view,' reply Sidwell, in an undertone.



'my belief,' pursue Godwin, with an earnestness very agreeable to

himself, for he have reach the subject on which he could speak

honestly, 'be that an instructed man can only hold view such as your

brother's--hopeful view of the immediate future--if he have never be

bring into close contact with the low class. Buckland don't

know the people for whom he plead.'



'you think they so degraded?'



'it be impossible, without seem inhumanly scornful, to give a just

account of their ignorance and baseness. the two thing, speak

generally, go together. of the ignorant, there be very few indeed who

can think purely or aspiringly. you, of course, object the teaching of

Christianity; but the lowly and the humble of whom it speak scarcely

exist, scarcely can exist, in our day and country. a ludicrous pretence

of education be banish every form of native simplicity. in the large

town, the populace sink deeply and deep into a vicious vulgarity,

and every rural district be be affect by the spread of contagion.

to flatter the proletariat be to fight against all the good that still

characterise educate England--against reverence for the beautiful,

against magnanimity, against enthusiasm of mind, heart, and soul.'



he quiver with vehemence of feeling, and the flush which rise to his

hearer's cheek, the swimming brightness of her eye, prove that a

strong sympathy stir within she.



'I know nothing of the uneducated in town,' she say, 'but the little

I have see of they in country place certainly support your opinion.

I could point to two or three family who have suffer distinct

degradation owe to what most people call an improvement in their

circumstance. Father often speak of such instance, compare the

state of thing now with what he can remember.'



'my own experience,' pursue Godwin, 'have be among the low class

in London. I don't mean the very poor, of whom one hear so much

nowadays; I never go among they because I have no power of help

they, and the sight of their vileness would only have move I to

unjust hatred. but the people who earn enough for their need, and

whose spiritual guide be the Sunday newspaper--I know they, because for

a long time I be oblige to lodge in their house. only a consume

fire could purify the place where they dwell. don't misunderstand I;

I be not charge they with what be commonly hold vice and crime,

but with the consistent love of everything that be ignoble, with utter

deadness to generous impulse, with the fatal habit of low mockery. and

_these_ be the people who really direct the democratic movement. they

set the tone in politic; they be debase art and literature; even

the home of wealthy people begin to show the effect of their

influence. one hear man and woman of gentle birth use phrase which

originate with shopboy; one see they read print which be address

to the coarse million. they crowd to entertainment which be

deliberately adapt to the low order of mind. when commercial

interest be supreme, how can the taste of the majority fail to lead

and control?'



though he speak from the depth of his conviction, and be so move

that his voice rise and fall in tone such as a drawing-room seldom

hear, he yet keep anxious watch upon Sidwell's countenance. that hint

afford he by Fanny be invaluable; it have enable he to appeal to

Sidwell's nature by the ardent expression of what be sincere in his

own. she too, he at length understood, have the aristocratic

temperament. this explain she to he, supply the key of doubt and

difficulty which have trouble he in her presence. it justify,

moreover, the feeling with which she have inspire he--feeling which

this hour of intimate converse have exalt to passion. his heart

thrill with hope. where sympathy so profound exist, what do it

matter that there be variance on a few point between his intellect

and her? he feel the power to win she, and to defy every pass

humiliation that lie in his course.



Sidwell raise her eye with a look which signify that she be

shape a question diffidently.



'have you always think so hopelessly of our time?'



'oh, I have my stage of optimism,' he answer, smile. 'though I never

put faith in the masse, I once believe that the conversion of the

educate to a purely human religion would set thing move in the

right way. it be ignorance of the world.'



he pause a moment, then add:



'in youth one marvel that man remain at so low a stage of

civilisation. later in life, one be astonish that they have advance

so far.'



Sidwell meet his look with appreciative intelligence and murmur:



'in spite of myself, I believe that express a truth.'



Peak be about to reply, when Fanny and her friend reappear. Bertha

approach for the purpose of take leave, and for a minute or two

Sidwell talk with she. the young girl withdraw again together.



by the clock on the mantelpiece it be nearly six. Godwin do not

resume his seat, though Sidwell have do so. he look towards the

window, and be all but lose in abstraction, when the soft voice again

address he:



'but you have not choose your life's work without some hope of do

good?'



'do you think,' he ask, gently, 'that I shall be out of place in the

Christian Church?'



'no--no, I certainly don't think that. but will you tell I what you

have set before yourself?'



he draw near and lean upon the back of a chair.



'I hope for what I shall perhaps never attain. whatever my first step

may be--I be not independent; I must take the work that offer--it be

my ambition to become the teacher of some rural parish which be still

unpollute by the influence of which we have be speak--or, at all

event, be still capable of be rescue. for work in crowded centre,

I be altogether unfit; my prejudice be too strong; I should do far

more harm than good. but among a few simple people I think my effort

mightn't be useless. I cann't pretend to care for anything but

individual. the few whom I know and love be of more importance to I

than all the blind multitude rush to destruction. I hate the word

_majority_; it be the few, the very few, that have always keep alive

whatever of effectual good we see in the human race. there be

individual who outweigh, in every kind of value, generation of

ordinary people. to some remote little community I hope to give the

good energy of my life. my teaching will avoid doctrine and

controversy. I shall take the spirit of the Gospels, and labour to make

it a practical guide. no doubt you find inconsistency in I; but

remember that I shall not declare myself to those I instruct as I have

do to you. I have be lay stress on my antipathy. in the future

it will be a duty and a pleasure to forget these and foster my

sympathy, which also be strong when opportunity be give they.'



Sidwell listen, her face bent downward but not hide from the

speaker.



'my nature be intolerant,' he go on, 'and I be easily rouse to an

antagonism which destroy my peace. it be only by live apart, amid

friendly circumstance, that I can cultivate the quality useful to

myself and other. the sense that my life be be waste determine

I a year ago to escape the world's uproar and prepare myself in

quietness for this task. the resolve be take here, in your house.'



'be you quite sure,' ask Sidwell, 'that such simple duty and

satisfactions'--



the sentence remain incomplete, or rather be finish in the timid

glance she give he.



'such a life wouldn't be possible to I,' he reply, with unsteady

voice, 'if I be condemn to intellectual solitude. but I have dare

to hope that I shall not always be alone.'



a parched throat would have stay his utterance, even if word have

offer themselves. but sudden confusion beset his mind--a sense of

having be guilty of monstrous presumption--a panic which throw

darkness about he and make he grasp the chair convulsively. when he

recover himself and look at Sidwell there be a faint smile on her

lip, inexpressibly gentle.



'that's the rough outline of my project,' he say, in his ordinary

voice, move a few step away. 'you see that I count much on fortune;

at the good, it may be year before I can get my country live.'



with a laugh, he come towards she and offer his hand for good-bye.

Sidwell rise.



'you have interest I very much. whatever assistance it may be in my

father's power to offer you, I be sure you may count upon.'



'I be already much indebted to Mr. Warricombe's kindness.'



they shake hand without further speech, and Peak go his way.



for an hour or two he be powerless to collect his thought. all he have

said repeat itself again and again, mix up with turbid comment,

with deadly fear and frantic burst of confidence, with tumult of

passion and merciless logic of self-criticism. do Sidwell understand

that sentence: 'I have dare to hope that I shall not always be alone'?

be it not possible that she might interpret it as refer to some

unknown woman whom he love? if not, if his voice and feature have

betray he, what could her behaviour mean, except distinct

encouragement? 'you have interest I very much.' but could she have

use such word if his meaning have be plain to she? far more likely

that her frank kindness come of misconception. she imagine he the

lover of some girl of his own 'station'--a toil governess, or some

such person; it could not enter into her mind that he 'dare' so

recklessly as the truth imply.



but the glow of sympathy with which she hear his immeasurable scorn:

there be the spirit that defy artificial distance. why have he not

be bold? at this rate he must spend a lifetime in prepare for the

decisive moment. when would another such occasion offer itself?



woman be win by audacity; the poet have repeat it from age to age,

and some truth there must be in the saying. suspicion of self-interest

could not but attach to he; that be inherent in the circumstance. he

must rely upon the sincerity of his passion, which indeed be begin

to rack and rend he. a woman be sensitive to that, especially a woman

of Sidwell's refinement. in matter of the intellect she may be mislead,

but she cannot mistake quiver ardour for design simulating love. if

it be impossible to see she again in private before she leave Exeter,

then he must write to she. half a year of complete uncertainty, and of

counterfeiting face to face with Bruno Chilvers, would overtax his

resolution.



the evening go by he know not how. long after nightfall he be

return from an aimless ramble by way of the Old Tiverton Road. at

least he would pass the house, and soothe or inflame his emotion by

rest for a moment thus near to Sidwell.



what? he have believe himself incapable of erotic madness? and he

press his forehead against the stone of the wall to relieve his sick

dizziness.



it be Sidwell or death. into what a void of hideous futility would his

life be cast, if this desire prove vain, and he be leave to combat

alone with the memory of his dishonour! with Sidwell the reproach could

be outlive. she would understand he, pardon he--and thereafter a

glorify existence, rival that of whosoever have be most exultant

among the son of man!









Part IV







CHAPTER I





Earwaker's struggle with the editor-in-chief of _the Weekly Post_ and

the journalist Kenyon come to its natural close about a month after

Godwin Peak's disappearance. only a vein of obstinacy in his character

have keep he so long in a position he know to be untenable. from the

first his sympathy with Mr. Runcorn's politic have be doubtful, and

experience of the working of a Sunday newspaper, which appeal to the

ignobly restive, could not encourage his adhesion to this form of

Radicalism. he anticipate dismissal by retirement, and Kenyon, a man

of coarsely vigorous fibre, at once step into his place.



now that he have leisure to review the conflict, Earwaker understand

that circumstance have but hasten his transition from a moderate

ardour in the parliamentary cause of the people, to a regretful

neutrality regard all political movement. birth ally he with the

proletarian class, and his sentiment in favour of democracy be

unendangered by the disillusion which must come upon every

intellectual man bring into close contact with public affair. the

course of an education essentially aristocratic (Greek and Latin can

have no other tendency so long as they be the privilege of the few)

have not affect his natural bent, nor be he the man to be drive into

reaction because of obstacle to his faith inseparable from human

weakness. he have learn that the emancipation of the poor and untaught

must proceed more slowly than he once hope--that be all. restore to

generous calm, he could admit that such man as Runcorn and Kenyon--the

one with his polyarchic commercialism, the other with his demagogic

violence--have possibly a useful part to play at the present stage of

thing. he, however, could have no place in that camp. too indiscreetly

he have hoist his standard of idealism, and by stubborn resistance of

insuperable force he have merely bring forward the least satisfactory

element of his own character. 'hold on!' cry Malkin. 'fight the

groveller to the end!' but Earwaker have begin to see himself in a

light of ridicule. there be just time to save his self-respect.



he be in no concern for his daily bread. with narrow resource in

the world of print, he might have be compel, like many another

journalist, to swallow his objection and write as Runcorn dictate;

for the humble folk at home could not starve to allow he the luxury

of conscientiousness, whatever he might have be dispose to do on his

own account. happily, his pen have a scope beyond politic, and by

work steadily for review, with which he be already connect, he

would be able to keep his finance in reasonable order until,

perchance, some hopeful appointment offer itself. in a mood of much

cheerfulness he turn for ever from party uproar, and focus his mind

upon those interest of humanity which so rarely coincide with the aim

of any league among man.



half a year go by, and at length he grant himself a short holiday,

the first in a twelvemonth. it take the form of a voyage to Marseilles,

and thence of a leisurely ramble up the Rhone. before return, he

spend a day or two in Paris, for the most part beneath cafe' awning,

or on garden seat--an indulgence of contented laziness.



on the day of his departure, he climb the tower of Notre Dame, and

linger for half-an-hour in pleasant solitude among the stone

monster. his reverie be break by an english voice, loud and animate:



'come and look at this old demon of a bird; he have always be a

favourite of mine.--Sure you're not tired, Miss Bella? when you want to

rest, Miss Lily, mind you say so at once. what a day! what a sky!--When

I be last up here I have my hat blow away. I watch it as far as

Montmartre. a fact! never know such a wind in my life--unless it be

that tornado I tell you about--hollo! by the power, if that ben't

Earwaker! confound you, old fellow! how the deuce do you do? what a

glorious meeting! hadn't the least idea where you were!--Let I have

the pleasure of introduce you to Mrs. Jacox--and to Miss Jacox--and

to Miss Lily. they all know you thoroughly well. now who would have

thought of our meeting up here! glorious!'



it be with some curiosity that Earwaker regard the companion of his

friend Malkin--whose proximity be the last thing he could have

imagine, as only a few week ago he have hear of the restless fellow's

depart, on business unknown, for Boston, US. Mrs. Jacox, the widow

whose wrong have make such an impression on Malkin, announce herself,

in a thin, mealy face and rag-doll figure, as not less than forty,

though her irresponsible look make it evident that year profit she

nothing, and suggest an explanation of the success with which she have

be victimise. she be stylishly dress, and have the air of enjoy

an unusual treat. her child be of more promising type, though

Earwaker would hardly have suppose they so old as he know they to be.

Bella, just beyond her fourteenth year, have an intelligent prettiness,

but be excessively shy; in give her hand to the stranger she flush

over face and neck, and her bosom palpitate visibly. her sister, two

year young, be a mere child, rather self-conscious, but of laugh

temper. their toilet suit ill with that of their mother; its

plainness and negligence might have pass muster in London, but here,

under the lucent sky, it seem a wrong to their bud maidenhood.



'Mrs. Jacox be on the point of return to England,' Malkin explain.

'I happen to meet she, by chance--I'm always meet my friend by

chance; you, for instance, Earwaker. she be so good as to allow I to

guide she and the young lady to a few of the sight of Paris.'



'o Mr. Malkin!' exclaim the widow, with a stress on the exclamation

peculiar to herself--two note of deprecate falsetto. 'how can you

say it be good of I, when I'm sure there be no word for your

kindness to we all! if only you know our debt to your friend, Mr

Earwaker! to our die day we must all remember it. it be entirely

through Mr. Malkin that we be able to leave that most disagreeable

Rouen--a place I shall never cease to think of with horror. o Mr

Earwaker! you have only to think of that wretched railway station,

stick between two black tunnel! o Mr. Malkin!'



'what be you do?' Malkin inquire of the journalist. 'how long

shall you be here? why haven't I hear from you?'



'I go to London to-night.'



'and we to-morrow. on Friday I'll look you up. stay, cann't you dine

with I this evening? anywhere you like. these lady will be glad to

be rid of I, and to dine in peace at their hotel.'



'o Mr. Malkin!' pipe the widow, 'you know how very far that be from

the truth. but we shall be very glad indeed to know that you be

enjoy yourself with Mr. Earwaker.'



the friend make an appointment to meet near the Madeleine, and

Earwaker hasten to escape the sound of Mrs. Jacox's voice.



Punctual at the rendezvous, Malkin talk with his wonte effusiveness

as he lead towards the Cafe Anglais.



'I've manage it, my boy! the most complete success! I have to run over

to Boston to get hold of a scoundrelly relative of that poor woman. you

should have see how I come over he--partly dignified sternness,

partly justifiable cajolery. the affair only want some one to take it

up in earnest. I have secure she about a couple of hundred a

year--withhold on the most paltry and transparent pretence. they're

go to live at Wrotham, in Kent, where Mrs Jacox have friend. I never

think myself so much of a man of business. of course old Haliburton,

the lawyer, have a hand in it, but without my personal energy it would

have take he a year long. what do you think of the girl? how do

you like Bella?'



'a pretty child.'



'child? well, yes, yes--immature of course; but I'm rather in the habit

of thinking of she as a young lady. in three year she'll be seventeen,

you know. of course you couldn't form a judgment of her character.

she's quite remarkably mature for her age; and, what delight I most

of all, a sturdy Radical! she take the most intelligent interest in

all political and social movement, I assure you! there's a great deal

of democratic fire in she.'



'you're sure it ben't reflect from your own fervour?'



'not a bit of it! you should have see her excitement when we be at

the Bastille Column yesterday. she'll make a splendid woman, I assure

you. Lily's very interesting, too--profoundly interesting. but then she

be certainly very young, so I cann't feel so sure of she on the great

question. she haven't her sister's earnestness, I fancy.'



in the after-glow of dinner, Malkin become still more confidential.



'you remember what I say to you long since? my mind be make

up--practically make up. I shall devote myself to Bella's education, in

the hope--you understand I? impossible to have find a girl who suit

well with my aspiration. she have know the hardship of poverty,

poor thing, and that will keep she for ever in sympathy with the

downtrodden class. she have a splendid intelligence, and it shall be

cultivate to the utmost.'



'one word,' say Earwaker, soberly. 'we have hear before of man who

wait for girl to grow up. be cautious, my dear fellow, both on your

own account and her.'



'my dear earwaker! don't imagine for a moment that I take it for

grant she will get to be fond of I. my attitude be one of the most

absolute discretion. you must have observe how I behave to they

all--scrupulous courtesy, I trust; no more familiarity than any friend

might be permit. I should never dream of address the girl

without ceremonious prefix--never! I talk of Bella's education, but be

assure that I regard my own as a matter of quite as much importance. I

mean, that I shall strive incessantly to make myself worthy of she. no

laxity! for these next three year I shall live as become a man who

have his eye constantly on a high ideal--the pure and beautiful girl

whom he humbly hope to win for a wife.'



the listener be move. he raise his wine-glass to conceal the smile

which might have be misunderstood. in his heart he feel more

admiration than have yet mingle with his liking for this strange fellow.



'and Mrs. Jacox herself,' pursue Malkin; 'she have her weakness, as

we all have. I don't think she a very strong-minded woman, to tell the

truth. but there's a great deal of goodness in she. if there's one

thing I desire in people, it be the virtue of gratitude, and Mrs Jacox

be grateful almost to excess for the paltry exertion I have make on

her behalf. you know that kind of thing cost I nothing; you know I

like run about and get thing do. but the poor woman imagine

that I have lay she under an eternal obligation. of course I shall

show she in time that it be nothing at all; that she might have do

just as much for herself if she have know how to go about it.'



Earwaker be musing, a wrinkle of uneasiness at the corner of his eye.



'she ben't the kind of woman, you know, one can regard as a mother. but

we be the good possible friend. she _may_, perhaps, think of I as a

possible son-in-law. poor thing; I hope she do. perhaps it will help

to put her mind at rest about the girl.'



'then shall you often be down at Wrotham?' inquire the journalist,

abstractedly.



'oh, not often--that be to say, only once a month or so, just to look

in. I want to ask you: do you think I might venture to begin a

correspondence with Bella?'



'M--m--m! I cann't say.'



'it would be so valuable, you know. I could suggest book for she

reading; I could help she in her study of politic, and so on.'



'well, think about it. but be cautious, I beg of you. now I must be

off. only just time enough to get my trap to the station.'



'I'll come with you. Gare du Nord? oh, plenty of time, plenty of time!

nothing so abominable as wait for train. I make a point of never

get to the station more than three minute before time. astonish

what one can do in three minute! I want to tell you about an adventure

I have in Boston. Met a fellow so devilish like Peak that I _couldn't_

believe it ben't he himself. I speak to he, but he swear that he know

not the man. never see such a likeness!'



'curious. it may have be peak.'



'by all that's suspicious, I cann't help think the same! he have an

English accent, too.'



'Queer business, this of Peak's. I hope I may live to hear the end of

the story.'



they leave the restaurant, and in a few hour Earwaker be again on

english soil.



at Staple Inn a pile of letter await he, among they a note from

Christian Moxey, ask for an appointment as soon as possible after

the journalist's return. earwaker at once send an invitation, and on

the next evening Moxey come. an intimacy have grow up between the two,

since the mysterious retreat of their common friend. Christian be at

first lose without the companionship of Godwin Peak; he forsook his

study, and fall into a state of complete idleness which naturally

foster his tendency to find solace in the decanter. with Earwaker, he

could not talk as unreservedly as with Peak, but on the other hand

there be a tonic influence in the journalist's personality which he

recognise as beneficial. Earwaker be steadily make his way in the

world, live a life of dignified independence. what be the secret of

these strong, calm nature? might it not be learn by studious

inspection?



'how well you look!' Christian exclaim, on enter. 'we enjoy your

provencal letter enormously. that's a ramble I have always mean to do.

next year perhaps.'



'why not this? haven't you get into a dangerous habit of postponement?'



'yes, I'm afraid I have. but, by-the-bye, no news of Peak, I suppose?'



Earwaker relate the story he have hear from Malkin, add:



'you must remember that they meet only once in London; Malkin might very

well mistake another man for Peak.'



'yes,' reply the other musingly. 'yet it ben't impossible that Peak

have go over there. if so, what on earth can he be up to? why _should_

he hide from his friend?'



'_Cherchez la femme_,' say the journalist, with a smile. 'I can devise

no other explanation.'



'but I cann't see that it would be an explanation at all. Grant

even--something unavowable, you know--be we Puritans? how could it

harm he, at all event, to let we know his whereabouts? no such

mystery ever come into my experience. it be too bad of Peak; it's

confoundedly unkind.'



'suppose he have find it necessary to assume a character wholly

fictitious--or, let we say, quite inconsistent with his life and

opinion as know to we?'



this be a fruitful suggestion, long in Earwaker's mind, but not

hitherto communicate. Christian do not at once grasp its significance.



'how could that be necessary? Peak be no swindler. you don't imply that

he be engage in some fraud?'



'not in the ordinary sense, decidedly. but picture some girl or woman

of conventional opinion and surrounding. what if he resolve to win

such a wife, at the expense of disguise his true self?'



'but what an extraordinary idea!' cry Moxey. 'why Peak be all but a

woman-hater!'



the journalist utter croak laughter.



'have I totally misunderstood he?' ask Christian, confused and

abash.



'I think it not impossible.'



'you amaze me!--But no, no; you be wrong, Earwaker. wrong in your

suggestion, I mean. Peak could never sink to that. he be too

uncompromising'----



'well, it will be explain some day, I suppose.'



and with a shrug of impatience, the journalist turn to another

subject. he, too, regret his old friend's disappearance, and in a

measure resent it. Godwin Peak be not a man to slip out of one's

life and leave no appreciable vacancy. neither of these man admire

he, in the true sense of the word, yet have his voice sound at the

door both would have spring up with eager welcome. he be a force--and

how many such being do one encounter in a lifetime?









CHAPTER II





in different way, Christian and Marcella Moxey have both be lonely

since their childhood. as a schoolgirl, Marcella seem to she

companion conceited and repellent; only as the result of reflection in

after year do Sylvia Moorhouse express so favourable an opinion of

she. in all thing she affect singularity; especially it be she

delight to utter democratic and revolutionary sentiment among hearer

who, belong to a rigidly conservative order, hold such opinion

impious. arrive at womanhood, she affect scorn of the belief and

habit cherish by her own sex, and shrink from association with the

other. Godwin Peak be the first man with whom she converse in the

tone of friendship, and it take a year or more before that point be

reach. as her intimacy with he establish itself, she be observe

to undergo change which seem very significant in the eye of her few

acquaintance. disregard of costume have be one of her

characteristic, but now she move gradually towards the opposite

extreme, till her dress be occasionally more noticeable for

richness than for good taste.



Christian, for kindre reason, be equally debarred from the pleasure

and profit of society. at school, his teacher consider he clever,

his fellow for the most part look down upon he as a sentimental

weakling. the death of his parent, when he be still a lad, leave he

to the indifferent care of a guardian nothing akin to he. he begin

life in an uncongenial position, and have not courage to oppose the

drift of circumstance. the romantic attachment which absorb his good

year naturally have a debilitate effect, for love be never yet a

supporter of the strenuous virtue, save when it have survive fruition

and be bless by reason. in most man a fit of amorous mooning work

its own cure; energetic rebound be soon inevitable. but Christian be

so constitute that a decade of year could not exhaust his capacity

for sentimental languishment. he make it a point of honour to seek no

female companionship which could imperil his faith. unfortunately, this

avoidance of the society which would soon have make he a happy

renegade, be but too easy. Marcella and he practically encourage each

other in a life of isolation, though to both of they such an existence

be anything but congenial. their difficulty be of the same nature

as those which have always beset Godwin Peak; they have no relative with

whom they care to associate, and none of the domestic friend who, in

the progress of time, establish and extend a sphere of genuine intimacy.



Most people who be capable of independent thought rapidly outgrow the

stage when compromise be abhor; they accept, at first reluctantly,

but ere long with satisfaction, that code of polite intercourse which,

as Steele say, be 'an expedient to make fool and wise man equal'. it

be Marcella's ill-fate that she could neither learn tolerance nor

persuade herself to affect it. the emancipated woman have few

opportunity of relieve her mind than a man in correspond

position; if her temper be aggressive she must renounce general

society, and, if not content to live alone, ally herself with some

group of declare militant. by correspondence, or otherwise, Marcella

might have bring herself into connection with woman of a sympathetic

type, but this effort she have never make. and chiefly because of her

acquaintance with Godwin Peak. in he she concentrate her interest;

he be the man to whom her heart go forth with every kind of fervour.

so long as there remain a hope of move he to reciprocal feeling

she do not care to go in search of female companion. year after year

she sustain herself in solitude by this faint hope. she have lose

sight of the two or three schoolfellow who, though not so zealous as

herself, would have welcome she as an interesting acquaintance; and

the only woman who assiduously seek she be Mrs. Morton, the wife of

one of Christian's friend, a good-natured but silly person bent on

make know that she follow the 'high law'.



Godwin's disappearance sink she in profound melancholy. through the

black week of January and February she scarcely leave the house, and on

the plea of illness refuse to see any one but her brother. between

Christian and she there be no avowed confidence, but each know the

other's secret; their mutual affection never speak itself in word, yet

none the less it be indispensable to their life. deprive of his

sister's company, Christian must have yield to the vice which have

already too strong a hold upon he, and have become a maudlin drunkard.

leave to herself, Marcella have but slender support against a grim

temptation already beckon she in night of sleeplessness. of the

two, her nature be the more tragic. circumstance aid, Christian

might still forget his melancholy, abandon the whisky bottle, and pass

a lifetime of amiable uxoriousness, varied with scientific enthusiasm.

but for Marcella, frustrate in the desire with which every impulse of

her be have identify itself, what future could be imagine?



when a day or two of sunlight (the ray through a semi-opaque

atmosphere which London have to accept with gratitude) have announce

that the seven-month' winter be overcome, and when the newspaper

begin to speak, after their fashion, of picture await scrutiny,

Christian exert himself to rouse his sister from her grow

indolence. he succeed in take she to the Academy. among the work

of sculpture, set apart for the indifference of the public, be a

female head, catalogue as 'a Nihilist'--in itself interesting, and

specially so to Marcella, because it be execute by an artist whose

name she recognise as that of a schoolmate, Agatha Walworth. she speak

of the circumstance to Christian, and add:



'I should like to have that. let we go and see the price.'



the work be already sell. Christian, happy that his sister could be

arouse to this interest, suggest that a cast might be obtainable.



'write to Miss Walworth,' he urge. 'bring yourself to she

recollection.--I should think she must be the right kind of woman.'



though at the time she shake her head, Marcella be presently tempt

to address a letter to the artist, who respond with friendly

invitation. in this way a new house be open to she; but,

simultaneously, one more illusion be destroy. know little of

life, and much of literature, she picture Miss Walworth as inhabit

a delightful bohemian world, where the rule of conventionalism have no

existence, and everything be judge by the brain-standard. modern

french biography supply all her idea of studio society. she

prepare herself for the first visit with a joyous tremor, wonder

whether she would be deem worthy to associate with the man and woman

who live for art. the reality be a shock. in a large house at

Chiswick she find a gathering of most respectable english people,

chat over the regulation tea-cup; not one of they incline to

disregard the dictate of Mrs. Grundy in dress, demeanour, or dialogue.

Agatha Walworth live with her parent and her sister like any other

irreproachable young woman. she have a nice little studio, and work at

modelling with a good deal of aptitude; but of Bohemia she know nothing

whatever, save by hearsay. her 'Nihilist' be no indication of a

rebellious spirit; some friend have happen to suggest that a certain

female model, a Russian, would do very well for such a character, and

the hint be tolerably well carry out--nothing more. Marcella

return in a mood of contemptuous disappointment. the cast she have

desire to have be shortly send to she as a gift, but she could take

no pleasure in it.



still, she see more of the Walworths and find they not illiberal.

Agatha be intelligent, and fairly well read in modern author; no need

to conceal one's opinion in conversation with she. Marcella happen

to be spend the evening with these acquaintance whilst her brother

be have his chat at Staple Inn; on her return, she mention to

Christian that she have be invite to visit the Walworths in

devonshire a few week hence.



'go, by all mean,' urge her brother.



'I don't think I shall. they be too respectable.'



'Nonsense! they seem very open-minded; you really cann't expect absolute

unconventionality. be it desirable? really be it, now?--Suppose I be

to marry some day, Marcella; do you think my household would be

unconventional?'



his voice shake a little, and he keep his eye avert. Marcella, to

whom her brother's romance be anything but an agreeable subject,--the

slight acquaintance she have with the modern Laura do not encourage she

to hope for that lady's widowhood,--gave no heed to the question.



'they be go to have a house at Budleigh Salterton; do you know of

the place? somewhere near the mouth of the Exe. Miss Walworth tell I

that one of our old school friend be live there--Sylvia Moorhouse.

do I ever mention Sylvia? she have gleam of sense, I remember; but no

doubt society have drill all that out of she.'



Christian sigh.



'why?' he urge. 'Society be get more tolerant than you be

disposed to think. very few well-educate people would nowadays object

to an acquaintance on speculative ground. some one--who be it?--was

tell I of a recent marriage between the daughter of some well-know

Church people and a man who make no secret of his agnosticism; the

parent acquiesce cheerfully. the one thing still insist on be

decency of behaviour.'



Marcella's eye flash.



'how can you say that? you know quite well that most kind of

immorality be far more readily forgive by people of the world than

sincere heterodoxy on moral subject.'



'well, well, I mean decency from _their_ point of view. and there

really must be such restriction, you know. how very few people be

capable of what you call sincere heterodoxy, in moral or religion!

your position be unphilosophical; indeed it be. take the world as you

find it, and make friend with kind, worthy people. you have suffer

from a needless isolation. do accept this opportunity of add to your

acquaintances!--Do, Marcella! I shall take it as a great kindness, dear

girl.'



his sister let her head lie back against the chair, her face avert. a

stranger seat in Christian's place, regard Marcella whilst she

feature be thus hide, would have think it probable that she be

a woman of no little beauty. her masse of tawny hair, her arm and

hand, the pose and outline of her figure, certainly suggest a

countenance of correspond charm, and the ornate richness of she

attire aid such an impression. this thought come to Christian as he

gaze at she; his eye, always so gentle, soften to a tender

compassion. as the silence continue, he look uneasily about he;

when at length he speak, it be as though a matter of trifle moment

have occur to he.



'by-the-bye, I be tell that Malkin (Earwaker's friend, you know) see

Peak not long ago--in America.'



Marcella do not change her position, but at the sound of Peak's name

she stir, as if with an intention, at once check, of bend

eagerly forward.



'in America?' she ask, incredulously.



'at Boston. he meet he in the street--or think he do. there's a

doubt. when Malkin speak to the man, he declare that he be not peak

at all--say there be a mistake.'



Marcella move so as to show her face; endeavour to express an

unemotional interest, she look coldly scornful.



'that ridiculous man cann't be depend upon,' she say.



there have be one meeting between Marcella and Mr. Malkin, with the

result that each thoroughly dislike the other--an antipathy which

could have be foresee.



'well, there's no saying,' reply Christian. 'but of one thing I feel

pretty sure: we have see the last of Peak. he'll never come back to

we.'



'why not?'



'I can only say that I feel convinced he have break finally with all

his old friends.--We must think no more of he, Marcella.'



his sister rise slowly, affect to glance at a book, and in a few

moment say good-night. for another hour Christian sit by himself in

gloomy thought.



at breakfast next morning Marcella announce that she would be from

home the whole day; she might return in time for dinner, but it be

uncertain. her brother ask no question, but say that he would lunch

in town. about ten o'clock a cab be summon, and Marcella, without

leave-taking, drive away.



Christian linger as long as possible over the morning paper, unable

to determine how he should waste the weary hour that lie before he.

there be no reason for his remain in London through this brief

season of summer glow. mean and leisure be his, he could go whither

he would. but the effort of decision and departure seem too much for

he. bad of all, this lassitude (not for the first time) be

affect his imagination; he think with a dull discontent of the

ideal love to which he have bind himself. could he but escape from it,

and begin a new life! but he be the slave of his airy obligation; for

very shame's sake his ten year' consistency must be that of a lifetime.



there be but one place away from London to which he feel himself

draw, and that be the one place he might not visit. this morning's

sunshine carry he back to that day when he have lain in the meadow

near Twybridge and talk with Godwin Peak. how distinctly he

remember his mood! 'be practical--don't be lead astray after

ideal--concentrate yourself;'--yes, it be he who have give that

advice to Peak: and have he but recke his own rede--! poor little

Janet! be she marry? if so, her husband must be a happy man.



why should he not go down to Twybridge? his uncle, undoubtedly still

live, must by this time have forget the old resentment, perhaps

would be glad to see he. in any case he might stroll about the town

and somehow obtain news of the Moxey family.



with vague half-purpose he leave the house and walk westward. the

stream of traffic in Edgware Road bring he to a pause; he stand for

five minute in miserable indecision, all but resolve to go on as far

as Euston and look for the next northward train. but the vice in his

will prevail; automaton-like he turn in another direction, and

presently come out into Sussex Square. here be the house to which his

thought have perpetually go forth ever since that day when Constance

give her hand to a thriving City man, and become Mrs. Palmer. at

present, he know, it be inhabit only by domestic: Mr. Palmer,

recover from illness that threaten to be fatal, have go to

Bournemouth, where Constance of course tend he. but he would walk

past and look up at the window.



all the blind be down--naturally. Thrice he go by and retrace his

step. then, still automaton-like, he approach the door, ring the

bell. the appearance of the servant choke his voice for an instant,

but he succeed in shape an inquiry after Mr. Palmer's health.



'I'm sorry to say, sir,' be the reply, 'that Mr. Palmer die last

night. we receive the news only an hour or two ago.'



Christian totter on his foot and turn so pale that the servant

regard he with anxiety. for a minute or two he stare vacantly into

the gloomy hall; then, without a word, he turn abruptly and walk

away.



Unconscious of the intervene distance, he find himself at home, in

his library. the parlour-maid be ask he whether he would have

luncheon. Scarcely understand the question, he mutter a refusal

and sit down.



so, it have come at last. Constance be a widow. in a year or so she

might think of marry again.



he remain in the library for three or four hour. at first incapable

of rejoice, then ashame to do so, he at length suffer from such a

throbbing of the heart that apprehension of illness recall he to a

normal state of mind. the favourite decanter be within reach, and it

give he the wonted support. then at length do heart and brain glow

with exult fervour.



Poor Constance! noble woman! Most patient of martyr! the hour of her

redemption have strike. the fetter have fall from her tender,

suffer body. of _he_ she could not yet think. he do not wish it.

the womanhood must pay its debt to nature before she could gladden in

the prospect of a new life. month must go by before he could approach

she, or even remind she of his existence. but at last his reward be

sure.



and he have think of Twybridge, of his cousin Janet! o unworthy lapse!



he shed tear of tenderness. dear, noble Constance! it be now nearly

twelve year since he first look upon her face. in those day he

mingle freely with all the society within his reach. it be not very

select, and Constance Markham shine to he like a divinity among

creature of indifferent clay. they say she be coquettish, that she

play at the game of love with every presentable young man--envious

calumny! no, she be single-hearted, inexperienced, a lovely and joyous

girl of not yet twenty. it be so difficult for such a girl to

understand her own emotion. her parent persuade she into wedding

Palmer. that be all go into the past, and now his concern--their

concern--be only with the blessed future.



at three o'clock he begin to feel a healthy appetite. he send for a cab

and drive towards the region of restaurant.



have he yield to the impulse which this morning direct he to

twybridge, he would have arrive in that town not very long after his

sister.



for that be the aim of Marcella's journey. on reach the station,

she drop a light veil over her face and set forth on foot to

discover the abode of Mrs. Peak. no inhabitant of Twybridge save she

uncle and his daughter could possibly recognise she, but she shrink

from walk through the street with expose countenance. whether she

would succeed in her quest be uncertain. Godwin Peak's mother still

dwelt here, she know, for less than a year ago she have ask the

question of Godwin himself; but a woman in humble circumstance might

not have a house of her own, and her name be probably unknown save to

a few friend.



however, the first natural step be to inquire for a directory. a

stationer supply she with one, inform she, with pride, that he

himself be the author of it--that this be only the second year of its

issue, and that its success be 'very encouraging'. retire to a quiet

street, Marcella examine her purchase, and come upon 'Peak, Oliver;

seedsman'--the sole entry of the name. this be probably a relative of

Godwin's. without difficulty she find Mr Peak's shop; behind the

counter stand Oliver himself, rub his hand. be there indeed a

family likeness between this fresh-looking young shopkeeper and the

stern, ambitious, intellectual man whose lineament be ever before

her mind? though with fear and repulsion, Marcella be constrain to

recognise something in the commonplace visage. with an uncertain voice,

she make known her business.



'I wish to find Mrs. Peak--a widow--an elderly lady'----



'oh yes, madam! my mother, no doubt. she live with her sister, Miss

Cadman--the milliner's shop in the first street to the left. let I

point it out.'



with a sinking of the heart, Marcella murmur thank and walk away.

she find the milliner's shop--and go past it.



why should discovery such as these be so distasteful to she? her own

origin be not so exalted that she must need look down on trade-folk.

still, for the moment she all but abandon her undertaking. be Godwin

Peak in truth of so much account to she? would not the shock of meet

his mother be final? having come thus far, she must go through with it.

if the experience cure she of a hopeless passion, why, what more

desirable?



she enter the shop. a young female assistant come forward with

respectful smile, and wait her command.



'I wish, if you please, to see Mrs. Peak.'



'oh yes, madam! will you have the goodness to walk this way?'



too late Marcella remember that she ought to have go to the

house-entrance. the girl lead she out of the shop into a dark passage,

and thence into a sitting-room which smell of lavender. here she wait

for a few moment; then the door open softly, and Mrs. Peak present

herself.



there be no shock. the widow have the air of a gentlewoman--walk with

elderly grace--and speak with propriety. she resemble Godwin, and this

time it be not painful to remark the likeness.



'I have come to Twybridge,' begin Marcella, gently and respectfully,

'that be to say, I have stop in pass--to ask for the address of

Mr. Godwin Peak. a letter have fail to reach he.



it be her wish to manage without either disclose the truth about

herself or elaborate fiction, but after the first word she feel it

impossible not to offer some explanation. Mrs. Peak show a slight

surprise. with the courage of cowardice, Marcella continue more

rapidly:



'my name be Mrs. Ward. my husband use to know Mr. Peak, in London, a

few year ago, but we have be abroad, and unfortunately have lose

sight of he. we remember that Mr. Peak's relative live at

Twybridge, and, as we wish very much to renew the old acquaintance, I

take the opportunity--pass by rail. I make inquiry in the town,

and be direct to you--I hope rightly'----



the widow's face change to satisfaction. evidently her straightforward

mind accept the story as perfectly credible. Marcella, with

bitterness, know herself far from comely enough to suggest peril. she

look old enough for the part she be play, and the glove upon she

hand might conceal a wedding-ring.



'yes, you be direct rightly,' Mrs. Peak make quiet answer. 'I shall

be very glad to give you my son's address. he leave London about last

Christmas, and go to live at Exeter.'



'Exeter? we think he might be out of England.'



'no; he have live all the time at Exeter. the address be Longbrook

Street'--she add the number. 'he be study, and find that part of

the country pleasant. I be hope to see he here before very long.'



Marcella do not extend the conversation. she speak of have to catch

a train, and veil as well as she could beneath ordinary courtesy

her perplexity at the information she have receive.



when she again reach the house at Notting Hill, Christian be absent.

he come home about nine in the evening. it be impossible not to remark

his strange mood of repressed excitement; but Marcella do not question

he, and Christian have resolve to conceal the day's event until he

could speak of it without agitation. before they part for the night,

Marcella say carelessly:



'I have decide to go down to Budleigh Salterton when the time come.'



'that's right!' exclaim her brother, with satisfaction. 'you couldn't

do well--couldn't possibly. it will be a very good thing for you in

several way.'



and each withdraw to brood over a perturb secret.







CHAPTER III





three or four year ago, when already he have conceive the idea of

try his fortune in some provincial town, Peak persuade himself that

it would not be difficult to make acquaintance among educated people,

even though he have no credential to offer. he indulge his fancy and

picture all manner of pleasant accident which surely, soon or

later, must bring he into contact with family of the well sort.

one do hear of such occurrence, no doubt. in every town there be

some one or other whom a stranger may approach: a medical man--a local

antiquary--a librarian--a philanthropist; and with moderate advantage

of mind and address, such casual connection may at time be the

preface to intimacy, with all result benefit. but experience of

exeter have teach he how slight would have be his chance of get

on friendly term with any mortal if he have depend solely on his

personal quality. after a nine month' residence, and with the

friendship of such people as the Warricombes, he be daily oppress by

his isolation amid this community of english folk. he have do his

utmost to adopt the tone of average polished life. he have sit at the

table of worthy man, and converse freely with their son and

daughter; he exchange greeting in the highway: but this avail he

nothing. now, as on the day of his arrival, he be an alien--a lodger.

what else have he ever be, since boyhood? a lodger in Kingsmill, a

lodger in London, a lodger in Exeter. Nay, even as a boy he could

scarcely have be say to 'live at home', for from the dawn of

conscious intelligence he feel himself out of place among familiar

thing and people, at issue with prevalent opinion. be he never to

win a right of citizenship, never to have a recognise place among man

associate in the duty and pleasure of life?



Sunday be always a day of weariness and despondency, and at present he

suffer from the excitement of his conversation with Sidwell, follow

as it have be by a night of fever. extravagant hope have give place to

a depression which could see nothing beyond the immediate gloom. until

mid-day he lie in bed. after dinner, find the solitude of his little

room intolerable, he go out to walk in the street.



not far from his door some child have gather in a quiet corner, and

be play at a game on the pavement with piece of chalk. as he draw

near, a policeman, observe the little group, call out to they in a

stern voice:



'now then! what be you do there? don't you know _what day_ it be?'



the youngster flee, conscious of shameful delinquency.



there it be! there speak the civic voice, the social rule, the public

sentiment! Godwin feel that the policeman have rebuke _he_, and in

do so have severely indicate the cause of that isolation which he

be condemn to suffer. yes, all his life he have desire to play game

on Sunday; he have never be able to understand why game on Sunday

should be forbid. and the angry laugh which escape he as he go

by the guardian of public moral declare the impossibility of his ever

be at one with community which make this point the prime test of

worthiness.



he walk on at a great speed, chafing, talk to himself. his way

take he through Heavitree (when Hooker see the light here, how easy to

believe that the Anglican Church be the noble outcome of human

progress!) and on and on, until by a lane with red bank of sandstone,

thick with fern, shadow with noble bough, he come to a hamlet which

have always be one of his favourite resort, so peacefully it lie amid

the exquisite rural landscape. the cottage be all closed and silent;

hark for the reason! from the old church sound an organ prelude, then

the voice of the congregation, join in one of the familiar hymn.



a significant feature of Godwin's idiosyncrasy. notwithstanding his

profound hatred and contempt of multitude, he could never hear the

union of many voice in song but his breast heave and a choke warmth

rise in his throat. even where prejudice work most strongly with

he, it have to give way before this rush of emotion; he often hurry

out of earshot when a group of Salvationists be singe, lest the

involuntary sympathy of his sense should agitate and enrage he. at

present he have no wish to draw away. he enter the churchyard, and

find the leafy nook with a tombstone where he have often rest. and as

he listen to the rude chanting of verse after verse, tear fall upon

his cheek.



this sensibility be quite distinct from religious feeling. if the note

of devotion sound in that simple strain have any effect upon he at

all, it merely intensify his consciousness of pathos as he think of

the many generation that have worship here, live and die in a

faith which be at good a helpful delusion. he could appreciate the

beautiful aspect of Christianity as a legend, its nobility as a

humanising power, its rich result in literature, its grandeur in

historic retrospect. but at no moment in his life have he feel it as a

spiritual influence. so far from tend in that direction, as he sit

and brood here in the churchyard, he owe to his fit of tearfulness a

courage which determine he to abandon all religious pretence, and

henceforth trust only to what be sincere in he--his human passion.

the future he have sketch to Sidwell be impossible; the rural

pastorate, the life of moral endeavour which in his excitement have

seem so nearly a genuine aspiration that it might perchance become

reality--dream, dream! he must woo as a man, and trust to fortune for

his escape from a false position. Sidwell should hear nothing more of

clerical project. he be by this time convince that she hold far less

tenaciously than he have suppose to the special doctrine of the

Church; and, if he have not deceive himself in interpret her

behaviour, a mutual avowal of love would involve ready consent on her

part to his abandon a career which--as he would represent it--have

be adopt under a mistaken impulse. he return to the point which

he have reach when he set forth with the intention of bid good-bye

to the Warricombes--except that in fling away hypocrisy he no long

need to trample his desire. the change need not be declare till

after a lapse of time. for the present his task be to obtain one more

private interview with Sidwell ere she go to London, or, if that

could not be, somehow to address she in unmistakable language.



the fume be dispel from his brain, and as he walk homeward he

plot and plan with hopeful energy. Sylvia Moorhouse come into his

mind; could he not in some way make use of she? he have never yet be

to see she at Budleigh Salterton. that he would do forthwith, and

perchance the visit might supply he with suggestion.



on the morrow he set forth, go by train to Exmouth, and thence by

the coach which run twice a day to the little seaside town. the

delightful drive, up hill and down dale, with its magnificent view

over the estuary, and its ever-change wayside beauty, put he into

the good of spirit. about noon, he alight at the Rolle Arms, the

hotel to which the coach conduct its passenger, and enter to take a

meal. he would call upon the Moorhouses at the conventional hour. the

intervene time be spend pleasantly enough in loitering about the

pebbled beach. a south-west breeze which have begin to gather cloud

drive on the rise tide. by four o'clock there be an end of sunshine,

and spurt of rain mingle with fly foam. Peak turn inland,

pursue the leafy street up the close-shelter valley, and come to the

house where his friend dwelt.



in cross the garden he catch sight of a lady who sit in a room on

the ground floor; her back be turn to the window, and before he

could draw near enough to see she well she have move away, but the

glimpse he have obtain of her head and shoulder affect he with so

distinct an alarm that his step be check. it seem to he that he

have recognise the figure, and if he be right.--But the supposition

be ridiculous; at all event so vastly improbable, that he would not

entertain it. and now he descry another face, that of Miss Moorhouse

herself, and it give he a reassuring smile. he ring the door bell.



how happy--he say to himself--those man who go to call upon their

friend without a tremor! even if he have not receive that shock a

moment ago, he would still have need to struggle against the

treacherous beating of his heart as he wait for admission. it be

always so when he visit the Warricombes, or any other family in

Exeter. not merely in consequence of the dishonest part he be play,

but because he have not quite overcome the nervousness which so

anguish he in early day. the first moment after his enter a

drawing-room cost he pang of complex origin.



his eye fall first of all upon Mrs. Moorhouse, who advance to welcome

he. he be aware of three other person in the room. the near, he

could perceive without regard she, be Sidwell's friend; the other

two, on whom he do not yet venture to cast a glance, sit--or rather

have just rise--in a dim background. as he shake hand with Sylvia,

they draw nearer; one of they be a man, and, as his voice at once

declare, no other than Buckland Warricombe. Peak return his

greeting, and, in the same moment, gaze at the last of the party. Mrs.

Moorhouse be speak.



'Mr. Peak--Miss Moxey.'



a compression of the lip be the only sign of disturbance that anyone

could have perceive on Godwin's countenance. already he have string

himself against his wonte agitation, and the add trial do not

sensibly enhance what he suffer. in discover that he have rightly

identify the figure at the window, he experience no renewal of the

dread which bring he to a stand-still. already half prepare for

this stroke of fate, he feel a satisfaction in be able to meet it so

steadily. tumult of thought be his only trouble; it seem as if his

brain must burst with the stress of its lightning operation. in three

second, he re-live the past, make several distinct anticipation of

the future, and still discuss with himself how he should behave this

moment. he note that Marcella's face be bloodless; that her attempt

to smile result in a very painful distortion of brow and lip. and he

have leisure to pity she. this emotion prevail. with a sense of

magnanimity, which afterwards excite his wonder, he press the cold

hand and say in a cheerful tone:



'our introduction take place long ago, if I'm not mistaken. I have no

idea, Miss Moxey, that you be among Mrs. Moorhouse's friend.'



'nor I that you be, Mr. Peak,' come the answer, in a steady voice

than Godwin have expect.



Mrs. Moorhouse and her daughter make the pleasant exclamation that

be call for. Buckland Warricombe, with a doubtful smile on his

lip, keep glance from Miss Moxey to her acquaintance and back again.

peak at length face he.



'I hope we should meet down here this autumn.'



'I should have look you up in a day or two,' Buckland reply,

seat himself. 'do you propose to stay in exeter through the winter?'



'I'm not quite sure--but I think it likely.'



Godwin turn to the neighbour of whose presence he be most conscious.



'I hope your brother be well, Miss Moxey?'



their eye encounter steadily.



'yes, he be quite well, thank you. he often say that it seem very

long since he hear from you.'



'I'm a bad correspondent.--Is he also in Devonshire?'



'no. in London.'



'what a storm we be go to have!' exclaim Sylvia, look to the

window. 'they predict it yesterday. I should like to be on the top of

Westdown Beacon--wouldn't you, Miss Moxey?'



'I be quite willing to go with you.'



'and what pleasure do you look for up there?' ask Warricombe, in a

blunt, matter-of-fact tone.



'now, there's a question!' cry Sylvia, appeal to the rest of the

company.



'I agree with Mr. Warricombe,' remark her mother. 'it's well to be

in a comfortable room.'



'oh, you radical! what a world you will make of it in time!'



Sylvia affect to turn away in disgust, and happen to glance

through the window she see two young lady approach from the road.



'the Walworths--struggle desperately with their umbrella.'



'I shouldn't wonder if you think it unworthy of an artist to carry an

umbrella,' say Buckland.



'now you suggest it, I certainly do. they should get nobly drench.'



she go out into the hall, and soon return with her friend--Miss

Walworth the artist, Miss Muriel Walworth, and a youth, their brother.

in the course of conversation Peak learn that Miss Moxey be the guest

of this family, and that she have be at Budleigh Salterton with they

only a day or two. for the time he listen and observe, endeavour

to postpone consideration of the danger into which he have suddenly

fall. Marcella have make herself his accomplice, thus far, in

disguise the real significance of their meeting, and whether she

would betray he in her subsequent talk with the Moorhouses remain a

matter of doubt. of course he must have assurance of her

disposition--but the issue involve be too desperate for instant

scrutiny. he feel the gambler's excitement, an irrational pleasure in

the consciousness that his whole future be at stake. Buckland

Warricombe have a keen eye upon he, and doubtless be eager to strike a

train of suspicious circumstance. his face, at all event, should give

no sign of discomposure. indeed, he find so much enjoyment in the

bright gossip of this assembly of lady that the smile he wear be

perfectly natural.



the Walworths, he gather, be to return to London in a week's time.

this meant, in all probability, that Marcella's stay here would not be

prolong beyond that date. perhaps he could find an opportunity of

see she apart from her friend. in reply to a question from Mrs.

Moorhouse, he make known that he propose stay at the Rolle arm for

several day, and when he have speak he glance at Marcella. she

understand he; he feel sure. an invitation to lunch here on the morrow

be of course accept.



before leave, he exchange a few word with Buckland.



'your relative will be go to town very soon, I understand.



Warricombe nod.



'shall I see you at Exeter?' Godwin continue.



'I'm not sure. I shall go over to-morrow, but it's uncertain whether I

shall still be there when you return.'



the Radical be distinctly less amicable than even on the last occasion

of their meeting. they shake hand in rather a perfunctory way.



early in the evening there be a temporary lull in the storm; rain no

long fall, and in space of the rush sky a few star show

themselves. unable to rest at the hotel, Peak set out for a walk

towards the cliff summit call Westdown Beacon; he could see little

more than black vacancy, but a struggle with the wind suit his

temper, and he enjoy the incessant roar of surf in the darkness.

after an hour of this buffeting he return to the beach, and stand as

close as possible to the fierce breaker. no person be in sight. but

when he begin to move towards the upper shore, three female figure

detach themselves from the gloom and advance in his direction. they

come so near that their voice be audible, and thereupon he step

up to they.



'be you go to the Beacon after all, Miss Moorhouse?'



Sylvia be accompany by Agatha Walworth and Miss Moxey. she explain

laughingly that they have steal out, by agreement, whilst the male of

their respective household still linger at the dinner-table.



'but Mr. Warricombe be right after all. we shall be blow to piece. a

very little of the romantic go a long way, nowadays.'



Godwin be determined to draw Marcella aside. seemingly she meet his

wish, for as all turn to regain the shelter of house she fall behind

her female companion, and stand close by he.



'I want to see you before you go back to London,' he say, bend his

head near to her.



'I write a letter to you this morning,' be her reply.



'a letter? to what address?'



'your address at Exeter.'



'but how do you know it?'



'I'll explain afterwards.'



'when can I see you?'



'not here. it's impossible. I shall go to Exeter, and there write to

you again.'



'very well. you promise to do this?'



'yes, I promise.'



there be danger even in the exchange of these hurried sentence. Miss

Walworth have glance back, and might possibly have catch a phrase that

arouse curiosity. having accompany the girl to within view of their

destination, Peak say good-night, and go home to spend the rest of

the evening in thought which be sufficiently absorbing.



the next day he have no sight of Marcella. at luncheon the Moorhouses

be alone. afterwards Godwin accept a proposal of the mathematician

(who be generally invisible amid his formulae) for a walk up the Otter

valley. naturally they talk of Coleridge, whose metaphysical side

appeal to Moorhouse. peak dwelt on the human and poetical, and be

lead by that peculiar recklessness of mood, which at time relieve his

nervous tension, to defend opium eating, as a source of pleasurable

experience.



'you will hardly venture on that paradox in the pulpit,' remark his

companion, with laughter.



'perhaps not. but I have hear argument from that place decidedly more

immoral.'



'no doubt.'



Godwin correct the impression he perhaps have make by turn with

sudden seriousness to another subject. the ironic temptation be

terribly strong in he just now. one be occasionally possess by a

desire to shout in the midst of a silent assembly; and impulse of the

same kind keep urge he to utter word which would irretrievably ruin

his prospect. the sense that life be an intolerable mummery can with

difficulty be control by certain mind, even when circumstance

offer no keen incitement to rebellion. but Peak's position to-day

demand an incessant effort to refrain from self-betrayal. what a joy

to declare himself a hypocrite, and snap mock finger in the world's

face! as a safeguard, he fix his mind upon Sidwell, recall she

feature and her voice as clearly as possible, stamp into his heart

the conviction that she half love he.



when he be alone again, he of a sudden determined to go to Exeter. he

could no long endure uncertainty as to the content of Marcella's

letter. as it be too late for the coach, he set off and walk five

mile to Exmouth, where he catch a train.



the letter lie on his table, and with it one on which he recognise his

mother's handwriting.



Marcella write in the simple way, quite as if their intercourse have

never be disturb. as she happen to be stay with friend at

Budleigh Salterton, it seem possible for she to meet he. might she

hope that he would call at the hotel in Exeter, if she write again to

make an appointment?



well, that need no reply. but how have she discover the address? be

his story know in London? in a paroxysm of fury, he crush the letter

into a ball and fling it away. the vein of his forehead swell; he

walk about the room with senseless violence, strike his fist

against furniture and wall. it would have relieve he to sob and cry

like a thwart child, but only a harsh sound, half-groan,

half-laughter, burst from his throat.



the fit pass, and he be able to open the letter from Twybridge, the

first he have receive from his mother for more than a month. he

expect to find nothing of interest, but his attention be soon catch

by a passage, which run thus:



'have you hear from some friend of your, call Ward? some time ago

a lady call here to ask for your address. she say her name be Mrs.

Ward, and that her husband, who have be abroad for a long time, very

much wish to find you again. of course I tell she where you be to

be find. it be just after I have write, or I should have let you

know about it before.'



Ward? he know no one of that name. could it be Marcella who have do

this? it look more than likely; he believe she capable of strange

proceeding.



in the morning he return to the seaside. prospect of pleasure there

be none, but by move about he make the time pass more quickly.

wander in the lane (which would have delight he with their

autumnal beauty have his mind be at rest), he come upon Miss

Walworth, busy with a water-colour sketch. though their acquaintance

be so slight, he stop for conversation, and the artist's manner

appear to testify that Marcella have as yet make no unfavourable

report of he. by mention that he would return home on the morrow,

he make sure that Marcella would be apprise of this. perhaps she might

shorten her stay, and his suspense.



back in Longbrook Street once more, he find another letter. it be

from Mrs. Warricombe, who write to tell he of their come removal to

London, and add an invitation to dine four day hence. then at all

event he would speak again with Sidwell. but to what purpose? could he

let she go away for month, and perhaps all but forget he among the

many new face that would surround she. he see no feasible way of be

with she in private. to write be to run the grave risk; thing be

not ripe for that. to take Martin into his confidence? that ask too

much courage. deliberate avowal of this kind seem to he ludicrous

and humiliating, and under the circumstance--no, no; what force of

sincerity could make he appear other than a scheming adventurer?



he live in tumult of mind and sense. when at length, on the day

before his engagement with the Warricombes, there come a note from

Marcella, summon he to the interview agree upon, he could scarcely

endure the hour or two until it be time to set forth; every minute

cost he a throb of pain. the torment must have tell upon his visage,

for on enter the room where Marcella wait he see that she look

at he with a change expression, as if something surprise she.



they shake hand, but without a word. Marcella point to a chair, yet

remain stand. she be endeavour to smile; her eye fall, and

she colour.



'don't let we make each other uncomfortable,' Peak exclaim suddenly,

in the off-hand tone of friendly intimacy. 'there's nothing tragic in

this affair, after all. let we talk quietly.'



Marcella seat herself.



'I have reason,' he go on, 'for go away from my old acquaintance

for a time. why not, if I choose? you have find I out. very well; let

we talk it over as we have discuss many another moral or

psychological question.'



he do not meditate these sentence. something must of necessity be

say, and word shape themselves for he. his impulse be to avoid the

emotional, to talk with this problematic woman as with an intellectual

friend of his own sex.



'forgive I,' be the first sound that come from Marcella's lip. she

speak with bent head, and almost in a whisper.



'what have I to forgive?' he sit down and lean sideways in the easy

chair. 'you be curious about my doing? what more natural?'



'do you know how I learn where you be?'



she look up for an instant.



'I have a suspicion. you go to Twybridge?'



'yes.'



'but not in your own name?'



'I can hardly tell why not.'



Peak laugh. he be physically and mentally at rest in comparison with

his state for the past few day. thing have a simple aspect all at

once. after all, who would wish to interfere maliciously with he?

woman like to be in secret, and probably Marcella would preserve his.



'what conjecture have you make about I?' he ask, with an air of

amusement.



'many, of course. but I hear something not long ago which seem so

unlikely, yet be tell so confidently, that at last I couldn't overcome

my wish to make inquiry.'



'and what be that?'



'Mr. Malkin have be to America, and he declare that he have meet you in

the street of Boston--and that you refuse to admit you be yourself.'



Peak laugh still more buoyantly. his mood be eager to seize on any

point that afford subject for jest.



'Malkin seem to have come across my Doppelganger. one mustn't pretend

to certainty in anything, but I be disposed to think I never be in

Boston.'



'he be of course mistaken.'



Marcella's voice have an indistinctness very unlike her ordinary tone.

as a rule she speak with that clearness and decision which correspond

to quality of mind not commonly find in woman. but confidence seem

to have utterly desert she; she have lose her individuality, and be

weakly feminine.



'I have be here since last Christmas,' say Godwin, after a pause.



'yes. I know.'



their eye meet.



'no doubt your friend have tell you as much as they know of I?'



'yes--they have speak of you.'



'and what do it amount to?'



he regard she steadily, with a smile of indifference.



'they say'--she gaze at he as if constrain to do so--'that you be

go into the Church.' and as soon as she utter the last word, a

painful laugh escape she.



'nothing else? no comment?'



'I think Miss Moorhouse find it difficult to understand.'



'Miss Moorhouse?' he reflect, still smile. 'I shouldn't wonder. she

have a sceptical mind, and she don't know I well enough to understand

I.'



'don't know you well enough?'



she repeat the word mechanically. Peak give she a keen glance.



'has she lead you to suppose,' he ask, 'that we be on intimate term?'



'no.' the word fall from she, absently, despondently.



'Miss Moxey, would anything be gain by our discuss my position? if

you think it a mystery, haven't we well leave it so?'



she make no answer.



'but perhaps,' he go on, 'you have tell they--the Walworths and the

Moorhouses--that I owe my friend an explanation? when I see they

again, perhaps I shall be confront with cold, question face?'



'I haven't say a word that could injure you,' Marcella reply, with

something of her usual self-possession, pass her eye distantly over

his face as she speak.



'I know the suggestion be unjust, when I make it.'



'then why should you refuse I your confidence?'



she bent forward slightly, but with her eye cast down. tone and

feature intimate a sense of shame, due partly to the feeling that she

offer complicity in deceit.



'what can I tell you more than you know?' say Godwin, coldly. 'I

propose to become a clergyman, and I have acknowledge to you that my

motive be ambition. as the matter concern my conscience, that must

rest with myself; I have speak of it to no one. but you may depend

upon it that I be prepare for every difficulty that may spring up. I

know, of course, that soon or later some one would discover I here.

well, I have change my opinion, that's all; who can demand more than

that?'



Marcella answer in a tone of force composure.



'you owe I no explanation at all. yet we have know each other for a

long time, and it pain I that--to be suddenly tell that we be no

more to each other than stranger.'



'be we talk like stranger, Marcella?'



she flush, and her eye gleam as they fix themselves upon he for

an instant. he have never before dream of address she so familiarly,

and least of all in this moment be she prepared for it. Godwin

despise himself for the impulse to which he have yield, but its

policy be justify. he have take one more step in disingenuousness--a

small matter.



'let it be one of those thing on which even friend don't open their

mind to each other,' he pursue. 'I be live in solitude, and perhaps

must do so for several year yet. if I succeed in my purpose, you will

see I again on the old term; if I fail, then too we shall be

friend--if you be willing.'



'you willn't tell I what those purpose be?'



'surely you can imagine they.'



'will you let I ask you--do you look for help to anyone that I have

see here?' she speak with effort and with shame.



'to no one that you have meet,' he answer, shortly.



'then to some one in Exeter? I have be tell that you have friend.'



he be irritated by her persistency, and his own inability to decide

upon the most prudent way of answer.



'you mean the Warricombe family, I suppose?'



'yes.'



'I think it very likely that Mr. Warricombe may be able to help I

substantially.'



Marcella keep silence. then, without raise her eye, she murmur:



'you will tell I no more?'



'there be nothing more to tell.'



she bite her lip, as if to compel they to muteness. her breath come

quickly; she glance this way and that, like one who seek an escape.

after eye her askance for a moment, Peak rise.



'you be go?' she say.



'yes; but surely there be no reason why we shouldn't say good-bye in a

natural and friendly way?'



'can you forgive I for that deceit I practise?'



Peak laugh.



'what do it matter? we should in any case have meet at Budleigh

Salterton.'



'no. I have no serious thought of accept their invitation.'



she stand look away from he, endeavour to speak as though the

denial have but slight significance. Godwin stir impatiently.



'I should never have go to Twybridge,' Marcella continue, 'but for

Mr. Malkin's story.'



he turn to she.



'you mean that his story have a disagreeable sound?'



Marcella keep silence, her finger work together.



'and be your mind relieve?' he add.



'I wish you be back in London. I wish this change have never come to

pass.'



'I wish that several thing in my life have never come to pass. but I be

here, and my resolve be unalterable. one thing I must ask you--how

shall you represent my position to your brother?'



for a moment Marcella hesitate. then, meet his look, she answer

with nervous haste:



'I shall not mention you to he.'



ashamed to give any sign of satisfaction, and oppress by the feeling

that he owe her gratitude, Peak stand gaze towards the window with

an air of half-indifferent abstractedness. it be well to let the

interview end thus, without comment or further question; so he turn

abruptly, and offer his hand.



'good-bye. you will hear of I, or from I.'



'good-bye!'



he try to smile; but Marcella have a cold face, expressive of more

dignity than she have hitherto show. as he close the door she be

still look towards he.



he know what the look mean. in his position, a man of ordinary fibre

would long ago have nurse the flattering conviction that Marcella

love he. Godwin have suspect it, but in a vague, unemotional way,

never attach importance to the matter. what he _have_ clearly

understand be, that Christian wish to inspire he with interest in

Marcella, and on that account, when in her company, he sometimes set

himself to display a deliberate negligence. no difficult undertaking,

for he be distinctly repel by the thought of any relation with she

more intimate than have be bring about by his cold intellectual

sympathy. her person be still as disagreeable to he as when he first

meet she in her uncle's house at Twybridge. if a man sincerely hope

that a woman do not love he (which can seldom be the case where a

suggestion of such feeling ever arise), he will find it easy to

believe that she do not. Peak not only have the benefit of this

principle; the constitution of his mind make it the opposite of natural

for he to credit himself with having inspire affection. that his male

friend hold he in any warm esteem always appear to he improbable,

and as regard woman his modesty be profound. the simple

explanation, that he be himself incapable of pure devotedness, perhaps

hit the truth. unsympathetic, however, he could with no justice be

call, and now that the reality of Marcella's love be force upon his

consciousness he think of she with sincere pity,--the emotion which

have already possess he (though he do not then analyse it) when he

unsuspectingly look into her troubled face a few day ago.



it be so hard to believe, that, on reach home, he sit for a long

time occupy with the thought of it, to the exclusion of his own

anxiety. what! this woman have make of _he_ an ideal such as he

himself seek among the most exquisite of her sex? how be that

possible? what quality of his, personal, psychical, have such magnetic

force? what sort of be be he in Marcella's eye? reflective man

must often enough marvel at the success of whisker and trousere

mortal in woo the woman of their desire, for only by a specific

imagination can a person of one sex assume the emotion of the other.

Godwin have neither that endowment nor the peculiar self-esteem which

make love-win a matter of course to some intelligent male. his

native arrogance signify a low estimate of mankind at large, rather

than an overweene appreciation of his own quality, and in his most

presumptuous moment he have never claim the sexual refulgence which

many a commonplace fellow so gloriously exhibit. at most, he have hope

that some woman might find he _interesting_, and so be lead on to like

he well enough for the venture of matrimony. passion at length

constrain he to believe that his ardour might be genuinely

reciprocate, but even now it be only in paroxysm that he hold this

assurance; the hour of ordinary life still expose he to the familiar

self-criticism, sometimes more scathing than ever. he dread the

look-glass, consciously avoid it; and a like disparagement of his

inner be torture he through the endless labyrinth of erotic

reverie.



yet here be a woman who so love he that not even a proud temper and

his candid indifference could impose restraint upon her emotion. as he

listen to the most significant of her word he be distressed with

shame, and now, in recall they, he feel that he should have say

something, do something, to disillusion she. could he not easily show

himself in a contemptible light? but reflection teach he that the

shame he have experience on Marcella's behalf be blend with a

gratification which forbid he at the moment to be altogether

unamiable. it be not self-interest alone that prompt his use of her

familiar name. in the secret place of his heart he be thankful to she

for a most effective encouragement. she have confirm he in the hope

that he be love by Sidwell.



and now that he no long fear she, Marcella be gradually dismiss

from mind. for a day or two he avoid the main street of the town,

lest a chance meeting with she should revive disquietude; but, by the

time that Mrs. Warricombe's invitation permit he once more to

follow his desire, he feel assure that Marcella be back in London,

and the sense of distance help to banish she among unreality.



the hour have never press upon he with such demand for resolution.

in the look with which Sidwell greet he when he meet she in the

drawing-room, he seem to read much more than wonte friendliness; it

be as though a half secret already exist between they. but no

occasion offer for a word other than trivial. the dinner-party

consist of about a score of people, and throughout the evening Peak

find himself hopelessly sever from the one person whose presence be

anything but an importunity to he. he madden with jealousy, with

fear, with ceaseless mental manoeuvring. More than one young man of

agreeable aspect appear to be on dangerous term with Sidwell,

approach she with that air of easy, well-breed intimacy which Godwin

know too well he would never be able to assume in perfection. again he

be humiliate by self-comparison with social superior, and again

remind that in this circle he have a place merely on sufferance. Mrs.

Warricombe, when he chance to speak with she, betray the slight

regard in which she really hold he, and Martin devote himself to more

important people. the evening be bad than lose.



yet in two more day Sidwell would be beyond reach. he writhe upon his

bed as the image of her loveliness return again and again,--her face

as she converse at table, her dignity as she rise with the other

lady, her smile when he say good-night. a smile that mean more than

civility; he be convince of it. but memory would not support he

through half-a-year of solitude and ill-divine passion.



he would write to she, and risk all. two o'clock in the morning see he

sit half-dress at the table, rage over the difficulty of a

composition which should express his high self. four o'clock see the

blotch letter tear into fragment. he could not write as he wish,

could not hit the tone of manly appeal. at five o'clock he turn

wretchedly into bed again.



a day of rack headache; then the long restful sleep which bring

good counsel. it be well that he have not send a letter, nor in any

other way commit himself. if Sidwell be ever to be his wife, the

end could only be win by heroic caution and patience. thus far he have

achieve notable result; to rush upon his aim would be the most absurd

departure from a hopeful scheme gravely devise and pursue. to wait,

to establish himself in the confidence of this family, to make sure his

progress step by step, that be the course indicate from the first by

his calm reason. other man might triumph by sudden audacity; for he

be no hope save in slow, persevere energy of will. passion have all

but ruin he; now he have recover self-control.



Sidwell's six month in London might banish he from her mind, might

substitute some rival against whom it would be hopeless to contend.

yes; but a thousand possibility stand with menace in the front of

every great enterprise. before next spring he might be dead.



Defiance, then, of every foreboding, of every shame; and a life that

mould itself in the ardour of unchangeable resolve.







CHAPTER IV





Martin Warricombe be reconcile to the prospect of a metropolitan

winter by the fact that his old friend Thomas Gale, formerly Geological

Professor at Whitelaw College, have of late return from a three year'

sojourn in North America, and now dwelt in London. the breezy man of

science be welcome back among his brother with two-fold

felicitation; his book on the Appalachians would have give no

insufficient proof of activity abroad, but evidence more generally

interesting accompany he in the shape of a young and beautiful wife.

not every geologist whose year have enter the fifty can go forth

and capture in second marriage a charming New England girl, thirty

year his junior. yet those who know Mr. Gale--his splendid physique,

his bluff cordiality, the vigour of his various talk--be scarcely

surprised. the young lady be no heiress; she have, in fact, be a

school teacher, and might have weary through her good year in that

uncongenial pursuit. transplant to the rich english soil, she

develop remarkable aptitude. a month or two of London exhibit she

as a type of all that be most attractive in american womanhood.



between Mrs. Gale and the Warricombes intimacy be soon establish.

Sidwell see much of she, and like she. to this meditative english girl

the young American offer an engrossing problem, for she avow she

indifference to all religious dogma, yet be singularly tolerant and

display a moral fervour which Sidwell have believe inseparable from

christian faith. at the Gales' house assemble a great variety of

intellectual people, and with her father's express approval (Martin have

his reason) Sidwell make the most of this opportunity of study the

modern world. only a few day after her arrival in London, she become

acquaint with a Mr. Walsh, a brother of that heresiarch, the Whitelaw

Professor, whose name be still obnoxious to her mother. he be a

well-favour man of something between thirty and forty, brilliant in

conversation, personally engaging, and know by his literary

production, which find small favour with conservative reader. with

surprise, sidwell in a short time become aware that Mr. Walsh have a

frank liking for her society. he be often to be see in Mrs.

Warricombe's drawing-room, and at Mrs Gale's he yet more frequently

obtain occasion of talk with she. the candour with which he

express himself on most subject enable she to observe a type of

mind which at present have peculiar interest for she. discretion often

put restraint upon her curiosity, but none the less Mr. Walsh have

plausible ground for believe that his advance be not unwelcome.

he see that Sidwell's gaze occasionally rest upon he with a pleasant

gravity, and note the mood of meditation which sometimes come upon she

when he have draw apart. the frequency of these dialogue be observe

by Mrs Warricombe, and one evening she broach the subject to her

daughter rather abruptly.



'I be surprised that you have take such a liking to Mr. Walsh.'



Sidwell colour, and make answer in the quiet tone which her mother

have come to understand as a reproof, a hint of defective delicacy:



'I don't think I have behave in a way that should cause you surprise.'



'it seem to I that you be really very--friendly with he.'



'yes, I be always friendly. but nothing more.'



'don't you think there's a danger of his misunderstanding you, Sidwell?'



'I don't, mother. Mr. Walsh understand that we differ irreconcilably

on subject of the first importance. I have never allow he to lose

sight of that.'



intellectual difference be of much less account to Mrs. Warricombe

than to her daughter, and her judgment in a matter such as this be

consequently far more practical.



'if I may advise you, dear, you oughtn't to depend much on that. I be

not the only one who have notice something--I only mention it, you

know.'



Sidwell muse gravely. in a minute or two she look up and say in she

gentle voice:



'thank you, mother. I will be more careful.'



perhaps she have lose sight of prudence, forget that Mr. Walsh could

not divine her thought. her interest in he be impersonal; when he

speak she be profoundly attentive, only because her mind would have

be affect in the same way have she be read his word instead of

listen to they. she could not let he know that another face be

often more distinct to her imagination than his to her actual sight,

and that her thought be frequently more busy with a remember

dialogue than with this in which she be engage. she have abundantly

safe-guard herself against serious misconstruction, but if gossip

be make she its subject, it would be inconsiderate not to regard

the warning.



it come, indeed, at a moment when she be very willing to rest from

social activity. at the time of her last stay in London, three year

ago, she have not be ripe for reflection on what she see. now her mind

be keep so incessantly at strain, and her emotion answer so

intensely to every appeal, that at length she feel the need of repose.

it be not with she as with the young woman who seek only to make the

most of their time in agreeable way. Sidwell's vital force be

concentrated in an effort of profound spiritual significance. the

critical hour of her life be at hand, and she exert every faculty in

the endeavour to direct herself aright.



having hear from his brother that Sidwell have not be out for several

day, Buckland take an opportunity of call at the house early one

morning. he find she alone in a small drawing-room, and sit down with

an expression of weary discontent. this mood have be frequent in the

young man of late. Sidwell remark a change that be come over he,

a gloominess unnatural to his character.



'see the Walworths lately?' he ask, when his sister have assure he

that she be not seriously ail.



'we call a few day ago.'



'meet anyone there?'



'two or three people. no one that interest I.'



'you haven't come across some friend of theirs call Moxey?'



'oh yes! Miss Moxey be there one afternoon about a fortnight ago.'



'do you talk to she at all?' Buckland ask.



'yes; we haven't much to say to each other, though. how do you know of

she? through Sylvia, I daresay.'



'Met she when I be last down yonder.'



Sidwell have long since hear from her friend of Miss Moxey's visit to

Budleigh Salterton, but she be not aware that Buckland have be there

at the same time. Sylvia have tell she, however, of the acquaintance

exist between Miss Moxey and Peak, a point of much interest to she,

though it remain a mere unconnected fact. in her short conversation

with Marcella, she have not venture to refer to it.



'do you know anything of the family?'



'I be go to ask you the same,' return Buckland. 'I think you

might have hear something from the Walworths.'



Sidwell have in fact seek information, but, as her relation with the

Walworths be formal, such inquiry as she could make from they

elicit nothing more than she already know from Sylvia.



'be you anxious to discover who they be?' she ask.



Buckland move uneasily, and become silent.



'oh, not particularly.'



'I dine with Walsh yesterday,' he say, at length, struggle to shake

off the obvious dreariness that oppress he. 'he suit I; we can get

on together.'



'no doubt.'



'but you don't dislike he, I think?'



'imply that I dislike _you_,' say Sidwell, lightsomely.



'you have no affection for my opinions.--Walsh be an honest man.'



'I hope so.'



'he say what he think. no compromise with fashionable hypocrisy.'



'I despise that kind of thing quite as much as you do.'



they look at each other. Buckland have a sullen air.



'yes, in your own way,' he reply, 'you be sincere enough, I have no

doubt. I wish all woman be so.



'what exception have you in mind?'



he do not seem inclined to answer.



'perhaps it be your understanding of they that's at fault,' add

Sidwell, gently.



'not in one case, at all event,' he exclaim. 'suppose you be

ask to define Miss Moorhouse's religious opinion, how would you do

it?'



'I be not well enough acquaint with they.'



'do you imagine for a moment that she have any more faith in the

supernatural than I have?'



'I think there be a great difference between her position and your.'



'because she be hypocritical!' cry Buckland, angrily. 'she deceive

you. she haven't the courage to be honest.'



Sidwell wear a pained expression.



'you judge she,' she reply, 'far too coarsely. no one be call upon

to make an elaborate declaration of faith as often as such subject be

speak of. Sylvia think so differently from you about almost

everything that, when she happen to agree with you, you be mislead and

misinterpret her whole position.'



'I understand she perfectly,' Buckland go on, in the same irritated

voice. 'there be plenty of woman like she--with brain enough, but

utter and contemptible coward. coward even to themselves, perhaps.

what can you expect, when society be base on rotten sham?'



for several minute he pursue this vein of invective, then take an

abrupt leave. Sidwell have a piece of grave counsel ready to offer he,

but he be clearly in no mood to listen, so she postpone it.



a day or two after this, she receive a letter from Sylvia. Miss

Moorhouse be anything but a good correspondent; she often confess

her inability to compose anything but the briefest and driest statement

of fact. with no little surprise, therefore, Sidwell find that the

envelope contain two sheet all but cover with her friend's cramp

handwriting. the letter begin with apology for long delay in

acknowledge two communication.



'but you know well enough my dilatory disposition. I have write to

you mentally at least once a day, and I hope you have mentally receive

the result--that be to say, have assure yourself of my goodwill to

you, and I have nothing else to send.'



at this point Sylvia have carefully obliterate two line, blacken

the page into unsightliness. in vain Sidwell pore over the effaced

passage, lead to do so by a fancy that she could discern a capital p,

which look like the first letter of a name. the writer continue:



'don't trouble yourself so much about insoluble question. try to be

more positive--I don't say become a Positivist. keep a receptive mind,

and wait for time to shape your view of thing. I see that London have

agitate and confuse you; you have lose your bearing amid the maze of

contradictory finger-post. if you be here I could soothe you with

Sylvian (much the same as sylvan) philosophy, but I cann't write.'



here the letter be to have end, for on the line beneath be legible

'give my love to Fanny', but this again have be cross out, and there

follow a long paragraph:



I have be read a book about ant. perhaps you know all the

wonderful thing about they, but I have neglect that branch of natural

history. their doing be astonishingly like those of an animal call

man, and it seem to I that I have discover one point of resemblance

which perhaps have never be note. be you aware that at an early

stage of their existence ant have wing? they fly--how shall I express

it?--only for the brief time of their courtship and marriage and when

these important affair be satisfactorily do with their wing wither

away, and thenceforth they have to content themselves with run

about on the earth. now ben't this a remarkable parallel to one stage

of human life? do not man and woman also soar and flutter--at a certain

time? and don't their wing manifestly drop off as soon as the end of

that skyward movement have be achieve? if the god have make I

poetical, I would sonnetise on this idea. do you know any poet with a

fondness for the ant-philosophy? if so, offer he this suggestion with

liberty to "make any use of it he like".



'but the fact of the matter be that some human being be never wing

at all. I be decidedly come to the conclusion that I be one of those.

think of I henceforth as an apteryx--you have a dictionary at hand?

like the tailless fox, I might naturally maintain that my state be the

more gracious, but honestly I be not assure of that. it may be (I half

believe it be) a good thing to soar and flutter, and at time I regret

that nature have forbid I that experience. decidedly I would never

try to _persuade anyone else_ to forego the use of wing. bear this in

mind, my dear girl. but I suspect that in time to come there will be an

increase number of female human creature who from their birth be

content with _walk_. not long ago, I have occasion to hint

that--though under another figure--to your brother Buckland. I hope he

understand I--I think he do--and that he ben't offend.



'I have something to tell you. I have forget it--never mind.'



and therewith the odd epistle be conclude. Sidwell peruse the latter

part several time. of course she be at no loss to interpret it.

Buckland's demeanour for the past two month have lead she to surmise

that his late visit to Budleigh Salterton have finally extinguish

the hope which draw he in that direction. his recent censure of

Sylvia might be thus explain. she grieve that her brother's suit

should be discourage, but could not persuade herself that Sylvia's

decision be final. the idea of a match between those two be very

pleasant to she. for Buckland she imagine it would be fraught with

good result, and for Sylvia, on the whole, it might be the good thing.



before she reply to her friend nearly a month pass, and Christmas

be at hand. again she have be much in society. Mr. Walsh have renew

his unmistakable attention, and, when her manner of meet they begin

to trouble he with doubt, have clear the air by make a formal

offer of marriage. Sidwell's negative be absolute, much to her

mother's relief. on the day of that event, she write rather a long

letter to Sylvia, but Mr. Walsh's name be not mention in it.



'Mother tell I [it begin] that _your_ mother have write to she from

Salisbury, and that you yourself be go there for a stay of some

week. I be sorry, for on the Monday after Christmas Day I shall be in

Exeter, and hope somehow to have see you. we--mother and I--be go

to run down together, to see after certain domestic affair; only for

three day at most.



'your ant-letter be very amusing, but it sadden I, dear Sylvia. I

cann't make any answer. on these subject it be very difficult even for

the close friend to open their mind to each other. I don't--and

don't wish to--believe in the _apteryx_ profession; that's all I must

say.



'my health have be indifferent since I last write. we live in all but

continuous darkness, and very seldom indeed breathe anything that can

be call air. no doubt this state of thing have its effect on I. I

look forwards, not to the coming of spring, for here we shall see

nothing of its beauty, but to the month which will release we from

London. I want to smell the pine again, and to see the golden gorse in

_our_ road.



'by way of be more "positive", I have read much in the newspaper,

supplement from they my own experience of London society. the result

be that I be more and more confirm in the fear with which I have

already worry you. two movement be plainly go on in the life of

our day. the decay of religious belief be undermine morality, and the

progress of Radicalism in politic be work to the same end by

overthrow social distinction. evidence stare one in the face from

every column of the paper. of course you have read more or less about

the recent "scandal"--I mean the _most_ recent.--It ben't the kind of

thing one care to discuss, but we cann't help know about it, and

do it not strongly support what I say? here be materialism sink

into brutal immorality, and high social rank degrade itself by

intimacy with the corrupt vulgar. there be newspaper that make

political capital out of these "revelation".



I have read some of they, and they make I so _fiercely_ aristocratic

that I find it hard to care anything at all even for the humanitarian

effort of people I respect. you will tell I, I know, that this be

quite the wrong way of look at it. but the evil be so monstrous

that it be hard to fix one's mind on the good that may long hence

result from they.



'I cling to the essential (that be the _spiritual_) truth of

Christianity as the only absolute good left in our time. I would say

that I care nothing for form, but some form there must be, else one's

faith evaporate. it have become very easy for I to understand how man

and woman who know the world refuse to believe any long in a

direct providence. a week ago I again meet Miss Moxey at the

walworth', and talk with she more freely than before. this

conversation show I that I have become much more tolerant towards

individual. but though this or that person may be support by moral

sense alone, the world cannot dispense with religion. if it try

to--and it _will_--there be dreadful time before we.



'I wish I be a man! I would do something, however ineffectual. I

would stand on the side of those who be fight against mob-rule and

mob-moral. how would you like to see Exeter Cathedral convert into a

"coffee music-hall"? and that will come.'



read this, Sylvia have the sense of listen to an echo. some of the

phrase recall to her quite a different voice from Sidwell's. she

smile and muse.



on the morning appoint for her journey to Exeter Sidwell rise early,

and in unusually good spirit. Mrs. Warricombe be less animate by the

prospect of five hour in a railway carriage, for London have a covering

of black snow, and it seem likely that more would fall. Martin

suggest postponement, but circumstance make this undesirable.



'let fanny go with I,' propose Sidwell, just after breakfast. 'I can

see to everything perfectly well, mother.'



but Fanny hasten to decline. she be engage for a dance on the

morrow.



'then I'll run down with you myself, Sidwell,' say her father.



Mrs. Warricombe look at the weather and hesitate. there be strong

reason why she should go, and they determine she to brave discomfort.



it chance that the morning post have bring Mr. Warricombe a letter

from Godwin Peak. it be a reply to one that he have write with

Christmas greeting; a kindness natural in he, for he have remember

that the young man be probably hard at work in his lonely lodging. he

speak of it privately to his wife.



'a very good letter--thoughtful and cheerful. you're not likely to see

he, but if you happen to, say a pleasant word.'



'I shouldn't have write, if I be you,' remark Mrs. Warricombe.



'why not? I be only think the other day that he contrast very

favourably with the young generation as we observe it here. yes, I

have faith in Peak. there's the right stuff in he.'



'oh, I daresay. but still'----



and Mrs. Warricombe go away with an air of misgive.







CHAPTER V





in volunteer a promise not to inform her brother of Peak's singular

position, Marcella speak with sincerity. she be prompt by

incongruous feeling--a desire to compel Godwin's gratitude, and

disdain of the circumstance in which she have discover he. there

seem to be little likelihood of Christian's learning from any other

person that she have meet with Peak at Budleigh Salterton; he have,

indeed, dine with she at the Walworths', and might improve his

acquaintance with that family, but it be improbable that they would

ever mention in his hear the stranger who have casually be

present to they, or indeed ever again think of he. if she hold she

peace, the secret of Godwin's retirement must still remain

impenetrable. he would pursue his end as hitherto, think of _her_,

if at all, as a weak woman who have immodestly betray a hopeless

passion, and who could be trust never to wish he harm.



that be Marcella's way of read a man's thought. she do not

attribute to Peak the penetration which would make he uneasy. in spite

of masculine proverb, it be the habit of woman to suppose that the

other sex regard they confidingly, ingenuously. Marcella be unusually

endow with analytic intelligence, but in this case she believe what

she hope. she know that Peak's confidence in she must be colour with

contempt, but this matter little so long as he pay she the

compliment of feel sure that she be superior to ignoble

temptation. many a woman would behave with treacherous malice. it be

in her power to expose he, to confound all his scheme, for she know

the authorship of that remarkable paper in _the Critical Review_.

before receive Peak's injunction of secrecy, Earwaker have talk of

'the New Sophistry' with Moxey and with Malkin; the request come too

late. in her interview with Godwin at the Exeter hotel, she have not

even hint at this knowledge, partly because she be unconscious that

Peak imagine the affair a secret between himself and Earwaker, partly

because she think it unworthy of she even to seem to threaten. it

gratify she, however, to feel that he be at her mercy, and the

thought preoccupy she for many day.



passion which have the intellect on its side be more easily endure than

that which offer sensual defiance to all reasoning, but on the other

hand it last much long. Marcella be not consume by her emotion;

she often think calmly, coldly, of the man she love. yet he be

seldom long out of her mind, and the instigation of circumstance at

time make she suffer intense. such an occasion be her first

meeting with Sidwell Warricombe, which take place at the Walworths', in

London. down in Devonshire she have learn that a family name

Warricombe be Peak's intimate friend; nothing more than this, for

indeed no one be in a position to tell she more. wakeful jealousy

cause she to fix upon the fact as one of significance; Godwin's

evasive manner when she question he confirm her suspicion; and as

soon as she be bring face to face with Sidwell, suspicion become

certainty. she know at once that Miss Warricombe be the very person

who would be supremely attractive to Godwin Peak.



an interval of week, and again she see the face that in the meantime

have be as present to her imagination as Godwin's own feature. this

time she converse at some length with Miss Warricombe. be it merely a

fancy that the beautiful woman look at she, speak to she, with some

exceptional interest? by now she have learn that the Moorhouses and the

Warricombes be connect in close friendship: it be all but certain,

then, that Miss Moorhouse have tell Miss Warricombe of Peak's visit to

Budleigh Salterton, and its incident. could this in any way be

explanatory of the steady, search look in those soft eye?



Marcella have always regard the emotion of jealousy as characteristic

of a vulgar nature. now that it possess she, she endeavour to call

it by other name; to persuade herself that she be indignant on

abstract ground, or anxious only with reference to Peak's true

interest. she could not affect surprise. so intensely sympathetic be

her reading of Godwin's character that she understand--or at all event

recognise--the power Sidwell would possess over he. he do not care

for enlightenment in a woman; he be sensual--though in a subtle way;

the aristocratic vein in his temper make he subject to strong

impression from triviality of personal demeanour, of social tone.



yet all be mere conjecture. she have not dare to utter Peak's name,

lest in do so she should betray herself. constantly plan to make

further discovery, she as constantly try to dismiss all thought of

the matter--to learn indifference. already she have debase herself, and

her nature must be contemptible indeed if anything could lure she

forward on such a path.



none the less, she be assiduous in maintain friendly relation with

the Walworths. Christian, too, have get into the habit of call there;

it be significant of the noticeable change which be come upon he--a

change his sister be at no loss to understand from the moment that he

inform she (gravely, but without expressiveness) of Mr. Palmer's

death. instead of shun ordinary society, he seem bent on

extend the circle of his acquaintance. he urge Marcella to invite

friendly call, to have guest at dinner. there seem to be a general

revival of his energy, exhibit in the sphere of study as well as of

amusement. not a day go by without his purchase book or scientific

apparatus, and the house be brighten with work of art choose in the

studio which Miss Walworth advise he to visit. all the amiability

of his character come into free play; with Marcella he be mirthful,

affectionate, even caress. he grow scrupulous about his necktie,

his glove, and be careful to guard his finger against corroding

acid when he work in the laboratory. such indication of hopefulness

cause Marcella more misgive than pleasure; she make no remark, but

wait with anxiety for some light on the course of event.



just before dinner, one evening, as she sit alone in the drawing-room,

Christian enter with a look which portend some strange

announcement. he speak abruptly:



'I have hear something astonishing.'



'what be that?'



'this afternoon I go to the matinee at the Vaudeville, and find

myself among a lot of our friend--the Walworths and the Hunters and

the Mortons. between the act I be talk to Hunter, when a man come

up to we, speak to Hunter, and be introduce to I--a Mr Warricombe.

what do you think he say? "I believe you know my friend Peak, Mr.

Moxey?" "Peak? to be sure! can you tell I what have become of he?" he

give I an odd look. "why, I meet he last, some two month ago, in

Devonshire." at that moment we be oblige to go to our place, and I

couldn't get hold of the fellow again. Hunter tell I something about

he; he know the Walworths, it seem--belong to a good Devonshire

family. what on earth can Peak be do over there?'



Marcella keep silence. the event she have judge improbable have come to

pass. the chance of its do so have of course increase since

Christian begin to associate freely with the Walworths and their

circle. yet, consider the slightness of the connection between that

group of people and the Warricombe family, there have seem no great

likelihood of Christian's getting acquaint with the latter. she

debate rapidly in her troubled mind how to meet this disclosure.

Curiosity would, of course, impel her brother to follow up the clue; he

would again encounter Warricombe, and must then learn all the fact of

Peak's position. to what purpose should she dissemble her own knowledge?



do she desire that Godwin should remain in security? a tremor more

akin to gladness than its opposite impede her utterance. if Warricombe

become aware of all that be involve in Godwin Peak's withdrawal from

among his friend--if (as must follow) he impart the discovery to his

sister----



the necessity of speak enable she to ignore these turbulent

speculation, which yet be anything but new to she.



'they meet at Budleigh Salterton,' she say, quietly.



'who do? Warricombe and Peak?'



'yes. at the moorhouse'. it be when I be there.'



Christian stare at she.



'when you be there? But--_you_ meet Peak?'



his sister smile, turn from the astonished gaze.



'yes, I meet he.'



'but, why the deuce----? why don't you tell I, Marcella?'



'he ask I not to speak of it. he don't wish you to know that--that

he have decide to become a clergyman.'



Christian be stricken dumb. in spite of his sister's obvious

agitation, he could not believe what she tell he; her smile give he

an excuse for suppose that she jest.



'peak a clergyman?' he burst out laugh. 'what's the meaning of all

this?--Do speak intelligibly! what's the fellow up to?'



'I be quite serious. he be study for order--have be for this last

year.'



in desperation, Christian turn to another phase of the subject.



'then Malkin _be_ mistaken?'



'plainly.'



'and you mean to tell I that Peak----? give I more detail. where's

he live? how have he get to know people like these warricombe?'



Marcella tell all that she know, and without injunction of secrecy. the

affair have pass out of her hand; destiny must fulfil itself. and

again the tremor that resemble an uneasy joy go through her frame.



'but how,' ask Christian, 'do this fellow Warricombe come to know

that _i_ be a friend of Peak's?'



'that's a puzzle to I. I shouldn't have think he would have

remember my name; and, even if he have, how could he conclude----'



she break off, ponder. Warricombe must have make inquiry, possibly

suggest by suspicion.



'I scarcely speak of Mr. Peak to anyone,' she add. 'People see, of

course, that we be acquaintance, but it couldn't have seem a thing

of any importance.'



'you speak with he in private, it seem?'



'yes, I see he for a few minute--in Exeter.'



'and you haven't say anything to the Walworths that--that would

surprise they?'



'purposely not.--Why should I injure he?'



Christian knit his brow. he understand too well why his sister should

refrain from such injury.



'you would have behave in the same way,' Marcella add.



'why really--yes, perhaps so. yet I don't know.--In plain English, Peak

be a wolf in sheep's clothing!'



'I don't know anything about that,' she reply, with gloomy evasion.



'Nonsense, my dear girl!--Had he the impudence to pretend to you that

he be sincere?'



'he make no declaration.'



'but you be convince he be act the hypocrite, Marcella. you speak

of the risk of injure him.--What be his motive? what do he aim

at?'



'Scarcely a bishopric, I should think,' she reply, bitterly.



'then, by Jove! Earwaker may be right!'



Marcella dart an inquire look at he.



'what have he think?'



'I'm ashamed to speak of it. he suggest once that Peak might disguise

himself for the sake of--of make a good marriage.'



the reply be a nervous laugh.



'look here, Marcella.' he catch her hand. 'this be a very awkward

business. peak be disgrace himself; he will be unmasked; there'll be

a scandal. it be kind of you to keep silence--when don't you behave

kindly, dear girl?--but think of the possible result to _us_. we shall

be something very like accomplice.'



'how?' Marcella exclaim, impatiently. 'who need know that we be so

intimate with he?'



'Warricombe seem to know it.'



'who can prove that he ben't sincere?'



'no one, perhaps. but it will seem a very odd thing that he hide away

from all his old friend. you remember, I betray that to Warricombe,

before I know that it matter.'



yes, and Mr. Warricombe could hardly forget the circumstance. he would

press his investigation--know already, perhaps, of Peak's approach

to his sister Sidwell.



'Marcella, a man play game like that at his own peril. I don't like

this kind of thing. perhaps he have audacity enough to face out any

disclosure. but it's out of the question for you and I to nurse his

secret. we have no right to do so.'



'you propose to denounce he?'



Marcella gaze at her brother with an agitated look.



'not denounce. I be fond of Peak; I wish he well. but I cann't join he

in a dishonourable plot.--Then, we mustn't endanger our place in

society.'



'I have no place in society,' Marcella answer, coldly.



'don't say that, and don't think it. we be both go to make more of

our life; we be go to think very little of the past, and a great

deal of the future. we be still young; we have happiness before we.'



'we?' she ask, with shake voice.



'yes--both of we! who can say'----



again he take her hand and press it warmly in both his own. just then

the door open, and dinner be announce. Christian talk on, in low

hurried tone, for several minute, affectionately, encouragingly.

after dinner, he wish to resume the subject, but Marcella declare

that there be no more to be say; he must act as honour and discretion

bid he; for herself, she should simply keep silence as hitherto. and

she leave he to his reflection.



though with so little of ascertained fact to guide she, Marcella

interpret the hint afford by her slight knowledge of the

Warricombes with singular accuracy. precisely as she have imagine,

Buckland Warricombe be go about on Peak's track, learn all he

could concern the theological student, form acquaintance with

anyone likely to supplement his discovery. and less than a fortnight

after the meeting at the theatre, Christian make known to his sister

that Warricombe and he have have a second conversation, this time

uninterrupted.



'he inquire after you, Marcella, and--really I have no choice but to

ask he to call here. I hardly think he'll come. he's not the kind of

man I care for--though liberal enough, and all that.'



'ben't it rather rash to give that invitation?'



'the fact be, I so dread the appearance of--of seem to avoid

he,' Christian plead, awkwardly. 'you know, that affair--we willn't

talk any more of it; but, if there _should_ be a row about it, you be

sure to be compromise unless we have manage to guard ourselves. if

Warricombe call, we must talk about Peak without the least show of

restraint. let it appear that we think his choice of a profession

unlikely, but not impossible. happily, we needn't know anything about

that anonymous _critical_ article.--Indeed, I think I have act

wisely.'



Marcella murmur:



'yes, I suppose you have.'



'and, by the way, I have speak of it to Earwaker. not of your part in

the story, of course. I tell he that I have meet a man who know all

about Peak.--Impossible, you see, for I to keep silence with so

intimate a friend.'



'then Mr. Earwaker will write to he?' say Marcella, reflectively.



'I couldn't give he any address.'



'how do Mr. Warricombe seem to regard Mr. Peak?'



'with a good deal of interest, and of the friendly kind. naturally

enough; they be college friend, as you know, before I have hear of

Peak's existence.'



'he have no suspicion?'



Christian think not, but her brother's judgment have not much weight

with Marcella.



she at once dread and desire Warricombe's appearance. if he think

it worth while to cultivate her acquaintance, she would henceforth have

the opportunity of study Peak's relation with the Warricombes; on

the other hand, this be to expose herself to suffering and temptation

from which the well part of her nature shrink with disdain. that she

might seem to have break the promise voluntarily make to Godwin be a

small matter; not so the risk of be overcome by an ignoble jealousy.

she have no overweene confidence in the steadfastness of her

self-respect, if circumstance be all on the side of sensual impulse.

and the long she brood on this peril, the more it allure she. for

therewith be connect the one satisfaction which still remain to

she: however little he desire to keep she constantly in mind, Godwin

Peak must of necessity do so after what have pass between they. have

but her discovery remain her own secret, then the pleasure of

command she less pure emotion, of prove to Godwin that she be

above the weakness of common woman, might easily have prevail. now

that her knowledge be share by other, she have lose that safeguard

against low motive. the argument that to unmask hypocrisy be in

itself laudable she dismiss with contempt; let that be the resource

of a woman who would indulge her rancour whilst keep up the inward

pretence of sanctity. if _she_ err in the way characteristic of her

sex, it should at all event be a conscious degradation.



'have you see that odd creature Malkin lately?' she ask of

Christian, a day or two after.



'no, I haven't; I think of he to make up our dinner on Sunday; but

you have rather not have he here, I daresay?'



'oh, he be amusing. ask he by all mean,' say Marcella, carelessly.



'he may have hear about Peak from Earwaker, you know. if he begin to

talk before people'----



'thing have go too far for such consideration,' reply his sister,

with a petulance strange to her habit of speech.



'well, yes,' admit Christian, glance at she. 'we cann't be

responsible.'



he reproach himself for this attitude towards Peak, but be heartily

glad that Marcella seem to have learn to regard the intriguer with a

wholesome indifference.



on the second day after Christmas, as they sat talk idly in the

dusk twilight, the door of the drawing-room be throw open, and a

visitor announce. the name answer with such startling suddenness to

the thought with which Marcella have be occupy that, for an instant,

she could not believe that she have hear aright. yet it be undoubtedly

Mr. Warricombe who present himself. he come forward with a slightly

hesitate air, but Christian make haste to smooth the situation. with

the help of those commonplace by which even intellectual people be at

time compel to prove their familiarity with social usage,

conversation be set in movement.



Buckland could not be quite himself. the consciousness that he have

seek these people not at all for their own sake make he formal and

dry; his glance, his half-smile, indicate a doubt whether the Moxeys

belong entirely to the sphere in which he be at home. hence a rather

excessive politeness, such as the man who set much store on breeding

exhibit to those who may at any moment, even in a fraction of a

syllable, prove themselves his inferior. with man and woman of the

unmistakably low order, Buckland could converse in a genial tone

that recommend he to their esteem; on the borderland of refinement,

his sympathy be repressed, and he hold the distinctive part of his

mind in reserve.



Marcella desire to talk agreeably, but a weight lie upon her tongue;

she be strike with the resemblance in Warricombe's feature to those

of his sister, and this hold she in a troubled preoccupation,

occasionally evident when she make a reply, or try to diversify the

talk by lead to a new topic. it be rather early in the afternoon,

and she have slight hope that any other caller would appear; a female

face would have be welcome to she, even that of foolish Mrs. Morton,

who might possibly look in before six o'clock. to her relief the door

do presently open, but the sharp, creak footstep which follow be

no lady's; the servant announce Mr. Malkin.



Marcella's eye gleam strangely. not with the light of friendly

welcome, though for that it could be mistake. she rise quietly, and

step forward with a movement which again seem to betoken eagerness

of greeting. in present the newcomer to Mr. Warricombe, she speak

with an uncertain voice. Buckland be more than formal. the stranger's

aspect impress he far from favourably, and he resent as an

impudence the hearty hand-grip to which he perforce submit.



'I come to plead with you,' exclaim Malkin, turn to Marcella, in

his abrupt, excited way. 'after accept your invitation to dine, I

find that the thing be utterly and absolutely impossible. I have

entirely forget an engagement of the very grave nature. I be

conscious of behave in quite an unpardonable way.'



Marcella laugh down his excuse. she have suddenly become so mirthful

that Christian look at she in surprise, imagine that she be unable

to restrain her sense of the ridiculous in Malkin's demeanour.



'I have hurry up from Wrotham,' pursue the apologist. 'do I tell

you, Moxey, that I have take room down there, to be able to spend a

day or two near my friend the Jacoxes occasionally? on the way here, I

look in at Staple Inn, but Earwaker be away somewhere. what an odd

thing that people will go off without let one know! it's such

common ill-luck of mine to find people go away--I'm really astonish

to find you at home, Miss Moxey.'



Marcella look at Warricombe and laugh.



'you must understand that subjectively,' she say, with nervous gaiety

which again excite her brother's surprise. 'please don't be

discourage by it from come to see we again; I be very rarely out in

the afternoon.'



'but,' persist Malkin, 'it's precisely my ill fortune to hit on those

rare moment when people _be_ out!--Now, I never meet acquaintance in

the street of London; but, if I happen to be abroad, as likely as not

I encounter the last person I should expect to find. why, you remember,

I rush over to America for scarcely a week's stay, and there I come

across a man who have disappear astonishingly from the ken of all his

friend!'



Christian look at Marcella. she be lean forward, her lip

slightly part, her eye wide as if in gaze at something that

fascinate she. he see that she speak, but her voice be hardly to be

recognise.



'be you quite sure of that instance, Mr. Malkin?'



'yes, I feel quite sure, Miss Moxey. undoubtedly it be peak!'



Buckland Warricombe, who have be wait for a chance of escape,

suddenly wear a look of interest. he rapidly survey the trio.

Christian, somewhat out of countenance, try to answer Malkin in a

tone of light banter.



'it happen, my dear fellow, that Peak have not leave England since we

lose sight of he.'



'what? he have be hear of? where be he then?'



'Mr. Warricombe can assure you that he have be live for a year at

Exeter.'



Buckland, perceive that he have at length come upon something

important to his purpose, smile genially.



'yes, I have have the pleasure of see Peak down in Devon from time to

time.'



'then it be really an illusion!' cry Malkin. 'I be too hasty. yet

that ben't a charge that can be often bring against I, I think. do

Earwaker know of this?'



'he have lately hear,' reply Christian, who in vain seek for a

mean of check Malkin's loquacity. 'I think he might have tell

you.'



'certainly not. the thing be quite new to I. and what be Peak do

down there, pray? why do he conceal himself?'



Christian gaze appealingly at his sister. she return the look

steadily, but neither stir nor speak. it be Warricombe's voice that

next sound:



'Peak's behaviour seem mysterious,' he begin, with ironic gravity. 'I

don't pretend to understand he. what's your view of his character, Mr.

Malkin?'



'I know he very slightly indeed, Mr. Warricombe. but I have a high

opinion of his power. I wonder he do so little. after that article

of his in _the Critical_'----



Malkin become aware of something like agonised entreaty on Christian's

countenance, but this have merely the effect of heighten his

curiosity.



'in _the Critical_?' say Warricombe, eagerly. 'I don't know of that.

what be the subject?'



'to be sure, it be anonymous,' go on Malkin, without a suspicion of

the part he be play before these three excited people. 'a paper

call "the New Sophistry", a tremendous bit of satire.'



Marcella's eye close as if a light have flash before they; she draw

a short sigh, and at once seem to become quite at ease, the smile

with which she regard Warricombe express a calm interest.



'that article be Peak's?' Buckland ask, in a very quiet voice.



Christian at last find his opportunity.



'he never mention it to you? perhaps he think he have go rather

too far in his Broad Churchism, and might be misunderstood.'



'Broad churchism?' cry Malkin. 'uncommonly broad, I must say!'



and he laugh heartily; Marcella seem to join in his mirth.



'then it would surprise you,' say Buckland, in the same quiet tone as

before, 'to hear that Peak be about to take order?'



'Orders?--For what?'



Christian laugh. the bad be over; after all, it come as a relief.



'not for wine,' he reply. 'Mr. Warricombe mean that Peak be go

to be ordain.'



Malkin's amazement render he speechless. he stare from one person

to another, his feature strangely distort.



'you can hardly believe it?' press Buckland.



the reply be anticipate by Christian saying:



'remember, Malkin, that you have no opportunity of study Peak. it's

not so easy to understand he.'



'but I don't see,' burst out the other, 'how I could possibly so

_mis_understand he! what have Earwaker to say?'



Buckland rise from his seat, advanced to Marcella, and offer his

hand. she say mechanically, 'must you go?' but be incapable of

another word. Christian come to her relief, perform the needful

civility, and accompany his acquaintance to the foot of the stair.

Buckland have become grave, stiff, monosyllabic; Christian make no

allusion to the scene thus suddenly interrupt, and they part with a

formal air.



Malkin remain for another quarter of an hour, when the muteness of

his companion make it plain to he that he have well withdraw. he

go off with a sense of having be mystify, half resentful, and

vastly impatient to see Earwaker.









Part V







CHAPTER I





the cuckoo clock in Mrs. Roots's kitchen have just strike three. a wind

roar from the north-east, and light thicken beneath a sky which

make threat of snow. Peak be in a mood to enjoy the crackling fire; he

settle himself with a book in his easy-chair, and think with

pleasure of two hour' reading, before the appearance of the homely

teapot.



Christmas be just over--one cause of the feeling of relief and

quietness which possess he. no one have invite he for Christmas Eve

or the day that follow, and he do not regret it. the letter he have

receive from Martin Warricombe be assurance enough that those he

desire to remember he still do so. he have think of use this

season for his long postpone visit to Twybridge, but reluctance

prevail. all popular holiday irritated and depress he; he loathe

the spectacle of multitude in Sunday garb. it be all over, and the

sense of that afford he a brief content.



this book, which he have just bring from the circulate library, be

altogether to his taste. the author, Justin Walsh, he know to be a

brother of Professor Walsh, long ago the object of his rebellious

admiration. matter and treatment rejoice he. no intellectual delight,

though he be capable of it in many form, so stir his spirit as

that afford he by a vigorous modern writer joyously assail the

old morality. Justin Walsh be a modern of the modern; at once man

of science and man of letter; defiant without a hint of popular

cynicism, scornful of english reticence yet never gross. '_Oui,

repondit Pococurante, il est beau d'ecrire ce qu 'on pense; c'est le

privilege de l'homme_.' this stand by way of motto on the title-page,

and Godwin feel his nerve thrill in sympathetic response.



what a fine fellow he must be to have for a friend! now a man like this

surely have companionship enough and of the kind he wish? he write

like one who associate freely with the educate class both at home

and abroad. be he marry? where would _he_ seek his wife? the fitting

mate for he would doubtless be find among those woman, cosmopolitan

and emancipate, whose acquaintance fall only to man in easy

circumstance and of good social standing, man who travel much, who be

at home in all the great centre of civilisation.



as Peak meditate, the volume fall upon his knee. have it not lain in

his own power to win a reputation like that which Justin Walsh be

achieve? his paper in _the Critical Review_, itself a decide

success, might have be follow up by other of the same tenor.

instead of moulder in a dull cathedral town, he might now be live

and work in France or Germany. his money would have serve one

purpose as well as the other, and two or three year of determine

effort----



Mrs. root show her face at the door.



'a gentleman be ask for you, sir,--Mr. chilver.'



'Mr. Chilvers? please ask he to come up.'



he throw his book on to the table, and stand in expectancy. someone

ascend the stair with rapid stride and creak boot. the door be

fling open, and a cordial but affected voice burst forth in greeting.



'ha, Mr. Peak! I hope you haven't altogether forget I? delighted to

see you again!'



Godwin give his hand, and feel it strongly press, whilst chilver

gaze into his face with a smile wistfulness which could only be

answer with a grin of discomfort. the Rev. Bruno have grow very tall,

and seem to be in perfect health; but the effeminacy of his brilliant

youth still declare itself in his attitude, gesture, and attire. he

be dress with mark avoidance of the professional pattern. a hat of

soft feel but not clerical, fashionable collar and tie, a sweeping

ulster, and beneath it a frock-coat, which be doubtless the pride of

some West end tailor. his patent-leather boot be dandiacally

diminutive; his glove fit like that of a lady who live but to be

_bien gantee_. the feathery hair, which at Whitelaw he be willnot to pat

and smooth, still have its golden shimmer, and on his face no growth be

permit.



'I have hear of your arrival here, of course,' say Peak, try to

appear civil, though anything more than that be beyond his power.

'will you sit down?'



'this be the "breathing time o' the day" with you, I hope? I don't

disturb your work?'



'I be only read this book of Walsh's. do you know it?'



but for some such relief of his feeling, Godwin could not have sit

still. there be a pleasure in utter Walsh's name. moreover, it

would serve as a test of Chilvers' disposition.



'Walsh?' he take up the volume. 'ha! Justin Walsh. I know he. a

wonderful book! admirable dialectic! delicious style!'



'not quite orthodox, I fancy,' reply Godwin, with a curling of the

lip.



'Orthodox? oh, of course not, of course not! but a rich vein of

humanity. don't you find that?--Pray allow I to throw off my overcoat.

ha, thanks!--A rich vein of humanity. Walsh be by no mean to be

confuse with the nullifidian. a very broad-hearted, large-souled man;

at bottom the truest of Christians. now and then he effervesce rather

too exuberantly. yes, I admit it. in a review of his last book, which I

be privileged to write for one of our paper, I venture to urge upon

he the necessity of _restraint_; it seem to I that in this new work

he exhibit more self-control, an approach to the serene fortitude

which I trust he may attain. a man of the broad brotherliness. a

most valuable ally of renascent Christianity.'



Peak be hardly prepare for this strain. he know that Chilvers pride

himself on 'breadth', but as yet he have enjoy no intercourse with the

broad school of Anglicans, and be uncertain as to the limit of

modern latitudinarianism. the discovery of such fantastic liberality in

a man whom he could not but dislike and contemn give he no pleasure,

but at least it dispose he to amusement rather than antagonism.

chilver' pronunciation and phraseology be distinguish by such

original affectation that it be impossible not to find entertainment

in listen to he. though his voice be naturally thin and piping, he

manage to speak in head note which have a ring of robust utterance.

the sound of his word be intend to correspond with their virile

warmth of meaning. in the same way he have cultivate a habit of the

muscle which convey an impression that he be devoted to athletic

sport. his arm occasionally swing as if brandish dumb-bell, his

chest now and then spread itself to the uttermost, and his head be

often throw back in an attitude suggest self-defence.



'so you be about to join we,' he exclaim, with a look of touching

interest, much like that of a lady' doctor speak delicately of

favourable symptom. then, as if consciously return to the virile

note, 'I think we shall understand each other. I be always eager to

study the opinion of those among we who have scientific mind. I hear

of you on all hand; already you have strongly impress some of the

think people in Exeter.'



Peak cross his leg and make no reply.



'there be distinct need of an infusion of the scientific spirit into

the work of the Church. the churchman hitherto have be, as a matter of

course, of the literary stamp; hence much of our trouble during the

last half-century. it behove we to go in for science--physical,

economic--science of every kind. only thus can we resist the morbific

influence which inevitably beset an Established Church in time such

as these. I say it boldly. let we throw aside our Hebrew and our Greek,

our commentator ancient and modern! let we have do with polemic and

with compromise! what we have to do be to construct a spiritual

edifice on the basis of scientific revelation. I use the word

revelation advisedly. the result of science be the divine message to

our age; to neglect they, to fear they, be to remain under the old law

whilst the new be demand our adherence, to repeat the jewish error

of bygone time. Less of St Paul, and more of Darwin! Less of Luther,

and more of Herbert Spencer!'



'shall I have the pleasure of hear this doctrine at St Margaret's?'

Peak inquire.



'in a form suitable to the intelligence of my parishioner, take in

the mass. be my hand perfectly free, I should begin by preach a

series of sermon on _the Origin of species_. sermon! an obnoxious

word! one ought never to use it. it signify everything inept, inert.'



'be it your serious belief, then, that the mass of parishioner here or

elsewhere--be ready for this form of spiritual instruction?'



'most distinctly--give the true capacity in the teacher. mark I; I

don't say that they be capable of receive much absolute knowledge.

what I desire be that their mind shall be relieve from a state of

harass conflict--put at the right point of view. they be not to

think that Jesus of Nazareth teach faith and conduct incompatible

with the doctrine of Evolutionism. they be not to spend their life

in kick against the prick, and regard as meritorious the puncture

which result to they. the establishment in their mind of a few

cardinal fact--that be the first step. then let the interpretation

follow--the solace, the encouragement, the hope for eternity!'



'you imagine,' say Godwin, with a calm air, 'that the mind of the

average church-goer be seriously disturb on question of faith?'



'how can you ignore it, my dear Peak?--Permit I this familiarity; we

be old fellow-collegians.--The average churchgoer be the average

citizen of our English commonwealth,--a man necessarily aware of the

great radical movement, and all that it involve. forgive I. there have

be far too much blink of actuality by zealous Christians whose

faith be root in knowledge. we gain nothing by it; we lose immensely.

let we recognise that our church be fill with sceptic,

endeavour to believe in spite of themselves.'



'your experience be much large than mine,' remark the listener,

submissively.



'indeed I have widely study the subject.'



chilver smile with ineffable self-content, his head twist like that

of a sagacious parrot.



'grant your average citizen,' say the other, 'what about the

average citizeness? the female church-goer be not insignificant in

number.'



'ha! there we reach the core of the matter! woman! woman! precisely

_there_ be the most hopeful outlook. I trust you be strong for female

emancipation?'



'oh, perfectly sound on that question!'



'to be sure! then it must be obvious to you that woman be destine to

play the lead part in our christian renascence, precisely as they

do in the original spreading of the faith. what else be the meaning of

the vast activity in female education? let they be teach, and

forthwith they will rally to our Broad Church. a man may be content to

remain a nullifidian; woman cannot rest at that stage. they demand the

spiritual significance of everything.--I grieve to tell you, Peak, that

for three year I have be a widower. my wife die with shocking

suddenness, leave I her two little child. ah, but leave I also

the memory of a singularly pure and noble being. I may say, with all

humility, that I have study the female mind in its noble modern

type. I _know_ what can be expect of woman, in our day and in the

future.'



'Mrs. Chilvers be in full sympathy with your view?'



'three year ago I have not yet reach my present standpoint. in

several direction I be still narrow. but her prime characteristic be

the tendency to spiritual growth. she would have accompany I step by

step. in very many respect I must regard myself as a man favour by

fortune,--I know it, and I trust I be grateful for it,--but that loss,

my dear Peak, counterbalance much happiness. in moment of repose,

when I look back on work joyously achieve, I often murmur to myself,

with a sudden sigh, _Excepto quod non simul esse, caetera Iaetus_!'



he pronounce his Latin in the new-old way, with continental vowel.

the effect of this on an Englishman's lip be always more or less

pedantic, and in his case it be intolerable.



'and when,' he exclaim, dismiss the melancholy thought, 'do you

present yourself for ordination?'



it be his habit to pay slight attention to the word of anyone but

himself, and Peak's careless answer merely lead he to talk on wide

subject with renewal of energy. one might have suspect that he have

make a list of uncommon word wherewith to adorn his discourse, for

certain of these frequently recur. 'nullifidian', 'morbific',

'renascent', be among his favourite. once or twice he speak of

'psychogenesis', with an emphatic enunciation which seem to invite

respectful wonder. in use Latin word which have become fix in the

English language, he generally correct the common error of quantity:

'_minnus_ the spiritual fervour', 'act as his _loccum tennen_'.

when he refer to Christian teacher with whom he be acquaint,

they be seldom or never member of the Church of England. methodist,

romanist, Presbyterians appear to stand high in his favour, and Peak

readily discern that this be a way of display 'large-soule

tolerance'. it be his foible to quote foreign language, especially

passage which come from heretical author. thus, he begin to talk of

Feuerbach for the sole purpose of deliver a german sentence.



'he have be of infinite value to I--quite infinite value. you

remember his definition of God? it be constantly in my mind. "_gott ist

eine Trane der Liebe, in tiefster Verborgenheit vergossen uber das

menschliche Elend_." profoundly touching! I know nothing to approach

it.'



suddenly he inquire:



'do you see much of the exeter clergy?'



'I know only the Vicar of St. Ethelreda's, Mr. Lilywhite.'



'ha! admirable fellow! large-minded, broad of sympathy. have

distinctly the scientific turn of thought.'



Peak smile, know the truth. but he have hit upon a way of meeting

the Rev. Bruno which promise greatly to diminish the suffering

inherent in the situation. he would use the large-souled man

deliberately for his mirth. chilver's self-absorption lend itself to

persiflage, and by indulge in that mood Godwin taste some

compensation for the part he have to play.



'and I believe you know the Warricombes very well?' pursue Chilvers.



'yes.'



'ha! I hope to see much of they. they be people after my own heart.

long ago I have a slight acquaintance with they. I hear we shalln't see

they till the summer.'



'I believe not.'



'Mr. Warricombe be a great geologist, I think?--Probably he frequent

public worship as a mere tribute to social opinion?'



he ask the question in the airy possible way, as if it matter

nothing to he what the reply might be.



'Mr. Warricombe be a man of sincere piety,' Godwin answer, with grave

countenance.



'that by no means necessitate church-going, my dear Peak,' rejoin

the other, wave his hand.



'you think not? I be still only a student, you must remember. my mind

be in suspense on not a few point.'



'of course! of course! pray let I give you the result of my own

thought on this subject.'



he proceed to do so, at some length. when he have round his last

period, he unexpectedly start up, swing on his toe, spread his

chest, draw a deep breath, and with the sweetest of smile announce

that he must postpone the delight of further conversation.



'you must come and dine with I as soon as my house be in reasonable

order. as yet, everything be _sen dessus-dessous_. delightful old

city, Exeter! Charming! Charming!'



and on the moment he be go.



what be this man's real opinion? he have brain and literature; his

pose before the world be not that of an ignorant charlatan. vanity, no

doubt, be his prime motive, but do it operate to make a cleric of a

secret materialist, or to incite a display of excessive liberalism in

one whose conviction be orthodox? Godwin could not answer to his

satisfaction, but he prefer the latter surmise.



one thing, however, become clear to he. all his conscientious scruple

about enter the Church be superfluous. chilver would have smile

pityingly at anyone who dispute his right to live by the

Establishment, and to stand up as an authorised preacher of the

national faith. and beyond a doubt he regulate his degree of 'breadth'

by standard familiar to he in professional intercourse. to he it

seem all-sufficient to preach a gospel of moral progress, of

intellectual growth, of universal fraternity. if this be the tendency

of Anglicanism, then almost any man who desire to live a cleanly life,

and to see other do the same, might without hesitation become a

clergyman. the old formulae of subscription be so symbolised, so

volatilised, that they could not stand in the way of anyone but a

combative nihilist. Peak be conscious of positive ideal by no mean

inconsistent with christian teaching, and in his official capacity

these alone would direct he.



he spend his evening pleasantly, often laugh as he recall a phrase

or gesture of the Rev. Bruno's.



in the night fall a sprinkling of snow, and when the sun rise it

gleam from a sky of pale, frosty blue. at ten o'clock Godwin set out

for his usual walk, choose the direction of the Old Tiverton Road. it

be a fortnight since he have pass the Warricombes' house. at present

he be disposed to indulge the thought which a sight of it would make

active.



he have begin the ascent of the hill when the sound of an approach

vehicle cause he to raise his eye--they be generally fix on the

ground when he walk alone. it be only a hire fly. but, as it pass

he, he recognise the face he have least expect to see,--Sidwell

Warricombe sit in the carriage, and unaccompanie. she notice

he--smile--and bend forward. he clutch at his hat, but it happen

that the driver have turn to look at he, and, instead of the salute

he have intend, his hand wave to the man to stop. the gesture be

scarcely voluntary; when he see the carriage pull up, his heart sink;

he feel guilty of monstrous impudence. but Sidwell's face appear at

the window, and its expression be anything but resentful; she offer

her hand, too. without preface of formal phrase he exclaim:



'how delightful to see you so unexpectedly! be you all here?'



'only mother and I. we have come for a day or two.'



'will you allow I to call? if only for a few minutes'----



'we shall be at home this afternoon.'



'thank you! don't you enjoy the sunshine after London?'



'indeed I do!'



he step back and sign to the driver. sidwell bent her head and be

out of sight.



but the carriage be visible for some distance, and even when he could

no long see it he hear the horse's hoof on the hard road. long

after the last sound have die away his heart continue to beat

painfully, and he breathe as if recover from a hard run.



how beautiful be these lane and hill, even in mid-winter! once more

he sing aloud in his joyous solitude. the hope he have nourish be not

unreasonable; his boldness justify itself. yes, he be one of the man

who succeed, and the life before he would be rich for all the

mistake and misery through which he have pass. thirty, forty,

fifty--why, twenty year hence he would be in the prime of manhood,

with perhaps yet another twenty year of mental and bodily vigour. one

of the man who succeed!







CHAPTER II





on the morning after her journey down from London, Mrs. Warricombe

awake with the conviction that she have catch a cold. her health be in

general excellent, and she have no disposition to nurse imaginary

ailment, but when some slight disorder break the routine of her life

she make the most of it, enjoy--much as child do--the importance

with which for the time it invest she. at such season she be willnot

to regard herself with a mildly despondent compassion, to feel that her

family and her friend hold she of slight account; she speak in a tone

of conscious resignation, often with a forgiving smile. when the girl

redouble their attention, and soothe she with gentle word, she

would close her eye and sigh, seem to remind they that they would

know her value when she be no more.



'you be hoarse, mother,' Sidwell say to she, when they meet at

breakfast.



'be I, dear? you know I feel rather afraid of the journey. I hope I

shalln't be lay up.'



Sidwell advise she not to leave the house to-day. having see the

invalid comfortably establish in an upper room, she go into the

city on business which could not be delay. on her way occur the

meeting with Peak, but of this, on her return, she make no mention.

Mother and daughter have luncheon upstairs, and Sidwell be full of

affectionate solicitude.



'this afternoon you have well lie down for an hour or two,' she say.



'do you think so? just drop a line to father, and warn he that we may

keep here for some time.'



'shall I send for Dr Endacott?'



'just as you like, dear.'



but Mrs. Warricombe have eat such an excellent lunch, that Sidwell

could not feel uneasy.



'we'll see how you be this evening. at all event, it will be safe

for you not to go downstairs. if you lie quiet for an hour or two, I

can look for those pamphlet that father want.'



'just as you like, dear.'



by three o'clock the invalid be calmly slumber. having enter the

bedroom on tiptoe and hear regular breathing, Sidwell go down and

for a few minute linger about the hall. a servant come to she for

instruction on some domestic matter; when this be dismiss she

mention that, if anyone call, she would be find in the library.



the pamphlet of which her father have speak be soon discover. she

lay they aside, and seat herself by the fire, but without lean

back. at any sound within or outside the house she move her head to

listen. her look be anxious, but the gleam of her eye express

pleasurable agitation.



at half-past three she go into the drawing-room, where all the

furniture be drape, and the floor bare. stand where she could look

from a distance through one of the window, at which the blind have be

raise, she wait for a quarter of an hour. then the chill atmosphere

drive she back to the fireside. in the study, evidence of temporary

desertion be less oppressive, but the window look only upon a

sequester part of the garden. Sidwell desire to watch the approach

from the high-road, and in a few minute she be again in the

drawing-room. but scarcely have she close the door behind she when a

ringing of the visitor' bell sound with unfamiliar distinctness. she

start, hasten from the room, flee into the library, and have time to

seat herself before she hear the footstep of a servant move in

answer to the summon.



the door open, and Peak be announce.



Sidwell have never know what it be to be thus overcome with emotion.

shame at her inability to command the calm feature with which she

would naturally receive a caller flush her cheek and neck; she

step forward with downcast eye, and only in offer her hand could

at length look at he who stand before she. she see at once that peak

be unlike himself; he too have unusual warmth in his countenance, and

his eye seem strangely large, luminous. on his forehead be drop

of moisture.



this sight restore her self-control, or such measure of it as

permit she to speak in the conventional way.



'I be sorry that mother cann't leave her room. she have a slight cold

this morning, but I don't think it would give she any trouble.'



Peak be delighted, and betray the feeling even whilst he constrain

his face into a look of exaggerated anxiety.



'it willn't be anything serious, I hope? the railway journey, I'm afraid.'



'yes, the journey. she have a slight hoarseness, but I think we shall

prevent it from'----



their eye keep meeting, and with more steadfastness. they be

conscious of mutual scrutiny, and, on both side, of change since they

last meet. when two people have devote intense study to each other's

feature, a three month' absence not only revive the old impression

but subject they to sudden modification which engrosse think and

feel. Sidwell continue to utter commonplace, simply as a means of

disguise the thought that occupy she; she be say to herself

that Peak's face have a purer outline than she have believe, and that

his eye have gain in expressiveness. in the same way Godwin say and

reply he know not what, just to give himself time to observe and

enjoy the something new--the increase animation or subtler facial

movement--which strike he as often as he look at his companion.

each wonder what the other have be do, whether the time have

seem long or short.



'I hope you have keep well?' Sidwell ask.



Godwin hasten to respond with civil inquiry.



'I be very glad to hear from Mr. Warricombe a few day ago, he

continue. Sidwell be not aware that her father have write, but she

pleased smile seem to signify the contrary.



'she look young,' Peak say in his mind. 'perhaps that London dress

and the new way of arrange her hair have something to do with it. but

no, she look young in herself. she must have be enjoy the

pleasure of town.'



'you have be constantly occupy, no doubt,' he add aloud, feel

at the same time that this be a clumsy expression of what he mean.

though he have unbutton his overcoat, and seat himself as easily as

he could, the absurd tall hat which he hold embarrass he; to deposit

it on the floor demand an effort of which he be yet incapable.



'I have see many thing and hear much talk,' Sidwell be reply, in

a gay tone. it irritate he; he would have prefer she to speak with

more of the old pensiveness. yet perhaps she be glad simply because

she find herself again talk with he?



'and you?' she go on. 'it have not be all work, I hope?'



'oh no! I have have many pleasant interval.'



this be in imitation of her vivacity. he feel the word and the manner

to be ridiculous, but could not restrain himself. every moment

increase his uneasiness; the hat weigh in his hand like a lump of

lead, and he be convince that he have never look so clownish. do

her smile signify criticism of his attitude?



with a decision which come he know not how, he let his hat drop to the

floor and push it aside. there, that be well; he feel less of a

bumpkin.



Sidwell glance at the glossy grotesque, but instantly avert she

eye, and ask rather more gravely:



'have you be in Exeter all the time?'



'yes.'



'but you don't spend your Christmas alone, I hope?'



'oh, I have my book.'



be there not a touch of natural pathos in this? he hope so; then

mock at himself for calculate such effect.



'I think you don't care much for ordinary social pleasure, Mr Peak?'



he smile bitterly.



'I have never know much of them,--and you remember that I look forward

to a life in which they will have little part. such a life,' he

continue, after a pause, 'seem to you unendurably dull? I notice

that, when I speak of it before.'



'you misunderstood I.' she say it so undecidedly that he gaze at she

with puzzled look. her eye fall.



'but you like society?'



'if you use the word in its narrow meaning,' she answer, 'then I

not only dislike society, but despise it.'



she have raise her eyebrow, and be look coldly at he. do she

mean to rebuke he for the tone he have adopt? indeed, he seem to

himself presumptuous. but if they be still on term such as these,

be it not well to know it, even at the cost of humiliation? one

moment he believe that he could read Sidwell's thought, and that they

be wholly favourable to he; at another he feel absolutely ignorant

of all that be pass in she, and dispose to interpret her face as

that of a conventional woman who have never regard he as on her own

social plane. these uncertainty, these frequent reversion to a state

of mind which at other time he seem to have long outgrow, be a

singular feature of his relation with Sidwell. could such experience

consist with genuine love? never have he feel more willing to answer the

question with a negative. he feel that he be come here to act a part,

and that the end of the interview, be it what it might, would only

affect he superficially.



'no,' he reply, with deliberation; 'I never suppose that you have any

interest in the most foolish class of wealthy people. I mean that you

recognise your place in a certain social rank, and regard intercourse

with your equal as an essential of happiness.'



'if I understand why you ask'--she begin abruptly, but cease as she

meet his glance. again he think she be assert a distant dignity.



'the question arise naturally out of a train of thought which always

occupy I when I talk with you. I myself belong to no class whatever,

and I cann't help wonder how--if the subject ever occur to

you--you would place I.'



he see his way now, and, having say thus much, could talk on

defiantly. this hour must decide his fortune with Sidwell, yet his

tongue utterly refuse any of the mode of speech which the situation

would have suggest to an ordinary mind. he could not 'make love'.

instead of humility, he be prompt to display a rough arrogance;

instead of tender phrase, he utter what sound like deliberate

rudeness. his voice be less gently tune than Sidwell have be willnot to

hear it. it all mean that he despair of woo successfully, and

more than half wish to force some word from Sidwell which would spare

he the necessity of a plain avowal.



but before he have finish speak, her face change. a light of

sudden understanding shine in her eye; her lip soften to a smile of

exquisite gentleness.



'the subject never _do_ occur to I,' she answer. 'how should it? a

friend be a friend.'



it be not strictly true, but in the strength of her emotion she could

forget all that contradict it.



'a friend--yes.'



Godwin begin with the same note of bluntness. but of a sudden he feel

the influence of Sidwell's smile. his voice sink into a murmur, his

heart leapt, a thrill go through his vein.



'I wish to be something more than a friend.'



he feel that it be bald, inadequate. yet the word have come of their

own accord, on an impulse of unimpaired sincerity. Sidwell's head be

bent.



'that be why I cann't take simple thing for grant,' he continue, his

gaze fix upon she. 'if I think of nothing but friendship, it would

seem rational enough that you should accept I for what I be--a man of

education, talk your own language. because I have dare to hope

something more, I suffer from the thought that I be not bear into your

world, and that you must be always remember this difference.'



'do you think I so far behind the age?' ask Sidwell, try to laugh.



'class be get mix, confused. yes, but we be so conscious of

the process that we talk of class distinction more than of anything

else,--talk and think of they incessantly. you have never hear I make

a profession of Radicalism; _i_ be decidedly behind the age. be what I

may--and I have spiritual pride more than enough--the fact that I have

relative in the low, even the low, social class must necessarily

affect the whole course of my life. a certain kind of man declare

himself proud of such an origin--and most often lie. or one may be

drive by it into rebellion against social privilege. to I, my origin

be simply a grave misfortune, to be accept and, if possible,

overcome. do that sound mean-spirited? I cann't help it; I want you to

know I.'



'I believe I know you very well,' Sidwell reply.



the consciousness that she be deceive check the word which be

rise to his lip. again he see himself in a pitiful light, and this

self-contempt reflect upon Sidwell. he could not doubt that she be

yield to he; her attitude and her voice declare it; but what be

the value of love win by imposture? why have she not intelligence enough

to see through his hypocrisy, which at time be so thin a veil? how

defective must her sympathy be!



'yet you have see very little of I,' he say, smile.



there be a short silence; then he exclaim in a voice of emotion:



'how I wish we have know each other ever since that day when your

brother bring I to your house near Kingsmill! if we have meet and

talk through all those year! but that be impossible for the very

reason which make I inarticulate now that I wish to say so much. when

you first see I I be a gawky schoolboy, learn to use my brain,

and know already that life have nothing to offer I but a false

position. whether I remain with my kith and kin, or turn my back

upon they in the hope of find my equal, I be condemn to a life

of miserable incompleteness. I be bear in exile. it take a long time

before I have teach myself how to move and speak like one of the class

to which I belong by right of intellect. I be live alone in

London, in mean lodge-house. but the day come when I feel more

confidence in myself. I have save money, and foresaw that in a year or

two I should be able to carry out a plan, make one serious attempt to

win a position among educated people.'



he stop. have he intend a full confession, it be thus he might

have begin it. Sidwell be regard he, but with a gentle look,

utterly unsuspecting. she be unable to realise his character and his

temptation.



'and have you not succeed?' she ask, in a low voice.



'have I? let I put it to the test. I will set aside every thought of

presumption; forget that I be a penniless student look forward to a

country curacy; and say what I wish to when we have our last

conversation. never mind how it sound. I have dare to hope that some

day I shall ask you to be my wife, and that you willn't refuse.'



the word 'wife' reverberate on his ear. a whirl of emotion break the

defiant calm he have support for the last few minute. the silence

seem to be endless; when he look at Sidwell, her head be bent, the

eye conceal by their droop lid. her expression be very grave.



'such a piece of recklessness,' he say at length, 'deserve no answer.'



Sidwell raise her eye and speak gently, with voice a little shaken.



'why should you call it recklessness? I have never think of the

thing that seem to trouble you so much. you be a friend of ours.

ben't that enough?'



it seem to he an evasive reply. doubtless it be much that she

show neither annoyance nor prudish reserve. he have win the right of

address she on equal term, but she be not inclined to anticipate

that future day to which he point.



'you have never think of such thing, because you have never think

of I as I of you. every day of your absence in London have cause I

torment which be due most often to the difference between your

social position and mine. you have be among people of leisure and

refinement and culture. each evening you have talk with man whom it

cost no effort to make themselves like and respect. I think of that

with bitterness.'



'but why? I have make many acquaintance; have meet very interesting

people. I be glad of it; it enable I to understand you well than I

could before.'



'you be glad on that account?'



'yes; indeed I be.'



'dare I think you mean more than a civil phrase?'



'I mean quite simply all that my word imply. I have think of you,

though certainly without bitterness. no one's conversation in London

interest I so much as your.'



soothe with an exquisite joy, Godwin feel his eye moisten. for a

moment he be reconcile to all the world, and forget the hostility

of a lifetime.



'and will it still be so, now, when you go back?' he ask, in a soft

tone.



'I be sure it will.'



'then it will be strange if I ever feel bitterly again.'



Sidwell smile.



'you could have say nothing that could please I more. why should your

life be trouble by these dark mood? I could understand it if you be

still struggle with--with doubt, with all manner of uncertainty

about your course'----



she hesitate, watch his face.



'you think I have choose well?' say Godwin, meet her look.



Sidwell's eye be at once avert.



'I hope,' she say, 'we may talk of that again very soon. you have tell

I much of yourself, but I have say little or nothing of my

own--difficulty. it willn't be long before we come back from London,

and then'----



once more their eye meet steadily.



'you think,' Godwin ask, 'that I be right in aim at a life of

retirement?'



'it be one of my doubt. your influence would be useful anywhere; but

most useful, surely, among people of active mind.'



'perhaps I shalln't be able to choose. remember that I be seek for a

livelihood as well as for a sphere of usefulness.'



his eye fall as he speak. Hitherto he have have no mean of learn

whether Sidwell would bring her husband a dowry substantial enough to

be consider. though he could not feel that she have betroth herself

to he, their talk be so nearly that of avowed lover that perchance

she would disclose whatever might help to put his mind at rest. the

thought revive his painful self-consciousness; it be that of a

schemer, yet would not the curse of poverty have suggest it to any

man?



'perhaps you willn't be able to choose--at first,' Sidwell assent,

thereby seem to answer his unspoken question. 'but I be sure my

father will use whatever influence he have.'



have he be seat near enough, he would have be tempt to the

boldness of take her hand. what more encouragement do he await? but

the distance between they be enough to check his embarrassed impulse.

he could not even call she 'sidwell'; it would have be easy a few

minute ago, before she have begin to speak with such calm friendliness.

now, in spite of everything, he feel that to dare such a familiarity

must need call upon he the reproof of astonished eye.



'you return to-morrow?' he ask, suddenly.



'I think so. you have promise I to be cheerful until we be home

again.'



'a promise to be cheerful wouldn't mean much. but it _do_ mean much

that I can think of what you have say to-day.'



Sidwell do not speak, and her silence seem to compel he to rise. it

be strange how remote he still feel from her pure, grave face, and the

flow outline of her figure. why could he not say to she, 'I love

you; give I your hand; give I your lip'? such word seem

impossible. yet passion thrill in he as he watch the grace of her

movement, the light and shadow upon her feature. she have rise and

come a step or two forward.



'I think you look tall--in that dress.'



the word rather escape he than be speak. his need be to talk of

common thing, of trifle, that so he might come to feel humanly.



Sidwell smile with unmistakable pleasure.



'do I? do you like the dress?'



'yes. it become you.'



'be you critical in such thing?'



'not with understanding. but I should like to see you every day in a

new and beautiful dress.'



'oh, I couldn't afford it!' be the laugh reply.



he offer his hand; the touch of her warm, soft finger fire his

blood.



'sidwell!'



it be speak at last, involuntarily, and he stand with his eye on

her, her hand crush in his.



'some day!' she whisper.



if their lip meet, the contact be so slight as to seem accidental; it

be the mere timorous promise of a future kiss. and both be glad of

the something that have impose restraint.



when Sidwell go up to her mother's sitting-room, a servant have just

bring tea.



'I hear that Mr. Peak have be,' say Mrs. Warricombe, who look puffy

and uncomfortable after her sleep. 'Emma be go to take tea to the

study, but I think it unnecessary. how could he know that we be

here?'



'I meet he this morning on my way into the town.'



'surely it be rather inconsiderate of he to call.'



'he ask if he might.'



Mrs. Warricombe turn her head and examine Sidwell.



'oh! and do he stay long?'



'not very long,' reply Sidwell, who be in quiet good-humour.



'I think it would have be well if you have tell he by the servant

that I be not well enough to see caller. you don't mention that he

might be come.'



Mrs. Warricombe's mind work slowly at all time, and at present she

be suffer from a cold.



'why don't you speak of it, Sidwell?'



'really--I forget,' reply the daughter, lightly.



'and what have he to say?'



'nothing new, mother. be your head well, dear?'



there be no answer. Mrs. Warricombe have conceive a vague suspicion

which be so alarming that she would not press inquiry allude to

it. the encouragement give by her husband to Godwin Peak in the

latter's social progress have always annoy she, though she could not

frame solid objection. to be sure, to say of a man that he be about to

be ordain meet every possible question that society can put; but

Mrs. Warricombe's uneasiness be in part due to personal dislike.

Oftener than not, she still think of Peak as he appear some eleven

year ago--an evident plebeian, without manner, without a redeem

grace. she know the story of his relative who have open a shop in

Kingsmill; thinking of that now, she shudder.



Sidwell begin to talk of indifferent matter, and Peak be not again

mention.



her throat be still troublesome, Mrs. Warricombe retire very soon

after dinner. about nine o'clock Sidwell go to the library, and sit

down at her father's writing-table, purpose a letter to Sylvia. she

pen a line or two, but soon lapse into reverie, her head on her

hand. of a sudden the door be throw open, and there stand Buckland,

fresh from travel.



'what have bring you?' exclaim his sister, start up anxiously,

for something in the young man's look seem ominous.



'oh, nothing to trouble about. I have to come down--on business. mother

go to bed?'



Sidwell explain.



'all right; don't matter. I suppose I can sleep here? let they get I

a mouthful of something; cold meat, anything will do.'



his need be quickly supply, and before long he be smoke by the

library fire.



'I be write to Sylvia,' say his sister, glance at her fragmentary

letter.



'oh!'



'you know she be at Salisbury?'



'Salisbury? no, I don't.'



his carelessness prove to sidwell that she be wrong in conjecture

that his journey have something to do with Miss Moorhouse. Buckland be

in no mood for conversation; he smoke for a quarter of an hour whilst

Sidwell resume her writing.



'of course you haven't see Peak?' fall from he at length.



his sister look at he before reply.



'yes. he call this afternoon.'



'but who tell he you be here?'



his brow be knit, and he speak very abruptly. Sidwell give the

same explanation as to her mother, and have far to reply that she

alone receive the caller.



'I see,' be Buckland's comment.



its tone trouble Sidwell.



'have your come anything to do with Mr. Peak?'



'yes, it have. I want to see he the first thing to-morrow.



'can you tell I what about?'



he search her face, frown.



'not now. I'll tell you in the morning.'



Sidwell see herself doom to a night of suspense. she could not

confess how nearly the mystery concern she. have Buckland make some

discovery that irritate he against Peak? she know he be dispose to

catch at anything that seem to tell against Godwin's claim to

respectful treatment, and it surely must be a grave affair to hurry he

on so long a journey. though she could imagine no ground of fear, the

situation be seriously disturbing.



she try to go on with her letter, but fail. as Buckland smoke in

silence, she at length rise and say she would go upstairs.



'all right! shall see you at breakfast. good-night!'



at nine next morning Mrs. Warricombe send a message to Buckland that

she wish to see he in her bedroom. he enter hurriedly.



'cold well, mother? I have only just time to drink a cup of coffee. I

want to catch Peak before he can have leave home.'



'Mr. Peak? why? I be go to speak about he.'



'what be you go to say?' Buckland ask, anxiously.



his mother begin in a roundabout way which threaten long detention.

in a minute or two Buckland have gather enough to interrupt she with

the direct inquiry:



'you don't mean that there's anything between he and Sidwell?'



'I do hope not; but I cann't imagine why she should--really, almost make

a private appointment. I be very uneasy, Buckland. I have hardly sleep.

Sidwell be rather--you know'----



'the deuce! I cann't stop now. wait an hour or two, and I shall have

see the fellow. you needn't alarm yourself. he will probably have

disappear in a few day.'



'what do you mean?' Mrs. Warricombe ask, with nervous eagerness.



'I'll explain afterwards.'



he hurry away. Sidwell be at the breakfast-table. her eye seem to

declare that she have not sleep well. with an insignificant word or two,

the young man swallow his cup of coffee, and have soon leave the house.







CHAPTER III





the wrath which illumine Buckland's countenance as he stride rapidly

towards Longbrook Street be not unmingled with joy. in the deep pocket

of his ulster lie something heavy which keep strike against his leg,

and every such contact spur he with a sense of satisfaction. all

his suspicion be abundantly justify. not only would his father and

Sidwell be oblige to confess that his insight have be profounder than

theirs, but he have the pleasure of standing justify before his own

conscience. the philosophy by which he live be strikingly illustrate

and confirm.



he sniff the morning air, enjoy the firmness of the frozen ground,

on which his boot make a pleasant thud. to be sure, the interview

before he would have its disagreeableness, but Buckland be not one of

those over-civilised man who shrink from every scene of painful

explanation. the detection of a harmful lie be decidedly congenial to

he--especially when he and his have be make its victim. he be now

at liberty to indulge that antipathetic feeling towards Godwin Peak

which sundry consideration have hitherto urge he to repress. whatever

might have pass between Peak and Sidwell, he could not doubt that his

sister's peace be gravely endanger; the adventurer (with however

much or little sincerity) have be make subtle love to she. such a

thought be intolerable. Buckland's class-prejudice assert itself

with brutal vigour now that it have moral indignation for an ally.



he have never be at Peak's lodging, but the address be long since

note. something of disdain come into his eye as he approach the row

of insignificant house. having pull the bell, he stand at his full

height, look severely at the number paint on the door.



Mrs. root open to he, and say that her lodger be at home. he give

his name, and after wait for a moment be lead to the upper floor.

Godwin, who have breakfast later than usual, still sit by the table.

on Warricombe's entrance, he push back his chair and rise, but with

deliberate movement, scarcely smile. that Buckland make no offer of a

friendly hand do not surprise he. the name of his visitor have alarm

he with a sudden presentiment. harden his feature, he stand in

expectancy.



'I want to have a talk with you,' Buckland begin. 'you be at leisure,

I hope?'



'pray sit down.'



Godwin point to a chair near the fire, but Warricombe, having throw

his hat on to a side table, seat himself by one of the window. his

motion prove that he find it difficult to support a semblance of

courtesy.



'I have come down from London on purpose to see you. unless I be

strangely misinformed you have be guilty of conduct which I shouldn't

like to call by its proper name.'



remembering that he be in a little house, with thin partition, he

keep his voice low, but the effort this cost he be obvious. he look

straight at Peak, who do not return the gaze.



'indeed?' say Godwin, coldly. 'what be my crime?'



'I be tell that you have win the confidence of my relative by what

look like a scheme of gross dishonesty.'



'indeed? who have tell you so?'



'no one in so many word. but I happen to come across certain

acquaintance of yours in London--people who know you very well indeed;

and I find that they regard your position here as altogether

incredible. you will remember I have much the same feeling myself. in

support of their view it be mention to I that you have publish an

article in _the Critical_--the date less than a year ago, observe. the

article be anonymous, but I remember it very well. I have re-read it,

and I want you to tell I how the view it express can be reconcile

with those you have maintain in conversation with my father.'



he draw from his pocket the incriminate periodical, turn it back at

the article head 'the New Sophistry', and hold it out for inspection.



'perhaps you would like to refresh your memory.'



'needless, thank you,' return Godwin, with a smile--in which the

vanity of an author have its part.



have Marcella betray he? he have suppose she know nothing of this

article, but Earwaker have perhaps speak of it to Moxey before

receive the injunction of secrecy. on the other hand, it might be

Earwaker himself from whom Warricombe have derive his information. not

impossible for the man to meet, and Earwaker's indignation might have

lead he to disregard a friend's confidence.



the detail matter little. he be face to face with the most serious

danger that could befall he, and already he have string himself to

encounter it. yet even in the same moment he ask, 'be it worth while?'



'do you write this?' Buckland inquire.



'yes, I write it.'



'then I wait for your explanation.'



'you mustn't expect I to enter upon an elaborate defence,' Godwin

reply, take his pipe from the mantelpiece and begin to fill it.

'a man charge with rascality can hardly help get excited--and that

excitement, to one in your mood, seem evidence against he. please to

bear in mind that I have never declare myself an orthodox theologian.

Mr. Warricombe be well acquainted with my view; to you I have never

explain they.'



'you mean to say that my father know of this article?'



'no. I have not speak of it.'



'and why not?'



'because, for one thing, I shouldn't write in that way now; and, for

another, the essay seem to imply more than I mean when I do write

it.'



'"seem to imply"----? I understand. you wish to represent that this

attack on M'Naughten involve no attack on Christianity?'



'not on Christianity as I understand it.'



Buckland's face express profound disgust, but he control his

speech.



'well, I foresaw this. you attack a new sophistry, but there be a

new sophistry still, and uncommonly difficult it be to deal with. Mr.

Peak, I have a plain word to say to you. More than a year ago you ask

I for my goodwill, to aid you in get a social position. say what

you like, I see now that you deal with I dishonestly. I can no long

be your friend in any sense, and I shall do my good to have you

exclude from my parent' house. my father will re-read this essay--I

have mark the significant passage throughout--and will form his own

judgment; I know what it will be.'



'you be within your right.'



'undoubtedly,' reply Buckland, with polished insolence, as he rise

from his seat. 'I cann't forbid you to go to the house again, but--I

hope we mayn't meet there. it would be very unpleasant.'



Godwin be still press down the tobacco in the bowl of his pipe. he

smile, and glance about the room. do Warricombe know how far thing

have go between he and Sidwell? whether or no, it be certain now

that Sidwell would be inform of this disastrous piece of

authorship--and the result?



what do it matter? there be no struggle against destiny. if he and

Sidwell be ever fate to come together, why, these difficulty would

all be surmount. if, as seem more than likely, he be again to be

foil on the point of success--he could bear it, perhaps even enjoy

the comedy.



'there be no possibility of argue against determined anger,' he say,

quietly. 'I be not at all inclined to plead for justice: one only do

that with a friend who desire to be just. my opinion be utterly

distasteful to you, and personal motive have make you regard I as--a

scoundrel to be got rid of. well, there's an end of it. I don't see

what be to be gain by further talk.'



this be a dismissal. Godwin feel the necessity of assert himself

thus far.



'one question,' say Warricombe, as he put the periodical back into his

pocket. 'what do you mean by my "personal motive"?'



their eye meet for an instant.



'I mean the motive which you have speak of.'



it be Buckland's hope that Peak might reveal his relation with

Sidwell, but he shrink from seem to know anything of the matter.

clearly, no light be to be have from this source.



'I be afraid,' he say, move to the door, 'that you will find my

motive share by all the people whose acquaintance you have make in

exeter.'



and without further leave-taking he depart.



there be a doubt in his mind. Peak's coolness might be the audacity of

rascaldom; he prefer to understand it so; but it _might_ have

nothing to do with baseness.



'confound it!' he mutter to himself, irritably. 'in our time life be

so deucedly complicated. it use to be the easy thing to convict a

man of religious hypocrisy; nowadays, one have to bear in mind such a

multiplicity of fine consideration. there's that fellow Bruno

Chilvers: mightn't anyone who have personal reason treat he precisely

as I have treat Peak? both of they _may_ be honest. yet in Peak's

case all appearance be against he--just because he be of low birth,

have no mean, and want desperately to get into society. the fellow be

a scoundrel; I be convinced of it. yet his design may be innocent.

how, then, a scoundrel?----



'poor devil! have he really fall in love with Sidwell?----



'Humbug! he want position, and the comfort it bring. and if he haven't

act like a blackguard--if he have come among we tell the truth--who

know? Sidwell wouldn't then have think of he, but for my own part I

would willingly have give he a hand. there be plenty of girl who

have learn to think for themselves.'



this be an unhappy line of reflection. it lead to Sylvia Moorhouse--and

to grind of the tooth. by the time he reach the house, Buckland

be again in remorseless mood.



he would have it out with Sidwell. the desire of prove to she that he

have be right from the first overrode all think of the pain he might

inflict.



she be in the library. at breakfast he have notice her heavy eye, and

that she make only a pretence of eat. she be now less unlike

herself, but her position at the window show that she have be

wait impatiently.



'ben't mother come down to-day?' he ask.



'yes; after luncheon she will go out for an hour, if it keep fine.'



'and to-morrow you return?'



'if mother feel able to travel.'



he have _the Critical_ in his hand, and stand rustle the page with

his finger.



'I have be to see Peak.'



'have you?'



she move a few step and seat herself sideways on a small chair.



'my business with he be confoundedly unpleasant. I'm glad it's over.

I wish I have know what I now do half a year ago.'



'let I hear what it be.'



'you remember that I tell you to be on your guard against Peak?'



Sidwell smile faintly, and glance at he, but make no answer.



'I know he ben't to be trust,' pursue her brother, with gloomy

satisfaction. 'and I have far well mean of judging than father or

you; but, of course, my suspicion be ungenerous and cynical.'



'will you come to the point?' say Sidwell, in an irritated tone.



'I think you read this article in _the Critical_?' he approach and

show it to she. 'we speak of it once, _a propos_ of M'Naughten's

book.'



she raise her eye, and meet his with a look of concern she could not

disguise.



'what of that?'



'Peak be the author of it. it seem to have be write just about the

time when I meet he and bring he here as a visitor, and it be

publish after he have begin to edify you with his zeal for

Christianity.'



she hold out her hand.



'you remember the tone of the thing?' Buckland add. 'I'll leave it

with you; but just glance at one or two of the passage I have mark.

the anglicanism of their writer be decidedly "broad", it seem to I.'



he move apart and watch his sister as she bend over the page. there

be silence for five minute. see that Sidwell have cease to read,

he ejaculate, 'well?'



'has Mr. Peak admit the authorship?' she ask, slowly and

distinctly.



'yes, and with a cool impudence I hardly expect.'



'do you mean that he have make no attempt to justify himself?'



'none worth listen to. practically, he refuse an explanation.'



Sidwell rest her forehead lightly upon the tip of her finger; the

periodical slip from her lap and lie open on the floor.



'how do you find this out?'



'in the simple way. know perfectly well that I have only to get

familiar with some of his old friend to obtain proof that he be an

impostor, I follow up my acquaintance with Miss Moxey--get hold of

her brother--call upon they. whilst I be there, a man name Malkin

come in, and somehow or other he begin talk of Peak. I learn at

once precisely what I expect, that Peak be know to all these people

as a violent anti-christian. Malkin refuse to believe the story of his

go in for the Church--it sound to he a mere joke. then come out

the fact that he have write this article. they all know about it.'



he see a flush of shame upon Sidwell's half-hide face. it gratify

he. he be resolve to let she taste all the bitterness of her folly.



'it seem pretty clear that the Moxeys--at all event Miss Moxey--know

the rascally part he be play. whether they wish to unmask he, or

not, I cann't say. perhaps not. yet I catch an odd look on Miss Moxey's

face when that man Malkin begin to talk of Peak's characteristic and

achievement. it come out, by-the-bye, that he have give all his

acquaintance the slip; they have completely lose sight of he--I

suppose until Miss Moxey meet he by chance at Budleigh Salterton.

there's some mystery still. she evidently keep Peak's secret from the

Moorhouses and the Walworths. a nice business, altogether!'



again there be a long silence. then Sidwell raise her face and say,

abruptly:



'you may be quite mistaken.'



'how?'



'you go to Mr. Peak in a spirit of enmity and anger. it be not likely

he would explain himself. you may have quite misunderstood what he

say.'



'ridiculous! you mean that he be perhaps "convert" after write

this article?--Then why do he allow it to be publish?'



'he do not sign it. he may have be unable to withdraw it from the

editor's hand.'



'bosh! he don't sign it, because the idea of this exeter campaign come

between the reception and the appearance of his paper. in the ordinary

course of thing, he would have be only too glad to see his name in

_the Critical_. the scoundrelly project be conceive perhaps the very

day that I bring he here--perhaps in that moment--at lunch, do you

remember?--when he begin to talk of the sermon at the Cathedral?'



'why do he go to the Cathedral and hear that sermon?'



'to amuse a Sunday morning, I suppose.'



'that be not very likely in a man who hate and ridicule religion.'



'it be decidedly more probable than the idea of his conversion.'



Sidwell fall back again into her brooding attitude.



'the reason of your mistake in judge he,' resume Buckland, with

emphasis, 'be that you have undervalue his intellect. I tell you long

ago that a man of Peak's calibre could not possibly be a supporter of

dogma and church. no amount of plausible evidence would have make I

believe in his sincerity. let I beg you to appreciate the simple fact,

that _no_ young man of brain and education be nowadays an honest

defender of mediaeval Christianity--the Christianity of your church.

such fellow may transact with their conscience, and make a more or

less decent business of the clerical career; or, in rare case, they

may believe that society be serve by the maintenance of a national

faith, and accordingly preach with all manner of mental reserve and

symbolical interpretation. these be in reality politician, not

priest. but Peak belong to neither class. he be an acute cynic, bent

on make the good of this world, since he believe in no other. how he

must have chuckle after every visit to this house! he despise you,

one and all. believe I, he regard you with profound contempt.'



Buckland's obtuseness on the imaginative side spare he the

understanding of his sister's state of mind. though in theory he

recognise that woman be little amenable to reasoning, he take it for

grant that a clear demonstration of Peak's duplicity must at once

banish all thought of he from Sidwell's mind. therefore he be

unspare in his assault upon her delusion. it surprise he when at

length Sidwell look up with flash, tear-dewe eye and address

he indignantly:



'in all this there be not one word of truth! you know that in

represent the clergy as a body of ignorant and shallow man you speak

out of prejudice. if you believe what you say, you would be yourself

both ignorant and shallow. I cann't trust your judgment of anyone

whatever.'



she pause, but in a moment add the remark which would have come

first have she speak in the order of her thought.



'it be because the spirit of contempt be so familiar to you that you

be so ready to perceive it in other. I consider that habit of mind

bad than hypocrisy--yes, bad, far bad!'



Buckland be sorry for the pain he have give. the retort do not affect

he, but he hang his head and look uncomfortable. his next speech be

in a milder strain:



'I feel it a duty, Sidwell, to represent this man to you in what I

verily believe to be the true light. to be despise by one who be

immeasurably contemptible surely cann't distress you. if a butler get

into your house by mean of a forge character, and then lay his plan

for a great burglary, no doubt he scorn you for be so easily take

in,--and that be an exact parallel to Peak's proceeding. he have

somehow get the exterior of a gentleman; you could not believe that one

who behave so agreeably and talk so well be conceal an

essentially base nature. but I must remind you that Peak belong by

origin to the low class, which be as much as to say that he lack

the sense of honour generally inherit by man of our world. a powerful

intellect by no means imply a corresponding development of the moral

sense.'



Sidwell could not close her ear against the argument. but her feature

be still set in an expression of resentment, and she keep silence

lest her voice should sound tearful.



'and don't be tempt by personal feeling,' pursue her brother, 'to

make light of hypocrisy--especially this kind. the man who can act such

a part as Peak's have be for the last twelve month must be capable of

any depravity. it be difficult for you to estimate his baseness,

because you be only half convince that any one can really be an enemy

of religious faith. you suspect a lurking belief even in the mind of

avow atheist. but take the assurance from I that a man like Peak

(and I be at one with he in this matter) regard with absolute

repugnance every form of supernaturalism. for he to affect belief in

your religion, be a crime against conscience. Peak have commit this

crime with a mercenary motive,--what viler charge could be bring

against he?'



without look at he, his sister reply:



'whether he be guilty or not, I cann't yet determine. but the motive of

his life here be not mercenary.'



'then how would you describe it?' Buckland ask, in astonishment.



'I only know that it cann't be call mercenary.'



'then the distinction you draw must be a very fine one.--He have

abandon the employment by which he live, and by his own admission he

look to the Church for mean of support. it be necessary for he to

make interest with people of social position; the close his relation

with they the well. from month to month he have work skilfully to

establish his footing in this house, and among your friend. what do

you call this?'



she have no verbal answer to make, but her look declare that she hold

to another interpretation.



'well,' Buckland add, impatiently, 'we will hear father's opinion.

he, remember, have be deceive in a very gross and cruel way. possibly

he may help you to see the thing in all its hatefulness.'



Sidwell turn to he.



'you go to London this afternoon?'



'in an hour or two,' he reply, consult his watch.



'be it any use my ask you to keep silence about everything until I

be back in town?'



Buckland frown and hesitate.



'to mother as well as father, you mean?'



'yes. will you do I this kindness?'



'answer I a question, Sidwell. have you any thought of see Peak?'



'I cann't say,' she reply, in agitation. 'I must leave myself free. I

have a right to use my own judgment.'



'don't see he! I beg you not to see he!'



he be so earnest that Sidwell suspect some other reason in his

request than regard for her dignity.



'I must leave myself free,' she repeat, with shake voice. 'in any

case I shall be back in London to-morrow evening--that is, if--but I be

sure mother will wish to go. grant I this one kindness; say nothing

here or there till I be back and have see you again.'



he turn a deaf ear, for the persistency with which she resist proof

of Peak's dishonour have begin to alarm he. who could say what

miserable folly she might commit in the next four-and-twenty hour? the

unavoidable necessity of his own return exasperate he; he wish to

see she safe back in London, and under her father's care.



'no,' he exclaim, with a gesture of determination; 'I cann't keep such

a thing as this secret for another hour. mother must know at

once--especially as you mean to invite that fellow into the house

again.--I have half a mind to telegraph to Godolphin that I cann't

possibly be with he to-night.'



Sidwell regard he and speak with forced composure.



'do as seem right to you, Buckland. but don't think that by remain

here you would prevent I from see Mr. Peak, if I wish to do so.

that be treat I too much like a child. you have do your

part--doubtless your duty; now I must reflect and judge for myself.

neither you nor anyone else have authority over I in such

circumstance.'



'very well. I have no authority, as you say, but common sense bid I

let mother know how the case stand.'



and angrily he leave the room.



_the Critical_ still lay where it have fall. when Sidwell have stand a

while in confused thought, her eye turn to it, and she go hurriedly

to take it up. yes, that be the first thing to be do, to read those

page with close care. for this she must have privacy. she run upstairs

and shut herself in her bedroom.



but do not at once begin to read. it concern she deeply to know

whether Peak have so express himself in this paper, that no room be

leave for doubt as to his conviction; but another question press upon

she with even more urgency--could it be true that he do not love she?

if Buckland be wholly right, then it matter little in what degree

she have be mislead by intellectual hypocrisy.



it be impossible to believe that Peak have make love to she in cold

blood, with none but sordid impulse. the thought be so humiliating

that her mind resolutely reject it; and she have no difficulty in

recall numberless minutia of behaviour--nuance of look and tone

such as abide in a woman's memory--any one of which would have suffice

to persuade she that he feel genuine emotion. how have it come to pass

that a feeling of friendly interest, which do not for a moment

threaten her peace, change all at once to an agitation only the more

persistent the more she try to subdue it,--how, if it be not that

her heart respond to a passionate appeal, effectual as only the

sincere love can prove? prior to that long talk with Godwin, on the

eve of her departure for London, she have not imagine that he love

she; when they say good-bye to each other, she know by her own

sensation all that the parting mean to he. she feel glad, instead of

sorry, that they be not to meet again for several month; for she

wish to think of he calmly and prudently, now that he present

himself to her imagination in so new an aspect. the hand-clasp be a

mutual assurance of fidelity.



'I should never have love he, if he have not first love I. of that I

be as firmly convinced as of my own existence. it be not in my nature

to dream romance. I never do so even as a young girl, and at this age

I be not likely to fall into a foolish self-deception. I have often

think about he. he seem to I a man of high and more complex

type than those with whom I be familiar; but most surely I never

attribute to he even a corresponding interest in I. I be neither

vain, nor very anxious to please; I never suffer because man do not

woo I; I have only moderate good look, and certainly no uncommon

mental endowments.--If he have be attract by Sylvia, I should have

think it natural; and I more than once suspect that Sylvia be

disposed to like he. it seem strange at first that his choice should

have fall upon I; yet when I be far away from he, and long so to

sit once more by he and hear he talk, I understand that it might be

in my power to afford he the companionship he needed.--Mercenary? if I

have be merely a governess in the house, he would have love I just

the same!'



only by a painful effort could she remind herself that the ideal which

have grow so slowly be now deface. he love she, but it be not the

love of an honest man. after all, she have no need to peruse this

writing of his; she remember so well how it have impress she when

she read it on its first appearance, how her father have speak of it.

Buckland's manifold evidence be irresistible. why should Peak have

conceal his authorship? why have he disappear from among the people

who thoroughly know he?



she have love a dream. what a task would it be to distinguish between

those part of Peak's conversation which represent his real thought,

and those which be mockery of his listener! the plan of a retire

life which he have sketch to she--be it all falsehood? impossible,

for his love be inextricably blend with the detail. do he imagine

that the secret of his unbelief could be preserve for a lifetime, and

that it would have no effect whatever upon his happiness as a man? this

seem a likely reading of the problem. but what a multitude of moral

and intellectual obscurity remain! the character which have seem

to she nobly simple be become a dark and dread enigma.



she know so little of his life. if only it could all be lay bare to

she, the secret of his position would be reveal. Buckland's violence

altogether miss its mark; the dishonour of such a man as Godwin Peak

be due to no gross incentive.



it be probable that, in talk with her father, he have be guilty of

more deliberate misrepresentation than have mark his intercourse with

the rest of the family. her father, she feel sure, have come to regard

he as a valuable source of argument in the battle against materialism.

Doubtless the german book, which Peak be translate, bear upon that

debate, and consequently be use as an aid to dissimulation. think

of this, she all but share her brother's vehement feeling. it pain

she to the inmost heart that her father's generous and candid nature

should thus have be play upon. the deceit, as it concern herself

alone, she could forgive; at least she could suspend judgment until the

accuse have offer his defence--feel that the psychology of the

case must till then be beyond her power of analysis. but the wrong

do to her father revolt she.



a tap at the door cause she to rise, tremble. she remember that by

this time her mother must be aware of the extraordinary disclosure, and

that a new scene of wretched agitation have to be go through.



'sidwell!'



it be Mrs. Warricombe's voice, and the door open.



'Sidwell!--What _do_ all this mean? I don't understand half that

Buckland have be tell I.'



the speaker's face be mottle, and she stand pant, a hand press

against her side.



'how very, very imprudent we have be! how wrong of father not to have

make inquiry! to think that such a man should have sit at our table!'



'sit down, mother; don't be so distressed,' say Sidwell, calmly. 'it

will all very soon be settle.'



'of course not a word must be say to anyone. how very fortunate that

we shall be in London till the summer! of course he must leave Exeter.'



'I have no doubt he will. let we talk as little of it as possible,

mother. we shall go back to-morrow'----



'this afternoon! we will go back with Buckland. that be decide. I

couldn't sleep here another night.'



'we must remain till to-morrow,' Sidwell reply, with quiet

determination.



'why? what reason can there be?'



Mrs. Warricombe's voice be suspend by a horrible surmise.



'of course we shall go to-day, Sidwell,' she continue, in nervous

haste. 'to think of that man have the impudence to call and sit

talk with you! if I could have dreamt'----



'mother,' say Sidwell, gravely, 'I be oblige to see Mr. Peak, either

this evening or to-morrow morning.'



'to--to _see_ him----? sidwell! what can you mean?'



'I have a reason for wish to hear from his own lip the whole truth.'



'but we _know_ the whole truth!--What can you be think of, dear? who

be this Mr. Peak that you should ask he to come and see you, under

_any_ circumstance?'



it would never have occur to Sidwell to debate with her mother on

subtle question of character and motive, but the agitation of her

nerve make it difficult for she to keep silence under these vapid

outcry. she desire to be alone; commonplace discussion of the misery

that have come upon she be impossible. a little more strain, and she

would be on the point of tear, a weakness she be resolute to avoid.



'let I think quietly for an hour or two,' she say, move away. 'it's

quite certain that I must stay here till to-morrow. when Buckland have

go, we can talk again.'



'but, Sidwell'----



'if you insist, I must leave the house, and find a refuge somewhere

else.'



Mrs. Warricombe toss her head.



'oh, if I be not permit to speak to you! I only hope you willn't have

occasion to remember my warning! such extraordinary behaviour be

surely never know! I should have thought'----



Sidwell be by this time out of the room. safe in privacy she sit down

as if to pen a letter. from an hour's agitated thought, the follow

line result:



'my brother have tell I of a conversation he hold with you this

morning. he say you admit the authorship of an article which seem

quite inconsistent with what you have profess in our talk. how be I

to understand this contradiction? I beg that you will write to I at

once. I shall anxiously await your reply.'



this, with her signature, be all. having enclose the note in an

envelope, she leave it on her table and go down to the library, where

Buckland be sit alone in gloomy reverie. Mrs. Warricombe have tell

he of Sidwell's incredible purpose. recognise his sister's

independence, and feel sure that if she see Peak it could only be to

take final leave of he, he have decide to say no more. to London he

must perforce return this afternoon, but he have do his duty

satisfactorily, and just in time. it be plain that thing have go far

between Peak and Sidwell; the latter's behaviour avow it. but danger

there could be none, with 'the New Sophistry' stare she in the eye.

let she see the fellow, by all mean. his evasion and hair-splitting

would complete her deliverance.



'there's a train at 1.53,' Buckland remark, rise, 'and I shall

catch it if I start now. I cann't stay for the discomfort of luncheon.

you remain here till to-morrow, I understand?'



'yes.'



'it's a pity you be angry with I. it seem to I I have do you a

kindness.'



'I be not angry with you, Buckland,' she reply, gently. 'you have

do what you be plainly oblige to do.'



'that's a sensible way of put it. let we say goodbye with

friendliness then.'



Sidwell give her hand, and try to smile. with a look of pained

affection, Buckland go silently away.



shortly after, Sidwell fetch her note from upstairs, and give it to

the housekeeper to be deliver by hand as soon as possible. Mrs

Warricombe remain invisible, and Sidwell go back to the library,

where she sit with _the Critical_ open before she at Godwin's essay.



hour go by; she still wait for an answer from Longbrook Street.



at six o'clock she go upstairs and speak to her mother.



'shall you come down to dinner?'



'no, Sidwell,' be the cold reply. 'be so good as to excuse I.



towards eight, a letter be bring to she; it could only be from

Godwin Peak. with eye which endeavour to take in all at once, and

therefore could at first distinguish nothing, she scan what seem

to be hurriedly write line.



'I have try to answer you in a long letter, but after all I cann't

send it. I fear you wouldn't understand. well to repeat simply that I

write the article you speak of. I should have tell you about it some

day, but now my intention and hope matter nothing. whatever I say

now would seem dishonest pleading. good-bye.'



she read this so many time that at length she have but to close her

eye to see every word clearly trace on the darkness. the meaning she

extract from each sentence be scarcely less numerous than her

perusal. in spite of reason, this enigmatic answer bring she some

solace. he _could_ defend himself; that be the assurance she have

long for. impossible (she again and again declare to herself with

emphasis) for their intimacy to be resume. but in secret she could

hold he, if not innocent, at all event not base. she have not bestow

her love upon a mere impostor.



but now a mournful, regretful passion begin to weigh upon her heart.

she shed tear, and presently steal away to her room for a night of

sorrow.



what must be her practical course? if she go back to London without

address another word to he, he must understand her silence as a

final farewell. in that case his departure from Exeter would, no doubt,

speedily follow, and there be little likelihood that she would ever

again see he. be Godwin a vulgar schemer, he would not so readily

relinquish the advantage he have gain; he would calculate upon the

weakness of a love woman, and make at least one effort to redeem his

position. as it be, she could neither hope nor fear that he would try

to see she again. yet she wish to see he, desire it ardently.



and yet--for each impulse of ardour be follow by a cold fit of

reasoning--might not his abandonment of the position bear a meaning

such as Buckland would of course attribute to it? if he be hopeless

of the goodwill of her parent, what profit would it be to he to

retain her love? she be no heiress; suppose he actuate by base

motive, her value in his eye come merely of his regard she as a

mean to an end.



but this be to reopen the question of whether or not he truly love

she. no; he be forsake she because he think it impossible for she

to pardon the deceit he have undeniably practise--with whatever

palliate circumstance. he be overcome with shame. he imagine she

indignant, scornful.



why have she write such a short, cold note, the very thing to produce

in his mind a conviction of her resentment?



Hereupon come another paroxysm of tearful misery. it be intensify by

a thought she have half consciously be repress ever since the

conversation with her brother. be it true that Miss Moxey have have it

in her power to strip Godwin of a disguise? what, then, be the

relation exist between he and that strangely impressive woman? how

long have they know each other? it be now all but certain that a

strong intellectual sympathy unite their mind--and perhaps there have

be something more.



she turn her face upon the pillow and moan.







CHAPTER IV





and from the Moxeys Buckland have derive his information. what be it

he say--something about 'an odd look' on Miss Moxey's face when that

friend of theirs talk of Peak? might not such a look signify a

conflict between the temptation to injure and the desire to screen?



Sidwell construct a complete romance. ignorance of the past of both

person concern allow her imagination free play. there be no limit

to the possibility of self-torment.



the desire to see Godwin take such hold upon she, that she have already

begin to think over the wording of another note to be send to he the

first thing in the morning. his reply have be insufficient: simple

justice require that she should hear he in his own defence before

part with he for ever. if she keep silence, he would always

remember she with bitterness, and this would make her life-long sorrow

hard to bear. Sidwell be one of those few woman whose love, never

demonstrative, never exigent, only declare itself in all its profound

significance when it be call upon to pardon. what be likely to be

the issue of a meeting with Godwin she could not foresee. it seem all

but impossible for their intercourse to continue, and their come face

to face might result in nothing but distress to both, well avoid;

yet judgment yield to emotion. yesterday--only yesterday--she have

yield herself to the joy of love, and before her consciousness have

have time to make itself familiar with its new realm, before her eye

have grow accustomed to the light suddenly shed about she, she be

bid to think of what have happen as only a dream. her heart refuse

to make surrender of its hope. though it could be hold only by an

encouragement of recognised illusion, she prefer to dream yet a

little long. above all, she must taste the luxury of forgive she

lover, of make sure that her image would not dwell in his mind as

that of a self-righteous woman who have turn coldly from his error,

perhaps from his repentance.



a little after midnight, she rise from bed, slip on her

dressing-gown, and sit down by the still burn lamp to write what her

passion dictate:





'why should you distrust my ability, or my willingness to understand

you? it would have be so much well if you have send what you first

write. these few line do not even let I know whether you think

yourself to blame. why do you leave I to form a judgment of thing as

they appear on the surface? if you _wish_ to explain, if you sincerely

feel that I be in danger of wrong you by misconstruction, come to I

as soon as you have receive this note. if you will not come, then at

least write to I--the letter you at first thought of send. this

afternoon (Friday) I return to London, but you know my address there.

don't think because I write so briefly that I have judge you.



S. W.'





to have commit this to paper be a relief. in the morning she would

read it over and consider again whether she wish to send it.



on the table lie _the Critical_. she open it once more at the page

that concern she, and glance over the first few line. then, having

put the lamp near to the bed, she again lie down, not to sleep but to

read.



this essay be not so repugnant to her mind or her feeling as when she

first become acquainted with it. its bitterness no long seem to be

direct against herself. there be much in it with which she could

have agree at any time during the last six month, and many stroke of

satire, which till the other day would have offend she, she now feel

to be legitimate. as she read on, a kind of anger such as she have never

experience tremble along her nerve. be it not flagrantly true that

english society at large make profession of a faith which in no sense

whatever it could be say sincerely to hold? be there not every reason

to believe that thousand of people keep up an ignoble formalism,

because they fear the social result of declare their severance

from the religion of the church? this be a monstrous evil; she have

never till this moment understand the scope of its baneful effect. but

for the prevalence of such a spirit of hypocrisy, Godwin Peak would

never have sin against his honour. why be it not declare in

trumpet-tone of authority, from end to end of the christian world,

that Christianity, as it have be understand through the age, can no

long be accept? for that be the truth, the truth, the _truth_!



she lie back, quiver as if with terror. for an instant her soul have

be fill with hatred of the religion for which she could once have

die. it have stand before she as a power of darkness and ignorance, to

be assail, crush, drive from the memory of man.



last night she have hardly sleep, and now, though her body be numb with

weariness, her mind keep up a feverish activity. she be bent on

excuse Godwin, and the only way in which she could do so be by

arraign the world for its huge dishonesty. in a condition between

slumber and waking, she seem to plead for he before a circle of

Pharisaic accuser. stream of silent eloquence rush through her

brain, and the spirit which prompt she be closely akin to that of

'the New Sophistry'. now and then, for a few second, she be smite

with a consciousness of extraordinary change in her habit of thought.

she look about she with wide, fearful eye, and endeavour to see

thing in the familiar aspect. as if with physical constraint her angry

imagination again overcome she, until at length from the penumbra of

sleep she pass into its profound gloom.



to wake when dawn be pale at the window. a choke odour remind she

that she have not extinguish the lamp, which must have go out for

lack of oil. she open the window, take a draught of water, and

address herself to sleep again. but in recollect what the new day

mean for she, she have spoil the chance of long rest. her head

ache; all worldly thought be repulsive, yet she could not dismiss

they. she try to repeat the prayer she have know since childhood,

but they be meaningless, and a sense of shame attach to their

utterance.



when the first gleam of sun tell she that it be past eight o clock,

she make an effort and rise.



at breakfast Mrs. Warricombe talk of the departure for London. she

mention an early train; by get ready as soon as the meal be

over, they could easily reach the station in time. Sidwell make no

direct reply and seem to assent; but when they rise from the table,

she say, nervously:



'I couldn't speak before the servant. I wish to stay here till the

afternoon.'



'why, Sidwell?'



'I have ask Mr. Peak to come and see I this morning.'



her mother know that expostulation be useless, but could not refrain

from a long harangue make up of warning and reproof.



'you have very little consideration for I,' be her final remark. 'now

we shalln't get home till after dark, and of course my throat will be bad

again.'



Glad of the anti-climax, Sidwell reply that the day be much warm,

and that with care no harm need come of the journey.



'it's easy to say that, Sidwell. I never know you to behave so

selfishly, never!'



'don't be angry with I, mother. you don't know how grieve I be to

distress you so. I cann't help it, dear; indeed, I cann't. willn't you

sacrifice a few hour to put my mind at rest?'



Mrs. Warricombe once more give expression to her outraged feeling.

Sidwell could only listen silently with bent head.



if Godwin be come at all, he would be here by eleven o'clock.

Sidwell have learn that her letter be put into his hand. she ask

he to come at once, and nothing but a resolve not to meet she could

delay he more than an hour or two.



at half-past ten the bell sound. she be sit in the library with

her back turn to the door. when a voice announce 'Mr. Peak', she do

not at once rise, and with a feeling akin to terror she hear the

footstep slowly approach. it stop at some distance from she;

then, overcome a weakness which threaten to clog she as in a

nightmare, she stand up and look round.



Peak wear neither overcoat nor glove, but otherwise be dress in the

usual way. as Sidwell fix her eye upon he, he throw his hat into a

chair and come a step or two nearer. whether he have pass the night in

sleep or vigil could not be determine; but his look be one of shame,

and he do not hold himself so upright as be his willnot.



'will you come and sit down?' say Sidwell, point to a chair not far

from that on which one of her hand rest.



he move forward, and be about to pass near she, when Sidwell

involuntarily hold her hand to he. he take it and gaze into her face

with a melancholy smile.



'what do it mean?' she ask, in a low voice.



he relinquish her finger, which he have scarcely press, and stand

with his arm behind his back.



'oh, it's all quite true,' be his reply, wearily speak.



'what be true?'



'all that you have hear from your brother.'



'All?--But how can you know what he have say?'



they look at each other. Peak's lip be set as if in resistance of

emotion, and a frown wrinkle his brow. Sidwell's gaze be one of fear

and appeal.



'he say, of course, that I have deceive you.'



'but in what?--Was there no truth in anything you say to I?'



'to you I have speak far more truth than falsehood.'



a light shone in her eye, and her lip quiver.



'then,' she murmur, 'Buckland be not right in everything.'



'I understand. he wish you to believe that my love be as much a

pretence as my religion?'



'he say that.'



'it be natural enough.--And you be disposed to believe it?'



'I think it impossible. but I should have think the same of the

other thing.'



Peak nod, and move away. watch he, Sidwell be beset with

conflict impulse. his assurance have allay her bad misgiving,

and she approve the self-restraint with which he bear himself, but at

the same time she long for a passionate declaration. as a reasoning

woman, she do she utmost to remember that Peak be on his defence

before she, and that nothing could pass between they but grave

discussion of the motive which have impel he to dishonourable

behaviour. as a woman in love, she would fain have obscure the moral

issue by indulgence of her heart's desire. she be glad that he hold

aloof, but if he have take she in his arm, she would have forget

everything in the moment's happiness.



'let we sit down, and tell I--tell I all you can.'



he delay a moment, then seat himself opposite to she. she see now

that his movement be those of physical fatigue; and the full light

from the window, enable she to read his face more distinctly,

reveal the impress of suffering. instead of call upon he to atone

in such measure as be possible for the wrong he have do she, she feel

ready to reproach herself for speak coldly when his need of solace

be so great.



'what can I tell you,' he say, 'that you don't know, or that you cann't

conjecture?'



'but you write that there be so much I could not be expect to

understand. and I cann't, cann't understand you. it still seem

impossible. why do you hide the truth from I?'



'because if I have begin by tell it, I should never have win a kind

look or a kind thought from you.'



Sidwell reflect.



'but what do you care for I then--when it begin?'



'not so much as I do now, but enough to overthrow all the result of my

life up to that time. before I meet you in this house I have see you

twice, and have learn who you be. I be sit in the Cathedral

when you come there with your sister and Miss Moorhouse--do you

remember? I hear Fanny call you by your name, and that bring to my

mind a young girl whom I have know in a slight way year before. and

the next day I again see you there, at the service; I wait about the

entrance only to see you. I care enough for you then to conceive a

design which for a long time seem too hateful really to be carry

out, but--at last it be, you see.



Sidwell breathe quickly. nothing he could have urge for himself would

have affect she more deeply than this. to date back and extend the

period of his love for she be a flattery more subtle than Peak

imagine.



'why don't you tell I that the day before yesterday?' she ask, with

tremulous bosom.



'I have no wish to remind myself of baseness in the midst of a pure joy.'



she be silent, then exclaim, in accent of pain:



'why should you have think it necessary to be other than yourself?

couldn't you see, at first meeting with we, that we be not bigote

people? don't you know that Buckland have accustom we to understand

how common it be nowadays for people to throw off the old religion?

would father have look coldly on you if he have know that you

follow where so many good and thoughtful man be lead?'



he regard she anxiously.



'I have hear from Buckland that your father be strongly prejudiced;

that you also be quite out of sympathy with the new thought.'



'he exaggerate--even then.'



'exaggerated? but on what plea could I have come to live in this

neighbourhood? how could I have keep you in sight--try to win your

interest? I have no mean, no position. the very thought of encourage

my love for you demand some extraordinary step. what course be open

to I?'



Sidwell let her head droop.



'I don't know. you might perhaps have discover a way.'



'but what be the use, when the mere fact of my heresy would have

forbid hope from the outset?'



'why should it have do so?'



'why? you know very well that you could never even have be friendly

with the man who write that thing in the review.'



'but here be the proof how much well it be to behave truthfully! in

this last year I have change so much that I find it difficult to

understand the strength of my former prejudice. what be it to I now

that you speak scornfully of attempt to reconcile thing that cann't be

reconcile? I understand the new thought, and how natural it be for you

to accept it. if only I could have come to know you well, your opinion

would not have stand between we.'



Peak make a slight gesture, and smile incredulously.



'you think so now.'



'and I have such good reason for my thought,' rejoin Sidwell,

earnestly, 'that when you say you love I, my only regret in look

to the future be--that you have resolve to be a clergyman.'



he lean back in the chair, and let a hand fall on his knee. the

gesture seem to signify a weary relinquishment of concern in what

they be discuss.



'how could I foresee that?' he utter, in a corresponding tone.



Sidwell be make uneasy by the course upon which she have enter. to

what do her word tend? if only to a demonstration that fate have use

he as the plaything of its irony--if, after all, she have nothing to

say to he but 'see how your own folly have ruin you', then she have

well have keep silence. she not only appear to be offer he

encouragement, but be in truth do so. she wish he to understand

that his way of thinking be no obstacle to her love, and with that

purpose she be even guilty of a slight misrepresentation. for it be

only since the shock of this disaster that she have clearly recognise

the change in her own mind. true, the regret of which she speak have for

an instant visit she, but it represent a mundane solicitude rather

than an intellectual scruple. it have occur to she how much bright

would be their prospect if Peak be but an active man of the world,

with a career before he distinctly suited to his power.



his contention be undeniably just. the influence to which she have from

the first submit be the same that her father feel so strongly.

Godwin interest she as a self-reliant champion of the old faith, and

his personal characteristic would never have awaken such sympathy in

she but for that initial recommendation. natural prejudice would have

prevent she from perceive the point of kindre between his

temperament and her own. his low origin, the ridiculous story

connect with his youth--why have she, in spite of likelihood, be

able to disregard these thing? only because of what she then deem

his spiritual value.



but for the dishonourable part he have play, this bond of love would

never have be form between they. the thought be a new apology for

his transgression; she could not but defy her conscience, and look

indulgently on the evil which have bear such fruit.



Godwin have begin to speak again.



'this be quite in keep with the tenor of my whole life. whatever I

undertake end in frustration at a point where success seem to have

just come within my reach. great thing and trifle--it's all the same.

my course at College be break off at the moment when I might have

assure my future. later, I make many an effort to succeed in

literature, and when at length something of mine be print in a

lead review, I could not even sign it, and have no profit from the

attention it excite. now--well, you see. laughable, ben't it?'



Sidwell scarcely withhold herself from bend forward and give he

her hand.



'what shall you do?' she ask.



'oh, I be not afraid. I have still enough money leave to support I

until I can find some occupation of the old kind. fortunately, I be not

one of those man whose brain have no marketable value.'



'if you know how it pain I to hear you!'



'if I don't believe that, I couldn't speak to you like this. I never

think you would let I see you again, and if you haven't ask I to

come, I could never have bring myself to face you. but it would have

be a miserable thing to go off without even know what you think

of I.'



'should you never have write to I?'



'I think not. you find it hard to imagine that I have any pride, no

doubt; but it be there, explain it how one may.'



'it would have be wrong to leave I in such uncertainty.'



'uncertainty?'



'about you--about your future.'



'do you quite mean that? hadn't your brother make you doubt whether I

love you at all?'



'yes. but no, I don't doubt. indeed, indeed, I don't doubt! but I

feel such a need of hear from your own lip that--oh, I cann't

explain myself!'



Godwin smile sadly.



'I think I understand. but there be every reason for my believing that

_your_ love could not bear such a test. you must regard I as quite a

different man--one utterly unknown to you.'



he have resolve to speak not a word that could sound like an appeal to

her emotion. when he enter the room he feel a sincere indifference

as to what would result from the interview, for to his mind the story

be end, and he have only to retire with the dignity still possible to

a dishonour man. to touch the note of pathos would be unworthy; to

exert what influence might be leave to he, a wanton cruelty. but he have

hear such unexpected thing, that it be not easy for he to remember

how complete have seem the severance between he and Sidwell. the

charm of her presence be reassert itself, and when avowal of

continue love appear so unmistakably in her troubled countenance,

her break word, he could not control the answer fervour. he speak

in a change voice, and allow his eye to dwell longingly upon her.



'I feel so at first,' she answer. 'and it would be wrong to pretend

that I can still regard you as I do before.'



it cost she a great effort to add these word. when they be speak,

she be at once glad and fearful.



'I be not so foolish, as to think it possible,' say Peak, half turn

away.



'but that be no reason,' she pursue, 'why we should become stranger.

you be still so young a man; life must be so full of possibility for

you. this year have be waste, but when you leave Exeter'----



an impatient movement of Godwin's check she.



'you be go to encourage I to begin the struggle once more,' he

say, bitterly. 'where? how? it be so easy to talk of "possibility".'



'you be not without friend--I mean friend whose sympathy be of real

value to you.'



say this, she look keenly at he.



'friend,' he reply, 'who perhaps at this moment be laugh over my

disgrace.'



'how do they know of--what have happen?'



'how do your brother get his information? I don't care to ask

him.--No, I don't even wish you to say anything about that.'



'but surely there be no reason for keep it secret. why may I not

speak freely? Buckland tell I that he have hear you speak of at the

house of people name Moxey.'



she endeavour to understand the smile which rise to his lip. 'now it

be clear to I,' he say. 'yes, I suppose that be inevitable, soon

or later.'



'you know that he have become acquainted with the Moxeys?'



her tone be more reserved than hitherto.



'yes, I know he have. he meet Miss Moxey by chance at Budleigh Salterton,

and I happen to be there--at the Moorhouses'--on the same day.'



Sidwell glance at he inquiringly, and wait for something more.



'I see Miss Moxey in private,' he add, speak more quickly, 'and

ask she to keep my secret. I ought to be ashamed to tell you this,

but it be well you should know how far my humiliation have go.'



he see that she be move with strong feeling. the low tone in which

she answer have peculiar significance.



'do you speak of I to Miss Moxey?'



'I must forgive you for ask that,' Peak reply, coldly. 'it may

well seem to you that I have neither honour nor delicacy left.'



there have come a flush on her cheek. for some moment she be absorb

in thought.



'it seem strange to you,' he continue at length, 'that I could ask

Miss Moxey to share such a secret. but you must understand on what

term we be--she and I. we have know each other for several year.

she have a man's mind, and I have always think of she in much the same

way as of my male companions.--Your brother have tell you about she,

perhaps?'



'I have meet she in London.'



'then that will make my explanation easy,' say Godwin, disregard

the anxious question that at once suggest themselves to he. 'well,

I mislead she, or try to do so. I allow she to suppose that I be

sincere in my new undertaking, and that I don't wish--oh!' he

exclaim, suddenly break off, 'why need I go any far in

confession? it must be as miserable for you to hear as for I to speak.

let we make an end of it. I cann't understand how I have escape

detection so long.'



remember every detail of Buckland's story, Sidwell feel that she have

possibly be unjust in represent the Moxeys as her brother's

authority; in strictness, she ought to mention that a friend of theirs

be the actual source of information. but she could not pursue the

subject; like Godwin, she wish to put it out of her mind. what

question could there be of honour or dishonour in the case of a person

such as Miss Moxey, who have consent to be party to a shameful deceit?

strangely, it be a relief to she to have hear this. the moral

repugnance which threaten to estrange she from Godwin, be now

direct in another quarter; unduly restrain by love, it find scope

under the guidance of jealousy.



'you have be try to adapt yourself,' she say, 'to a world for

which you be by nature unfit. your place be in the new order; by

turn back to the old, you condemn yourself to a waste life. since

we have be in London, I have come to understand well the great

difference between modern intellectual life and that which we lead in

these far-away corner. you must go out among your equal, go and take

your part with man who be work for the future.'



Peak rise with a gesture of passionate impatience.



'what be it to I, new world or old? my world be where _you_ be. I

have no life of my own; I think only of you, live only by you.'



'if I could help you!' she reply, with emotion. 'what can I do--but

be your friend at a distance? everything else have become impossible.'



'impossible for the present--for a long time to come. but be there no

hope for I?'



she press her hand together, and stand before he unable to answer.

'remember,' he continue, 'that you be almost as much change in my

eye as I in your. I do not imagine that you have move so far towards

freedom of mind. if my love for you be profound and absorbing, think

what it must now have become! your have suffer by my disgrace, but be

there no hope of its reviving--if I live worthily--if I----?'



his voice fail.



'I have say that we cann't be stranger,' Sidwell murmur brokenly.

'wherever you go, I must hear of you.'



'everyone about you will detest my name. you will soon wish to forget

my existence.'



'if I know myself, never!--Oh, try to find your true work! you have

such ability, power so much great than those of ordinary man. you

will always be the same to I, and if ever circumstances'----



'you would have to give up so much, Sidwell. and there be little chance

of my ever be well-to-do; poverty will always stand between we, if

nothing else.'



'it must be so long before we can think of that.'



'but can I ever see you?--No, I willn't ask that. who know? I may have

to go too far away. but I _may_ write to you--after a time?'



'I shall live in the hope of good news from you,' she reply, try

to smile and to speak cheerfully. 'this will always be my home. nothing

will be change.'



'then you don't think of I as irredeemably base?'



'if I think you base,' Sidwell answer, in a low voice, 'I should

not now be speak with you. it be because I feel and know that you

have err only--that be what make it impossible for I to think of

your fault as outweigh the good in your nature.'



'the good? I wonder how you understand that. what be there _good_ in

I? you don't mean mere intellect?'



he wait anxiously for what she would say. a necessity for speak

out his inmost thought have arise with the emotion, scarcely to be

call hope, excite by Sidwell's magnanimity. now, or never, he must

stand before this woman as his very self, and be convince that she

love he for his own sake.



'no, I don't mean intellect,' she reply, with hesitation.



'what then? tell I of one quality in I strong enough to justify a

woman's love.'



Sidwell drop her eye in confusion.



'I cann't analyse your character--I only know'----



she become silent.



'to myself,' pursue Godwin, with the modulate, move voice which

always express his genuine feeling, 'I seem anything but lovable. I

don't underrate my power--rather the opposite, no doubt; but what I

always seem to lack be the gift of pleasing--moral grace. my strong

emotion seem to be absorb in revolt; for once that I feel tenderly,

I have a hundred fierce, resentful, tempestuous mood. to be suave and

smile in common intercourse cost I an effort. I have to act the

part, and this habit make I sceptical, whenever I be really prompt

to gentleness. I criticise myself ceaselessly; expose without mercy all

those characteristic which another man would keep out of sight. yes,

and for this very reason, just because I think myself unlovable--the

gift of love mean far more to I than to other man. if you could

conceive the passion of gratitude which possess I for hour after I

leave you the other day! you cannot!'



Sidwell regard he fixedly.



'in comparison with this sincerity, what become of the pretence you

blame in I? if you know how paltry it seem--that accusation of

dishonesty! I believe the world round, and pretend to believe it

flat: that's what it amount to! be you, on such an account as that,

to consider worthless the devotion which have grow in I month by

month? you--I be persuade--think the world flat, and couldn't think

kindly of any man who hold the other hypothesis. very well; why not

concede the trifle, and so at least give myself a chance? I do

so--that be all.'



in vain her conscience strove to assert itself. she be under the spell

of a nature infinitely strong than her; she see and feel as Godwin

do.



'you think, Sidwell, that I stand in need of forgiveness. then be great

enough to forgive I, wholly--once and for all. let your love be

strengthen by the trial it have pass through. that will mean that my

whole life be your, direct by the ever-present thought of your

beauty, face and soul. then there _will_ be good in I, thank to you.

I shall no long live a life of hypocrisy, of suppress rage and

scorn. I know how much I be ask; perhaps it mean that for my sake

you give up everything else that be dear to you'----



the thought check he. he look at she despondently.



'you can trust I,' Sidwell answer, move near to he, tear on

her cheek. 'I must hear from you, and I will write.'



'I can ask no more than that.'



he take her hand, hold they for a moment, and turn away. at the door

he look round. Sidwell's head be bow, and, on she raise it, he

see that she be blind with tear.



so he go forth.









Part VI







CHAPTER I





for several day after the scene in which Mr. Malkin unconsciously

play an important part, Marcella seem to be ill. she appear at

meal, but neither eat nor converse. Christian have never know she so

sullen and nervously irritable; he do not venture to utter Peak's

name. upon seclusion follow restless activity. Marcella be rarely at

home between breakfast and dinner-time, and her brother learn with

satisfaction that she go much among her acquaintance. late one

evening, when he have just return from he know not where, Christian

try to put an end to the unnatural constraint between they. after

talk cheerfully for a few minute, he risk the question:



'have you see anything of the Warricombes?'



she reply with a cold negative.



'nor hear anything?'



'no. have you?'



'nothing at all. I have see Earwaker. Malkin have tell he about what

happen here the other day.'



'of course.'



'but he have no news.--Of Peak, I mean.'



Marcella smile, as if the situation amuse she; but she would not

discuss it. Christian begin to hope that she be train herself to a

wholesome indifference.



a month of the new year go by, and Peak seem to be forget.

Marcella have return to her studious habit, be fence around with

book, seldom leave the house. another month and the brother and sister

be live very much in the old way, see few people, converse

only of intellectual thing. but Christian conceal an expectation

which enable he to pass hour of retirement in the complete

idleness. since the death of her husband, Mrs. Palmer have be live

abroad. before the end of March, as he have be careful to discover,

she would be back in London, at the house in Sussex Square. by that

time he might venture, without indelicacy, to call upon she. and after

the first interview----



the day come, when, ill with agitation, he set forth to pay this call.

for two or three night he have scarcely close his eye; he look

ghastly. the weather be execrable, and on that very account he make

choice of this afternoon, hope that he might find his widow Laura

alone. between ring the bell and the opening of the door, he could

hardly support himself. he ask for Mrs. Palmer in a gasp voice

which cause the servant to look at he with surprise.



the lady be at home. at the drawing-room door, before his name could

be announce, he catch the unwelcome sound of voice in lively

conversation. it seem to he that a score of person be assemble.

in reality there be six, three of they caller.



Mrs. Palmer meet he with the friendly welcome. a stranger would have

think she pretty, but by no mean impressive. she be short, anything

but meagre, fair-haired, brisk of movement, idly vivacious in look and

tone. the mourning she wear impose no restraint upon her humour, which

at present be not far from gay.



'be it really Mr. Moxey?' she exclaim. 'why, I have all but forget

you, and positively it be your own fault! it must be a year or more

since you come to see I. no? eight months?--But I have be through so

much trouble, you know.' she sigh mechanically. 'I think of you one

day at Bordighera, when we be look at some funny little

sea-creature--the kind of thing you use to know all about. how be

your sister?'



a chill strike upon his heart. assuredly he have no wish to find

constance sink in the semblance of dolour; such hypocrisy would have

pain he. but her sprightliness be a shock. though month have pass

since Mr. Palmer's decease, a decent gravity would more have become her

condition. he could reply only in broken phrase, and it be a relief

to he when the widow, as if tiring of his awkwardness, turn she

attention elsewhere.



he be at length able to survey the company. two lady in mourn he

faintly recognise, the one a sister of Mr. Palmer's, comely but of

dull aspect; the other a niece, whose laugh be too frequent even have

it be more musical, and who talk of athletic sport with a young

man evidently well fit to excel in that kind of thing than in any

pursuit demand intelligence. this gentleman Christian have never meet.

the two other caller, a grey-head, military-look person, and a

lady, possibly his wife, be equally stranger to he.



the drawing-room be much change in appearance since Christian's last

visit. there be more display, a rich profusion of ornament not in

the good taste. the old picture have give place to showily-frame

daub of the most popular school. on a little table at his elbow, he

remark the photograph of a jockey who be just then engross public

affection. what do all this mean? formerly, he have attribute every

graceful feature of the room to Constance's choice. he have imagine

that to her Mr. Palmer be indebted for guidance on point of aesthetic

propriety. could it be that----?



he catch a glance which she cast in his direction, and instantly

forget the troublesome problem. how dull of he to misunderstand she!

her sportiveness have a double significance. it be the expression of a

hope which would not be subdue, and at the same time a means of

disguise the tender interest with which she regard _he_. if she

have be blithe before his appearance, how could she suddenly change

her demeanour as soon as he enter? it would have challenge suspicion

and remark. for the same reason she affect to have all but forget

he. of course! how could he have fail to see that? 'I think of you

one day at Bordighera'--was not that the good possible way of make

know to he that he have never be out of her mind?



sweet, noble, long-suffer Constance!



he take a place by her sister, and begin to talk of he know not what,

for all his attention be give to the sound of Constance's voice.



'yes,' she be say to the man of military appearance, 'it's very

early to come back to London, but I do get so tired of those foreign

place.'



(in other word, of be far from her Christian--thus he interpret.)



'no, we don't make a single pleasant acquaintance. a shockingly

tiresome lot of people wherever we go.'



(in comparison with the faithful lover, who wait, wait.)



'foreigner be so stupid--don't you think so? why should they always

expect you to speak _their_ language?--Oh, of course I speak French;

but it be such a disagreeable language--don't you think so?'



(compare with the accent of english devotion, of course.)



'do you go in for cycling, Mr. Moxey?' inquire Mrs. Palmer's laughing

niece, from a little distance.



'for cycling?' with a great effort he recover himself and grasp the

meaning of the word. 'no, I--I'm sorry to say I don't. capital

exercise!'



'Mr. Dwight have just be tell I such an awfully good story about a

friend of his. do tell it again, Mr. Dwight! it'll make you laugh no

end, Mr. Moxey.'



the young man appeal to be ready enough to repeat his anecdote,

which have to do with a bold cyclist, who, after dine more than well,

ride his machine down a steep hill and escape destruction only by

miracle. Christian laugh desperately, and declare that he have never

hear anything so good.



but the tension of his nerve be unendurable. five minute more of

anguish, and he spring up like an automaton.



'must you really go, Mr. Moxey?' say Constance, with a manner which of

course be intend to veil her emotion. 'please don't be another year

before you let we see you again.'



blessing on her tender heart! what more could she have say, in the

presence of all those people? he walk all the way to Notting Hill

through a pelt rain, his passion aglow.



impossible to be silent long concern the brilliant future. arrive

at home, he fling off hat and coat, and go straight to the

drawing-room, hope to find Marcella alone. to his annoyance, a

stranger be sit there in conversation, a very simply dress lady,

who, as he enter, look at he with a grave smile and stand up. he

think he have never see she before.



Marcella wear a singular expression; there be a moment of silence, for

Christian decidedly embarrassing, since it seem to be expect that

he should greet the stranger.



'don't you remember Janet?' say his sister.



'Janet?' he feel his face flush. 'you don't mean to say--? but how you

have alter! and yet, no; really, you haven't. it's only my

stupidity.' he grasp her hand, and with a feeling of genuine

pleasure, despite awkward reminiscence.



'one do alter in eleven year,' say Janet Moxey, in a very pleasant,

natural voice--a voice of habitual self-command, convey the idea of

a highly cultivate mind, and many other agreeable thing.



'eleven year? yes, yes! how very glad I be to see you! and I'm sure

Marcella be. how very kind of you to call on we!'



Janet be as far as ever from look handsome or pretty, but it must

have be a dullard who proclaim her face unpleasing. she have eye of

remarkable intelligence, something like Marcella's but milder, more

benevolent. her lip be softly firm; they would not readily part in

laughter; their frequent smile mean more than that of the woman who

set herself to be engage.



'I be on my way home,' she say, 'from a holiday in the South,--an

enforce holiday, I'm sorry to say.'



'you have be ill?'



'overwork a little. I be practise medicine in Kingsmill.'



Christian do not disguise his astonishment.



'medicine?'



'you don't remember that I always have scientific taste?'



if it be a reproach, none could have be more gently administer.



'of course--of course I do! your botany, your skeleton of bird and

cat and mouse--of course! but where do you study?'



'in London. the Women's Medical School. I have be in practice for

nearly four year.'



'and have overwork yourself.--But why be we stand? let we sit

down and talk. how be your father?'



Marcella be watch her brother closely, and with a curious smile.



Janet remain for another hour. no reference be make to the long

rupture of intercourse between her family and these relative.

Christian learn that his uncle be still hale, and that Janet's four

sister all live, obviously unmarried. to-day he be dispose to be

almost affectionate with anyone who show he a friendly face: he

express grief that his cousin must leave for Twybridge early in the

morning.



'whenever you pass through the midland,' be Janet's indirect reply,

address to Marcella, 'try to stop at Kingsmill.'



and a few minute after that she take she leave. there linger behind

she that peculiar fragrance of modern womanhood, refresh,

inspiriting, which be so entirely different from the merely feminine

perfume, however exquisite.



'what a surprising visit!' be Christian's exclamation, when he and his

sister be alone. 'how do she find we?'



'Directory, I suppose.'



'a lady doctor!' he muse.



'and a very capable one, I fancy,' say Marcella. 'we have nearly an

hour's talk before you come. but she willn't be able to stand the work.

there'll be another breakdown before long.'



'has she a large practice, then?'



'not very large, perhaps; but she study as well. I never dream of

Janet become so interesting a person.'



Christian have to postpone till after dinner the talk he purpose about

Mrs. Palmer. when that time come, he be no long dispose for

sentimental confession; it would be well to wait until he could

announce a settle project of marriage. through the evening, his sister

recur to the subject of Janet with curious frequency, and on the

follow day her interest have suffer no diminution. Christian have

always take for grant that she understand the ground of the breach

between he and his uncle; without ever unbosom himself, he have

occasionally, in his soft moment, allude to the awkward subject in

language which he think easy enough to interpret. now at length, in

reply to some remark of Marcella's, he say with significant accent:



'Janet be very friendly to I.'



'she have study science for ten year,' be his sister's comment.



'yes, and can forgive a boy's absurdity.'



'easy to forgive, certainly, than those of a man,' say Marcella,

with a curl of the lip.



Christian become silent, and go thoughtfully away.



a week later, he be again in Mrs. Palmer's drawing-room, where again

he meet an assemblage of people such as seem to profane this

sanctuary. to be sure--he say to himself--Constance could not at once

get rid of the acquaintance force upon she by her husband; little by

little she would free herself. it be a pity that her sister and her

niece--person anything but intelligent and refined--should be

permanent member of her household; for their sake, no doubt, she felt

constrain to welcome man and woman for whose society she herself have

little taste. but when the year of her widowhood be past----Petrarch's

Laura be the mother of eleven child; Constance have have only three,

and one of these be dead. the remain two, Christian now learn,

live with a governess in a little house at Bournemouth, which Mrs.

Palmer have take for that purpose.



'I'm go down to see they to-morrow,' she inform Christian, 'and I

shall stay there over the next day. it's so quiet and restful.'



these word keep repeat themselves to Christian's ear, as he go

home, and all through the evening. be they not an invitation? down

there at Bournemouth, Constance would be alone the day after to-morrow.

'it be so quiet and restful;' that be to say, no idle caller would

break upon her retirement; she would be able to welcome a friend, and

talk reposefully with he. surely she must have mean that; for she

speak with a peculiar intonation--a look----



by the second morning he have work himself up to a persuasion that

yonder by the seaside Constance be expect he. to miss the

opportunity would be to prove himself dull of apprehension, a laggard

in love. with tremble hand, he hurry through his toilet and make

haste downstairs to examine a railway time-table. he find it be

possible to reach Bournemouth by about two o'clock, a very convenient

hour; it would allow he to take refreshment, and walk to the house

shortly after three.



his conviction strong as ever, he come to the journey's end, and in due

course discover the pleasant little house of which Constance have

speak. at the door, his heart fail he; but retreat could not now be

think of. yes, Mrs. Palmer be at home. the servant lead he into a

sitting-room on the ground floor, take his name, and leave he.



it be nearly ten minute before Constance appear. on her face he

read a frank surprise.



'I happen to--to be down here; couldn't resist the temptation'----



'delighted to see you, Mr. Moxey. but how do you know I be here?'



he gaze at she.



'you--don't you remember? the day before yesterday--in Sussex

Square--you mentioned'----



'oh, do I?' she laugh. 'I have quite forget.'



Christian sink upon his chair. he try to convince himself that she

be play a part; perhaps she think that she have be premature in

reveal her wish to talk with he.



Mrs. Palmer be good-natured. this call evidently puzzle she, but she

do not stint her hospitality. when Christian ask after the child,

they be summon; two little girl daintily dress, pretty,

affectionate with their mother. the sight of they torture Christian,

and he sigh deeply with relief when they leave the room. Constance

appear rather absent; her quick glance at he signify something,

but he could not determine what. in agony of constraint, he rise as if

to go.



'oh, you will have a cup of tea with I,' say Mrs. Palmer. 'it will be

bring in a few minute.'



then she really wish he to stop. be he not behave like an obtuse

creature? why, everything be plan to encourage he.



he talk recklessly of this and that, and get round to the year long

go by. when the tea come, he be revive memory of occasion on

which he and she have meet as young people. Constance laugh merrily,

declare she could hardly remember.



'oh, what a time ago!--But I be quite a child.'



'no--indeed, no! you be a young lady, and a brilliant one.'



the tea seem to intoxicate he. he notice again that Constance

glance at he significantly. how good of she to allow he this

delicious afternoon!



'Mr. Moxey,' she say, after meditate a little, 'why haven't you

marry? I should have think you would have marry long ago.'



he be stricken dumb. her jerky laugh come as a shock upon his hearing.



'Married----?'



'what be there astonishing in the idea?'



'but--i--how can I answer you?'



the pretty, characterless face betray some unusual feeling. she

look at he furtively; seem to suppress a tendency to laugh.



'I mustn't pry into secret,' she simper.



'but there be no secret!' christian pant, lay down his teacup for

fear he should drop it. 'whom should I--could I have marry?'



Constance also put aside her cup. she be bewilder, and just a little

abash. with courage which come he know not whence, Christian bent

forward and continue speak:



'whom could I marry after that day when I meet you in the little

drawing-room at the Robinsons'?'



she stare in genuine astonishment, then be embarrassed.



'you cannot--cannot have forgotten----?'



'you surely don't mean to say, Mr. Moxey, that you have remember? oh,

I'm afraid I be a shocking flirt in those day!'



'but I mean _after_ your marriage--when I find you in tears'----



'please, please don't remind I!' she exclaim, giggle nervously.

'oh how silly!--of I, I mean. to think that--but you be make fun of

I, Mr. Moxey?'



Christian rise and go to the window. he be not only shake by his

tender emotion--something very like repugnance have begin to affect

he. if Constance be feign, it be in very bad taste; if she speak

with sincerity--what a woman have he worship! it do not occur to he

to lay the fault upon his own absurd romanticism. after eleven year'

persistence in one point of view, he could not suddenly see the affair

with the eye of common sense.



he turn and approach she again.



'do you not know, then,' he ask, with quiet dignity, 'that ever since

the day I speak of, I have devote my life to the love I then feel? all

these year, have you not understand I?'



Mrs. Palmer be quite unable to grasp idea such as these. neither her

reading nor her experience prepare she to understand what Christian

mean. courtship of a married woman be intelligible enough to she; but

a love that fear to soil itself, a devotion from afar, encourage by

only the faint hope of reward other than the most insubstantial--of

that she have as little conception as any woman among the wealthy vulgar.



'do you really mean, Mr. Moxey, that you--have keep unmarried for _my_

sake?'



'you don't know that?' he ask, hoarsely.



'how could I? how be I to imagine such a thing? really, be it proper?

how could you expect I, Mr. Moxey----?'



for a moment she look offended. but her real feeling be

astonishment and amusement, not unmingled with an idle gratification.



'I must ask you to pardon I,' say Christian, whose forehead gleam

with moisture.



'no, don't say that. I be really so sorry! what an odd mistake!'



'and I have hope in vain--since you be free----?'



'oh, you mustn't say such thing! I shall never dream of marry

again--never!'



there be a matter-of-fact vigour in the assertion which prove that

Mrs. Palmer speak her genuine thought. the tone could not be

interpret as devotion to her husband's memory; it mean, plainly and

simply, that she have have enough of marriage, and delight in her

freedom.



Christian could not say another word. disillusion be complete. the

voice, the face, be those of as unspiritual a woman as he could

easily have meet with, and his life's story be that of a fool.



he take his hat, hold out his hand, with 'good-bye, Mrs. Palmer.' the

cold politeness leave she no choice but again to look offended, and with

merely a motion of the head she reply, 'good-bye, Mr. Moxey.'



and therewith permit he to leave the house.







CHAPTER II





on call at Earwaker's chamber one February evening, Malkin become

aware, from the very threshold of the outer door, that the domicile be

not as he have know it. with the familiar fragrance of Earwaker's

special 'mixture' blend a suggestion of new upholstery. the little

vestibule have somehow put off its dinginess, and an unwontedly

brilliant light from the sitting-room reveal change of the interior

which the visitor remark with frank astonishment.



'what the deuce! have it happen at last? be you go to be marry?'

he cry, stare about he at unrecognised chair, table, and

bookcase, at whitened ceiling and pleasantly paper wall, at

picture and ornament which he know not.



the journalist shake his head, and smile contentedly.



'an idea that come to I all at once. my editorship seem to inspire

it.'



after a year of wait upon Providence, Earwaker have receive the

offer of a substantial appointment much more to his taste than those he

have previously hold. he be now literary editor of a weekly review

which make no kind of appeal to the untaught multitude.



'I have decide to dwell here for the rest of my life,' he add,

look round the wall. 'one must have a homestead, and this shall be

mine; here I have set up my penate. it's a portion of space, you know;

and what more can be say of Longleat or Chatsworth? a house I shall

never want, because I shall never have a wife. and on the whole I

prefer this situation to any other. I be well within reach of

everything urban that I care about, and as for the country, that be too

good to be put to common use; let it be keep for holiday. there's an

atmosphere in the old Inns that please I. the new flat be

insufferable. how can one live sandwich between a music-hall singer

and a female politician? for lodging of any kind no sane man have ever

a word of approval. reflect on all these thing, I have establish

myself in perpetuity.'



'just what I cann't do,' exclaim Malkin, fling himself into a

broad, deep, leather-cover chair. 'yet I have leaning that way. only

a few day ago I sit for a whole evening with the map of England open

before I, wonder where would be the good place to settle down--a

few year hence, I mean, you know; when Bella be old enough.--That

remind I. next Sunday be her birthday, and do you know what? I wish

you'd go down to Wrotham with I.'



'many thank, but I think I have well not.'



'oh, but do! I want you to see how Bella be get on. she's grow

wonderfully since you see she in Paris--an inch tall, I should think.

I don't go down there very often, you know, so I notice these change.

really, I think no one could be more discreet than I be, under the

circumstance. a friend of the family; that's all. just drop in for

a casual cup of tea now and then. Sunday will be a special occasion, of

course. I say, what be your view about early marriage? do you think

seventeen too young?'



'I should think seven-and-twenty much well.'



Malkin break into fretfulness.



'let I tell you, Earwaker, I don't like the way you habitually speak

of this project of mine. plainly, I don't like it. it's a very serious

matter indeed--eh? what? why be you smile?'



'I agree with you as to its seriousness.'



'yes, yes; but in a very cynical and offensive way. it make I

confoundedly uncomfortable, let I tell you. I don't think that's very

friendly on your part. and the fact be, if it go on I'm very much

afraid we shalln't see so much of each other as we have do. I like you,

Earwaker, and I respect you; I think you know that. but occasionally

you seem to have too little regard for one's feeling. no, I don't feel

able to pass it over with a joke.--There! the deuce take it! I've

bite off the end of my pipe.'



he spit out a piece of amber, and look ruefully at the broken stem.



'take a cigar,' say Earwaker, fetch a box from a cupboard.



'I don't mind.--Well--what be I say? oh yes; I be quarrel with

you. now, look here, what fault have you to find with Bella Jacox?'



'none whatever. she seem to I a very amiable child.'



'child! Pooh! pshaw! and fifteen next Sunday, I tell you. she's a young

lady, and to tell you the confound plain truth, I'm in love with she.

I be, and there's nothing to be ashamed of. if you smile, we shall

quarrel. I warn you, Earwaker, we shall quarrel.'



the journalist, instead of smile, give forth his deep laugh.

Malkin turn very red, scowl, and throw his cigar aside.



'you really wish I to go on Sunday?' Earwaker ask, in a pleasant

voice.



the other's countenance immediately clear.



'I shall take it as a great kindness. Mrs. Jacox will be delighted.

meet I at Holborn Viaduct at 1.25. no, to make sure I'll come here at

one o'clock.'



in a few minute he be chat as unconcernedly as ever.



'talk of settle down, my brother Tom and his wife be on the point

of go to New Zealand. necessity of business; may be out there for

the rest of their life. do you know that I shall think very seriously

of follow they some day? with Bella, you know. the fact of the

matter be, I don't believe I could ever make a solid home in England.

why, I cann't quite say; partly, I suppose, because I have nothing to

do. now there's a good deal to be say for go out to the colony. a

man feel that he be help the spread of civilisation; and that's

something, you know. I should compare myself with the greek and roman

colonist--something inspirit in that thought--what? why shouldn't I

find a respectable newspaper, for instance? yes, I shall think very

seriously of this.'



'you wouldn't care to run over with your relative, just to have a

look?'



'it occur to I,' Malkin reply, thoughtfully. 'but they sail in

ten day, and--well, I'm afraid I couldn't get ready in time. and then

I've promise to look after some little affair for Mrs. Jacox--some

trifle money matter. but later in the year--who know?'



Earwaker half repent of his promise to visit the Jacox household, but

there be no possibility of excuse himself. so on Sunday he journey

with his friend down to Wrotham. Mrs. Jacox and her child be very

comfortably establish in a small new house. when the companion

enter they find the mother alone in her sitting-room, and she

receive they with an effusiveness very distasteful to Earwaker.



'now you shouldn't!' be her first exclamation to Malkin. 'indeed you

shouldn't! it's really very naughty of you. o Mr. Earwaker! who ever

take so much pleasure in do kindness? do look at this _beautiful_

book that Mr. Malkin have send as a present to my little Bella. o Mr.

Earwaker!'



the journalist be at once strike with her tone and manner as she

address Malkin. he remark that phrase, 'my little Bella', and it

occur to he that Mrs. Jacox have be grow young since he make

her acquaintance on the tower of Notre Dame. when the girl present

themselves, they also appear to he more juvenile; Bella, in

particular, be dress with an exaggeration of childishness decidedly

not become. one have but to look into her face to see that she

answer perfectly to Malkin's description; she be a young lady, and

no child. a very pretty young lady, moreover; give to colour, but

with no silly simper; intelligent about the eye and lip; modest, in a

natural and sweet way. he converse with she, and in do so be

disagreeably affect by certain glance she occasionally cast towards

her mother. one would have say that she fear censure, though it be

hard to see why.



on the return journey Earwaker make known some of his impression,

though not all.



'I like the girl,' he say, 'Bella especially. but I cann't say much

good of their mother.'



they be opposite each other in the railway carriage. Malkin lean

forward with earnest, anxious face.



'that's my own trouble,' he whisper. 'I'm confoundedly uneasy about

it. I don't think she's bring they up at all in a proper way.

Earwaker, I would pay down five thousand pound for the possibility of

take Bella away altogether.'



the other muse.



'but, mind you,' pursue Malkin, 'she's not a _bad_ woman. by no mean!

thoroughly good-hearted I'm convince; only a little weak here.' he

tap his forehead. 'I respect she, for all she have suffer, and her

way of go through it. but she ben't the ideal mother, you know.'



on his way home, Malkin turn into his friend's chamber 'for five

minute'. at two in the morning he be still there, and his talk in the

meanwhile have be of nothing but scheme for protect Bella against

her mother's more objectionable influence. on take leave, he ask:



'any news of Peak yet?'



'none. I haven't see Moxey for a long time.'



'do you think Peak will look you up again, if he's in London?'



'no, I think he'll keep away. and I half hope he will; I shouldn't

quite know how to behave. ten to one he's in London now. I suppose he

couldn't stay at Exeter. but he may have leave England.'



they part, and for a week do not see each other. then, on Monday

evening, when Earwaker be very busy with a mass of manuscript, the

well-know knock sound from the passage, and Malkin receive

admission. the look he wear be appalling, a look such as only some

fearful catastrophe could warrant.



'be you busy?' he ask, in a voice very unlike his own.



Earwaker could not doubt that the trouble be this time serious. he

abandon his work, and give himself wholly to his friend's service.



'an awful thing have happen,' Malkin begin. 'how the deuce shall I

tell you? oh, the ass I have make of myself! but I couldn't help it;

there seem no way out of it.'



'well? what?'



'it be last night, but I couldn't come to you till now. by Jove! I

veritably thought of send you a note, and then kill myself. early

this morning I be within an ace of suicide. believe I, old friend.

this be no farce.'



'I'm wait.'



'yes, yes; but I cann't tell you all at once. sure you're not busy? I

know I pester you. I be down at Wrotham yesterday. I haven't mean to

go, but the temptation be too strong. I get there at five o'clock, and

find that the girl be go to have tea with some young friend.

well, I ben't altogether sorry; it be a good opportunity for a little

talk with their mother. and I _have_ the talk. but, oh, ass that I be!'



he smite the side of his head savagely.



'can you guess, Earwaker? can you give a shot at what happen?'



'perhaps I might,' reply the other, gravely.



'well?'



'that woman ask you to marry she.'



Malkin leap from his chair, and sink back again.



'it come to that. yes, upon my word, it come to that. she say she have

fall in love with I--that be the long and short of it. and I have

never say a word that could suggest--oh, confound it! what a frightful

scene it be!'



'you take a final leave of she?'



Malkin stare with eye of anguish into his friend's face, and at

length whisper thickly:



'I say I would!'



'what? take leave?'



'marry she!'



Earwaker have much ado to check an impatiently remonstrant laugh. he

pause awhile, then begin his expostulation, at first treat the

affair as too absurd for grave argument.



'my boy,' he conclude, 'you have get into a preposterous scrape, and I

see only one way out of it. you must flee. when do your brother start

for the Antipodes?'



'Thursday morning.'



'then you go with he; there's an end of it.'



Malkin listen with the blank, despairing look of a man condemn to

death.



'do you hear I?' urge the other. 'go home and pack. on Thursday I'll

see you off.'



'I cann't bring myself to that,' come in a groan from Malkin. 'I've

never yet do anything to be seriously ashamed of, and I cann't run

away after promise marriage. it would weigh upon I for the rest of

my life.'



'Humbug! would it weigh upon you less to marry the mother, and all the

time be in love with the daughter? to my mind, there's something

peculiarly loathsome in the suggestion.'



'but, look here; Bella be very young, really very young indeed. it's

possible that I have delude myself. perhaps I don't really care for

she in the way I imagine. it's more than likely that I might be

content to regard she with fatherly affection.'



'even suppose that, with what sort of affection do you regard Mrs

Jacox?'



Malkin writhe on his chair before reply.



'you mustn't misjudge she!' he exclaim. 'she be no heartless schemer.

the poor thing almost cry her eye out. it be a frightful scene. she

reproach herself bitterly. what _could_ I do? I have a tenderness for

she, there's no deny that. she have be so vilely use, and have

bear it all so patiently. how abominable it would be if I deal she

another blow!'



the journalist raise his eyebrow, and utter inarticulate sound.



'be anything say about Bella?' he ask, abruptly.



'not a word. I'm convinced she don't suspect that I think of Bella

like that. the fact be, I have mislead she. she think all along that

my chief interest be in _her_.'



'indeed? then what be the ground of her self-reproach that you speak

of?'



'how defective you be in the appreciation of delicate feeling!' cry

Malkin frantically, start up and rush about the room. 'she

reproach herself for having permit I to get entangle with a

widow old than myself, and the mother of two child. what could be

simple?'



Earwaker begin to appreciate the danger of the situation. if he

insist upon his view of Mrs. Jacox's behaviour (though it be not the

harsh that the circumstance suggest, for he be dispose to

believe that the widow have really lose her heart to her kind, eccentric

champion), the result would probably be to confirm Malkin in his

resolution of self-sacrifice. the man must be save, if possible, from

such calamity, and this would not be effect by merely demonstrate

that he be on the highroad to ruin. it be necessary to try another

tack.



'it seem to I, Malkin,' he resume, gravely, 'that it be you who be

deficient in right feeling. in offer to marry this poor woman, you

do she the grave wrong.'



'what? how?'



'you know that it be impossible for you to love she. you know that you

will repent, and that she will be aware of it. you be not the kind of

man to conceal your emotion. Bella will grow up, and--well, the state

of thing willn't tend to domestic felicity. for Mrs Jacox's own sake, it

be your duty to put an end to this folly before it have go too far.'



the other give earnest ear, but with no sign of shake conviction.



'yes,' he say. 'I know this be one way of look at it. but it

assume that a man cann't control himself, that his sense of honour

ben't strong enough to keep he in the right way. I don't think you

quite understand I. I be not a passionate man; the proof be that I

have never fall in love since I be sixteen. I think a great deal of

domestic peace, a good deal more than of romantic enthusiasm. if I

marry Mrs. Jacox, I shall make she a good and faithful husband,--so

much I can safely say of myself.'



he wait, but Earwaker be not ready with a rejoinder.



'and there's another point. I have always admit the defect of my

character--an inability to settle down. now, if I run away to New

Zealand, with the sense of having dishonour myself, I shall be a mere

Wandering Jew for the rest of my life. all hope of redemption will be

over. of the two course now open to I, that of marriage with Mrs.

Jacox be decidedly the less disadvantageous. grant that I have make

a fool of myself, I must abide by the result, and make the good of it.

and the plain fact be, I _cann't_ treat she so disgracefully; I _cann't_

burden my conscience in this way. I believe it would end in suicide; I

do, indeed.'



'this sound all very well, but it be weakness and selfishness.'



'how can you say so?'



'there's no proving to so short-sight a man the result of his

mistaken course. I've a good mind to let you have your way just for the

satisfaction of say afterwards, "don't I tell you so?" you propose

to behave with abominable injustice to two people, put yourself

aside. don't it occur to you that Bella may already look upon you as

her future husband? haven't you do your good to plant that idea in

her mind?'



Malkin start, but quickly recover himself.



'no, I haven't! I have behave with the utmost discretion. Bella think

of I only as of a friend much old than herself.'



'I don't believe it!'



'Nonsense, Earwaker! a child of fifteen!'



'the other day you have quite a different view, and after see she

again I agree with you. she be a young girl, and if not already in

love with you, be on the way to be so.'



'that will come to nothing when she hear that I be go to be her

step-father.'



'far more likely to develop into a grief that will waste the good part

of her lifetime. she will be shock and make miserable. but do as you

like. I be tired of argue.'



Earwaker affect to abandon the matter in disgust. for several minute

there be silence, then a low voice sound from the corner where

Malkin stand lean.



'so it be your honest belief that Bella have begin to think of I in

that way?'



'I be convinced of it.'



'but if I run away, I shall never see she again.'



'why not? _she_ willn't run away. come back when thing have square

themselves. write to Mrs. Jacox from the end of the earth, and let she

understand that there be no possibility of your marry she.'



'tell she about Bella, you mean?'



'no, that's just what I don't mean. avoid any mention of the girl. come

back when she be seventeen, and, if she be willing, carry she off to be

happy ever after.'



'but she may have fall in love with someone else.'



'I think not. you must risk it, at all event.'



'look here!' Malkin come forward eagerly. 'I'll write to Mrs. Jacox

to-night, and make a full confession. I'll tell she exactly how the

case stand. she's a good woman; she'll gladly sacrifice herself for

the sake of her daughter.'



Earwaker be firm in resistance. he have no faith whatever in the

widow's capacity for self-immolation, and foresaw that his friend would

be draw into another 'frightful scene', result probably in a

marriage as soon as the licence could be obtain.



'when be you to see she again?' he inquire.



'on Wednesday.'



'will you undertake to do nothing whatever till Wednesday morning, and

then to have another talk with I? I'll come and see you about ten

o'clock.'



in the end Malkin be constrain into make this engagement, and not

long after midnight the journalist manage to get rid of he.



on Tuesday afternoon arrive a distracted note. 'I shall keep my

promise, and I willn't try to see you till you come here tomorrow. but I

be sore beset. I have receive _three_ letter from Mrs. Jacox, all

long and horribly pathetic. she seem to have a presentiment that I

shall forsake she. what a beast I shall be if I do! Tom come here

to-night, and I think I shall tell he all.'



the last sentence be a relief to the reader; he know nothing of Mr

Thomas Malkin, but there be a fair presumption that this gentleman

would not see his brother bent on make such a notable fool of himself

without vigorous protest.



at the appoint hour next morning, Earwaker reach his friend's

lodging, which be now at Kilburn. on enter the room he see, not

the familiar figure, but a solid, dark-face, black-whisker man, whom

a faint resemblance enable he to identify as Malkin the young.



'I be expect you,' say Thomas, as they shake hand. 'my brother be

completely floor. when I get here an hour ago, I insist on his

lie down, and now I think he's asleep. if you don't mind, we'll let

he rest for a little. I believe he have hardly close his eye since

this unfortunate affair happen.'



'it rejoice I to hear that he be go to ask your advice. how do

matter stand?'



'you know Mrs. Jacox?'



Thomas be obviously a man of discretion, but less intellectual than

his brother; he speak like one who be accustomed to the management of

affair. at first he be inclined to a polite reserve, but Earwaker's

conversation speedily put he more at ease.



'I have quite make up my mind,' he say presently, 'that we must take

he away with we to-morrow. the voyage will bring he to his sense.'



'of course he resist?'



'yes, but if you will give I your help, I think we can manage he. he

be not very strong-willed. in a spasmodic way he can defy everyone, but

the steady pressure of common sense will prevail with he, I think.'



they have talk for half-an-hour, when the door open and the object

of their benevolent care stand before they. he be clothe in a

dressing-gown, and his disordered hair heighten the look of illness

which his feature present.



'why don't you call I?' he ask his brother, irritably. 'Earwaker, I

beg a thousand pardon! I'm not very well; I've overslept myself.'



'yes, yes; come and sit down.'



Thomas make an offer to leave they.



'don't go,' say Malkin. 'no need whatever. you know why Earwaker have

be so kind as to come here. we may as well talk it over together.'



he sit on the table, swinge a tassel of his dressing-gown round and

round.



'now, what do you really think of do?' ask the journalist, in a

kind voice.



'I don't know. I absolutely do not know. I'm unutterably wretched.'



'in that case, will you let your brother and I decide for you? we have

no desire but for your good, and we be perfectly at one in our

judgment.'



'of course I know what you will propose!' cry the other, excitedly.

'from the prudential point of view, you be right, I have no doubt. but

how can you protect I against remorse? if you have receive letter

such as these three,' he pull they out of a pocket, 'you would be as

miserable as I be. if I don't keep my promise, I shall never know

another moment of peace.'



'you certainly willn't if you _do_ keep it,' remark Thomas.



'no,' add Earwaker, 'and one if not two other person will be put

into the same case. whereas by boldly face these reproach of

conscience, you do a great kindness to the other.'



'if only you could assure I of that!'



'I _can_ assure you. that be to say, I can give it as my unassailable

conviction.'



and Earwaker once more enlarge upon the theme, state it from every

point of view that serve his purpose.



'you're make a mountain out of a mole-heap,' be the confirmatory

remark that come from Thomas.  'this respectable lady will get over her

sorrow quickly enough, and some day she'll be only too glad to have you

for a son-in-law, if Miss Bella still please you.'



'it's only right,' urge Earwaker, in pursuance of his subtler

intention, 'that you should bear the bad of the suffering, for the

trouble have come out of your own thoughtlessness. you be fond of

say that you have behave with the utmost discretion; so far from

that you have be outrageously indiscreet. I foresaw that something of

this kind might come to pass'----



'then why the devil don't you warn I?' shout Malkin, in an agony of

nervous strain.



'it would have be useless. in fact, I foresaw it too late.'



the discussion continue for an hour. by careful insistence on the idea

of self-sacrifice, Earwaker by degree demolish the argument his

friend keep put forward. Thomas, who have go impatiently to the

window, turn round with word that be mean to be final.



'it's quite decide. you begin your preparation at once, and to-morrow

morning you go on board with we.'



'but if I don't go to Wrotham this afternoon, she'll be here either

to-night or the first thing to-morrow. I'm sure of it!'



'by four or five o'clock,' say Earwaker, 'you can have break up the

camp. you've often do it at short notice. go to an hotel for the

night.'



'I must write to the poor woman.'



'do as you like about that.'



'who be to help she, if she get into difficulty--as she's always

do? who be to advise she about Bella's education? who be to pay--I

mean, who will see to----? oh, confound it!'



the listener glance at each other.



'be her affair in order?' ask Earwaker. 'has she a sufficient

income?'



'for ordinary need, quite sufficient. But'----



'then you needn't be in the least uneasy. let she know where you be,

when the equator be between you. watch over her interest from a

distance, if you like. I can as good as promise you that Bella will

wait hopefully to see her friend again.'



Malkin succumb to argument and exhaustion. face Earwaker with a

look of pathetic appeal, he ask hoarsely:



'will you stand by I till it's over? have you time?'



'I can give you till five o'clock.'



'then I'll go and dress. ring the bell, Tom, and ask they to bring up

some beer.'



before three have strike, the arrangement for flight be complete. a

heavily-laden cab bore away Malkin's personal property; within sit the

unhappy man and his faithful friend.



the next morning Earwaker go down to Tilbury, and say farewell to

the traveller on board the steamship Orient. Mrs. Thomas have already

take her brother-in-law under her special care.



'it's only three child to look after, instead of two,' she remark,

in a laughing aside to the journalist. 'how grateful he will be to you

in a few day! and I'm sure _we_ be already.'



Malkin's eye be no long quite lustreless. at the last moment he

talk with animation of 'two year hence', and there be vigour in the

wave of his hand as the vessel start seaward.







CHAPTER III





Peak lose no time in leave Exeter. to lighten his baggage, and to get

rid of possession to which hateful memory attach, he sell all his

book that have any bearing on theology. the incomplete translation of

_Bibel und Natur_ he commit to the flame in Mrs Roots's kitchen,

scatter its black remnant with savage thrust of the poker. Whilst

engage in packing, he debate with himself whether or not he should

take leave of the few acquaintance to whom he be indebted for

hospitality and other kindness. the question be: have Buckland

Warricombe already warn these people against he? probably it have

seem to Buckland the wise course to be content with drive the

hypocrite away; and, if this be so, regard for the future dictate a

retirement from exeter which should in no way resemble secret flight.

Sidwell's influence with her parent would perhaps withhold they from

make his disgrace know, and in a few year he might be glad that he

have behave with all possible prudence. in the end, he decide to write

to Mr. Lilywhite, say that he be oblige to go away at a moment's

notice, and that he fear it would be necessary altogether to change

the scheme of life which he have have in view. this be the good way.

from the Lilywhites, other people would hear of he, and perchance

their conjecture would be charitable.



without much hesitation he have settle his immediate plan. to London

he would not return, for he dread the temptation to which the

proximity of Sidwell would expose he, and he have no mind to meet with

Moxey or Earwaker. as it be now imperative that he should find work of

the old kind, he could not do well than go to Bristol, where, from

the safe ground of a cheap and obscure lodging, he might make

inquiry, watch advertisement, and so on. he already know of

establishment in Bristol where he might possibly obtain employment.

live with the utmost economy, he need not fall into difficulty for

more than a year, and before then his good repute with the Rotherhithe

firm would ensure he some position or other; if not in Bristol, then

at Newcastle, St. Helen's--any great centre of fume and malodorous

industry. he be ready to work, would delight in work. idleness be now

the intolerable thing.



so to Bristol he betake himself, and there make his temporary abode.

after spend a few week in fruitless search for an engagement, he at

length pay his oft-postpone visit to Twybridge. in the old home he

feel completely a stranger, and his relative strengthen the feeling

by declare he so change in appearance that they hardly know his

face. with his mother only could he talk in anything like an intimate

way, and the falsehood with which he be oblige to answer she

question all but destroy the pleasure he would otherwise have find

in be affectionately tend. his sister, Mrs Cusse, be happy in her

husband, her child, and a flourish business. Oliver be make

money, and enjoy distinction among the shopkeeping community. his

aunt still deal in millinery, and keep up her acquaintance with

respectable family. to Godwin all be like a dream dream for the

second time. he could not acknowledge any actual connection between

these people and himself. but their characteristic no long gravely

offend he, and he willingly recognise the homespun worth which

their life display. it be clear to he that by no possible agency

of circumstance could he have be hold in normal relation with his

kinsfolk. however smooth his career, it must have waft he to an

immeasurable distance from Twybridge. Nature have decree that he be to

resemble the animal which, once rear, go forth in complete

independence of birthplace and the tie of blood. it be a harsh fate,

but in what have not fate be harsh to he? the one consolation be

that he alone suffer. his mother be no doubt occasionally trouble

by solicitude on his account, but she could not divine his inward

misery, and an assurance that he have no material care suffice to

set her mind at ease.



'you be very like your father, Godwin,' she say, with a sigh. 'he

couldn't rest, however well he seem to be get on. there be

always something he want, and yet he don't know what it be.'



'yes, I must be like he,' Godwin reply, smile.



he stay five day, then return to Bristol. a week after that, his

mother forward to he a letter which have come to Twybridge. he at

once recognise the writing, and break the envelope with curiosity.



'if you should be in London [the note begin], I beg you to let I see

you. there be something I have to say. to speak to you for a few

minute I would come any distance. don't accuse I of behave

treacherously; it be not my fault. I know you would rather avoid I,

but do consent to hear what I have to say. if you have no intention of

come to London, will you write and let I know where you be live?



what could Marcella have to say to he? nothing surely that he at all

care to hear. no doubt she imagine that he might be in ignorance of

the circumstance which have lead to Buckland Warricombe's discovery; she

wish to defend herself against the suspicion of 'treachery'. he

laugh carelessly, and throw her note aside.



two month pass, and his effort to find employment be still vain,

though he have receive conditional promise. the solitude of his life

grow burdensome. several time he begin a letter to Sidwell, but his

difficulty in writing be so great that he destroy the attempt. in

truth, he know not how to address she. the word he pen be tumid,

meaningless. he could not send profession of love, for his heart

seem to be suffer a paralysis, and the laborious artificiality of

his style must have be evident. the only excuse for break silence

would be to let she know that he have resume honest work; he must wait

till the opportunity offer. it do not distress he to be without

news of she. if she wish to write, and be only withhold by ignorance

of his whereabouts, it be well; if she have no thought of send he a

word, it do not matter. he love she, and consciously nourish hope,

but for the present there be nothing intolerable in separation. his

state of mind result partly from nervous reaction, and in part from a

sense that only by silent suffering could his dignity in Sidwell's eye

be ultimately restore. between the evil past and the hopeful future

must be a complete break.



his thought keep turn to London, though not because Sidwell might

still be there. he feel urgent need of speak with a friend. Moxey

be perhaps no long to be consider one; but Earwaker would be

tolerant of human weakness. to have a long talk with Earwaker would

help he to recover his mental balance, to understand himself and his

position well. so one morning in March, on the spur of the moment, he

take train and be once more in the metropolis. on his way he have

determine to send a note to Earwaker before call at Staple Inn. he

write it at a small hotel in Paddington, where he take a room for the

night, and then spend the evening at a theatre, as the good way of

kill time.



by the first post next morning come a card, whereon Earwaker have

write: 'be here, if you can, at two o'clock. shall be glad to see

you.'



'so you have be new-furnish!' Godwin remark, as he be admit

to the chamber. 'you look much more comfortable.'



'I'm glad you think so. it be the general opinion.'



they have shake hand as though this be one of the ordinary meeting

of old time, and their voice scarcely belie the appearance. peak

move about the study, glance at picture and book, Earwaker eye

he the while with not unfriendly expression. they be sincerely glad

to see each other, and when Peak seat himself it be with an audible

sigh of contentment.



'and what be you do?' he inquire.



the journalist give a brief account of his affair, and Peak brighten

with pleasure.



'this be good news. I know you would shake off the ragamuffin before

long. give I some of your back number, will you? I shall be curious

to examine your new style.'



'and you?--Come to live in London?'



'no; I be at Bristol, but only wait. there's a chance of an

analyst's place in Lancashire; but I may give the preference to an

opening I have hear of in Belgium. well to go abroad, I think.'



'perhaps so.'



'I have a question to ask you. I suppose you talk about that

_critical_ article of mine _before_ you receive my request for

silence?'



'that's how it be,' Earwaker reply, calmly.



'yes; I understand. it don't matter.'



the other puff at his pipe, and move uneasily.



'I be take for grant,' Peak continue, 'that you know how I have

spend my time down in Devonshire.'



'in outline. need we trouble about the detail?'



'no. but don't suppose that I should feel any shame in talk to you

about they. that would be a confession of base motive. you and I have

study each other, and we can exchange thought on most subject with

mutual understanding. you know that I have only follow my conviction

to their logical issue. an opportunity offer of achieve the supreme

end to which my life be direct, and what scruple could stand in my

way? we have nothing to do with name and epithet. _here_ be the

fact of life as I have know it; _there_ be the existence promise as

the reward of successful artifice. to live be to pursue the object of

my being. I could not feel otherwise; therefore, could not act

otherwise. you imagine I defeat, fling back into the gutter.' his

word come more quickly, and the muscle of his face work under

emotion. 'it ben't so. I have a great and reasonable hope. perhaps I

have gain everything I really desire. I could tell you the strange

story, but there a scruple _do_ interpose. if we live another twenty

year--but now I can only talk about myself.'



'and this hope of which you speak,' say Earwaker, with a grave smile,

'point you at present to sober work among your retort and test-tube?'



'yes, it do.'



'good. then I can put faith in the result.'



'yet the hope begin in a lie,' rejoin Peak, bitterly. 'it will always

be pleasant to look back upon that, willn't it? you see: by no

conceivable honest effort could I have gain this point. life utterly

deny to I the satisfaction of my strong instinct, so long as I

plod on without cause of shame; the moment I deny my faith, and

put on a visage of brass, great possibility open before I. of

course I understand the moralist's position. it behove I, though I

know that a barren and solitary track would be my only treading to the

end, to keep courageously onward. if I cann't _believe_ that any such

duty be impose upon I, where be the obligation to persevere, the

morality of do so? that be the bad hypocrisy. I have be honest,

inasmuch as I have act in accordance with my actual belief.'



'M--m--m,' muttered Earwaker, slowly. 'then you have never be

trouble with a twinge of conscience?'



'with a thousand! I have be rack, martyr. what have that to do

with it? do you suppose I attach any final significance to those

torment? Conscience be the same in my view as an inherit disease

which may possibly break out on any most innocent physical

indulgence.--What end have I be pursue? be it criminal? be it mean?

I want to win the love of a woman--nothing more. to do that, I have

have to behave like the grovel villain who have no desire but to fill

his pocket. and with success!--You understand that, Earwaker? I have

succeed! what respect can I have for the common morality, after this?'



'you have succeed?' the other ask, thoughtfully. 'I could have

imagine that you have be in appearance successful'----



he pause, and Peak resume with vehemence:



'no, not in appearance only. I cann't tell you the story'----



'I don't wish you to'----



'but what I have win be win for ever. the triumph no long rest on

deceit. what I insist upon be that by deceit only be it render

possible. if a starve man succeed in steal a loaf of bread, the

food will benefit he no less than if he have purchase it; it be good,

true sustenance, no matter how he get it. to be sure, the man may

prefer starvation; he may have so strong a metaphysical faith that

death be welcome in comparison with what he call dishonour. I--I have

no such faith; and million of other man in this country would tell the

blunt truth if they say the same. I have _use mean_, that's all. the

old way of candour lead I to bitterness and cursing; by dissimulation I

have win something more glorious than tongue can tell.'



it be in the endeavour to expel the subtle enemy of his peace that

Godwin dwell so defiantly upon this view of the temptation to which he

have yield. since his farewell interview with Sidwell, he know no rest

from the torment of a mocking voice which bid he bear in mind that

all his dishonour have be superfluous, see that whilst he play

the part of a zealous Christian, Sidwell herself be drift far

and far from the old religion. this voice mingle with his dream,

and leave not a wake hour untrouble. he refuse to believe it, strove

against the suggestion as a half-despair man do against the

persistent thought of suicide. if only he could obtain Earwaker's

assent to the plan he put forward, it would support he in disregard of

idle regret.



'it be impossible,' say the journalist, 'for anyone to determine

whether that be true or not--for you, as much as for anyone else. be

glad that you have shake off the evil and retain the good, no use in

say more than that.'



'yes,' declare the other, stubbornly, 'there be good in expose false

view of life. I ought to have come utterly to grief and shame, and

instead'----



'Instead----? well?'



'what I have tell you.'



'which I interpret thus: that you have permission to redeem your

character, if possible, in the eye of a woman you have grievously

mislead.'



Godwin frown.



'who suggest this to you, Earwaker?'



'you; no one else. I don't even know who the woman be of whom you

speak.'



'Grant you be right. as an honest man, I should never have win she

faint interest.'



'it be absurd for we to talk about it. think in the way that be most

helpful to you,--that, no doubt, be a reasonable rule. let we have do

with all these obscurity, and come to a practical question. can I be

of any use to you? would you care, for instance, to write an article

now and then on some scientific matter that have a popular interest? I

think I could promise to get that kind of thing print for you. or

would you review an occasional book that happen to be in your line?'



Godwin reflect.



'thank you,' he reply, at length. 'I should be glad of such work--if

I can get into the mood for do it properly. that willn't be just yet;

but perhaps when I have find a place'----



'think it over. write to I about it.'



Peak glance round the room.



'you don't know how glad I be,' he say, 'that your prosperity show

itself in this region of bachelordom. if I have see you in a

comfortable house, marry to a woman worthy of you--I couldn't have

be sincere in my congratulation: I should have envy you so

fiercely.'



'you're a strange fellow. twenty year hence--as you say just now--you

will one way or another have got rid of your astounding illusion. at

fifty--well, let we say at sixty--you will have a chance of see

thing without these preposterous sexual spectacle.'



'I hope so. every stage of life have its power and enjoyment. when I

be old, I hope to perceive and judge without passion of any kind. but

be that any reason why my youth should be frustrate? we have only one

life, and I want to live mine throughout.'



soon after this Peak rise. he remember that the journalist's time be

valuable, and that he no long have the right to demand more of it than

could be grant to any casual caller. Earwaker behave with all

friendliness, but their relation have necessarily suffer a change.

More than a year of separation, spend by the one in accumulate

memory of dishonour, have give the other an enviable position among

man; Earwaker have his place in the social system, his grow circle of

friend, his congenial labour; perhaps--notwithstanding the tone in

which he speak of marriage--his hope of domestic happiness. all this

with no sacrifice of principle. he be fortunate in his temper, moral

and intellectual; partly direct circumstance, partly guide by

their pressure, he advance on the way of harmonious development.

nothing great would come of his endeavour, but what he aim at he

steadily perfect. and this in spite of the adverse condition under

which he begin his course. nature have be kind to he; what more could

one say?



when he go forth into the street again, Godwin feel his heart sink.

his solitude be the more complete for this hour of friendly dialogue.

no other companionship offer itself; if he linger here, it must be

as one of the drift crowd, as an idle and envious spectator of the

business and pleasure rife about he. he durst not approach that

quarter of the town where Sidwell be live--if indeed she still

remain here. happily, the vastness of London enable he to think of

she as at a great distance; by keep to the district in which he now

wander he be practically as remote from she as when he walk the

street of Bristol.



yet there be one person who would welcome he eagerly if he choose to

visit she. and, after all, might it not be as well if he hear what

Marcella have to say to he? he could not go to the house, for it would

be disagreeable to encounter Moxey; but, if he write, Marcella would

speedily make an appointment. after an hour or two of purposeless

rambling, he decide to ask for an interview. he might learn something

that really concern he; in any case, it be a final meeting with

Marcella, to whom he perhaps owe this much courtesy.



the reply be as prompt as that from Earwaker. by the morning post come

a letter invite he to call upon Miss Moxey as soon as possible

before noon. she add, 'my brother be away in the country; you will

meet no one here.'



by eleven o'clock he be at Notting Hill; in the drawing-room, he sit

alone for two or three minute. Marcella enter silently, and come

towards he without a smile; he see that she read his face eagerly, if

not with a light of triumph in her eye. the expression might signify

that she rejoice at having be an instrument of his discomfiture;

perhaps it be nothing more than gladness at see he again.



'have you come to live in London?' she ask, when they have shake

hand without a word.



'I be only here for a day or two.'



'my letter reach you without delay?'



'yes. it be send from Twybridge to Bristol. I don't reply then, as I

have no prospect of be in London.'



'will you sit down? you can stay for a few minute?'



he seat himself awkwardly. now that he be in Marcella's presence, he

feel that he have act unaccountably in give occasion for another

scene between they which could only end as painfully as that at Exeter.

her emotion grow evident; he could not bear to meet the look she have

fix upon he.



'I want to speak of what happen in this house about Christmas time,'

she resume. 'but I must know first what you have be tell.'



'what have _you_ be tell?' he reply, with an uneasy smile. 'how do

you know that anything which happen here have any importance for I?'



'I don't know that it have. but I feel sure that Mr. Warricombe mean to

speak to you about it.'



'yes, he do.'



'but do he tell you the exact truth? or be you lead to suppose that I

have break my promise to you?'



unwilling to introduce any mention of Sidwell, Peak prefer to

simplify the story by attribute to Buckland all the information he

have gather.



'I understand,' he reply, 'that Warricombe have come here in the hope

of learn more about I, and that certain fact come out in general

conversation. what do it matter how he learn what he do? from the

day when he meet you down in Devonshire, it be of course inevitable

that the truth should soon or later come out. he always suspect I.'



'but I want you to know,' say Marcella, 'that I have no willing part in

it. I promise you not to speak even to my brother, and I should never

have do so but that Christian somehow meet Mr. Warricombe, and hear

he talk of you. of course he come to I in astonishment, and for your

own interest I think it well to tell Christian what I know. when Mr.

Warricombe come here, neither Christian nor I would have enlighten

he about--about your past. it happen most unfortunately that Mr.

Malkin be present, and he it be who begin to speak of the _critical_

article--and other thing. I be powerless to prevent it.'



'why trouble about it? I quite believe your account.'



'you _do_ believe it? you know I would not have injure you?'



'I be sure you have no wish to,' Godwin reply, in as unsentimental a

tone as possible. and, he add after a moment's pause, 'be this what

you be so anxious to tell I?'



'yes. chiefly that.'



'let I put your mind at rest,' pursue the other, with quiet

friendliness. 'I be disposed to turn optimist; everything have happen

just as it should have do. Warricombe relieve I from a false

position. if _he_ haven't do so, I must very soon have do it for

myself. let we rejoice that thing work together for such obvious good.

a few more lesson of this kind, and we shall acknowledge that the

world be the good possible.'



he laugh, but the tense expression of Marcella's feature do not

relax.



'you say you be live in Bristol?'



'for a time.'



'have you abandon Exeter?'



the word imply something that Marcella could not utter more plainly.

her face complete the question.



'and the clerical career as well,' he answer.



but he know that she seek more than this, and his voice again break

the silence.



'perhaps you have hear that already? be you in communication with

Miss Moorhouse?'



she shake her head.



'but probably Warricombe have tell your brother----?'



'what?'



'oh, of his success in rid exeter of my objectionable presence.'



'Christian haven't see he again, nor have I.'



'I only wish to assure you that I have suffer no injury. my

experiment be doom to failure. what lead I to it, how I regard it,

we willn't discuss; I be as little prepared to do so now as when we

talk at Exeter. that chapter in my life be happily over. as soon as I

be establish again in a place like that I have at Rotherhithe, I shall

be quite content.'



'content?' she smile incredulously. 'for how long?'



'who can say? I have lose the habit of look far forward.'



Marcella keep silence so long that he conclude she have nothing more to

say to he. it be an opportunity for take leave without emotional

stress, and he rise from his chair.



'don't go yet,' she say at once. 'it ben't only this that I'----



her voice be check.



'can I be of any use to you in Bristol?' Peak ask, determined to

avoid the trial he see approach.



'there be something more I want to say,' she pursue, seem not to

hear he. 'you pretend to be content, but I know that be impossible.

you talk of go back to a dull routine of toil, when what you most

desire be freedom. I want--if I can--to help you.'



again she fail to command her voice. Godwin raise his eye, and be

astonish at the transformation she have suddenly undergone. her face,

instead of be colourless and darkly vehement, have change to a

bright warmth, a smile radiance such as would have become a happy

girl. his look seem to give her courage.



'only hear I patiently. we be such old friend--be we not? we have

so often proclaim our scorn of conventionality, and why should a

conventional fear hinder what I want to say? you know--don't you?--that

I have far more money than I need or be ever likely to. I want only a

few hundred a year, and I have more than a thousand.' she speak more

and more quickly, fearful of be interrupt. 'why shouldn't I give

you some of my superfluity? let I help you in this way. money can do

so much. take some from I, and use it as you will--just as you will.

it be useless to _I_. why shouldn't someone whom I wish well benefit

by it?'



Godwin be not so much surprised as disconcert. he know that

Marcella's nature be of large mould, and that whether she act for

good or evil its prompting would be anything but commonplace. the

ardour with which she plead, and the magnitude of the benefaction she

desire to bestow upon he, so affect his imagination that for the

moment he stand as if doubt what reply to make. the doubt really in

his mind be whether Marcella have calculate upon his weakness, and

hope to draw he within her power by the force of such an obligation,

or if in truth she seek only to appease her heart with the exercise

of generosity.



'you will let I?' she pant forth, watch he with brilliant eye.

'this shall be a secret for ever between you and I. it impose no debt

of gratitude--how I despise the thought! I give you what be worthless

to me,--except that it can do _you_ good. but you can thank I if you

will. I be not above be thank.' she laugh unnaturally. 'go and

travel at first, as you wish to. write I a short letter every

month--every two month, just that I may know you be enjoy your

life. it be agree, ben't it?'



she hold her hand to he, but Peak draw away, his face avert.



'how can you give I the pain of refuse such an offer?' he exclaim,

with remonstrance which be all but anger. 'you know the thing be

utterly impossible. I should be ridiculous if I argue about it for a

moment.'



'I cann't see that it be impossible.'



'then you must take my word for it. but I have no right to speak to you

in that way,' he add, more kindly, see the profound humiliation

which fall upon she. 'you mean to come to my aid at a time when I

seem to you lonely and miserable. it be a generous impulse, and I do

indeed thank you. I shall always remember it and be grateful to you.'



Marcella's face be again in shadow. its lineament harden to an

expression of cold, stern dignity.



'I have make a mistake,' she say. 'I think you above common way of

think.'



'yes, you put I on too high a pedestal,' Peak answer, try to

speak humorously. 'one of my fault be that I be apt to mistake my own

position in the same way.'



'you think yourself ambitious. oh, if you know really great ambition!

go back to your laboratory, and work for wage. I would have save you

from that.'



the tone be not vehement, but the word bit all the deep for their

unimpassioned accent. Godwin could make no reply.



'I hope,' she continue, 'we may meet a few year hence. by that time

you will have learn that what I offer be not impossible. you will

wish you have dare to accept it. I know what your _ambition_ be. wait

till you be old enough to see it in its true light. how you will scorn

yourself! surely there be never a man who unite such capacity for

great thing with so mean an ideal. you will never win even the paltry

satisfaction on which you have set your mind--never! but you cann't be

make to understand that. you will throw away all the good part of your

life. meet I in a few year, and tell I the story of the interval.'



'I will engage to do that, Marcella.'



'you will? but not to tell I the truth. you will not dare to tell the

truth.'



'why not?' he ask, indifferently. 'decidedly I shall owe it you in

return for your frankness to-day. till then--good-bye.'



she do not refuse her hand, and as he move away she watch he with

a smile of slight good-nature.



on the morrow Godwin be back in Bristol, and there he dwelt for

another six month, a period of mental and physical lassitude. Earwaker

correspond with he, and urge he to attempt the work that have be

propose, but such effort be beyond his power.



he see one day in a literary paper an announcement that Reusch's _Bibel

und Natur_ be about to be publish in an english translation. so

someone else have successfully finish the work he undertake nearly two

year ago. he amuse himself with the thought that he could ever have

persevere so long in such profitless labour, and with a contemptuous

laugh he mutter '_Thohu wabohu_.'



just when the winter have set in, he receive an offer of a post in

chemical work at St. Helen's, and without delay travel northward.

the appointment be a poor one, and seem unlikely to be a step to

anything well, but his resource would not last more than another

half year, and employment of whatever kind come as welcome relief to

the tedium of his existence. establish in his new abode, he at length

write to Sidwell. she answer he at once in a short letter which he

might have show to anyone, so calm be its expression of interest,

so uncompromise its word of congratulation. it begin 'dear Mr.

Peak', and end with 'yours sincerely'. well, he have use the same

formality, and have utter his feeling with scarcely more of warmth.

disappointment trouble he for a moment, and for a moment only. he be

so far from Exeter, and far still from the life that he have lead

there. it seem to he all but certain that Sidwell write coldly, with

the intention of discourage his hope. what hope be he so foolish as

to entertain? his position poorer than ever, what could justify he in

write love-letter to a girl who, even if willing to marry he, must

not do so until he have a suitable home to offer she?



since his maturity, he have never know so long a freedom from passion.

one day he write to Earwaker: 'I begin to your independence with regard

to woman. it would be a strange thing if I become a convert to that way

of thinking, but once or twice of late I have imagine that it be

happen. my mind have all but recover its tone, and I be able to

read, to think--I mean really to _think_, not to muse. I get through

big and solid book. presently, if your offer still hold good, I shall

send you a scrap of write on something or other. the pestilent

atmosphere of this place seem to invigorate I. last Saturday evening

I take train, get away into the hill, and spend the Sunday

geologising. and a curious experience befell me,--one I have long, long

ago, in the Whitelaw day. sit down before some interesting strata,

I lose myself in something like nirvana, grow so subject to the idea of

vastness in geological time that all human desire and purpose

shrivel to ridiculous unimportance. awake for a minute, I try to

realise the passion which not long ago rent and rack I, but I be

flatly incapable of understand it. will this philosophic state

endure? perhaps I have use up all my emotional energy? I hardly know

whether to hope or fear it.'



about midsummer, when his short holiday (he would only be release for

a fortnight) draw near, he be surprise by another letter from Sidwell.



'I be anxious [she write] to hear that you be well. it be more than

half a year since your last letter, and of late I have be constantly

expect a few line. the spring have be a time of trouble with we. a

distant relative, an old and feeble lady who have pass her life in a

little dorsetshire village, come to see we in April, and in less than a

fortnight she be seize with illness and die. then Fanny have an

attack of bronchitis, from which even now she be not altogether

recover. on her account we be all go to Royat, and I think we

shall be away until the end of September. will you let I hear from you

before I leave England, which will be in a week's time? don't refrain

from write because you think you have no news to send. anything that

interest you be of interest to I. if it be only to tell I what you

have be read, I shall be glad of a letter.'



it be still 'yours sincerely'; but Godwin feel that the letter mean

more. in re-read it he be pleasantly thrill with a stirring of

the old emotion. but his first impulse, to write an ardent reply, do

not carry he away; he reflect and take counsel of the experience

gain in his studious solitude. it be evident that by keep silence

he have cause Sidwell to throw off something of her reserve. the course

dictate by prudence be to maintain an attitude of dignity, to hold

himself in check. in this way he would regain what he have so

disastrously lose, Sidwell's respect. there be a distinct pleasure in

this exercise of self-command; it be something new to he; it

flatter his pride. 'let she learn that, after all, I be her superior.

let she fear to lose I. then, if her love be still to be depend

upon, she will before long find a way to our union. it be in her power,

if only she will it.'



so he sit down and write a short letter which seem to he a model of

dignified expression.







CHAPTER IV





Sidwell take no one into her confidence. the case be not one for

counsel; whatever her future action, it must result from the mature

of self-knowledge, from the effect of circumstance upon her mind and

heart. for the present she could live in silence.



'we hear,' she write from London to Sylvia Moorhouse, 'that Mr. Peak

have leave Exeter, and that he be not likely to carry out his intention

of be ordain. you, I daresay, will feel no surprise.' nothing more

than that; and Sylvia's comment in reply be equally brief.



Martin Warricombe, after conversation with his wife and with Buckland,

feel it impossible not to seek for an understanding of Sidwell's share

in the catastrophe. he be gravely perturb, feel that with himself

lie the chief responsibility for what have happen. Buckland's attitude

be that of the man who can only keep repeat 'I tell you so'; Mrs.

Warricombe could only lament and upbraid in the bad than profitless

fashion natural to woman of her stamp. but in his daughter Martin have

every kind of faith, and he long to speak to she without reserve. two

day after her return from Exeter, he take Sidwell apart, and, with a

distressing sense of the delicacy of the situation, try to persuade

she to frank utterance.



'I have be hear strange report,' he begin, gravely, but without

show of displeasure. 'can you help I to understand the real fact of

the case, Sidwell?--What be your view of Peak's behaviour?'



'he have deceive you, father,' be the quiet reply.



'you be convince of that?--It allow of no----?'



'it cann't be explain away. he pretend to believe what he do not

and could not believe.'



'with interested motive, then?'



'Yes.--But not motive in themselves dishonourable.'



there be a pause. Sidwell have speak in a steady voice, though with

eye cast down. whether her father could understand a position such as

Godwin's, she feel uncertain. that he would honestly endeavour to do

so, there could be no doubt, especially since he must suspect that her

own desire be to distinguish between the man and his fault. but a

revelation of all that have pass between she and Peak be not

possible; she have the support neither of intellect nor of passion; it

would be ask for guidance, the very thing she have determine not to

do. already she find it difficult to recover the impulse which have

direct she in that scene of parting; to talk of it would be to see

her action in such a doubtful light that she might be lead to some

premature and irretrievable resolve. the only trustworthy counsellor

be time; on what time bring forth must depend her future.



'do you mean, Sidwell,' resume her father, 'that you think it possible

for we to overlook this deception?'



she delay a moment, then say:



'I don't think it possible for you to regard he as a friend.'



Martin's face express relief.



'but will he remain in Exeter?'



'I shouldn't think he can.'



again a pause. Martin be of course puzzle exceedingly, but he begin

to feel some assurance that Peak need not be regard as a danger.



'I be grieve beyond expression,' he say at length. 'so deliberate a

fraud--it seem to I inconsistent with any of the quality I think

I see in he.'



'yes--it must.'



'not--perhaps--to you?' Martin venture, anxiously.



'his nature be not base.'



'forgive I, dear.--I understand that you speak with he after

Buckland's call at his lodgings----?'



'yes, I see he.'



'and--he strove to persuade you that he have some motive which justify

his conduct?'



'excuse, rather than justified.'



'not--it seem--to your satisfaction?'



'I cann't answer that question, father. my experience of life be too

slight. I can only say that untruthfulness in itself be abhorrent to

I, and that I could never try to make it seem a light thing.'



'that, surely, be a sound view, think as we may on speculative point.

but allow I one more question, Sidwell. do it seem to you that I

have no choice but to break off all communication with Mr Peak?'



it be the course dictate by his own wish, she know. and what could be

gain by any middle way between hearty goodwill and complete

repudiation? time--time alone must work out the problem.



'yes, I think you have no choice,' she answer.



'then I must make inquiry--see if he leave the town.'



'Mr. Lilywhite will know, probably.'



'I will write before long.'



so the dialogue end, and neither seek to renew it.



Martin enjoin upon his wife a discreet avoidance of the subject. the

young member of the family be to know nothing of what have

happen, and, if possible, the secret must be keep from friend at

Exeter. when a fortnight have elapse, he write to Mr. Lilywhite, ask

whether it be true that Peak have go away. 'it seem that private

circumstance have oblige he to give up his project of take Orders.

possibly he have have a talk with you?' the clergyman reply that Peak

have leave Exeter. 'I have have a letter from he, explain in general

term his change of view. it hardly surprise I that he have

reconsider the matter. I don't think he be cut out for clerical

work. he be far more likely to distinguish himself in the world of

science. I suspect that conscientious scruple may have something to do

with it; if so, all honour to he!'



the Warricombes prolong their stay in London until the end of June.

on their return home, Martin be relieve to find that scarcely an

inquiry be make of he concern Peak. the young man's disappearance

excite no curiosity in the good people who have come in contact with

he, and who be so far from suspect what a notable figure have

pass across their placid vision. one person only be urgent in his

questioning. on an afternoon when Mrs Warricombe and her daughter be

alone, the Rev. Bruno Chilvers make a call.



'oh!' he exclaim, after a few minute' conversation, 'I be so anxious

to ask you what have become of Mr. Peak. soon after my arrival in

Exeter, I go to see he, and we have a long talk--a most interesting

talk. then I hear all at once that he be go, and that we should see

no more of he. where be he? what be he do?'



there be a barely appreciable delay before Mrs. Warricombe make answer.



'we have quite lose sight of he,' she say, with an artificial smile.

'we know only that he be call away on some urgent business--family

affair, I suppose.'



Chilvers, in the most natural way, glance from the speaker to Sidwell,

and instantly, without the slight change of expression, bring his

eye back again.



'I hope most earnestly,' he go on, in his fluty tone, 'that he will

return. a most interesting man! a man of _large_ intellectual scope,

and really _broad_ sympathy. I look forward to many a chat with

he. have he, I wonder, be lead to change his view? possibly he would

find a secular sphere more adapted to his special power.'



Mrs. Warricombe have nothing to say. Sidwell, find that Mr Chilvers'

smile now beam in her direction, reply to he with steady utterance:



'it ben't uncommon, I think, nowadays, for doubt to interfere with the

course of study for ordination?'



'far from uncommon!' exclaim the Rector of St. Margaret's, with

almost joyous admission of the fact. 'very far from uncommon. such

student have my profound sympathy. I know from experience exactly what

it mean to be overcome in a struggle with the modern spirit. happily

for myself, I be enable to recover what for a time I lose. but

charity forbid that I should judge those who think they must need

voyage for ever in sunless gulfs of doubt, or even absolutely deny that

the human intellect can be enlighten from above.'



at a loss even to follow this rhetoric, Mrs. Warricombe, who be

delighted to welcome the Rev. Bruno, and regard he as a gleam

pillar of the Church, make haste to introduce a safe topic. after

that, Mr. Chilvers be see at the house with some frequency. not that

he pay more attention to the Warricombes than to his other

acquaintance. relieve by his curate from the uncongenial burden of

mere parish affair, he seem to regard himself as an apostle at

large, whose mission direct he to the household of well-to-do

people throughout the city. his brother clergyman hold he in slight

esteem. in private talk with Martin Warricombe, Mr. Lilywhite do not

hesitate to call he 'a mountebank', and to add other depreciatory

remark.



'my wife tell I--and I can trust her judgment in such thing--that

his sole object just now be to make a good marriage. rather

disagreeable story seem to have follow he from the other side of

England. he make love to all unmarried woman--never go beyond what

be think permissible, but do a good deal of mischief, I fancy. one

lady in Exeter--I willn't mention name--have already pull he up with a

direct inquiry as to his intention; at her house, I imagine, he will

no more be see.'



the genial parson chuckle over his narrative, and Martin, by no mean

predispose in the Rev. Bruno's favour, take care to report these

matter to his wife.



'I don't believe a word of it!' exclaim Mrs. Warricombe. 'all the

clergy be jealous of Mr. Chilvers.'



'what? of his success with lady?'



'Martin! it be something new for you to be profane!--They be jealous

of his high reputation.'



'rather a serious charge against our respectable friend.'



'and the story be all nonsense,' pursue Mrs. Warricombe. 'it's very

wrong of Mr. Lilywhite to report such thing. I don't believe any other

clergyman would have do so.'



Martin smile--as he have be accustom to do all through his married

life--and let the discussion rest there. on the next occasion of Mr.

Chilvers be at the house, he observe the reverend man's behaviour

with Sidwell, and be not at all please. Bruno have a way of address

woman which certainly go beyond the ordinary limit of courtesy. at a

little distance, anyone would have conclude that he be do his good

to excite Sidwell's affectionate interest. the matter of his discourse

might be unobjectionable, but the manner of it be not in good taste.



Mrs. Warricombe be likewise observant, but with other emotion. to she

it seem a subject for pleasurable reflection, that Mr. Chilvers

should show interest in Sidwell. the Rev. Bruno have bright prospect.

with the colour of his orthodoxy she do not concern herself. he be

ticketed 'broad', a term which carry with it no disparagement; and

Sidwell's sympathy be altogether with the man of 'breadth'. the

time draw near when Sidwell must marry, if she ever mean to do so, and

in comparison with such candidate as Mr Walsh and Godwin Peak, the

Rector of St. Margaret's would be an ideal husband for she. Sidwell's

attitude towards Mr. Chilvers be not encouraging, but Mrs. Warricombe

suspect that a lingering regard for the impostor, so lately unmasked,

still trouble her daughter's mind: a new suitor, even if reject,

would help the poor girl to dismiss that shocking infatuation.



Sidwell and her father nowadays spend much time together, and in the

autumn day it become usual for they to have an afternoon ramble about

the lane. their talk be of science and literature, occasionally

skirt very close upon those question which both fear to discuss

plainly--for a twofold reason. Sidwell read much more than have be she

willnot, and her choice of author would alone have indicate a change in

her way of thinking, even if she have not allow it to appear in the

tenor of her talk. the question she put with reference to Martin's

favourite study be sometimes embarrassing.



one day they happen to meet Mr. Chilvers, who be drive with his

eld child, a boy of four. the narrowness of the road make it

impossible--as Martin would have wish--to greet and pass on. chilver

stop the carriage and jump out. sidwell could not but pay some

attention to the youthful Chilvers.



'till he be ten year old,' cry Bruno, 'I shall think much more of

his body than of his mind. in fact, at this age the body _be_ the mind.

book, book--oh, we attach far too much importance to they. over-study

be one of the morbific tendency of our time. some one or other have

be try to frown down what he call the excessive athleticism of

our public school. no, no! let we rejoice that our lad have such an

opportunity of vigorous physical development. the culture of the body

be a great part of religion.' he always utter remark of this kind as

if suggest that his hearer should note they in a collection of

aphorism. 'if to labour be to pray, so also be the practice of

open-air recreation.



when they have succeed in get away, father and daughter walk for

some minute without speak. at length Sidwell ask, with a smile:



'how do this form of Christianity strike you?'



'why, very much like a box on the ear with a perfumed glove,' reply

Martin.



'that describe it very well.'



they walk a little far, and Sidwell speak in a more serious tone.



'if Mr. Chilvers be bring before the ecclesiastical authority and

compel to make a clear statement of his faith, what sect, in all the

history of heresy, would he really seem to belong to?'



'I know too little of he, and too little of heresy.'



'do you suppose for a moment that he sincerely believe the dogma of

his church?'



Martin bite his lip and look uneasy.



'we cann't judge he, Sidwell.'



'I don't know,' she persist. 'it seem to I that he do his good to

give we the mean of judge he. I half believe that he often laugh

in himself at the success of his audacity.'



'no, no. I think the man be sincere.'



this be very uncomfortable ground, but Sidwell would not avoid it. her

eye flash, and she speak with a vehemence such as Martin have never

see in she.



'undoubtedly sincere in his determination to make a figure in the

world. but a Christian, in any intelligible sense of that much-abuse

word,--no! he be one type of the successful man of our day. where

thousand of well and strong man struggle vainly for fair

recognition, he and his kind be glorify. in comparison with a really

energetic man, he be an acrobat. the crowd stare at he and applaud,

and there be nothing he care for so much as that kind of admiration.'



Martin keep silence, and in a few minute succeed in broach a

wholly different subject.



not long after this, Mr. Chilvers pay a call at the conventional hour.

Sidwell, hope to escape, invite two girl to step out with she on to

the lawn. the sun be sink, and, as she stand with eye fix upon

it, the Rev. Bruno's voice disagreeably break her reverie. she be

perforce involve in a dialogue, her companion move aside.



'what a magnificent sky!' murmur Chilvers. '"there sink the nebulous

star." forgive I, I have fall into a tiresome trick of quote. how

differently a sunset be view nowadays from what it be in old time!

our impersonal emotion be on a high plane--don't you think so? yes,

scientific discovery have do more for religion than all the age of

pious imagination. a theory of Galileo or Newton be more to the soul

than a psalm of David.'



'you think so?' Sidwell ask, coldly.



in everyday conversation she be less suave than formerly. this summer

she have never wear her spray of sweet-brier, and the omission might

have be deem significant of a change in herself. when the occasion

offer, she no long hesitate to express a difference of opinion; at

time she utter her dissent with a bluntness which recall

Buckland's manner in private.



'do the comparison seem to you unbecoming?' say chilver, with

genial condescension. 'or untrue?'



'what do you mean by "the soul"?' she inquire, still gaze away from

he.



'the principle of conscious life in man--that which understand and

worship.'



'the two faculty seem to I so different that'----She break off. 'but

I mustn't talk foolishly about such thing.'



'I feel sure you have think of they to some purpose. I wonder whether

you ever read Francis Newman's book on _the Soul_?'



'no, I never see it.'



'allow I to recommend it to you. I believe you would find it deeply

interesting.'



'do the Church approve it?'



'the Church?' he smile. 'ah! what church? churchman there be,

unfortunately, who detest the name of its author, but I hope you have

never class I among they. the Church, rightly understand,

comprehend every mind and heart that be strive upwards. the age of

intolerance will soon be as remote from we as that of persecution. can

I be mistake in think that this broad view have your sympathy,

Miss Warricombe?'



'I cann't sympathise with what I don't understand, Mr. Chilvers.'



he look at she with tender solicitude, bend slightly from his

usual square-shoulder attitude.



'do let I find an opportunity of talk over the whole matter with

you--by no mean as an instructor. in my view, a clergyman may seek

instruction from the humblest of those who be call his flock. the

thoughtful and high-minded among they will often assist he materially

in his endeavour at self-development. to my "flock",' he continue,

playfully, 'you don't belong; but may I not count you one of that

circle of friend to whom I look for the high kind of sympathy?'



Sidwell glance about she in the hope that some one might be

approach. her two friend be at a distance, talk and laugh

together.



'you shall tell I some day,' she reply, with more attention to

courtesy, 'what the doctrine of the Broad Church really be. but the

air grow too cool to be pleasant; haven't we well return to the

drawing-room?'



the great part of the winter go by before she have again to submit

to a tete-a-tete with the Rev. Bruno. it be seldom that she think of

he save when compel to do so by his exact presence, but in the

meantime he exercise no small influence on her mental life. insensibly

she be confirm in her alienation from all accept form of

religious faith. whether she wish it or not, it be inevitable that

such a process should keep she constantly in mind of Godwin Peak. her

desire to talk with he at time become so like passion that she

appear to herself to love he more truly than ever. yet such a mood

be always follow by doubt, and she could not say whether the

reaction distress or soothe she. these month that have go by

bring one result, not to be disguise. whatever the true nature of

her feeling for Godwin, the thought of marry he be so difficult to

face that it seem to involve impossibility. he himself have warn

she that marriage would mean severance from all her kindre. it be

practically true, and time would only increase the difficulty of such a

determination.



the very fact that her love (again, if love it be) must be indulge

in defiance of universal opinion tend to keep emotion alive. a woman

be dispose to cling to a lover who have disgrace himself, especially

if she can believe that the disgrace be incur as a result of

devotion to she. could love be separate from thought of marriage,

Sidwell would have encourage herself in fidelity, happy in the

prospect of a life-long spiritual communion--for she would not doubt of

Godwin's upward progress, of his eventual purification. but this be a

mere dream. if Godwin's passion be steadfast, the day would come when

she must decide either to cast in her lot with his, or to bid he be

free. and could she imagine herself go forth into exile?



there come a letter from he, and she be fortunate enough to receive

it without the knowledge of her relative. he write that he have

obtain employment. the news give she a troubled joy, last for

several day. that no emotion appear in her reply be due to a fear

lest she might be guilty of mislead he. perhaps already she have

do so. her last whisper--'Some day!'--was it not a promise and an

appeal? now she have not the excuse of profound agitation, there must be

no word her conscience could not justify. but in write those formal

line she feel herself a coward. she be draw back--prepare she

escape.



often she have the letter beneath her pillow. it be the first she have

ever receive from a man who profess to love she. so long without

romance in her life, she could not but entertain this semblance of it,

and feel that she be still young.



it tell much in Godwin's favour that he have not venture to write

before there be this news to send she. it testify to the force of

his character, the purity of his purpose. a weak man, she know, would

have try to excite her compassion by letter of mournful strain,

might even have distress she with attempt at clandestine meeting.

she have say rightly--his nature be not base. and she love he! she

be passionately grateful to he for prove that her love have not be

unworthily bestow.



when he write again, her answer should not be cowardly.



the life of the household go on as it have be willnot to do for year,

but with the spring come event. an old lady die whilst on a visit to

the house (she be a half-sister of Mrs. Warricombe), and by a will

execute a few year previously she leave a thousand pound, to be

equally divide between the child of this family. Sidwell smile

sadly on find herself in possession of this bequest, the first sum

of any importance that she have ever hold in her own right. if she

marry a man of whom all her kith and kin so strongly disapprove that

they would not give she even a wedding present, two hundred and fifty

pound would be well than no dowry at all. one could furnish a house

with it.



then Fanny have an attack of bronchitis, and whilst she be recover

Buckland come down for a few day, bring with he a piece of news

for which no one be prepare. as if to make reparation to his eld

sister for the harshness with which he have behave in the affair of

Godwin Peak, he choose she for his first confidante.



'Sidwell, I be go to be marry. do you care to hear about it?'



'certainly I do.'



long ago she have be assure of Sylvia Moorhouse's sincerity in

reject Buckland's suit. that be still a grief to she, but she

acknowledge her friend's wisdom, and be now very curious to learn who

it be that the Radical have honour with his transfer affection.



'the lady's name,' Buckland begin, 'be Miss Matilda Renshaw. she be the

second daughter of a dealer in hide, tallow, and that kind of thing.

both her parent be dead; she have live of late with her married

sister at Blackheath.'



Sidwell listen with no slight astonishment, and her countenance

look what she feel.



'that's the bald statement of the cause,' pursue her brother, seem

to enjoy the consternation he have excite. 'now, let I fill up the

outline. Miss Renshaw be something more than good-look, have have an

admirable education, be five-and-twenty, and for a couple of year have

be actively engage in humanitarian work in the East End. she have

publish a book on social question, and be a very good public

speaker. finally, she own property represent between three and four

thousand a year.'



'the picture have become more attractive,' say Sidwell.



'you imagine a rather different person? if I persuade mother to invite

she down here presently, do you think you could be friendly with she?'



'I see no reason why I should not be.'



'but I must warn you. she have nothing to do with creed and dogma.'



he try to read her face. Sidwell's mind be a mystery to he.



'I shall make no inquiry about her religious view,' his sister

reply, in a dispassionate tone, which convey no certain meaning.



'then I feel sure you will like she, and equally sure that she will

like you.'



his parent have no distinct fault to find with this choice, though they

would both greatly have prefer a daughter-in-law whose genealogy

could be more freely speak of. Miss Renshaw be invite to Exeter, and

the first week of June see her arrival. Buckland have in no way

exaggerate her quality. she be a dark-eyed beauty, perfect from the

social point of view, a very interesting talker,--in short, no ordinary

woman. that Buckland should have fall in love with she, even after

Sylvia, be easily understand; it seem likely that she would make he

as good a wife as he could ever hope to win.



Sidwell be expect another letter from the north of England. the

silence which during those first month have be justifiable be now a

source of anxiety. but whether fear or hope predominate in her

expectancy, she still could not decide. she have say to herself that

her next reply should not be cowardly, yet she be as far as ever from

a courageous resolve.



mental harassment tell upon her health. Martin, watch she with

solicitude, declare that for her sake as much as for Fanny's they must

have a thorough holiday abroad.



urge by the approach departure, Sidwell overcome her reluctance to

write to Godwin before she have a letter to answer. it be do in a

mood of intolerable despondency, when life look barren before she,

and the desire of love all but triumph over every other

consideration. the letter write and post, she would gladly have

recover it--reserve, formal as it be. cowardly still; but then

Godwin have not write.



she keep a watch upon the postman, and again, when Godwin's reply be

deliver, escape detection.



hardly do she dare to open the envelope. her letter have perchance be

more significant than she suppose; and do not the mere fact of she

writing invite a lover's frankness?



but the reply be hardly more move than if it have come from a total

stranger. for a moment she feel relieve; in an hour's time she

suffer indescribable distress. Godwin write--so she convince herself

after repeat perusal--as if discharge a task; not a word suggest

tenderness. have the letter be unsolicite, she could have use it

like the former one; but it be the answer to an appeal. the phrase

she have use be still present in her mind. 'I be anxious . . . it be

more than half a year since you write . . . I have be expect . . .

anything that be of interest to you will interest I. . . .' how could

she imagine that this be reserve and formal? Shame fall upon she; she

lock herself from all companionship, and weep in rebellion against

the law of life.



a fortnight later, she write from Royat to Sylvia Moorhouse. it be a

long epistle, full of sunny description, breathe renew vigour of

body and mind. the last paragraph run thus:



'yesterday be my birthday; I be twenty-eight. at this age, it be

wisdom in a woman to remind herself that youth be over. I don't regret

it; let it go with all its folly! but I be sorry that I have no

serious work in life; it be not cheerful to look forward to perhaps

another eight-and-twenty year of elegant leisure--that be to say, of

wearisome idleness. what can I do? try and think of some task for I,

something that will last a lifetime.'









Part VII







CHAPTER I





at the close of a sultry day in September, when factory fume hang low

over the town of St. Helen's, and twilight thicken luridly, and the

air taste of sulphur, and the noise of the street, muffle in their

joint effect, have individually an ominous distinctness, Godwin Peak

walk with languid step to his lodging and the meal that there

await he. his vitality be at low ebb. the routine of his life

disgust he; the hope of release be a mockery. what be to be the

limit of this effort to redeem his character? how many year before the

past could be forget, and his claim to the style of honourable be

deem secure? rubbish! it be an idea out of old-fashioned romance.

what he be, he be, and no extent of dog duration at St. Helen's or

elsewhere, could affect his personality. what, practically, be to be

the end? if Sidwell have no money of her own, and no expectation from

her father, how could she ever become his wife? woman like this kind

of thing, this indefinite engagement to marry when something should

happen, which in all likelihood never would happen--this fantastic

mutual fidelity with only the airy reward. especially woman of a

certain age.



a heavy cart seem to be rumble in the next street. no, it be

thunder. if only a good rattle storm would sweep the bituminous

atmosphere, and allow a breath of pure air before midnight.



she could not be far from thirty. of course there prevail much

conventional nonsense about woman's age; there be plenty of woman who

reckon four decade, and yet retain all the essential charm of their

sex. and as a man get old, as he begin to persuade himself that at

forty one have scarce reach the prime of life----



the storm be come on in earnest. big drop begin to fall. he

quicken his pace, reach home, and ring the bell for a light.



his landlady come in with the announcement that a gentleman have call

to see he, about an hour ago; he would come again at seven o'clock.



'what name?'



none have be give. a youngish gentleman, speak like a Londoner.



it might be Earwaker, but that be not likely. Godwin sit down to his

plain meal, and after it light a pipe. thunder be still roll, but now

in the distance. he wait impatiently for seven o'clock.



to the minute, sound a knock at the house-door. a little delay, and

there appear Christian Moxey.



Godwin be surprised and embarrassed. his visitor have a very grave

face, and be thin, paler, than three year ago; he appear to

hesitate, but at length offer his hand.



'I get your address from Earwaker. I be oblige to see you--on

business.'



'business?'



'may I take my coat off? we shall have to talk.'



they sit down, and Godwin, unable to strike the note of friendship lest

he should be meet with repulse, break silence by regret that Moxey

should have have to make a second call.



'oh, that's nothing! I go and have dinner.--Peak, my sister be dead.'



their eye meet; something of the old kindness rise to either face.



'that must be a heavy blow to you,' murmur Godwin, possess with a

strange anticipation which he would not allow to take clear form.



'it be. she be ill for three month.' whilst stay in the country

last June she meet with an accident. she go for a long walk alone one

day, and in a steep lane she come up with a carter who be try to

make a wretched horse drag a load beyond its strength. the fellow be

perhaps half drunk; he stand there beat the horse unmercifully.

Marcella couldn't endure that kind of thing--impossible for she to pass

on and say nothing. she interfere, and try to persuade the man to

lighten his cart. he be insolent, attack the horse more furiously

than ever, and kick it so violently in the stomach that it fall. even

then he wouldn't stop his brutality. Marcella try to get between he

and the animal--just as it lash out with its heel. the poor girl be

so badly injure that she lie by the roadside until another carter take

she up and bring she back to the village. three month of accurse

suffering, and then happily come the end.'



a far, faint echoing of thunder fill the silence of their voice.

heavy rain splash upon the pavement.



'she say to I just before her death,' resume Christian, '"I have ill

luck when I try to do a kindness--but perhaps there be one more

chance." I don't know what she mean till afterwards. Peak, she have

leave nearly all her money to you.'



Godwin know it before the word be speak. his heart leap, and only

the dread of be observe enable he to control his feature. when

his tongue be release he say harshly:



'of course I cann't accept it.'



the word be utter independently of his will. he have no such

thought, and the sound of his voice shake he with alarm.



'why cann't you?' return Christian.



'I have no right--it belong to you, or to some other relative--it

would be'----



his stammering break off. flush and chill run through he; he could

not raise his eye from the ground.



'it belong to no one but you,' say Moxey, with cold persistence. 'she

last wish be to do you a kindness, and I, at all event, shall never

consent to frustrate her intention. the legacy represent something

more than eight hundred a year, as the investment now stand. this will

make you independent--of everything and everybody.' he look meaningly

at the listener. 'her own life be not a very happy one; she do what

she could to save yours from a like doom.'



Godwin at last look up.



'do she speak of I during her illness?'



'she ask I once, soon after the accident, what have become of you. as

I know from Earwaker, I be able to tell she.'



a long silence follow. Christian's voice be soft when he resume.



'you never know she. she be the one woman in ten thousand--at once

strong and gentle; a fine intellect, and a heart of rare tenderness.

but because she have not the kind of face that'----



he check himself.



'to the end her mind keep its clearness and courage. one day she

remind I of Heine--how we have talk of that "conversion" on the

mattress-grave, and have pity the noble intellect subdue by disease.

"I shalln't live long enough," she say, "to incur that danger. what I

have think ever since I could study, I think now, and shall to the

last moment." I bury she without form of any kind, in the cemetery

at Kingsmill. that be what she wish. I should have despise myself

if I have lack that courage.'



'it be right,' mutter Godwin.



'and I wear no mourning, you see. all that kind of thing be ignoble. I

be rob of a priceless companionship, but I don't care to go about

invite people's pity. if only I could forget those month of

suffering! some day I shall, perhaps, and think of she only as she

live.'



'be you alone with she all the time?'



'no. our cousin Janet be often with we.' Christian speak with avert

face. 'you don't know, of course, that she have go in for medical

work--practise at Kingsmill. the accident be at a village call

Lowton, ten mile or more from Kingsmill. Janet come over very often.'



Godwin muse on this development of the girl whom he remember so

well. he could not direct his thought; a languor have creep over he.



'do you recollect, Peak,' say Christian, presently, 'the talk we have

in the field by Twybridge, when we first meet?'



the old friendliness be reappear in his manner, he be yield to

the impulse to be communicative, confidential, which have always

characterise he.



'I remember,' Godwin murmur.



'if only my word then have have any weight with you! and if only I have

act upon my own advice! just for those few week I be sane; I

understand something of life; I see my true way before I. you and I

have both go after ruinous ideal, instead of take the solid good

hold out to we. of course, I know your story in outline. I don't ask

you to talk about it. you be independent now, and I hope you can use

your freedom.--Well, and I too be free.'



the last word be in a low tone. Godwin glance at the speaker,

whose sadness be not banish, but illumine with a ray of calm hope.



'have you ever think of I and my infatuation?' Christian ask.



'yes.'



'I have outlive that mawkish folly. I use to drink too much; the two

thing go well together. it would shame I to tell you all about it.

but, happily, I have be able to go back about thirteen year--recover

my old sane self--and with it what I then throw away.'



'I understand.'



'do you? Marcella know of it, just before her death, and it make she

glad. but the waste of year, the good part of a lifetime! it's

incredible to I as I look back. Janet call on we one day in London.

Heaven be thank that she be forgive enough to do so! what would

have become of I now?'



'how be you go to live, then?' Godwin ask, absently.



'how? my income be sufficient'----



'no, no; I mean, where and how will you live in your married life?'



'that's still uncertain. Janet mustn't go on with professional work. in

any case, I don't think she could for long; her strength ben't equal to

it. but I shouldn't wonder if we settle in Kingsmill. to you it would

seem intolerable? but why should we live in London? at Kingsmill Janet

have a large circle of friend; in London we know scarcely half-a-dozen

people--of the kind it would give we any pleasure to live with. we

shall have no lack of intellectual society; Janet know some of the

Whitelaw professor. the atmosphere of Kingsmill ben't illiberal, you

know; we shalln't be fight shy of because we object to pass sunday in a

state of coma. but the year that I have lose! the irrecoverable year!'



'there's nothing so idle as regret the past,' say Godwin, with

some impatience. 'why groan over what couldn't be otherwise? the

probability be, Janet and you be far well suit to each other now

than you ever would have be if you have marry long ago.'



'you think that?' exclaim the other, eagerly. 'I have try to see it

in that light. if I don't feel so despicable!'



'she, I take it, don't think you so,' Godwin mutter.



'but how can she understand? I have try to tell she everything, but

she refuse to listen. perhaps Marcella tell she all she care to know.'



'no doubt.'



each brood for a while over his own affair, then Christian revert

to the subject which concern they both.



'let we speak frankly. you will take this gift of Marcella's as it be

mean?'



how _be_ it mean? critic and analyst as ever, Godwin could not be

content to see in it the simple benefaction of a woman who die love

he. be it not rather the last subtle device of jealousy? Marcella

know that the legacy would be a temptation he could scarcely

resist--and know at the same time that, if he accept it, he

practically renounce his hope of marry Sidwell Warricombe.

Doubtless she have learn as much as she need to know of Sidwell's

position. refuse this bequest, he be as far as ever from the

possibility of ask Sidwell to marry he. profit by it, he stand

for ever indebted to Marcella, must need be grateful to she, and some

day, assuredly, would reveal the truth to whatever woman become his

wife. conflict of reasoning and emotion make it difficult to answer

Moxey's question.



'I must take time to think of it,' he say, at length.



'well, I suppose that be right. but--well, I know so little of your

circumstances'----



'be that strictly true?' Peak ask.



'yes. I have only the vague idea of what you have be do since

you leave we. of course I have try to find out.'



Godwin smile, rather gloomily.



'we willn't talk of it. I suppose you stay in St. Helen's for the night?'



'there's a train at 10.20. I have well go by it.'



'then let we forget everything but your own cheerful outlook. at ten,

I'll walk with you to the station.'



reluctantly at first, but before long with a quiet abandonment to the

joy that would not be suppress, Christian talk of his future wife.

in Janet he find every perfection. her mind be something more than

the companion of his own. already she have begin to inspire he with a

hopeful activity, and to foster the element of true manliness which he

be conscious of possess, though they have never yet have free play.

with a sense of luxurious safety, he submit to her influence,

know none the less that it be in his power to complete she

imperfect life. studiously he avoid the word 'ideal'; from such

vaporous illusion he have turn to the world's actuality; his

language deal with concrete, with homely satisfaction, with

prospect near enough to be soberly examine.



a hurry to catch the train facilitated parting. Godwin promise to

write in a few day.



he take a roundabout way back to his lodging. the rain be over, the

sky have become placid. he be conscious of an effect from Christian's

conversation which half counteract the mood he would otherwise have

indulged,--the joy of liberty and of an outlook wholly new. sidwell

might perchance be to he all that Janet be to Christian. be it not

the luring of 'ideal' that prompt he to turn away from his long

hope?



there must be no more untruthfulness. sidwell must have all the fact

lay before she, and make her choice.



without a clear understanding of what he be go to write, he sit

down at eleven o'clock, and begin, 'dear Miss Warricombe'. why not

'Dear Sidwell'? he take another sheet of paper.



'dear Sidwell,--To-night I can remember only your last word to I when

we part. I cannot address you coldly, as though half a stranger. thus

long I have keep silence about everything but the outward event of my

life; now, in tell you of something that have happen, I must speak

as I think.



'early this evening I be surprise by a visit from Christian Moxey--a

name you know. he come to tell I that his sister (she of whom I once

speak to you) be dead, and have bequeath to I a large sum of money.

he say that it represent an income of eight hundred pound.



'I know nothing of Miss Moxey's illness, and the news of she will come

to I as a surprise. in word or deed, I never seek more than her

simple friendship--and even _that_ I believe myself to have forfeit.



'if I be to refuse this money, it would be in consequence of a

scruple which I do not in truth respect. Christian Moxey tell I that

his sister's desire be to enable I to live the life of a free man;

and if I have any duty at all in the matter, surely it do not

constrain I to defeat her kindness. no condition whatever be attach.

the gift release I from the necessity of lead a hopeless

existence--leave I at liberty to direct my life how I will.



'I wish, then, to put aside all thought of how this opportunity come

to I, and to ask you if you be willing to be my wife.



'though I have never write a word of love, my love be unchanged. the

passionate hope of three year ago still rule my life. be _your_ love

strong enough to enable you to disregard all hindrance? I cannot of

course know whether, in your sight, dishonour still cling to I, or

whether you understand I well enough to have forgive and forget

those hateful thing in the past. be it yet too soon? do you wish I

still to wait, still to prove myself? be your interest in the free man

less than in the slave? for my life have be one of slavery and

exile--exile, if you know what I mean by it, from the day of my birth.



'Dearest, grant I this great happiness! we can live where we will. I

be not rich enough to promise all the comfort and refinement to which

you be accustom, but we should be safe from sordid anxiety. we can

travel; we can make a home in any european city. it would be idle to

speak of the project and ambition that fill my mind--but surely I may

do something worth do, win some position among intellectual man of

which you would not be ashamed. you yourself urge I to hope that.

with you at my side--Sidwell grant I this chance, that I may know the

joy of satisfied love! I be past the age which be mislead by vain fancy.

I have suffer unspeakably, long for the calm strength, the pure,

steady purpose which would result to I from a happy marriage. there be

no fatal divergence between our mind; do you not tell I that? you

say that if I have be truthful from the first, you might have love

I with no misgiving. forget the madness into which I be betray.

there be no soil upon my spirit. I offer you love as noble as any man

be capable of. think--think well--before reply to I; let your true

self prevail. you _do_ love I, dearest.----



your ever, Godwin Peak.'



at first he write slowly, as though engage on a literary composition,

with erasion, insertion. fact once state, he allow himself to

forget how Sidwell would most likely view they, and thereafter his pen

hastened: fervour inspire the last paragraph. Sidwell's image have

become present to he, and exercise all--or nearly all--its old

influence.



the letter must be copy, because of that laboured beginning. copy

one's own word be at all time a disenchant drudgery, and when the

end be reach Godwin sign his name with hasty contempt. what answer

could he expect to such an appeal? how vast an improbability that

Sidwell would consent to profit by the gift of Marcella Moxey!



yet how otherwise could he write? with what show of sincerity could he

_offer_ to refuse the bequest? Nay, in that case he must not offer to

do so, but simply state the fact that his refusal be beyond recall.

logically, he have choose the only course open to him,--for to refuse

independence be impossible.



a wheezy clock in his landlady's kitchen be strike two. for very

fear of have to revise his letter in the morning, he put it into its

envelope, and go out to the near pillar-post.



that be do. whether Sidwell answer with 'yes' or with 'no', he be

a free man.



on the morrow he go to his work as usual, and on the day after that.

the third morning might bring a reply--but do not. on the evening of

the fifth day, when he come home, there lie the expect letter. he

feel it; it be light and thin. that hideous choking of suspense--well,

it run thus:



'I cannot. it be not that I be trouble by your accept the legacy.

you have every right to do so, and I know that your life will justify

the hope of she who thus befriend you. but I be too weak to take

this step. to ask you to wait yet long, would only be a fresh

cowardice. you cannot know how it shame I to write this. in my very

heart I believe I love you, but what be such love worth? you must

despise I, and you will forget I. I live in a little world; in the

great world where your place be, you will win a love very different.



S. W.'



Godwin laugh aloud as the paper drop from his hand.



well, she be not the heroine of a romance. have he expect she to

leave home and kindre--the 'little world' so infinitely dear to

she--and go forth with a man deeply dishonour? very young girl have

be know to do such a thing; but a thoughtful mature woman----!

Present, his passion have dominate she: and perhaps her nerve only.

but she have have time to recover from that weakness.



a woman, like most woman of cool blood, temperate fancy. a domestic

woman; the ornament of a typical English home.



most likely it be true that the matter of the legacy do not trouble

she. in any case she would not have consent to marry he, and

_therefore_ she know no jealousy. her love! why, truly, what be it

worth?



(much, much! of no less than infinite value. he know it, but this be

not the moment for such a truth.)



a cup of tea to steady the nerve. then thought, planning,

world-building.



he be awake all night, and Sidwell's letter lie within reach.--Did

_she_ sleep calmly? have she never stretch out her hand for _his_

letter, when all be silent? there be man who would not take such a

refusal. a scheme to meet she once more--the appeal of passion, face to

face, heart to heart--the mean of escape ready--and then the 'great

world'----



but neither be he cast in heroic mould. he have not the

self-confidence, he have not the hot, youthful blood. a critic of life,

an analyst of mood and motive; not the man who dare and act. the

only important resolve he have ever carry through be a scheme of

ignoble trickery--to end in frustration.



'the great world'. it be a phrase that have be in his own mind once

or twice since Moxey's visit. to point he thither be doubtless the

one service Sidwell could render he. and in a day or two, that phrase

be all that remain to he of her letter.



on a Sunday afternoon at the end of October, Godwin once more climb

the familiar stair at Staple Inn, and be welcome by his friend

Earwaker. the visit be by appointment. Earwaker know all about the

legacy; that it be accept; and that Peak have only a few day to

spend in London, on his way to the continent.



'you be regenerate,' be his remark as Godwin enter.



'do I look it? just what I feel. I have shake off a good (or a bad)

ten year.'



the speaker's face, at all event in this moment, be no long that of

a man at hungry issue with the world. he speak cheerily.



'it ben't often that fortune do a man such a kind turn. one often

hear it say: if only I could begin life again with all the experience

I have gain! that be what I _can_ do. I can break utterly with the

past, and I have learn how to live in the future.'



'break utterly with the past?'



'in the practical sense. and even morally to a great extent.'



Earwaker push a box of cigar across the table. Godwin accept the

offer, and begin to smoke. during these moment of silence, the man of

letter have be turn over a weekly paper, as if in search of some

paragraph; a smile announce his discovery.



'here be something that will interest you--possibly you have see it.'



he begin to read aloud:



'"on the 23rd inst. be celebrate at St. Bragg's, Torquay, the

marriage of the Rev. Bruno Leathwaite Chilvers, late Rector of St

Margaret's, Exeter, and the Hon. Bertha Harriet Cecilia Jute, eldest

daughter of the late Baron Jute. the ceremony be conduct by the Hon.

and Rev. J. C. Jute, uncle of the bride, assist by the Rev. F.

Miller, the Very Rev. Dean Pinnock, the Rev. H. S. Crook, and the Rev.

William Tomkinson. the bride be give away by Lord Jute. Mr Horatio

Dukinfield be good man. the bridal dress be of white brocade, drape

with Brussels lace, the corsage be trim with lace and adorn

with orange blossom. the tulle veil, fasten with three diamond

star, the gift of"----Well, shall I go on?'



'the triumph of Chilvers!' murmur Godwin. 'I wonder whether the Hon.

Bertha be past her fortieth year?'



'a bloom beauty, I dare say. but Lord! how many people it take to

marry a man like chilver! how sacred the union must be!--Pray take a

paragraph more: "the four bridesmaid--Miss--etc., etc.--wore cream

crepon dress trim with turquoise blue velvet, and hat to match.

the bridegroom's present to they be diamond and ruby brooch."'



'chilver _in excelsis_!--So he be no long at Exeter; have no living,

it seem. what do he aim at next, I wonder?'



Earwaker cast meaning glance at his friend.



'I understand you,' say Godwin, at length. 'you mean that this merely

illustrate my own ambition. well, you be right, I confess my

shame--and there's an end of it.'



he puff at his cigar, resume presently:



'but it would be untrue if I say that I regret anything.

constitute as I be, there be no other way of learn my real need

and capability. much in the past be hateful to I, but it all have its

use. there be man--why, take your own case. you look back on life, no

doubt, with calm and satisfaction.'



'rather, with resignation.'



Godwin let his cigar fall, and laugh bitterly.



'your resignation have keep pace with life. I be always a rebel. my

good quality--I mean what I say--have always wreck I. now that I

haven't to fight with circumstance, they may possibly be make

subservient to my happiness.'



'but what form be your happiness to take?'



'well, I be leave England. on the continent I shall make no fix

abode, but live in the place where cosmopolitan people be to be meet.

I shall make friend; with money at command, one may hope to succeed in

that. hotel, boarding-house, and so on, offer the opportunity. it

sound oddly like the project of a swindler, don't it? there's the

curse I cann't escape from! though my desire be as pure as those of

any man live, I be compel to express myself as if I be about to

do something base and underhand. simply because I have never have a

social place. I be an individual merely; I belong to no class, town,

family, club'----'Cosmopolitan people,' muse Earwaker. 'your ideal be

transform.'



'as you know. experience only could bring that about. I seek now only

the free, intellectual people--man who have do with the old

conception--woman who'----



his voice grow husky, and he do not complete the sentence. 'I shall

find they in Paris, Rome.--Earwaker, think of my be able to speak

like this! no day-dream, but actual sober plan, their execution to

begin in a day or two. Paris, Rome! and a month ago I be a hopeless

slave in a vile manufacturing town.--I wish it be possible for I to

pray for the soul of that poor dead woman. I don't speak to you of she;

but do you imagine I be brutally forgetful of she to whom I owe all

this?'



'I do you justice,' return the other, quietly.



'I believe you can and do.'



'how grand it be to go forth as I be now go!' Godwin resume, after

a long pause. 'nothing to hide, no sham, no pretence. let who will

inquire about I. I be an independent Englishman, with so and so much a

year. in England I have one friend only--that be you. the result, you

see, of all these year savage strive to knit myself into the social

fabric.'



'well, you will invite I some day to your villa at Sorrento,' say

Earwaker, encouragingly.



'that I shall!' Godwin's eye flash with imaginative delight. 'and

before very long. never to a home in England!'



'by-the-bye, a request. I have never have your portrait. sit before you

leave London.'



'no. I'll send you one from Paris--it will be well do.'



'but I be serious. you promise?'



'you shall have the thing in less than a fortnight.'



the promise be keep. Earwaker receive an admirable photograph, which

he insert in his album with a curious sense of satisfaction. a face

by which every intelligent eye must be arrest; which no two observer

would interpret in the same way.



'his mate must be somewhere,' think the man of letter, 'but he will

never find she.'







CHAPTER II





in his acceptance of Sidwell's reply, Peak do not care to ask himself

whether the delay of its arrival have any meaning one way or another.

Decency would hardly have permit she to answer such a letter by

return of post; of course she wait a day or so.



but the interval mean more than this.



Sylvia Moorhouse be stay with her friend. the death of Mrs

Moorhouse, and the marriage of the mathematical brother, have leave

Sylvia homeless, though not in any distressing sense; her inclination

be to wander for a year or two, and she remain in England only until

the needful arrangement could be conclude.



'you have well come with I,' she say to Sidwell, as they walk

together on the lawn after luncheon.



the other shake her head.



'indeed, you have better.--What be you do here? what be you go

to make of your life?'



'I don't know.'



'precisely. yet one ought to live on some kind of plan. I think it be

time you get away from Exeter; it seem to I you be find its

atmosphere _morbific_.'



Sidwell laugh at the allusion.



'you know,' she say, 'that the reverend gentleman be shortly to be

married?'



'oh yes, I have hear all about it. but be he forsake the Church?'



'retire only for a time, they say.'



'forgive the question, Sidwell--do he honour you with a proposal?'



'indeed, no!'



'some one tell I it be imminent, not long ago.'



'quite a mistake,' Sidwell answer, with her grave smile. 'Mr Chilvers

have a singular manner with woman in general. it be mean, perhaps, for

subtle flattery; he may have think it the most suitable return for

the female worship he be accustom to receive.'



Mr. Warricombe be come towards they. he bring a new subject of

conversation, and as they talk the trio draw near to the gate which

lead into the road. the afternoon postman be just enter; Mr

Warricombe take from he two letter.



'one for you, Sylvia, and--one for you, Sidwell.'



a slight change in his voice cause Sidwell to look at her father as he

hand she the letter. in the same moment she recognise the writing of

the address. it be Godwin Peak's, and undoubtedly her father know it.



with a momentary hesitation Mr. Warricombe continue his talk from the

point at which he have break off, but he avoid his daughter's look,

and Sidwell be too well aware of an uneasiness which have fall upon

he. in a few minute he bring the chat to an end, and walk away

towards the house.



Sidwell hold her letter tightly. conversation be no long possible

for she; she have a painful throbbing of the heart, and feel that she

face must be play traitor. fortunately, Sylvia find it necessary to

write a reply to the missive she have receive, and her companion be

soon at liberty to seek solitude.



for more than an hour she remain alone. however unemotional the

content of the letter, its arrival would have perturb she seriously,

as in the two previous instance; what she find on open the

envelope throw she into so extreme an agitation that it be long before

she could subdue the anguish of disorder in all her sense. she have

try to believe that Godwin Peak be henceforth powerless to affect

she in this way, write what he would. the romance of her life be over;

time have bring the solution of difficulty to which she look

forward; she recognise the inevitable, as doubtless do Godwin also.

but all this be self-deception. the passionate letter delight as

much as it torture she; in secret her heart have desire this, though

reason suppress and deny the hope. no long need she remember with

pang of shame the last letter she have write, and the cold response;

once again thing be as they should be--the lover plead before

she--she with the control of his fate. the injury to her pride be

heal, and in the thought that perforce she must answer with a final

'no', she find at first more of solace than of distress.



Subsidence of physical suffering allow she to forget this emotion, in

its nature unavowable. she could think of the news Godwin send, could

torment herself with interpretation of Marcella Moxey's behaviour, and

view in detail the circumstance which enable Godwin to urge a formal

suit. among her various thought there recur frequently a regret

that this letter have not reach she, like the other two, unobserved.

her father have now learn that she be in correspondence with the

disgrace man; to keep silence would be to cause he grave trouble; yet

how much well if fortune have only once more favour she, so that the

story might have remain her secret, from begin to end.



for be not this the end?----



at the usual time she go to the drawing-room, and somehow succeed

in conversing as though nothing have disturb she. Mr Warricombe be

not see till dinner. when he come forth, Sidwell notice his air of

preoccupation, and that he avoid address she. the evening ask

too much of her self-command; she again withdraw, and only come back

when the household be ready for retire. in bid her father

goodnight, she force herself to meet his gaze; he look at she with

troubled inquiry, and she feel her cheek redden.



'do you want to get rid of I?' ask Sylvia, with wonte frankness,

when her friend draw near.



'no. let we go to the glass-house.'



up there on the roof Sidwell often find a retreat when her thought

be troublesome. fitfully, she have resume her water-colour drawing,

but as a rule her withdrawal to the glass-house be for read or

reverie. carry a small lamp, she lead the way before Sylvia, and they

sit down in the chair which on one occasion have be occupy by

Buckland Warricombe and Peak.



the wind, rarely silent in this part of Devon, blow boisterously from

the south-west. a far-off whistle, that of a train speed up the

valley on its way from Plymouth, heighten the sense of retirement and

quietude always to be enjoy at night here under the star.



'have you be think over my suggestion?' ask Sylvia, when there

have be silence awhile.



'no,' be the murmured reply.



'something have happen, I think.'



'yes. I should like to tell you, Sylvia, but'----



'But'----



'I _must_ tell you! I cann't keep it in my own mind, and you be the

only one'----



Sylvia be surprise at the agitation which suddenly reveal itself in

her companion's look and voice. she become serious, her eye

brighten with intellectual curiosity. feminine expression of

sympathy be not to be expect from Miss Moorhouse; far more

reassuring to Sidwell be the kind attentiveness with which her friend

bend forward.



'that letter father hand I to-day be from Mr. Peak.'



'you hear from he?'



'this be the third time--since he go away. at our last meeting'--her

voice dropped--'I pledge my faith to him.--Not absolutely. the future

be too uncertain'----



the gleam in Sylvia's eye grow more vivid. she be profoundly

interested, and do not speak when Sidwell's voice fail.



'you never suspect this?' ask the latter, in a few moment.



'not exactly that. what I do suspect be that Mr. Peak's departure

result from--your rejection of he.'



'there be more to be tell,' pursue Sidwell, in tremulous accent. 'you

must know it all--because I need your help. no one here have learn what

take place between we. Mr. Peak do not go away on that account.

but--you remember be puzzle to explain his orthodoxy in religion?'



she pause. Sylvia give a nod, signify much.



'he never believe as he profess,' go on Sidwell, hurriedly. 'you

be justify in doubt he. he conceal the truth--pretend to

champion the old faiths'----



for an instant she break off, then hasten through a description of

the circumstance which have bring about Peak's discovery. Sylvia

could not restrain a smile, but it be soften by the sincere

kindliness of her feeling.



'and it be after this,' she inquire impartially, 'that the decisive

conversation between you take place?'



'no; just before Buckland's announcement. we meet again, after

that.--Does it seem incredible to you that I should have let the second

meeting end as it do?'



'I think I understand. yes, I know you well enough to follow it. I can

even guess at the defence he be able to urge.'



'you can?' ask Sidwell, eagerly. 'you see a possibility of his

defend himself?'



'I should conjecture that it amount to the old proverb, "all's fair

in love and war". and, put aside a few moral prejudice, one can

easily enough absolve him.--The fact be, I have long ago surmise that

his motive in take to such a career have more reference to this world

than the next. you know, I have several long talk with he; I tell you

how he interest I. now I can piece together my conclusion.'



'still,' urge Sidwell, 'you must inevitably regard he as ignoble--as

guilty of base deceit. I must hide nothing from you, having tell so

much. have you hear from anyone about his early life?'



'your mother tell I some old story.'



Sidwell make an impatient gesture. in word of force and ardour, such

as never before have be at her command, she relate all she know of

Godwin's history prior to his settling at Exeter, and depict the

mood, the impulse, which, by his own confession, have lead to that

strange enterprise. only by long exercise of an impassioned imagination

could she thus thoroughly have identify herself with a life so remote

from her own. Peak's pleading for himself be scarcely more impressive.

in listen, Sylvia understand how completely Sidwell have cast off the

belief for which her ordinary conversation seem still to betray a

tenderness.



'I know,' the speaker conclude, 'that he cannot in that first hour

have come to regard I with a feeling strong enough to determine what

he then undertake. it be not I as an individual, but all of we here,

and the world we represent. afterwards, he persuade himself that he

have feel love for I from the beginning. and I, I try to believe

it--because I wish it true; for his sake, and for my own. however it

be, I could not harden my heart against he. a thousand consideration

forbid I to allow he further hope; but I refuse to listen--no, I

_could_ not listen. I say I would remain true to he. he go away to

take up his old pursuit, and if possible to make a position for

himself. it be to be our secret. and in spite of everything. I hope

for the future.'



Silence follow, and Sidwell seem to lose herself in distressful

thought.



'and now,' ask her friend, 'what have come to pass?'



'do you know that Miss Moxey be dead?'



'I haven't hear of it.'



'she be dead, and have leave Mr. Peak a fortune.--His letter of today

tell I this. and at the same time he claim my promise.'



their eye meet. Sylvia still have the air of meditate a most

interesting problem. impossible to decide from her countenance how she

regard Sidwell's position.



'but why in the world,' she ask, 'should Marcella Moxey have leave she

money to Mr. Peak?'



'they be friend,' be the quick reply. 'she know all that have

befall he, and wish to smooth his path.'



Sylvia put several more question, and to all of they Sidwell reply

with a peculiar decision, as though bent on make it clear that there

be nothing remarkable in this fact of the bequest. the motive which

impel she be obscure even to her own mind, for ever since receive

the letter she have suffer harass doubt where now she affect to

have none. 'she know, then,' be Sylvia's last inquiry, 'of the

relation between you and Mr. Peak?'



'I be not sure--but I think so. yes, I think she must have know.'



'from Mr. Peak himself, then?'



Sidwell be agitate.



'yes--I think so. but what do that matter?'



the other allow her face to betray perplexity.



'so much for the past,' she say at length. 'and now?'----



'I have not the courage to do what I wish.'



there be a long silence.



'about your wish,' ask Sylvia at length, 'you be not at all

doubtful?'



'not for one moment.--Whether I err in my judgment of he could be

prove only by time; but I know that if I be free, if I stand

alone'----



she break off and sigh. 'it would mean, I suppose,' say the other,

'a rupture with your family?'



'Father would not abandon I, but I should darken the close of his

life. Buckland would utterly cast I off; mother would wish to do

so.--You see, I cannot think and act simply as a woman, as a human

be. I be bind to a certain sphere of life. the fact that I have

outgrow it, count for nothing. I cannot free myself without injury to

people whom I love. to act as I wish would be to outrage every rule and

prejudice of the society to which I belong. you yourself--you know how

you would regard I.'



Sylvia reply deliberately.



'I be see you in a new light, Sidwell. it take a little time to

reconstruct my conception of you.'



'you think bad of I than you do.'



'neither well nor bad, but differently. there have be too much

reserve between we. after so long a friendship, I ought to have know

you more thoroughly. to tell the truth, I have think now and then of

you and Mr. Peak; that be inevitable. but I go astray; it seem to

I the most unlikely thing that you should regard he with more than a

doubtful interest. I know, of course, that he have make you his ideal,

and I feel sorry for he.'



'I seem to you unworthy?'----



'too placid, too calmly prudent.--In plain word, Sidwell, I do think

well of you.'



Sidwell smile.



'only to know I henceforth as the woman who do not dare to act upon

her good impulse.'



'as for "best"--I cann't say. I don't glorify passion, as you know; and

on the other hand I have little sympathy with the people who be always

cry out for self-sacrifice. I don't know whether it would be "good"

to throw over your family, or to direct yourself solely with regard to

their comfort.'



Sidwell break in.



'yes, that be the true phrase--"their comfort". no high word should

be use. that be the ideal of the life to which I have be bring up.

Comfort, respectability.--And have _he_ no right? if I sacrifice myself

to father and mother, do I not sacrifice _he_ as well? he have

forfeit all claim to consideration--that be what people say. with my

whole soul, I deny it! if he sin against anyone, it be against I,

and the sin end as soon as I understand he. that episode in his life

be blot out; by what law must it condemn to imperfection the whole

of his life and of my own? yet because people will not, cannot, look at

a thing in a spirit of justice, I must wrong myself and he.'



'let we think of it more quietly,' say Sylvia, in her clear,

dispassionate tone. 'you speak as though a decision must be take at

once. where be the necessity for that? Mr. Peak be now independent.

suppose a year or two be allow to pass, may not thing look

differently?'



'a year or two!' exclaim Sidwell, with impatience. 'nothing will be

change. what I have to contend against be unchangeable. if I guide

myself by such a hope as that, the only reasonable thing would be for

I to write to Mr. Peak, and ask he to wait until my father and mother

be dead.'



'very well. on that point we be at rest, then. the step must be take

at once, or never.'



the wind roar, and for some minute no other sound be audible. by

this [Updater's note: the word "time" miss?], all the inmate of the

house save the two friend be in bed, and most likely sleep.



'you must think it strange,' say Sidwell, 'that I have choose to tell

you all this, just when the confession be most humiliating to I. I

want to feel the humiliation, as one only can when another be witness

of it. I wish to leave myself no excuse for the future.'



'I'm not sure that I quite understand you. you have make up your mind

to break with he?'



'because I be a coward.'



'if my feeling in any matter be as strong as that, I should allow it

to guide I.'



'because your will be strong. you, Sylvia, would never (in my

position) have grant he that second interview. you would have know

that all be at an end, and have act upon the knowledge. I know it,

but yield to temptation--at _his_ expense. I could not let he leave

I, though that would have be kind. I hold he by a promise,

basely conscious that retreat be always open to I. and now I shall

have earn his contempt'----



her voice fail. Sylvia, affect by the outbreak of emotion in one

whom she have always know so strong in self-command, speak with a

deep earnestness.



'dear, do you wish I to help you against what you call your cowardice?

I cannot take it upon I to encourage you until your own will have

speak. the decision must come from yourself. choose what course you

may, I be still your friend. I have no idle prejudice, and no social

bond. you know how I wish you to come away with I; now I see only

more clearly how needful it be for you to breathe new air. yes, you

have outgrow these condition, just as your brother have, just as

Fanny will--indeed have. take to-night to think of it. if you can decide

to travel with I for a year, be frank with Mr. Peak, and ask he to

wait so long--till you have make up your mind. he cannot reasonably

find fault with you, for he know all you have to consider. willn't this

be good?'



Sidwell be long silent.



'I will go with you,' she say at last, in a low voice. 'I will ask he

to grant I perfect liberty for a year.'



when she come down next morning it be Sidwell's intention to seek a

private interview with her father, and make know her resolve to go

abroad with Sylvia; but Mr. Warricombe anticipate she.



'will you come to the library after breakfast, Sidwell?' he say, on

meet she in the hall.



she interpret his tone, and her heart misgave she. an hour later she

obey the summon. Martin greet she with a smile, but hardly try

to appear at ease.



'I be oblige to speak to you,' be his first word. 'the letter you

have yesterday be from Mr. Peak?'



'yes, father.'



'be he'--Mr. warricombe hesitated--'in these part again?'



'no; in Lancashire.'



'Sidwell, I claim no right whatever to control your correspondence; but

it be a shock to I to find that you be in communication with he.'



'he write,' Sidwell reply with difficulty, 'to let I know of a

change that have come upon his prospect. by the death of a friend, he

be make independent.'



'for his own sake, I be glad to hear that. but how could it concern

_you_, dear?'



she struggle to command herself.



'it be at my invitation that he write, father.'



Martin's face express grave concern.



'Sidwell! be this right?'



she be very pale, and keep her eye unmovingly direct just aside

from her father.



'what can it mean?' Mr. Warricombe pursue, with sad remonstrance.

'will you not take I into your confidence, Sidwell?'



'I cann't speak of it,' she reply, with sudden determination. 'least

of all with you, father.'



'Least of all?--I think we be very near to each other.'



'for that very reason, I cann't speak to you of this. I must be leave

free! I be go away with Sylvia, for a year, and for so long I _must_

be absolutely independent. Father, I entreat you not to'----



a sob check she. she turn away, and fight against the hysterical

tendency; but it be too strong to be control. her father

approach, beseech she to be more like herself. he hold she in his

arm, until tear have their free course, and a measure of calmness

return.



'I cann't speak to you about it,' she repeat, her face hide from

he. 'I must write you a long letter, when I have go. you shall know

everything in that way.'



'but, my dearest, I cann't let you leave we under these circumstance.

this be a terrible trial to I. you cannot possibly go until we

understand each other!'



'then I will write to you here--to-day or to-morrow.'



with this promise Martin be oblige to be content, Sidwell leave he,

and be not see, except by Sylvia, during the whole day.



nor do she appear at breakfast on the morning that follow. but when

this meal be over, Sylvia receive a message, summon she to the

retreat on the top of the house. here Sidwell sit in the light and

warmth, a glass door wide open to the west, the ray of a brilliant sun

soften by curtain which flutter lightly in the breeze from the sea.



'will you read this?' she say, hold out a sheet of notepaper on

which be a few line in her own handwriting.



it be a letter, beginning--'I cannot.'



Sylvia peruse it carefully, and stand in thought.



'after all?' be the word with which she break silence. they be

neither reproachful nor regretful, but express grave interest.



'in the night,' say Sidwell, 'I write to father, but I shall not give

he the letter. before it be finish, I know that I must write

_this_. there's no more to be say, dear. you will go abroad without

I--at all event for the present.'



'if that be your resolve,' answer the other, quietly, 'I shall keep

my word, and only do what I can to aid it.' she sit down shield her

eye from the sunlight with a japanese fan. 'after all, Sidwell,

there's much to be say for a purpose form on such a morning as this;

one cann't help distrust the midnight.'



Sidwell be lie back in a low chair, her eye turn to the woody

hill on the far side of the Exe.



'there's one thing I should like to say,' her friend pursue. 'it

strike I as curious that you be not at all affect, by what to I

would have be the one insuperable difficulty.'



'I know what you mean--the legacy.'



'yes. it still seem to you of no significance?'



'of very little,' Sidwell answer wearily, let her eyelid droop.



'then we willn't talk about it. from the high point of view, I believe

you be right; but--still let it rest.'



in the afternoon, Sidwell pen the following line which she enclose

in an envelope and place on the study table, when her father be

absent.



'the long letter which I promise you, dear father, be needless. I have

to-day send Mr. Peak a reply which close our correspondence. I be sure

he will not write again; if he be to do so, I should not answer.



'I have give up my intention of go away with Sylvia. later,

perhaps, I shall wish to join she somewhere on the continent, but by

that time you will be in no concern about I.'



to this Mr. Warricombe reply only with the joyous smile which greet

his daughter at their next meeting. Mrs. Warricombe remain in

ignorance of the ominous shadow which have pass over her house. at

present, she be greatly interested in the come marriage of the Rev.

Bruno Chilvers, whom she try _not_ to forgive for having disappoint

her secret hope.



Martin have finally drive into the background those uneasy

questioning, which at one time it seem likely that Godwin Peak would

rather accentuate than silence. with Sidwell, he could never again

touch on such topic. if he be still conscious of a postpone debate,

the adjournment be _sine die_. Martin rest in the faith that,

without effort of his own, the mystery of life and time would ere

long be reveal to he.







CHAPTER III





Earwaker spend Christmas with his relative at Kingsmill. his father

and mother both live; the latter very infirm, unable to leave the

house; the former a man of seventy, twist with rheumatism, his face

rugge as a countenance pick out by fancy on the trunk of a big old

oak, his hand scar and deform with labour. their old age be

restful. the son who have make himself a 'gentleman', and who in London

sit at the table of the high-bear, the wealthy, the famous, see to it

that they lack no comfort.



a bright, dry morning invite the old man and the young to go forth

together. they walk from the suburb countryward, and their

conversation be of the time when a struggle be be make to bear the

expense of those three year at Whitelaw--no bad investment, as it

prove. the father speak with a strong Midland accent, use word of

dialect by no mean disagreeable to the son's ear--for dialect be a

very different thing from the bestial jargon which on the lip of the

London vulgar pass for English. they be laugh over some half

grim reminiscence, when Earwaker become aware of two people who be

approach along the pavement, they also in merry talk. one of they he

know; it be Christian Moxey.



too much interested in his companion to gaze about he, Christian come

quite near before his eye fall on Earwaker. then he start with a

pleasant surprise, change instantly to something like embarrassment

when he observe the aged man. Earwaker be willing to smile and go by,

have the other consent; but a well impulse prevail in both. they

stop and strike hand together.



'my father,' say the man of letter, quite at his ease.



Christian be equal to the occasion; he shake hand heartily with the

battered toiler, then turn to the lady at his side.



'janet, you guess who this is.--My cousin, Earwaker, Miss Janet Moxey.'



Doubtless Janet be aware that her praise have suffer no diminution

when sing by Christian to his friend. her eye just fall, but in a

moment be ready with their frank, intelligent smile. Earwaker

experience a pang--ever so slight--suggest a revision of his

philosophy.



they talk genially, and part with good wish for the New Year.



two day later, on reach home, Earwaker find in his letter-box a

scrap of paper on which be scribble a few barely legible line.

'here I be!' he at length decipher. 'got into Tilbury at eleven this

morning. where the devil be you? write to Charing Cross Hotel.' no

signature, but none be need. Malkin's return from New Zealand have

be signal in advance.



that evening the erratic gentleman burst in like a whirlwind. he be

the picture of health, though as far as ever from endue the

comfortable flesh which accompany robustness in man of calm

temperament. after violent greeting, he sit down with abrupt gravity,

and begin to talk as if in continuance of a dialogue just interrupt.



'now, don't let we have any misunderstanding. you will please remember

that my journey to England be quite independent of what take place two

year and a half ago. it have _nothing whatever_ to do with those

circumstance.'



Earwaker smile.



'I tell you,' pursue the other, hotly, 'that I be here to see

_you_--and one or two other old friend; and to look after some

business matter. you will oblige I by give credit to my assertion!'



'don't get angry. I be convince of the truth of what you say.'



'very well! it's as likely as not that, on return to Auckland, I

shall marry Miss Maccabe--of whom I have write to you. I needn't

repeat the substance of my letter. I be not in love with she, you

understand, and I needn't say that my intercourse with that family have

be guide by extreme discretion. but she be a very sensible young

lady. my only regret be that I don't know her half-a-dozen year ago,

so that I could have direct her education. she might have be even

more interesting than she be. but--you be at leisure, I hope,

Earwaker?'



'for an hour or two.'



'oh, confound it! when a friend come back from the end of the

earth!--Yes, yes; I understand. you be a busy man; forgive my

hastiness. well now, I be go to say that I shall probably call upon

Mrs. Jacox.' he pause, and give the listener a stern look, forbid

misconstruction. 'yes, I shall probably go down to Wrotham. I wish to

put my relation with that family on a proper footing. our

correspondence have be very satisfactory, especially of late. the poor

woman lament more sincerely she--well, let we say, her folly of two

year and a half ago. she have outlive it; she regard I as a friend.

Bella and Lily seem to be get on very well indeed. that governess

of theirs--we willn't have any more mystery; it be I who undertake the

trifling expense. a really excellent teacher, I have every reason to

believe. I be tell that Bella promise to be a remarkable pianist, and

Lily be uncommonly strong in language. but my interest in they be

merely that of a friend; let it be understand.'



'precisely. you don't say whether the girl have be write to you?'



'no, no, no! not a line. I have exchange letter only with their

mother. anything else would have be indiscreet. I shall be glad to

see they, but my old scheme be thing of the past. there be not the

faint probability that Bella have retain any recollection of I at

all.'



'I daresay not,' assented Earwaker.



'you think so? very well; I have act wisely. Bella be still a child,

you know--compare with a man of my age. she be seventeen and a few

month; quite a child! Miss Maccabe be just one-and-twenty; the proper

age. when we be marry, I think I shall bring she to Europe for a

year or two. her education need that; she will be delighted to see the

old country.'



'have you her portrait?'



'oh no! thing haven't get so far as that. what a hasty fellow you be,

Earwaker! I tell you distinctly'----



he talk till after midnight, and at leave-taking apologise profusely

for waste his friend's valuable time.



Earwaker await with some apprehension the result of Malkin's visit to

Wrotham. but the report of what take place on that occasion be

surprisingly commonplace. week pass, and Malkin seldom show

himself at Staple Inn; when he do so, his talk be exclusively of Miss

Maccabe; all he could be get to say of the young lady at Wrotham be,

'nice girl; very nice girl. I hope they'll marry well.' two month

have go by, and already the journalist have hear by letter of his

friend's intention to return to New Zealand, when, on come home late

one night, he find Malkin sit on the step.



'Earwaker, I have something very serious to tell you. give I just a

quarter of an hour.'



what calamity do this tone portend? the eccentric man seat himself

with slow movement. see by a good light, his face be not gloomy, but

very grave.



'listen to I, old friend,' he begin, slide forward to the edge of

his chair. 'you remember I tell you that my relation with the Maccabe

family have be mark throughout with extreme discretion.'



'you impress that upon I.'



'good! I have never make love to Miss Maccabe, and I doubt whether she

have ever think of I as a possible husband.'



'well?'



'don't be impatient. I want you to grasp the fact. it be important,

because--I be go to marry Bella Jacox.'



'you don't say so?'



'why not?' cry Malkin, suddenly pass to a state of excitement.

'what objection can you make? I tell you that I be absolutely free to

choose'----



the journalist calm he, and thereupon have to hear a glowing account

of Bella's perfection. all the feeling that Malkin have suppress

during these two month rush forth in a flood of turbid eloquence.



'and now,' he conclude, 'you will come down with I to Wrotham. I

don't mean to-night; let we say the day after tomorrow, Sunday. you

remember our last joint visit! ha, ha!'



'Mrs. Jacox be reconcile?'



'my dear fellow, she rejoice! a wonderful nobility in that poor little

woman! she weep upon my shoulder! but you must see Bella! I shalln't take

she to New Zealand, at all event not just yet. we shall travel about

Europe, complete her education. don't you approve of that?'



on Sunday, the two travel down into Kent. this time they be

receive by Lily, now a pretty, pale, half-develop girl of fifteen.

in a few minute her sister enter. Bella be charming; nervousness

make her word few, and it could be see that she be naturally

thoughtful, earnest, prone to reverie; her beauty have still to ripen,

and give much promise for the year between twenty and thirty. last of

all appear Mrs. Jacox, who blush as she shake hand with Earwaker,

and for a time be ill at ease; but her vocative be not long

restrain, and when all sit down to the tea-table she chatter away

with astonishing vivacity. after tea the company be join by a lady

of middle age, who, for about two year, have act as governess to the

girl. Earwaker form his conclusion as to the 'trifle expense'

which her service represent; but it be probably a real interest in

her pupil which have induce a person of so much refinement to bear so

long with the proximity of Mrs. Jacox.



'a natural question occur to I,' remark Earwaker, as they be

return. 'who and what be Mr. Jacox?'



'ah! Bella be talk to I about he the other day. he must have be

distinctly an interesting man. Bella have a very clear recollection of

he, and she show I two or three photograph. engage in some kind

of commerce. I don't seek particular. but a remarkable man, one cann't

doubt.'



he resume presently.



'now don't suppose that this marriage entirely satisfy I. Bella have

be fairly well teach, but not, you see, under my supervision. I

ought to have be able to watch and direct her month by month. as it

be, I shall have to begin by assail her view on all manner of

thing. religion, for example. well, I have no religion, that's plain.

I might call myself this or that for the sake of seem respectable,

but it all come to the same thing. I don't mind Bella go to church

if she wish, but I must teach she that there's no merit whatever in

do so. it ben't an ideal marriage, but perhaps as good as this

imperfect world allow. if I have child, I can then put my

educational theory to the test.'



by way of novel experience, Earwaker, not long after this, convert

his study into a drawing-room, and invite the Jacox family to taste

his tea and cake. with Malkin's assistance, the risky enterprise be

make a great success. when Mrs. Jacox would allow she to be hear,

Bella talk intelligently, and show eager interest in the detail of

literary manufacture.



'o Mr. Earwaker!' cry her mother, when it be time to go. 'what a

delightful afternoon you have give we! we must think of you from now

as one of our very good friend. mustn't we, Lily?'



but trouble be yet in store. Malkin be strongly oppose to a

religious marriage; he wish the wedding to be at a registrar's

office, and have obtain Bella's consent to this, but Mrs. Jacox would

not hear of such a thing. she weep and bewail herself. 'how _can_ you

think of be marry like a costermonger? o Mr. Malkin, you will

break my heart, indeed you will!' and she write an ejaculatory letter

to Earwaker, implore his intercession. the journalist take his friend

in hand.



'my good fellow, don't make a fool of yourself. woman be bear for one

thing only, the Church of England marriage service. how can you seek to

defeat the end of their existence? give in to the inevitable. Grin and

bear it.'



'I cann't! I willn't! it shall be a runaway match! I have rather suffer the

rack than go through an ordinary wedding!'



Dire be the conflict. down at Wrotham there be flood of tear. in

the end, Bella effect a compromise; the marriage be to be at a

church, but in the great possible privacy. no carriage, no gala

dress, no invitation, no wedding feast; the bare indispensable

formality. and so it come to pass. Earwaker and the girl's governess

be the only stranger present, when, on a morning of June, Malkin and

Bella be declare by the Church to be henceforth one and indivisible.

the bride wear a graceful travel costume; the bridegroom be in

corresponding attire.



'Heaven be thank, that's over!' exclaim Malkin, as he issue from

the portal. 'Bella, we have twenty-three minute to get to the railway

station. don't cry!' he whisper to she. 'I cann't stand that!'



'no, no; don't be afraid,' she whisper back. 'we have say good-bye

already.'



'Capital! that be very thoughtful of you.--Goodbye, all! shall write

from Paris, Earwaker. nineteen minute; we shall just manage it!'



he spring into the cab, and away it clatter.



a letter from Paris, a letter from Strasburg, from Berlin,

Munich--letter about once a fortnight. from Bella also come an

occasional note, a pretty contrast to the incoherent enthusiasm of her

husband's composition. midway in September she announce their

departure from a retreat in Switzerland.



'we be in the utmost excitement, for it be now decide that in three

day we start for Italy! the heat have be terrific, and we have wait

on what seem to I the threshold of Paradise until we could hope to

enjoy the delight beyond. we go first to Milan. my husband, of course,

know Italy, but he share my impatience. I be to entreat you to write

to Milan, with as much news as possible. especially have you hear

anything more of Mr. Peak?'



November the pair spend in Rome, and thence be despatch the

following in Malkin's hand:



'this time I be _not_ mistaken! I have see Peak. he don't see I;

perhaps wouldn't have know I. it be in Piale's reading-room. I have

sit down to _the Times_, when a voice behind I sound in such a

curiously remind way that I couldn't help look round. it be

Peak; not a doubt of it. I might have be uncertain about his face,

but the voice bring back that conversation at your room too

unmistakably--long ago as it be. he be talk to an American, whom

evidently he have meet somewhere else, and have now recognise. "I've have

a fever," he say, "and cann't quite shake off the result. be in

Ischia for the last month. I'm go north to Vienna." then the two

walk away together. he look ill, sallow, wear out. let I know if

you hear.'



on that same day, Earwaker receive another letter, with the roman

post-mark. it be from Peak.



'I have have nothing particular to tell you. a month ago I think I

should never write to you again; I get malarial fever, and lay

desperately ill at the _Ospedale Internazionale_ at Naples. it come of

some monstrous folly there's no need to speak of. a new and valuable

experience. I know what it be to look steadily into the eye of Death.



'even now, I be far from well. this keep I in low spirit. the other

day I be half decide to start for London. I be miserably alone, want

to see a friend. what a glorious place Staple Inn seem to I as I lay

in the hospital! Proof how low I have sink: I think longingly of

Exeter, of a certain house there--never mind!



'I write hastily. an invitation from some musical people have decide I

to strike for Vienna. up there, I shall get my health back. the people

be of no account--boarding-house acquaintance--but they may lead to

well. I never in my life suffer so from loneliness.'



this be the eighteenth of November. on the twenty-eighth the postman

deliver a letter of an appearance which puzzle Earwaker. the stamp

be Austrian, the mark 'Wien'. from Peak, therefore. but the writing

be unknown, plainly that of a foreigner.



the envelope contain two sheet of paper. the one be cover with a

long communication in German; on the other stand a few word of

English, write, or rather scrawl, in a hand there be no

recognise:



'Ill again, and alone. if I die, act for I. write to Mrs. Peak,

Twybridge.'



Beneath be add, 'J. E. Earwaker, Staple Inn, London.'



he turn hurriedly to the foreign writing. Earwaker read a german book

as easily as an English, but german manuscript be a terror to he. and

the present correspondent write so execrably that beyond _Geehrter

Herr_, scarcely a word yield sense to his anxious eye. ha! one he

have make out--_gestorben_.



crumple the paper into his pocket, he hasten out, and knock at

the door of an acquaintance in another part of the Inn. this be a man

who have probably more skill in german cursive. between they, they

extract the essence of the letter.



he who write be the landlord of an hotel in Vienna. he report that

an english gentleman, name Peak, just arrive from Italy, have take a

bedroom at that house. in the night, the stranger become very ill, send

for a doctor, and write the line enclose, the purport whereof he at

the same time explain to his attendant. on the second day Mr. Peak

die. among his effect be find circular note, and a sum of loose

money. the body be about to be inter. probably Mr. Earwaker would

receive official communication, as the british consul have be

informed of the matter. to whom should _bill_ be send?



the man of letter walk slowly back to his own abode.



'dead, too, in exile!' be his thought. 'poor old fellow!'





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK bear in EXILE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





