The project Gutenberg eBook of the Tallants of Barton, vol. 1 (of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the tallant of Barton, vol. 1 (of 3)

        a tale of fortune and finance



author: Joseph Hatton



Release date: May 2, 2023 [ebook #70686]



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Tinsley Brothers, 1867



credit: Sonya Schermann, Debrah Thompson and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 1 (of 3) ***











                        the tallant of BARTON.



                    a Tale of Fortune and Finance.



                                  BY



                            JOSEPH HATTON,



    author of “bitter sweet: a Love Story;” “against the Stream,”

                              etc., etc.



 “the wheel of Fortune turn incessantly round, and who can say within

         himself, I shall to-day be uppermost?”--_Confucius._





                           in three VOLUMES.



                                VOL. I.





                                LONDON:

             TINSLEY brother, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

                                 1867.

               [_the Right of Translation be reserve._]





                                LONDON:

           BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









content.



    CHAP.                                                           PAGE



      I.--IN the SHADOW of BERNE HILLS                                 1



     II.--INTRODUCES the reader to the MERCHANT’S

            son and daughter                                          13



    III.--BRINGS US to the HALL FARM, where the

            reader make the ACQUAINTANCE of the

            somerton and a certain LANDSCAPE

            PAINTER                                                   22



     IV.--THE METER IRON WORKS COMPANY                                36



      V.--THE dibble and their new lodger                            49



     VI.--THE two friend and the two vignette                       61



    VII.--IS a SENTIMENTAL chapter, contain a

            FEW MORAL reflection by the WAY                          77



   VIII.--IN which PAUL SOMERTON enter UPON a

            DELICATE, difficult, and DANGEROUS TASK                   84



     IX.--WHICH introduce the reader to the

            SUMMER-HOUSE on BERNE HILLS, and ILLUSTRATES

            the truth of an old proverb

            about EAVES-DROPPERS                                      95



      X.--MR. RICHARD TALLANT INTERRUPTS a CHARMING

            TÊTE-À-TÊTE                                              107



     XI.--ANOTHER unexpected VISITOR appear AT

            BARTON HALL                                              119



    XII.--BENEATH the GOWN                                           132



   XIII.--DESCRIBES a great financial storm and exhibit

            THOMAS dibble in a new character                         143



    XIV.--ARTHUR phillips AT WORK                                    155



     XV.--RETURNS to AVONWORTH VALLEY, and GLANCES

            AT MRS. SOMERTON’S SECRET                                169



    XVI.--MAY be say to INAUGURATE a series of important

            change in the life of several

            NOTABLE person in this history                          179



   XVII.--CHIEFLY concern the FORTUNES of PAUL

            SOMERTON                                                 190



  XVIII.--RETURNS to the meeting at the LONDON

            TAVERN                                                   199



    XIX.--OF certain reports in the NEWSPAPERS                       210



     XX.--SHOWS how the purse find its way into

            PAUL SOMERTON’S BOX                                      224



    XXI.--WHEREIN THOMAS dibble “runs away,” and

            MEETS with a very remarkable COMPANION                   236



   XXII.--IN which THOMAS DIBBLE continue to “RUN

            AWAY”                                                    246



  XXIII.--IS of a miscellaneous and DISCURSIVE CHARACTER,

            but ESSENTIAL to the narrative                           261



   XXIV.--CHRISTABEL takes dibble into her confidence                278









                              CHAPTER I.



                     in the SHADOW of BERNE HILLS.





Barton Hall be a conspicuous feature of the landscape in the smile

Vale of Avonworth, and it stand beneath the shadow of Berne Hills.

build of white stone, and in the italian style of architecture, it

have the appearance of a modern mansion remove from Kensington Palace

Gardens, and plant amongst the rare scenery of this beautiful western

district of the Midlands.



all that wealth and taste can do to make the house generally worthy of

the site have be lavish upon it, inside and out. it be furnish

with everything that be costly and comfortable, with ornament and

article of _vertu_ from all part of the earth.



a long gravelly drive lead up to the principal entrance, which be cut

off from the park with iron fencing and chain. on the other side of

the house there be conservatory of flower and extensive garden.

behind, at a short distance, there be stable for many horse, shut

out from view by shrub and young tree.



in front of the house a smooth tract of mossy lawn end in a sunk

fence; and beyond lie the park, skirt by green field, which mount

up the Berne Hills and lose themselves in the foliage of oak, and

elm, and larch.



here and there on the lawn be clump of young aspire cedar, silver

birch tree, ash plant, and sycamore, hem round about with rim

of white creeper and luxuriant moss. in “gem of the Poets,”

pictorially adorn by Laydon, you will find a fanciful illustration of

Gray’s well-know line:



  “full many a gem of pure ray serene

  the dark, unfathom’d cave of ocean bear.”



in the foreground there be a leafy vignette of exotic and other plant

and tree sprout up from an island-rock. turn the water into grass,

and replace the tall cocoa-nut tree with a couple of silver birch,

and you have one of the Barton Hall lawn group; for the place be so

completely “shut out from the rude world” and the easterly and northern

wind, that the climate be more like southern France than western

England, and vegetation flourish there nearly all the year round.



close by the principal lodge-entrance to the park lie a clear deep

lake, feed by a stream from the Berne Hills, and the rendezvous of

innumerable wild and tame water-fowl.



few place in broad England can compare with this modern house and

ground. the sunset be more beautiful here than anywhere else in all

this western land. the twilight be full of yellow, and delicate

neutral tint, and shift light. and the mist that float about

those Berne Hills, like angel shadow! and the gentle rain that follow

they, fill the air with a thousand mixed perfume, and brighten

the green and brown in the landscape,--they might make an artist

frantic with delight.



in rain or sunshine, in winter or summer, Barton Hall, beneath the

shadow of Berne Hills, be always beautiful. in evening sunset, with

the red light on its great flash window, and a tinge of gold on the

vane of its italian tower, you might take it for the romantic retreat

of a southern king rather than the home of a merchant prince of Old

England.



Christopher Tallant be to all intent and purpose a self-make man.

he have begin life in a humble capacity in the counting-house of some

great work in the north of England, where so many man of position and

influence have make their way upwards from minor post.



they look more at a boy’s talent than at his friend in those busy

hive of industry northward. no matter how highly a young fellow

may be connect, he have no position without ability in these busy

district.



a rare practical race, these say northerner--a race to be bring up

amongst, study for example’s sake. as a class they do not possess the

refinement of manner and speech of the southern race of England, and

they do not count so much upon etiquette. they be rough like their

north-east wind, but genial as their own fireside.



their river be black with coal washing, and the bank thereof be

crowded with great work, from which blazing furnace, and forge,

and flash of sudden flame, cast ruddy reflection upon the sullen

tide. their field be cover with pit-heap, and iron work, and

lime-kiln, and blast cupola. but here and there, in out-of-the-way

place, you come upon romantic wood, and running stream, and rocky

glen.



a wonderful land the north countrie, the seat of great enterprise, and

the home of strong-limbe, strong-willed, clear-head man; one would

rather some of they have soft manner, but for our country’s good

we can afford to sacrifice that if only in deference to their active

brain and their inborn love of enterprise.



it be in the north, we say, where Mr. Christopher Tallant begin life,

and where the key-note of his career may be say to have be strike;

but as a young man he have live in the south-west of England, and

have master the lead principle of trade and commerce in several

great private and public work. he have prove himself an adept at

legislative finance, at devise and carry out great scheme; and

at a comparatively early age he have raise himself to a position of

commercial distinction and opulence.



he have be twice marry. his first union be an unhappy one. it be

altogether a mysterious marriage, which have puzzle and astonish his

friend at the time, as well it might; for without the small warning

the young fellow have return from a short visit to London with a

handsome, dash woman, whom he introduce as his wife. at this time

he be manager of the Vulcan Forge Works on the Avon, twenty mile on

the other side of a famous western city, and he have the _entrée_ to

very respectable society.



it be some time before the little local coterie forgave his sudden

introduction of the unknown London wife. in a very short time he have

reason to repent his rashness and folly. his wife indulge in all kind

of extravagance; she lead the local fashion, she indulge in fast

flirtation which set all the gossip in the neighbourhood upon she;

finally, an unwomanly passion for drink set in, and after a few year

of wretchedness she die, leave behind her one child, a son, who will

make a prominent figure in this history.



the poor woman’s misconduct have but little impede her husband’s

worldly advance; he secure share in several important patent;

he become director of one or two company; and start as an iron

merchant on his own private account. at one time he hold as his own

property half the iron bar of a whole district. this be during a

strike, after a period of great depression, and just before a time of

sudden and unexpected activity.



well, by-and-by, in the course of half-a-dozen year, the iron merchant

marry again, and take his wife home to that beautiful country

residence near Severntown, and beneath the shadow of Berne Hills. he

have only purchase the estate the year before his marriage.



his second wife, whom he have love with a fervency characteristic

of his earnest character, be the daughter of a nobleman, and an

exceedingly handsome and lovable woman.



she die in give birth to her first child, who, like she

half-brother, be one of the lead character in this story.



the death of his second wife have be a great affliction to Christopher

Tallant. it be many month before he could bring himself even to look

at his child. travel and change of scene, lapse of time, increase

ardour in business occupation, and new hope, at length soften down

his great sorrow, and enable he to take his place in the great world

calmly, and as become a man of his station and influence. his new hope

centre round his only son, who be a lad about eight year old when

the merchant’s great trouble come upon he.



the boy exhibit considerable native talent. he be a smart,

well-look, promise fellow, full of life and spirit and courage.

before he be ten year old his father clung to he like a forlorn

hope, and centre in he scheme of future power and greatness. the

name of Tallant have of late year become famous in the world of trade

and money, and the name should be perpetuate in this son with honour

and distinction. this be the happiness which, it seem to the

merchant, Fate have decree he should have at last.



such, briefly, be the outline of Mr. Tallant’s history. we introduce

he to our reader some two and twenty year after the death of his

second wife,--a man over fifty year of age. at the time when we make

his acquaintance he be Chairman of the great Meter Iron Works Company,

a director of two of the principal railway company, and a shareholder

in many extensive city scheme.



once a week he be to be find at the London office of the Meter Works

at Westminster, and he usually return from London the same day. you

could not have mistake he for anything but a shrewd, conscientious

man of business if you have know he. he be above the middle height,

and usually wear a black shooting-coat, fit the body tightly, and

with pocket at the side; shepherd’s plaid trowser, and a black velvet

waistcoat. his hair be grey, and his face cleanly shaven. he have a

quick, discern eye, and withal a genial expression of countenance;

for, though he have not forget the past, Time have be good to he,

as it be good to other sufferer who have lose dear one from their

home, and have comfort he with the affection of his child. he

bear an excellent character for kindness, integrity, and honour; but he

be know at the same time to be a man of unbend pride.



he be proud of his name, of his wealth, of his son, of his house,

of his ground, of his farm, of his estate; proud of everything.

and to a certain extent it be a laudable pride, for his rich be

the result of his own ability and industry. he feel, with a certain

acknowledgment of the bounty of Providence, that he have make they

all himself. he might have thank God a little more for his worldly

success and be none the less happy, and certainly more grateful; but

it be his pride that he have work his way up, from the low rung of

the ladder, and that he stand on the top of it with safety.



everything he have be well than anything anybody else have; he would

have it so, and yet he be a kindly, courteous sort of man, whom you

might have have pleasure in visit. his pride of wealth would crop up

now and then; but his wine be superb, his _cuisine_ everything that

could be desire, the view from his window magnificent, his picture

modern and by the good modern, his book modern and in glorious

binding, and his daughter--there be nothing more sweet to look upon

in all the Avonworth valley, or beneath the Berne Hill shades, than the

merchant’s only daughter.









                              CHAPTER II.



                introduce the reader to the MERCHANT’S

                           son and DAUGHTER.





do you know Dicksee’s picture of “Miranda?” it be exhibit at the

Royal Academy a few year ago. there be copy of it in the Strand and

Regent Street picture-shop.



it be a fair, sweet, _spirituel_ face, full of inquire love and

innocence--a frank, open face, set off with a heavy wealth of bright

brown hair--a sunny face, with red, part lip, and all the pure soul

of woman in the deep blue eye.



when first we see that picture, we could not, “for the life of we,”

think where we have see the earthly model of it. it haunt we for

day; we dream about it; we buy the good copy we could procure; and

at length, with the picture lie beside we, carefully pack, on the

seat of a great Western Railway carriage, a London purchase for our

country library, we remember Phœbe Tallant.



it hang before we whilst we write, with all the story of the life of

she whom it so much resemble map out in our mind.



perhaps Phœbe Tallant be not quite so pretty as Mr. Dicksee’s picture,

but she be as near an approach to it as one be likely to meet with

once in a dozen year.



occasional visitor at Barton Hall from London be in rapture with

the bright, fair girl; and one or two young fellow have go home

desperately in love with she; but none of they dare hardly to think of

their love in presence of Mr. Tallant: not that the merchant say much

about Phœbe, not that she seem to be on such affectionate term with

he as might have be expect; but he be proud of her beauty, proud

of her accomplishment. and, moreover, it be shrewdly anticipate

that Miss Tallant would not have anything like the dowry which the

daughter of so wealthy a father ought to have; for the merchant be all

engross in his heir.



Richard Tallant, who be destine by the old man for such a store of

rich, be a dark, dash young fellow, of five or six and twenty,

when we first make his acquaintance--some half-a-dozen year old than

his half-sister Phœbe.



he have be an Eton boy, have graduate at Oxford, and travel through

Europe and Asia.



he have already spend enough money recklessly, foolishly, ay, and

wickedly, to have produce an annuity of at least a thousand a year. he

be professedly one of the manage director of the Meter Works, and

reside in London to take the metropolitan and continental business of

the company.



when his father complain of his enormous expenditure (which be very

seldom, by the way), Richard Tallant allude to his position in the

world, his education, and his habit.



at Oxford he have be a don, not of learn, but of fashion; keep

his hunter and his mail phaeton, and make many a scion of the old

aristocracy envy the mushroom son of iron and railway debenture.



“you have give I every indulgence; you have breed I up in the hot-bed

of luxury; I be just fresh from a european tour, where I travel like

a prince, to finish my college education, and now you expect I to

pull in,” Richard would say, sit astride one of the heavy mahogany

chair in the Westminster managerial room, and look over the back of

it at his father.



“I should not care, Dick, if you would only do the work of your office,

as well as draw the salary,” Mr. Tallant would remark.



“come, now, my dear governor, have you not tell I you have enough

invest to enable I to live like a prince all my life?”



“I may have be weak enough to say so; but I calculate upon your

do something towards keep the money come in.”



“you don’t want I, you say, to be wait, like some heir, for

your death, and then reckon upon live in style; you would rather

I have my fill of life, and see I enjoy it in your own day. come

now, father, you know you have say so,” say Richard, twirl his

moustache, and tap his patent-leather boot with a riding-whip.



“I fear I have not my usual foresight about I when I do say so,” say

Mr. Tallant.



and he say truly; but having rise by hard work himself, and spring

from a comparatively humble position, Mr. Tallant be one of those man

who like to see their child in the other extreme, and who, never

having be within the pale of college and aristocratic life, believe,

and truly, that, to be a leader therein, a merchant’s son must let his

money fly freely, and like a prince indeed.



he have give his son a free rein. when first Richard go to Oxford, he

have be snub by a young lord, and an epigram have be level at

he, the point of which turn upon his name and origin; he be call

the produce of fifty talent of silver invest in iron.



when Richard tell his father this, the great merchant snap his

finger, and say he could buy up all the Oxford lord in a heap,

and, turn cleverly round upon their lordship, in reply to the

epigrammatic hit at his son’s origin, he say,



“never mind they, Dick; there’s as good blood in your vein as there be

in any of theirs; it may not come from a swell who plunder the Saxons

at the time of the Norman Conquest, or mix in the vice of licentious

court; there be no dishonour in it, and it have to be prove yet

whether to spring from merchant prince of England be not the high

of all descent.”



“Bravo,” say Mr. Richard Tallant; “why, father, you speak like an

orator. that hit about the merchant prince would drive half-a-dozen

husting mad.”



Mr. Tallant have warm up, and be angry; he pay no attention to his

son’s comment; he only see before he some “stick up” aristocrat

sneer at his name and origin.



“look here, Dick,” he continue, produce a blank cheque, “fill that

up in the presence of these aristocratic snob, and show they what the

tallant can do.”



this be surely put too much of power and revenge into the hand

of a young man naturally frivolous and overbearing, and it no doubt

influence, in a great measure, his future career.



one would have give Mr. Christopher Tallant credit for more real

worldly wisdom than this; he could, perhaps, have bear “the proud

man’s contumely” himself; he might have shrug his shoulder, and

sneer at it, with a console thought about his wealth; he might

have say to himself, “ah, never mind, I could buy you up, stick and

stone” (for he be weak, you see, on this point); but he would not have

protest and be demonstrative: contempt would have be his answer,

and, in the midst of his commercial care, he would have speedily

forget the inane taunt. to have his son treat with indifference,

to see he taunt with his origin, by man who have nothing but their

ancestor to boast about; this be a different thing altogether, and he

chafe at it, and be angry indeed.



his pride be shock. the feeling that he could buy everything be

shake. he be not accustomed to crosse, except such as his wealth or

his energy could overcome; and his sense of injure honour, too, be

touch.



“I would not have you do anything that be mean, Dick; there be nothing

mean in be generous and open-handed; and there be two power, it

appear, at Oxford,--money and blood; don’t be afraid to hold your own;

you have no reason to be ashamed of your birth, and you can make they

ashamed of their poverty, the sneak! don’t spare they one jot, Dick;

punish they, and show they what talent of silver invest in iron can

do--the miserable sneak!”



thus all the merchant’s practical wisdom and his just pride be throw

to the wind; but he be not the only man of his class who, chafe at

the arrogance of “gentle blood,” have seek revenge on Society at the

shrine of Mammon, and obtain nothing in return but “a crown of golden

sorrow.”









                             CHAPTER III.



                 bring US to the HALL FARM, where the

                   reader make the ACQUAINTANCE of

                 the somerton and a CERTAIN LANDSCAPE

                               PAINTER.





it lie on the western border of the park, and comprise about eight

hundred acre of arable and pasture land.



the building be red brick, with white dress corner stone and

facing. there be model cow-house, cattle-shed, piggery, barn,

corn-loft, and poultry pen, that would have satisfy even Mr.

Mechi’s critical eye. an agricultural writer of considerable repute

have, in truth, write an essay upon these model building, and it have

be print in an important agricultural and scientific review; for

there be no well arrange building in the country.



Mr. Tallant, you know, would have the good of everything, and his

bailiff encourage he in have all the good thing at his farm. there

be cart from Crosskill, plough from Ransomes, threshing-machine

from Clayton and Shuttleworth, reaper from America, clod-crusher,

drill, rake, hoe, harrow, and other implement from Banbury,

Lincoln, Beverley, Worcester, Yorkshire, and Bristol.



Mr. Tallant have build these model farm-building himself. the Hall Farm

have be an especial feature of the estate when he purchase it, but

the building do not come up to his notion, and the result be before

we.



Mr. Tallant bring all his commercial experience to bear upon the

cultivation and management of the land. his bailiff, Mr. Luke Somerton,

have be a Lincolnshire lord’s right hand in the management of a great

farm on the Wolds, and he be the very man of all other to enter into

Mr. Tallant’s idea of look upon a farm in the same light as he would

a manufactory.



the merchant maintain that good land would, in a very few year,

amply repay a man for all he put into it; and Mr. Somerton be a

thoroughgoe disciple of high cultivation. he have study agricultural

chemistry under a professor, and Mr. Tallant often say it be quite

a treat to chat with he about Liebig’s theory, the value of

agricultural statistic, tenant right, and lease. Richard Tallant do

not agree with his father, and think Luke Somerton’s talk a good deal

of it “rot:” not that the bailiff care for Mr. Richard’s opinion, or

fear his father’s.



Luke Somerton be quite a gentleman in his way. he be a young son

of a Lincolnshire squire, and have be bring up to agriculture as a

profession. he come to the Barton Hall Farm with Mr. Tallant, and he

be likely to remain there as long as Mr. Tallant live; for he be not

only a scientific farmer, but he farm profitably, and Mr. Tallant

say that be what few amateur gentleman farmer could say for their

bailiff in that district.



the farm-house be a substantial, handsome residence, surround with

a prettily lay out garden, with shrub and tree all scrupulously

dwarf and prune. hard by, and adjacent to the farm-building, be

the stack-yard, and beyond be field, mostly grass, with low fence

and white gate.



Mr. Somerton be marry, and have three children,--two son and a

daughter. his firstborn have leave home when he be fifteen as an

apprentice on board a merchant ship, which sail from London for

Bombay. the vessel have be speak once, and have never be hear of

afterwards; so Frank have long be mourn as lose, and there remain

the bailiff, his daughter Amy, a girl about the age of Miss Tallant,

and a son, Paul, three year young.



Luke Somerton’s married life have not be a happy one. his wife

have accept his hand mainly out of spite, after she have angle

unsuccessfully for his eld brother. she be a proud disappointed

woman; but a good housewife nevertheless, and Luke, by dint of

perseverance, have successfully combat her overbearing disposition; so

that though they could not be say to live happily and affectionately,

as man and wife should do, they never have noisy open brawl and

quarrel, as some couple have. if they sneer at each other and

maintain opposite opinion on almost any give subject, they very

rarely have loud dispute, and never pass a day without speak to

each other. they be oppose on principle; but Mrs. Somerton always

manage to conclude her bickering with something like overture of

reconciliation, which Luke accept for what they be worth, and

“tide over with,” until the next fencing bout come on.



Mrs. Somerton have be a handsome woman--a blonde--and might have

continue handsome have she cultivate kindness of heart as well as

her husband cultivate wheat. Hers be a nice face spoil by a nasty

temper. she be a fine woman, above the middle height, and there

be little streak of red upon her cheek such as you see on the

sunny side of a winter apple. there be line about her mouth which

disappointment and pride have place there, during eighteen year

of sourness and vexation of spirit. she be well mate so far as

appearance go.



her husband look a thorough son of the soil, a tall, well-build,

florid, intelligent, business-like Lincolnshire farmer, such as you

will meet in the capacity of judge at country agricultural show.



their son Paul be at a boarding-school, and when this story begin,

just about commence life as a clerk in Mr. Tallant’s London office.



his sister Amy be at home, and spend half her time at the Hall with

Miss Tallant, who treat she very much as a sister.



Amy be not at all like the picture of Miranda. she be several shade

dark than Miss Tallant, and neither a brunette nor a blonde; but

she have a large black pierce eye, which look at you from beneath

gracefully-arch eyebrow. she be not so round as Phœbe; but she

figure be supple, and well define. her mouth and chin be full of

graceful curve, and her hair be bind closely to her head, set

off a pair of small white ear that give a high character to the face.

she be a well-breed, high-spirited girl, and accomplish too; for she

have not only be fairly educate at her father’s expense, but she have

have the benefit of much of the tuition which Miss Tallant have receive,

not only from a clever resident governess but from professor who come

at interval to Barton Hall.



amongst the latter be one Mr. Arthur Phillips, who teach Miss Tallant

drawing, and as he will figure rather prominently in this romance,

we will introduce he at once, and tell you what he be like and all

about he. he be a rise young artist who reside in the county town,

though he might have make a successful position in London.



“I wonder you don’t go to town,” many person would say to he; and his

reply would be in effect,



“why should I? I don’t care for London, and I like the country. I

can go to town whenever I think proper, and the dealer will buy my

picture whether I go or not. what I get for they, and the few pupil I

have in the county, give I enough for all my requirement, and enable

I to study quietly and leisurely.”



but there be another reason why Arthur Phillips prefer the country,

and that be a reason, which you may guess, for constant visit to the

vale of Berne, beyond his desire to study the foliage of the district,

and the light and shadow of the Berne Hills, and the beautiful sky

above.



it be true that many of his good sketch be transcription of the

varied bit of landscape in this district; and he say he have never

thoroughly understand Cuyp, Both and Ruysdael, Salvator Rosa, Wilson

and Gainsborough, until he know Berne valley in storm and sunshine, in

spring and summer. he be never tired of paint Berne tree and Berne

moss, and the dealer buy these little sketchy bit almost as

readily as they would now buy similar thing by Birket Foster.



Mr. Phillips be an earnest lover of art; if he have not be a painter

he would have be a poet. there be poetry in all his work, the true

poetry of nature; and he be as well up in the principle and beauty

of poetry as he be in chiaroscuro and perspective.



Nature have give he a mind worthy of the most perfect exterior, but

she have deny he many of those charm of person which mostly delight

the eye and captivate the heart of woman. he be under the ordinary

height, a thin figure, with long black hair, and dark eye set deeply

in a face notable for sharply cut feature. the expression be that of

a thinker, and his manner nervous and retire.



Mrs. Somerton have a great objection to Mr. Phillips.



“I don’t think his continually lurk about here bode any good to

those girl,” she say to her husband, over tea, as Mr. Phillips pass

by with his sketch book under his arm.



“nonsense,” say Mr. Somerton, laugh. “you don’t think either of

the girl will fall in love with an undersized whipper-snapper like Mr.

Phillips?”



“there’s no know what poor silly woman will fall in love with,” say

Mrs. Somerton, with a sneer.



“no, nor man either, for the matter of that, dame, if you want to argue

the point,” Luke reply, defiantly.



Mrs. Somerton, thus challenge, decline to pick up the gauntlet which

she have so often before accept. she be bent upon talk about Mr.

Arthur Phillips.



“I don’t think Amy would be fool enough to be lead away by his poetry

and picture, and fine speech and thing; but Miss Tallant’s

soft enough for anything, and I wonder Mr. Tallant have that fellow

continually about the place.”



“God bless we!” say Mr. Somerton, his honest face light up with a

genial smile of amusement; “why, do you think Miss Tallant, with she

beautiful face, and her equally beautiful dowry, be go to throw

herself away upon poor little Phillips?”



“why not? he write poetry, and paint all sort of nonsense, and talk

like lackadaisical lover talk in book; and I’m sure that’s the sort

of thing that Miss Tallant’s flashy education have teach she to admire.

why don’t her father let she go into London society? why don’t she

go to town for the season, and be a reign beauty, as she might be?

that’s the sort of education she should have have, and then she might

have marry a duke,” Mrs. Somerton say, with warmth.



“why, you’re quite excited about it,” say Mr. Somerton; “I’ve not see

your eye sparkle so since I don’t know when.”



“I hate to see such namby-pambyism,” go on Mrs. Somerton. “when a

girl’s get a pretty face, a graceful manner, and plenty of money, she

ought to take her place and marry a gentleman, not be bury alive in

a stucco palace, with a half-gentleman, half-farmer, half-ironfounder

father, a sneak governess, and an ugly, romantic little painter.”



“well, well, wife, it be no business of ours, and if it be, I don’t

think there’s any foundation for alarm. besides, your ambition ought

to be satisfied if young Hammerton, as you say pay more delicate

attention to Amy than he do to Miss Tallant. but Master Hammerton

must mind his eye; I’d break every bone in his body if he offer an

insult to Amy.”



“Young Hammerton!” say Mrs. Somerton, with an affected sneer. “do you

think I’m vain and silly enough to think the daughter of a farm-bailiff

have any chance of catch the next heir to an earldom, for her

husband?”



“a farm-bailiff! why such emphasis on farm-bailiff, Mistress Somerton?

there may be as good blood in the vein of a farm-bailiff as there be

in a Hammerton.”



Mrs. Somerton’s lip curl with a pitying, patronise expression, that

put her husband into a tower passion; a most unusual circumstance.



“damn it!” he exclaim, rise from his seat, “a Somerton be as

independent a man any day; there be never one of the race that don’t

always pay twenty shilling in the pound, and but wouldn’t fall a lord

if he speak a light word of any of their woman: and, by heaven, I

consider myself as good a man as any Hammerton, dead or live.”



“there, there, Luke; now don’t get into a passion,” say Mrs. Somerton,

try to speak soothingly, and like an injured woman, who have not

give the slight cause for passion to anybody in all her life.



“what’s the meaning of all this, Sarah? there’s something at the bottom

of it.”



“only a friendly gossip between man and wife; but that’s such a novelty

in this house, be it not?”



“I have have enough experience to tell I that a friendly gossip like

this be not mean for nothing, Sarah,” say Luke, thrust his hand

into his pocket, and pace about the room.



whether there be anything “at the bottom of it,” or not, do not

further transpire at that moment, by reason of the Hon. Lionel

Hammerton himself dismount from his horse at the gate beyond the

garden, and walk up to Mr. Somerton’s door.









                              CHAPTER IV.



                     the METER IRON WORKS COMPANY.





the office of Mr. Tallant and the Meter Works be at Westminster, in

a magnificent newly erect block of building not far from the Houses

of Parliament. they comprise the whole suite of apartment on the

ground-floor, with a board-room above.



on the heavy swinge mahogany door at the entrance be two thick

brass plate, on one of which be engraven “Meter Iron Works Company,”

and on the other “Christopher Tallant.”



the establishment be fit up in the good possible style, with

mahogany desk; the counting-house be very much like a bank, the whole

of the monetary business of the great company, as well as that of Mr.

Tallant, be conduct in town. behind the counting-house be Mr.

Christopher Tallant’s room, and that of his son Richard.



Mr. Tallant’s room be plainly but well furnish, and be only

occupy once a week; but Mr. Richard’s room be fit up in the

high style of office magnificence, like a gentleman’s library.

there be a thick velvet-pile carpet upon the floor, a massive carve

mahogany table in the centre of the room; several ponderous chair with

morocco seat; a quaint arm-chair stand before a writing-pad near the

table. where there be no book-shelf there be picture of engine,

and iron bridge, and curious girder, and wheel, in ponderous frame;

and thick cloth curtain drape the two window which look into the

street.



the office be famous amongst man in the iron trade, and once or

twice Mr. Tallant begin to think they be get a name politically;

for several deputation have wait upon he there solicit he to

come forward for various borough at general election.



but Mr. Christopher Tallant always say his ambition do not lie that

way. some day perhaps his son Dick might like to go into the House, and

if he do, why go he should of course; but there be plenty of time

to think about that; and so the deputation retire, wish, in most

case, that there be not plenty of time to think about that, for

there be gold indeed at the back of Christopher Tallant.



“by gad, you amuse I,” say Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, a college

acquaintance of Mr. Richard Tallant’s, look at the pictorial

treasure of the room through an eye-glass. “to think of your go in

for engine and machine, with idiotic crank, and all that sort of

thing. ’pon my soul, it’s too funny.”



and Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs turn round, show Mr. Richard Tallant his

tooth, and say “haw, haw.” that be the way Mr. Gibbs laugh: that

be how he laugh at Oxford, when a break-hearted girl appeal to

his sense of honour; that be how he laugh when he win two thousand

pound at Loo from a college friend, who say he be ruin, and

threaten to throw himself into the isis; that be how he laugh

under all circumstance.



“one must put a sign of some sort up,” say Mr. Richard Tallant,

twirl his moustache, and stretch his leg under the big library

table. “what will you take, Shuff?”



“anything you intend take yourself, old boy; you be a pretty good

judge; I’ll trust to your sense of what a fellow’s morning draught

should be,” say Mr. Gibbs, grin again, and say “haw, haw” as

before.



Mr. Tallant, junior, strike a gong upon the table, and a sober-look

old man in a dark livery obey the summon.



“Sherry, Thomas,” say Mr. Richard.



Thomas take up a bunch of key from the table, unlock a cupboard by

the fireplace, and carefully uncork a dusty, black look bottle,

and set it before Mr. Tallant’s only son, with a couple of richly cut

glass.



Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs take a seat by the window, commend the wine as

he drink it, and criticise any woman who chance to pass on the other

side of the street. he be not a beauty himself that he should be so

critical of the look of other. he have weak eye, and shaky leg, a

short cough, and a narrow chest. his enemy say he wear stay, and

sleep in glove, to improve his figure and whiten his hand, which be

naturally red, like his face, that be powder after the manner of

woman. he be a man of fashion nevertheless, and have spring of a noble

stock; but the race flicker its last in he, and the estate have be

divide by Jews in his grandfather’s time.



it be consider a daring thing to be hand and glove with Gibbs at

Oxford, a dangerous and a delightful thing; for he be know to be

the fast man of his college, and he have be the ring-leader in

everything wicked for year. he make himself Mr. Tallant’s champion

when that gentleman be epigrammatically assail, and ever afterwards

constitute himself boon companion to the iron prince.



there be a rumour that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs be compel to leave

college when he do on account of some offence commit against the

regulation of the establishment; whether this be true or not, he

leave Oxford suddenly, and with no other honour than that of be the

fast man who have ever lead a gown and town row, or hunt down a

citizen’s daughter.



“you’ll be at the club to-night, of course,” Mr. Gibbs say, swinge

his eye-glass round, and admire the perfect fit of a pair of new

boot.



“yes,” say Mr. Richard, “shalln’t be able to come before dinner; go

to dine with a friend at seven.”



Mr. Gibbs show his tooth, and say “haw, haw.”



“will join you by ten,” Mr. Richard continue, smile, and hold

his empty glass between himself and the light to catch its diamond-like

sparkle in the sun.



“what’s _your_ little game to-night, then,” inquire Mr. Tallant,

junior.



“nothing, nothing; a bit of quiet Loo and a cigar. Young Hammerton be

to join we by-and-by.”



“what, Earl Verner’s brother?” Mr. Richard inquire, with more than

ordinary interest.



“the same--the paternal seat be near Barton Hall, you know.”



“rather,” say Mr. Richard. “he’ll be deuce rich when the earl hop

the twig; he be considerably old than Lionel and very shaky, they

say; he often ride over to the Berne district. the governor say he

like to talk farming to the bailiff at the Hall Farm.”



“Gad bless I!” exclaim Mr. Gibbs. “be there any gal about?”



“there be one, old fellow, and a remarkably fine girl, too; but her

mother’s a she-wolf, and her father!--why, Shuffy, he’d double you

up with one hand and throw you into the road, if you put your nose

into his place; he’d smell you out in no time;” and Mr. Richard

Tallant laugh aloud at his lively picture of Mr. Gibbs’s imaginary

discomfiture.



Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs bite his lip before he grin and say “haw, haw”

this time; and it be a little while before he have time to say, “haw,

what an infernally powerful savage he must be.”



Mr. Richard Tallant be, and have be for some time, of great

pecuniary value to Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who not only sponge upon

the iron prince, but fleece he at card, and assist at all his

extravagance. have it be otherwise, he would have resent the tone

and manner of Mr. Tallant’s description of his perfect helplessness in

the hand of Luke Somerton.



“you may laugh, Shuff, but by Jove it’s true; so take timely warning,

and if ever you should go down to Barton Hall mind how you look at Amy

Somerton.”



Mr. Tallant, senior, it would seem, have no liking for Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs, and he have privately intimate to his son that he would rather

that gentleman be not amongst the friend whom he introduce to

Barton Hall.



“if ever I go to Barton Hall!” say Mr. Gibbs. “I begin to think I

shall never have the opportunity; my distinguished and most hospitable

friend, Richard Tallant, Esq., have not yet honour I with an

invitation, even to a shooting-party, on the estate which call he

heir.”



“why, to tell you the truth,” reply Mr. Tallant, junior, with an air

of great candour; “I cann’t, you see; I’ve often think I would make a

clean breast of it, and tell you. the governor object to you somehow

or other; don’t like you; wish I not to ask you to Barton.”



“that’s candid, begad,” say Mr. Gibbs, become a little redder in the

face than usual. “object to I!”



“stupid prejudice, but so it be; he don’t understand buck of fashion

like you, Shuff; and he’s hear about one or two of what you call your

little affair. and I be not very sorry either, Shuff; for I think the

less he see of you the well for I.”



“you’re devilish cool this morning, Dick Tallant, and--”



“and what?” say Mr. Tallant, hastily interrupt his friend, who

show unmistakable sign of anger. “why, you know you’re an infernal

rascal, Shuff, and that I’m not much well myself; so let’s have no

brag about insult and all that sort of thing; I’m in with you for a

short life and a merry one, so never mind the governor. _Il ne faut pas

éveiller le chat qui dort_, as they say in France, vide Macdonnel.”



Mr. Shuffleton exhibit his tooth, and haw-haw several time, and

Mr. Tallant, junior, slap he on the back.



“you’re a trump, Dick, ’pon my soul you be,” say Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs, in an affected burst of magnanimity; “I be inclined to be

savage just now, but I see the frankness of your disclosure in the true

light, after your explanation.”



“all right, old fellow,” say Mr. Tallant, “give I your hand upon it,

and we be siamese twin again; but let we finish the sherry.”



the two friend fall to with a will after this, and chat quite

genially together about a hundred trivial thing, until Big Ben toll

four o’clock, when Mr. Richard Tallant mount a splendid mare, and,

follow by a sprightly groom on an animal of almost equal value,

amble towards the Park; whilst Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs betook himself

quietly to his lodging in Kensington Park Gardens, prior to keep an

engagement, he say, at the Corner, before dinner.



“the infernal impudent humbug,” say Mr. Gibbs to himself, as he walk

smartly homeward; “the twopenny-halfpenny mushroom, spring from a

northern dunghill--never mind, I’ll be even with he some day. fifty

talent of silver invest in iron! of late the fellow have assume

an air of superiority, and a bullying manner, which be devilish hard

to bear. wait a little, wait a little, _très bon ami_; you’ll find

yourself in the mire one of these day.”



it _be_ hard to bear, no doubt, but Richard Tallant be a very

profitable investment to Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, and he could afford to

bottle up his Brummagem resentment; for such a fellow as Shuffleton

Gibbs could hardly be say to have any honourable feeling of

resentment. he be bankrupt, not only in purse, but in reputation; he

might have get over the former in time, but he could never whitewash

the latter.



Mr. Christopher Tallant have be proud of his son the first time he have

see he, prance and caper in the Lady’s Mile, as he prance and

caper soon after Mr. Gibbs leave he. Mr. Tallant have go down to the

Park quietly on foot, and, unobserved, have see his son a lead man

of fashion, on the good horse amongst the most magnificent of all the

splendid animal there. he have see he acknowledge by many a dash

rider, and have watch he turn out into the carriage-drive, to ride

beside a gorgeous yellow brougham, with beautiful woman in it. somehow

the merchant could not help feel annoyed with himself for harbour

such a pride as this; but he have not forget the Oxford epigram,

and he like to see a Tallant riding about amongst the big man, the

great swell of the lot.









                              CHAPTER V.



                   the dibble and their new lodger.





Thomas Dibble, the porter, who hold himself at the beck and call of the

principal and officer of the Meter Iron Works Company at Westminster,

live in one of those numerous little street which run off from the

semi-aristocratic region of St. George’s Square, South Belgravia, to

Whitehall; and his wife let lodging and wear gorgeous cap.



she be quite a study this Mrs. Dibble, quite a psychological study.

she govern dibble, and yet make he her shield and protection in the

most amusing and complete fashion. she be a fat, rubicund woman, with

her dress either unfastened behind or before, and her cap hang on

the back of her head, both in summer and winter, as if she be in a

perpetual state of perspiration.



she be by no mean an ill-look woman. dibble in his cup have tell

his friend that she be a regular beauty when first he know she, as

fair as waxwork, sir. but her tongue; well it be a caution, Mrs.

Dibble’s tongue, and she have a sort of intermittent lisp, which instead

of be an impediment in any way to the rapidity of her utterance

only seem to facilitate they, enable she to slip and slide over an

argument and abbreviate long word until her hearer might sometimes

imagine she be pour out a series of compound syllable in some

unknown tongue. but that be only when she be in a passion, thank

goodness, which do not occur more than once a week.



dibble himself be a mild little fellow as a rule, and a profound

admirer of Mrs. D.’s accomplishment. she have learn to play the

piano when she be at school in her youth; and when she sit down to a

five-and-a-half octave square of Broadwood’s on Sunday night in her

black satin dress, Dibble would sit by the fire and feast his eye

upon she with unsophisticated delight.



it be not a very symmetrical figure neither, Mrs. Dibble’s, as you

view it at the piano, and the two hook-and-eye which be undo

near the middle of her back do not make it any the more elegant.



Mrs. Dibble usually thump at the Old Hundredth and a wonderful

variation of “Vital Spark,” until her cap fall off and her hair come

down, when she would close the “box of music” and utter twenty voluble

regret that she have so few opportunity of practise and keep up

her fingering.



but Mr. Dibble do not agree with she on this point; it be the only

one he be permit to dispute; he vow she play as well as if she

have no end of practice.



“you be fit for a concert,” he would say, “that you be.”



not that Thomas Dibble exactly know what a concert be, never having

be present at anything of the kind, except on the occasion of a

_soirée_ at Gloucester when he go to a Sunday school there.



Dibble be breed and bear in Gloucestershire, and have rise from a

kitchen menial to a place in the household at Barton Hall two county

off, whither he have be recommend by a clergyman of the cathedral

city. he be not in Mr. Tallant’s service more than a year before he

be promote to the portership at Westminster.



the Barton housekeeper give he an introduction to a relative of her,

Miss Wilhelmina Stikes, of Still Street, and after a few visit to that

buxom spinster, Miss Stikes make love to Thomas, propose to he, and

marry he in less than three month.



they have now be unite some twenty year, and on the whole Mr.

Dibble do not regret his bondage. he have always be accustom to

servitude; so the yoke of the fair-fat-and-loquacious Miss Stikes be

not difficult to the patient and forbear Thomas Dibble.



“so we be to ’ave a new lodger, Mithter Dibble, in the purthon of the

bailifth’s son; well, so be it, though when my pa educate I for a

lady, and be a builder he could do that because his property be

naturally his own and if he have be thpare he would no doubt ’ave

retire on it, educate for that thpere it never occur to I that

I should ’ave to take the hoffsprig of bailifth into my house, but

there be no knowing what we may come to, and if you fulfil the duty

of the life which have come upon you, though without your own conthent I

cann’t see after all that there’s anything to be ashamed of,” say Mrs.

Dibble to her husband after a tripe supper, on the evening when Mr.

Richard Tallant have promise to meet his friend Gibbs at the club.



“yes, he be come to-morrow; and I be think he might have the

little back sittin’ room,” say dibble, deferentially.



“thank you, Dib, for your thought, but I may remark, as I have

remark before, that _i_ will do the thinking; I do it for my pa

during all his contract, and make out the thpethification which be

for two railway bridge, and more than one or two streeth, and ith not

unlikely that I shall be fully competent to think for you, mithter

Dibble; but, at the thame time, I will own that I have think of the

back thitte-room mythelf, and there’s a chest of drawer bed which

Captain MacStrawsel, of the Blues, say be a perfect bed of rose; and

it may, therefore, be fairly reckon that a bailifth’s son may recline

upon that which, if his conscience be at rest, he may repose upon as

well as in a palace.”



Mr. Dibble say “yes,” and Mrs. Dibble mix for he, as be she willnot,

a mild glass of gin, which he proceed to sip in company with the

accomplished partner of his bosom, who invariably say, whenever she

take spirit publicly, “that it be not as she like sperrit or any

other allycholic liquor, but it be a necessity to she, see the

great strain that be constant on her nerve, owe to have both

mental and physical labour more than common.”



after a short visit to the farm, Paul Somerton go to London, and,

after due introduction to Mrs. Dibble, enter upon his duty at the

Iron Company’s office. he see little of Mr. Richard Tallant, and less

of his father; but he hear a great deal about both from old dibble.



once a week Mrs. Dibble permit Thomas to spend an evening out with

Paul. she say she be not one for let a young man run about London

in an evening without a guide, and she think her Thomas’s experience

of the place might be of some benefit to Paul, and she would not hear

of any opposition to an arrangement by which she propose to set apart

“closing time,” on Friday night until half-past ten, for Thomas Dibble

to show Paul Somerton some of the sight of London.



Mrs. Dibble also at the same time arrange to entertain her own

particular friend at home on these evening, and so balanced off her

generosity to poor Dibble, her husband. Thomas Dibble soon become a

bore to Paul Somerton.



so soon as the young man begin to know his way about town, so soon do

he become tired of dibble, and ashamed of he, too; for Paul be not

altogether a stranger to the manner and feeling of a gentleman, and

be a good-look fellow withal; whilst poor Dibble be nothing more

than a respectable porter at any time.



besides, Dibble be perpetually praise Mrs. Dibble, and would stop to

buy hot potato in the street, and “penn’orths” of pudding; so Paul

decide to shake he off, but his determination be change by a letter

from his sister.



“what should Amy want to know all about Mr. Richard for?” say Paul,

read a letter in bed, one Sunday morning, some week after his

residence in London.



“and who be Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs; and what the deuce business be it of

her if young Hammerton be often with they?” he continue, stare up

from the letter to the ceiling.



“please, sir, it’s nine o’clock. Mrs. Dibble say I be to tell you,”

say a voice through the keyhole.



“all right,” say Paul; “and hang Mrs. Dibble.”



“be I to say so, please?” ask the voice.



“no, confound you,” say Paul; “but tell Dibble I shall go for a walk

with he after chapel.”



it be the custom of Thomas Dibble to take what he call “a little

constitutional” after chapel, and before dinner--just half-an-hour’s

stroll, whilst Mrs. Dibble change her chapel-go satin, and dish

up the dinner.



it be a rare thing for Mr. Paul Somerton to volunteer to accompany Mr.

Dibble; but he do so on the Sunday in question, and, as they walk

by the Thames, watch the steamer pass and repass with their load

of noisy pleasure-seeker, Paul ask Dibble a variety of puzzle

question about Mr. Richard Tallant, and his friend, Shuffleton Gibbs.



“Ise no spy, Mr. Somerton, and Ise not an owl, or a dormouse,” say Mr.

Dibble, look as know as he could at Paul.



“certainly not, Dib,” say Paul; “certainly not; you know a thing or

two.”



“well, I dur say, and I know nothing about the thing you speak of.”



“what, don’t you know who Mr. Gibbs be, and how he live, and why he be

a friend of the son’s and not of the father’s?” ask Paul.



“it bain’t my business to know,” say Mr. Dibble.



Paul Somerton pump old dibble all the way home, but to little or no

purpose; and the porter’s dog silence arouse Paul’s own curiosity

about his sister’s inquiry.



“do Mr. Richard attend much at the office? who and what be Mr. Gibbs?

be they particular friend of Mr. Hammerton? do they meet together

often? and where?”



these be the chief question which Miss Amy Somerton require she

brother Paul to answer.



Paul be fond of his sister, and have always look up to she as one of

superior knowledge to himself.



“I’ll tell you all you want to know, as soon as I can,” he write to Amy

on the Monday. “but why be you so inquisitive?”



there be thousand of brother and sister without affection for each

other. we say of so-and-so, “I love he as if he be my brother;”

or, “Mary so-and-so--if she have be my own sister, I could not have

feel more regard for she.” it be flattering to our humanity that these

illustration of regard and affection should be in use. nine family

out of ten quarrel amongst themselves, and brother and sister be

the deadly enemy of brother and sister, thwart each other in

childhood and at maturity, step in each other’s way, disgrace

each other, and make the very name they mutually bear hateful to

both. happy, indeed, be brother and sister who really and truly

love each other; for there be not a holier, not a more beautiful

passion.



Paul Somerton would have do anything in the world for Amy. he

remember so many hour make happy by her love and foresight. they have

nearly break their heart over part when he go to school; and Amy

have quite a box-full of his boyish letter, carefully preserve. she

think there be the making of a great man in Paul; he be like his

father in temper and disposition--frank and outspoken, a hater of sham.



at first when Amy have write to he about the doing of Mr. Tallant,

and concern Mr. Hammerton, Paul have scruple about his duty in the

matter; but it be sufficient for Paul that Amy assure he that she

have a proper and sufficient object in learn what she seek; and

Paul determine that Amy should soon know all she desire.









                              CHAPTER VI.



                the two FRIENDS and the two vignette.





a fine old Norman cathedral, by the side of a famous river--the one

celebrate in history, the other a favourite with poet so long ago as

Spenser.



the great grey cathedral, with its high pitch tower, and its

crumble wall, throw big dark shadow on the green turf of the

college close, where half-a-dozen comfortable house form two side

of a square. in the centre grow a clump of venerable elm, the home of

a colony of crow which be everlastingly call to each other from

above.



the other two side of the square be fill in by the cathedral’s

grey wall, and an old gateway.



the river flow on without--the famous river with its sedgy bank.

it flow on outside the monastic-like square, noiselessly mostly,

bear lazy barge on its big brown bosom towards the sea. when the

flood come down from the west it roar and whirl along in curl

and eddy, the colour of coffee, like Kingsley’s salmon river in the

“Water Babies.”



in the distance, from the upper window of the cathedral close, on that

side where Arthur live, you could see the Linktown hill, with their

graceful curve line cut out against the sky; and if you have stand

upon the Linktowns you might have see another range of hill, which

shut out Barton Hall from the rude world.



Arthur Phillips, as I have say, live in this College Green, and his

studio be at the top of one of those old house, which have a glorious

landscape before it, with the Linktowns for a background.



it be a curious old room, Arthur’s studio, with mullione window in

it, and a wonderfully carve fireplace, with grin head cut in the

mantelpiece. several lay-figure be carelessly place at one end of

the room, and there be a couple of easel with half-finish picture

upon they. a few sketch in oil and in water-colour be hang about

the room, and there be a guitar upon an old carve couch, and a large

portfolio beside it. the artist wear a loose blouse, and look at home

in manner and appearance amongst his miscellaneous treasure.



Young Hammerton be a handsome fellow, one of a handsome stock. the

Hammertons have be Earls of Verner for a century or more, and there

be never know an ill-look man or woman amongst they since the

period when they come into the old island with the Norman Conqueror.



but there must have be much Saxon intermarry in the family if

one might judge from the fair skin and brown curly hair of Lionel

Hammerton. and he be of sturdy make withal--a fine speciman of a

handsome young Englishman, with a full hazel eye, and white regular

tooth.



Lionel and Arthur have know each other for several year, the

friendship commence through a series of draw lesson which Arthur

Phillips have give Mr. Hammerton at Earl Verner’s residence.



the Earl, Lionel’s brother, be a man of great taste in the art, and

he have be Arthur’s first patron.



Arthur have exhibit several picture unsuccessfully at the great

Midland Counties Exhibition, when Earl Verner single out a landscape

with figure in the foreground, by Mr. Phillips, as the good, the most

conscientiously paint picture of that year.



this be Arthur’s first start; the Earl purchase the picture, and the

paper speak of it in high term of praise. the _art Journal_, in a

brief sketch of the exhibition, notice this painting as the work of

one of the most promising artist of the day; and next season two work

of Arthur’s be hang at the Royal Academy, and Success come unto he,

and mark he for her own.



Earl Verner give he several commission, and place Lionel Hammerton

under he as a pupil, and this be how their friendship begin.



he be a contrast to Arthur Phillips, who often notice it, and draw

little caricature sketch to illustrate it, which Lionel laugh at,

and threaten to send to _punch_ as character study.



Lionel have, indeed, once send one of Arthur’s funny bit to _punch_,

which bring a polite note from the editor of that famous periodical,

solicit a close acquaintance with the artist; but Mr. Phillips be

a lazy fellow, and his pencil only cut funny caper when Earl Verner’s

brother stir he up, and suggest comical subject.



“by Jove! if I be not to come in now and then, and laugh at you,

you’d die of melancholy,” say Lionel Hammerton, on one of his recent

visit to Arthur’s studio.



“no, I don’t think that,” say Arthur, light the cigar which his

friend hand to he; “but your society be fatal to dulness. I be too

poor a companion to reciprocate the pleasure which your society give

I.”



“Nay, dear boy, you be wrong there; I have spend some of my happy

hour in this old studio of your, Arthur. what be it that make an

artist’s den, as you call it, so free and easy, and yet so _distingué_?”



“one get out of the world, and a little near the well land, in a

room consecrate to art, even if the prophet be but a dotard, perhaps,”

say Arthur.



“and its perfect freedom--the absence of conventionality--the Bohemian

character of the class call artist--their opposition to the form

and ceremony, eh?”



“the artist only worship one goddess, I suppose; and she permit

smoking, loose garment, unwashe hand, and slipper. light your

cigar,” Arthur go on, carelessly, offer his friend a fusee.



“what a grand thing it be, too, the painter’s art; of all art the

most delightful, the most satisfying! he be not like the writer, who

must be read and study before his audience can understand and enjoy

what he have do. the effect of the artist’s work on the beholder be

instantaneous, the reward of his genius be immediate; to say nothing

of his own personal delight and satisfaction. but I’m get prosy,

Arthur. have you be into the Berne neighbourhood lately?”



“yes, I be there during several day in last week,” say Arthur.



“well, any news, _mon ami_: be your friend all well?”



Arthur look at Mr. Hammerton with a curious smile, as he reply, “do

not my view of Avonworth Valley give additional charm to my studio,

Lionel?”



“news or view--which do you say? view, of course--well, so they do,

and so they will continue to do, as long as you find such lovely bit

of nature there,” say Lionel, laugh.



“which do you prefer--the landscape or the figure study?” Arthur

inquire, still smile, though a little sadly.



“I like they both; but there be a head which you be go to finish

when I be here last. I don’t see it anywhere,” say Lionel, whose eye

have be wander into every corner of the room.



“here it be,” say Arthur. “I have be make a double study of

head;” and he bring out of a small case, from a cupboard by the

window, two water-colour sketch, and look curiously into Lionel’s

face as his handsome friend examine they.



the first be something like that picture which appear in the Strand

shop some year afterwards.



Mr. Phillips have draw the face full, and throw the hair backwards in

wavy fold. the lip be part, and the eye look you in the face,

full of hope and trust, and innocence.



Lionel lay this first study down, after a hasty glance or two at it,

and then fairly “devour” the second one.



a smothered sigh of relief escape from Arthur as he notice this, and

a happy smile move his lip as he watch the expression of approval

which light up Lionel’s face whilst gaze at the dark beauty.



“by Jove,” say Lionel, after a long pause, “it be exquisite! what a

head! talk of blood, why this head have all the character of a high-breed

racehorse.”



Arthur smile, and puff out a long thin wreath of smoke.



“what eye! what a neck! and the hair bind tightly to the head,

set off those little ear! and the chin!--why, all the line of

beauty be exhausted here,” Lionel go on; and Arthur almost tremble

with delight.



“give I your hand,” he say at length, no long able to control his

feeling. “give I your hand, Lionel Hammerton.”



“with all my heart,” say Lionel, look as much astonish as he have

previously be delighted. “but what, in the name of all the Arts and

Sciences, be the matter with you? I’m not praise the painter, but the

subject. you have not suddenly become vain, Arthur?”



“no, no,” say the artist, push back his long black hair; “it be

because you be praise the subject that I be delighted, Lionel. you

love Amy Somerton.”



“stop, stop, not so fast, friend Arthur,” say Lionel, colour a

little, and appear still more surprised at the artist’s unusual

excitement.



“if you be in love at all, it be not with--with Miss Tallant?” Arthur

go on, his big pierce eye fix intently on his friend.



“oh, oh!” say Lionel, put his hand upon Arthur’s shoulder, and

lay down Amy Somerton’s portrait. “oh, oh! have I catch you in your

own trap, my poor little friend?” say Lionel. “it be _you_ who be in

love! Nay, man, don’t look so woe-begone about it.”



“and you?” say Arthur, hang his head like a schoolboy.



“may be some day, friend Arthur,” say Lionel; “but _not_ with Miss

Tallant--_not_ with Miss Tallant.”



“thank God for that!” say the artist, sit down and fix his eye

upon the distant hill, which the sun be make golden.



Lionel’s manner of meet Arthur’s half confession of love for Miss

Tallant and fear of rivalry, do not for the moment please the artist,

whose sensitive nature revolt at the apparently cool and critical

treatment of his friend.



but when young Hammerton say, “Arthur, my boy, don’t fear I, go in

and win,” the artist forget his momentary displeasure, and smile half

sadly, half comically, at his friend; and then tell he how he have be

unable to struggle against his admiration for Miss Tallant, and how it

have ripen into love.



Lionel promise not to betray Arthur’s confidence, laugh at the

artist’s notion that he be indulge in an utterly hopeless and

futile passion.



“I suppose you will be at the Festival of the Three Choirs to-morrow,”

say Mr. Hammerton by-and-by, when they have change the subject and he

have light his last cigar.



“I shall be in some part of the building,” Arthur say. “I have the

_entrée_ you know by certain private door; I be rather a favourite

with the Dean and chapter. I look down upon you from arch high

up aloft, I listen to the music at various point. I should be too

restless to sit all the time squeeze up amongst the audience.”



Severntown, you must know, be celebrate for its Festival Concerts in

the cathedral, which have be originate as early as 1724, result

in noble collection for charitable purpose, and of which the local

journalist a hundred year ago exclaim, “may God grant that all

charitable undertaking may be carry on with that become zeal and

Ardency of Affection which matter of such allow’d Importance must

always very justly claim!” Newspaper writer in those day, you see,

say what they have to say briefly, and tersely, and to the point.



I mention these Severntown Festivals not with any intention of

describe one of they, but simply because of the train of thought

which the mention of the event by Mr. Hammerton excite in the mind of

Arthur Phillips.



it be at the Festival, three year previously, that Arthur have first

see Phœbe Tallant, a mere girl, but of such striking beauty that

the image be fix in his mind, as if it belong to the glorious

music,--sanctified by the time, and the place, and the holy strain.



and he have go on the follow day, and peer out amongst the throng

to see the same face again, but he see it not; so he go quietly

alone into the Lady Chapel to think of it, and build up the image in a

picture of angel which he have think, more than once, of painting. he

never forget the varied sensation which have be excite within he

by that solitary ramble through private corridor into the Lady Chapel.



Shakspeare, Milton, and Pope have sing the delight of “hidden music.”

who have not stand at night in some quiet churchyard with his thought

reverentially turn to heaven by the solemn strain of an evening hymn

ripple out through the half-open doorway? who have not sit without the

precinct of cathedral choir and feel the power of religious strain

move he more deeply than when in the presence of the chorister? be it

that the mind like to fall back upon itself now and then, to wed the

music to its own hope and aspiration?



the Lady Chapel be quite shut out from the choir, nave, and aisle.

as Arthur stand there the whole of the auditory and performer be

completely away from view. the altar-screen be between he and the

gay _parterre_ of bonnet, hem in by the surround margin of

baize and mat. around he be decay monument, themselves

need memorial (as Crabbe put it in “the Borough”); half-finish

slab fresh from the hand of the restorer, and other evidence of the

struggle of the present to preserve the past.



subdue morning beam come in through tier of lancet light; and

mount up, echo along the fretted roof of the nave, the strain

of the chorus come stream in upon he over the screen, fill

the little chapel with exquisite harmony which seem to die away

in mysterious vault and corridor. in pianissimo passage of solo

or chorus the music recede, and die away in the west, like faint

memory of former strain.



this be a memory worth cherishing; but it be fix in the artist’s

mind as much by the association of the previous day as it be by its

own intrinsic sublimity.



six month afterwards it be that Arthur be introduce to phœbe

Tallant, and then that dear memory come back to he, soften into a

kind of religious tint, as if it come through a paint window of the

mind.



“this girl be my destiny,” think Arthur at once; for the face be

always in his mind, and somehow it be mix up with thought that be

above the world, mix up with dreamy picture of cathedral aisle, and

with memory of swell anthem.



for a time, after he know Phœbe, Arthur fear he be drift into

morbid sensibility. he have lead a sober, monkish kind of life for year,

and with this new image in his mind he have at first give himself up to

wandering about the old cathedral, and a sort of fascinating unreal

saint-worship which he carry out for a time on canvas; but as time

wear on he grow out of these morbid habit and once more there be

a healthy glow in his conversation and in his picture. but he be

desperately, madly in love, nevertheless.









                              CHAPTER VII



              be a sentimental chapter, contain a FEW

                     MORAL reflection by the WAY.





yes, Arthur Phillips be desperately in love. a silly thing that,

now-a-day, be it not? love! all very well in poetry and romance; all

very well for school-girl and beardless boy.



but may we not excuse an artist for foster such a ridiculous

passion? it be something in his line, you know. painter, Senior

Mammon will probably say, be ridiculous fellow at well. they spend

their time in a fool’s paradise, study the change of the sky,

make copy of tree and leave, and lash themselves into furious

excitement about the glory of summer morning and autumn sunset.



you see some of the race at Bettys-y-Coed, in Wales, you know, Senior

Mammon, when you be “do” the neighbourhood of Snowdon. poor

devil! you remember how they be roam about the river and rock,

and paint beneath umbrella tent. and you see how some of they be

content to live in those little cottage, and how they trudge about

in the hot sun on foot, with their colour-box and thing strapped to

their back.



don’t you remember say to Signora Mammon that it be a pity the

strap fellow you meet at the Conway Falls be not well occupy

than in sketch stone and tree.



you buy the artist’s picture sometimes, to keep he from starve,

because you be charitably disposed,--eh, Senior Mammon? and to obtain

for yourself a character for taste, as that sort of thing be necessary

in polite circles,--eh, dear friend?



“but they be poor devil, after all,” you say; and “an artist in love

with Christopher Tallant’s daughter must be an idiot indeed.”



it be a pity Mr. Tallant be not inform of the tutor’s infernal

presumption, you say. he would soon send he to the right-about, he’s

such a proud fellow, you know, that Tallant.



“in love!” you repeat. “in rubbish! he should come with I, and air his

little bit of brain on the Stock Exchange; he should know what it be

to make a hundred thousand pound in a week, and lose it in a day; he

should see what woman be, how they sell themselves body and soul for

money.”



there, friend Mammon, you need say no more. Arthur Phillips do not

understand you, and if he do, he would continue in love with Miss

Tallant just the same.



strange, it must be to love a woman with all your heart and soul,

and let she live on, unconscious of your admiration; to be with she,

to listen to her sweet soft voice, to assist in the development of

her taste, to minister to her fancy, to cultivate her love of the

beautiful; and yet not dare to confess your love!



the river flow on its way, and the sun go down behind the hill;

the tone of the evening bell echo through the college yard; and

long after the heir of the Verners have leave his friend, the artist sat

smoke his cigar in the twilight, think of Phœbe Tallant--thinking

of she as he might think of some beautiful vision of the poet--thinking

of she with a love in his heart that be more than love. and yet she

seem a necessity in his life, something that make life worth live

for--something next to his art.



he be quite alone in the world; he have neither mother nor father. he

have be bring up in a quiet, humble way, and his father and mother

both die before their son have achieve success as an artist.



it would have be the great happiness possible for he at that

time, could he have show his father the picture which first make his

name know to the world as a painter. his mother have be a querulous

invalid most of her life, and have few feeling in common with her son.

the father, on the contrary, have be full of hope and trust in Arthur;

but he be not to live to see these hope realise.



so that Arthur’s success have be taint with a bitter sense of

disappointment; he have no sympathiser in his triumph--none who know how

hard he have work--none who know the gigantic difficulty which he

have overcome.



the people with whom he mix know he since success have come to his

brush; and Phœbe Tallant have rouse the strong feeling which have lie

dormant within he.



his love, though excite by a sudden glimpse of the girl’s beauty,

have be strengthen by gradual growth, by little graceful act,

indication of sympathy and interest on the part of his pupil. he have

struggle against it, and have feel once or twice that he be guilty of

a breach of trust in harbour such a passion for a moment.



it be true Mr. Tallant have ask he, as a favour, to give lesson to

his daughter. the merchant, as you know, like to have thing which

everybody could not have, no matter what he pay for they: and it be

with something of this feeling that he have obtain the service of an

artist who have suddenly rise above the necessity of teaching.



“I do not wish to come here at first,” Arthur would argue to himself.

“he almost force I.”



the idea of marry Miss Tallant have never once occur to Arthur.

in the first place, he regard his passion as a piece of presumption.

he be unworthy in every respect, he think, of Phœbe’s love; and he

never dream for a moment that she suspect the real state of his

feeling towards she.



although his name be so high in art, Mr. Tallant only look upon

Arthur as a tutor, and he would have regard an offer of marriage

for his daughter from such a source as an insult. but it be not in

this mere worldly sense that Arthur feel himself inferior to phœbe.

his love and admiration have make a niche for her high up in his fancy,

far beyond his bright hope, and he seem to look up at she and

worship, with a fearful, jealous, burn pleasure.



who would have think that so much passion could have a place behind

that calm, thoughtful, and reserve manner of the landscape painter?









                             CHAPTER VIII.



                 in which PAUL SOMERTON enter UPON a

               delicate, difficult, and dangerous TASK.





Mr. Richard Tallant be a member of several London club. the one to

which his friend Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs invite he be a third-rate

establishment, rapidly degenerate into a mere association of gambler.



the member meet in an evening and keep up in appearance mild whist at

shilling point; but large bet be make upon the odd trick, “each

and every.”



Loo be not permit because it be too much of a gambling game. the

Ashford Club assume a virtue they do not possess. member might bet a

thousand pound on the odd trick at whist, but they must not play Loo.



it be here that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs make most of his money, and there

be every reason to fear that Richard Tallant be not above help

he. the spirit of gambling have fairly take possession of Richard’s

mind, and he sink with it into the practice of all sort of vice.



in the City Mr. Richard Tallant be know as a young, wealthy,

devil-may-care fellow, a man to know, and a man to fear. he often

speculate largely, unknown to his father, and have more than once

“rig” the share market to great advantage. his position give he

excellent opportunity to obtain information which be of financial

value, and Shuffleton Gibbs be deep enough to put his friend up to all

sort of stock-job trick that often turn he in good round sum

of money.



one would have think that this legalised gambling would have be

sufficient for Mr. Tallant and his friend Gibbs; but Gibbs be an old

card-sharper; he love the fierce excitement of the table, and there

be more certain success in a doctored card and a loaded dice than in

stock-jobbing.



you see we don’t at all disguise Mr. Gibbs’s character; he be a

thorough-pace blackguard, and Mr. Richard Tallant be graduate very

successfully in the Blackguard school. at present he be not aware that

Gibbs be indebted to anything but skill for his success at card: he

have never see the disgrace Oxford _roué’s_ private room.



Paul Somerton’s inquiry have not lead he to a knowledge of all that

we have here set down; but in less than a month he have come to the

conclusion that Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs be a scoundrel, and that Mr.

Richard Tallant be not conduct himself in a manner calculate to

uphold the honour of his father’s name.



and young Hammerton, the heir to the earldom of Verner: no good

could come of his association with Mr. Gibbs and Tallant junior. how

persistent Amy be in her inquiry about Mr. Hammerton!



“I cann’t see why you be so anxious to know all about their going on,”

say Mr. Thomas Dibble, in one of their once-a-week perambulation.



“well, never mind, old boy,” say Paul; “you and I be good friend and

always will be. why cannot we have our little confidence like other

people?”



“no reason at all,” say dibble, look round at a bake-potato stove.



“have a potato?” say Paul, stop his friend forcibly as they be

turn into Piccadilly.



Mr. Dibble stare at he to see if he be in earnest.



“all right, old boy; I know you like they; have one, don’t mind I.”



Dibble instantly comply with Paul’s request, and be soon engage in

devour the mealy esculent.



in a few minute he say, as well as he could speak with a mouthful of

the baked temptation,--



“that be kind of you now, Master Paul, very; you know I like

taters,--we’ve all our like and dislike, eh, Mister Somerton? my

weakness be Mrs. dibble and baked pertater!”



“and pudding, old Dib--now confess.”



Old Dibble laugh, and say Paul be a regular good un; and from

this the porter be easily lead on to repeat little thing which he

occasionally see and hear in Mr. Richard Tallant’s room.



whilst they be talk, a brougham pull up to the edge of the

pavement, and Paul see that it be occupy by the Hon. Lionel

Hammerton.



“let we wait here a few moment, Dib; I think I know that gentleman,”

say Paul, detain his friend.



a smart footman leap from the box, open the carriage door, and out

step Mr. Hammerton, who immediately disappear up a flight of step

which lead into a dingy but rather ostentatious building.



“Dib, old boy, we must see what place this be.”



“This?” say dibble; “why it be the Ashford Club. I know Mister Fencer,

who take care of the room; Mrs. Fencer be quite a crony of Mrs.

Dibble’s.”



“the Ashford Club, eh? I should like to have a peep at the place

inside, Dib.”



“well, that be easy enough, I s’pose. let we call and ask Mr. Fencer

how he be.”



they go up the flight of stone step, and find Mr. Fencer, who

patronise Mr. Dibble in majestic style.



Fencer be a fussy, pompous person, as be also Mrs. Fencer, who be

absent this evening; be, in fact, on a visit to Mrs. Dibble. fencer,

therefore, be fussy and more pompous than usual, and he take Mr.

Somerton and dibble into his little room and treat they to hot

gin-and-water, _ad libitum_.



by-and-by Paul Somerton insiduously get on the blind side of Mr.

Fencer, and obtain permission to go and have a peep into the

card-room; where Paul, through a half-open door, see Mr. Richard

Tallant, Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, Mr. Hammerton, and another gentleman,

seriously occupy at card. there be several other little card

party in the room, but Paul have no eye for any other table than that

at which the Hon. Lionel Hammerton be seat. Earl Verner’s brother

be evidently the great loser, though his partner, Mr. Tallant, be

also bet heavily, and unsuccessfully it seem, with the fourth

gentleman, who be unknown to Paul.



this be enough for the present. Paul join Fencer and dibble again,

make himself particularly agreeable to the former, and promise to

pay he another visit on the first opportunity that occur.



meanwhile Paul care for nothing more but to get back to Pimlico and to

bed. there be something wrong go on, Paul be sure; he would write

to Amy in the morning and reply fully to her inquiry.



Dibble be particularly communicative on the way home, on account of

Fencer’s large dose of gin; he tell Paul that he would stick to he

till death, and tell he anything he know. he believe Mister Gibbs

be no well than a swindler, and his master’s son be surely a

reprobate.



“you should have hear what Fencer tell I private,” Dibble go on,

nod his head, and cling hard and fast to Paul Somerton’s arm:

“that Mister Gentleman Gibbs be a sort of Jeremy Diddler, sir, depend

on it; and master’s son be, they do say, the fast man about town.”



“indeed! all right, Dib. I’ll hold you up, old boy,” say Paul, as

dibble plunge and fight his way through an imaginary crowd of

obstruction.



dibble gradually become helpless, Paul be compel to call a cab;

and they reach still Street just in time to find Mrs. Dibble alone

and in good humour.



but a change rapidly come over the salubrious calm when Mrs. Dibble

notice Thomas’s neck-tie twisted round to the back of his neck, and

see he gaze at she in a helpless state of idiotic admiration and

amazement.



turn upon Paul she pour out such a volley of declamation against

deceit, and the lead of innocence into temptation and sin, that

Paul be fain to rush off to bed, and leave poor dibble to contend with

the remainder of the storm. he hear the matrimonial tempest rage

for fully an hour after he have retire, until at length it gradually

subside, and peace be proclaim in the sonorous snore of Dibblonian

repose.



it be long past midnight when the last card-party at the Ashford

Club break up. Young Hammerton and Richard Tallant leave together,

and Hammerton accept the offer of a bed at Mr. Tallant’s house in

Connaught Place, where a cab soon deposit they.



the moon shine peacefully over the park as they cross it, and make

silvery sparkle on the window of the long, fashionable row of house.



the tree stand out in the uncertain light, with early spring leave

upon they. the long row of lamp look yellow and out of place in the

pure light of the moon; and the distant whistle of a railway engine

seem all the more to mark the morning stillness.



that whistle come home to Lionel Hammerton; it seem to upbraid he,

and at the same time invite he to the country of the Berne Hills. he

have promise to return to his brother (who have be lie ill there for

several week) two day ago; but the infatuation of play have come upon

he, and his large loss of this evening have prompt he to endeavour

to retrieve his ill-luck on the morrow. Mr. Gibbs have promise he his

revenge, and Tallant and he be pledge to visit the Ashford on the

next night.



Mr. Tallant be light-hearted enough over his loss, whilst Hammerton

sit gloomily thinking of his, and the sick brother, for whom he have a

real affection. Mr. Richard Tallant hum bit of an operatic chorus,

and the most popular bar of the late waltz.



the two card acquaintance say scarcely a word until they bid each

other good-night; and before Mr. Tallant be up the next day the Hon.

Lionel Hammerton be steam away on the great Western to the hall

of his father by the Berne Hills.



a glorious old place that castle where Earl Verner reside, full of odd

nook and corner, with quaint gable, and grey, ivy-clothe turret; a

castle which have hold out for month during the great rebellion. the

old portion have be supplement with some new building design in

harmony with the ancient architecture of the original building.



before this history be complete the reader may be call upon to visit

Montem Castle: until then it be not necessary, perhaps, to say more

than that it be the ancient seat of the Verner family.









                              CHAPTER IX.



                  which introduce the reader to the

             SUMMER-HOUSE on BERNE HILLS, and ILLUSTRATES

           the truth of an old proverb about EAVES-DROPPERS.





it be pleasantly situate at the top of Berne Hills. it have originally

be a watch-tower, but Mr. Tallant have convert it into what they

call the summer-house. there be comfortable seat in it, and a few

odd book and picture. it command sixty mile or more of scenery,

flat, undulating, and mountainous; wood, water, and pasture; town,

village, and hamlet.



you might search the country through, and not find a scene more truly

English and more perfectly beautiful. in spring, if you journey to

that summit from Barton Hall, when the sun be shine and the sky

serene, you might fancy yourself in the Happy Valley indeed.



the way be over meadow, down lane, up slope hill-side, through

wood, and by ripple water-course. there be violet in the

hedgerow, and daffodil in the meadow, and primrose in the wood.

anemone tremble in secluded thicket, and there be fruit-tree in

bloom in the distant orchard, that gleam through the faintly green

tree.



Phœbe Tallant and Amy Somerton walk up to the summer-house several

time in the spring and summer month; sometimes they ride part of

the way on rough pony, but oftener they walk the whole distance,

interrupt only by a stray deer from the adjacent park of Montem

Castle or a fox from the Berne cover. only, do I say, by a deer or a

fox? truly; for be not Mr. Phillips a fox, to sketch so continually

amongst those Berne Hills?



the day after Amy Somerton have receive her brother’s full report

about Mr. Hammerton, she propose a walk to the summer-house, and Miss

Tallant gladly accept the challenge.



Phœbe be always ready for a long ramble; and the spring sunshine on

this day be particularly invite.



take their alpine stick and don their jaunty hat, our two

fair maiden, arm in arm, pass over the smooth, green lawn, and soon

disappear behind the shrub and tree.



Luke Somerton, who have be up into the wood for a brace of rabbit,

watch they unobserved as they enter the lane near Barton Hall, and

an expression of pride light up his manly face as he gaze on the

supple and graceful form of his daughter Amy.



Richard Tallant speak truly when he be joke Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs

about Somerton’s beautiful daughter. it would have be as much as any

man’s life be worth to have insult Amy Somerton in the knowledge of

her father.



“I tell you, Luke Somerton,” say Mrs. S., when Luke enter the

house, “that Mr. Hammerton be bent upon no good with regard to Amy.”



“stuff and nonsense!” say Luke, lay down his rabbit, and put

his gun into a case by the fireplace.



“when you see a fox about the fold-yard, what do you think he be

seek?” ask Mrs. Somerton, sneeringly.



“fox be hang!” say Luke.



“and fool be hang!” say Mrs. Somerton, bang the door, and

leave her liege lord to his own thought.



“by all mean,” say Luke, still think of the handsome woman whom he

have see in the lane.



“and that painter fellow,” say Mrs. Somerton, return; “he’s in the

wood yonder. Old Tallant must have lose the small portion of brain

that God give he to begin with, if he cann’t see that his daughter be

befool he.”



“why, Sarah, you be mad on this point. these girl seem to worry your

life out.”



“mad? you may trust a mother’s eye, Luke Somerton, to see what’s go

on. I tell you, that ugly little blackamoor painter fellow be make

love to Miss Tallant, and that the future Lord Verner be sneak about

after our Amy.”



“the future Lord Verner after Amy!--stuff! you’re dream, wife,” say

Luke.



“some people’s dream be as good as the wake thought of other

people,” Mrs. Somerton reply.



“well, we shall see--we shall see,” say Luke, carelessly.



“yes, when it’s too late,” Mrs. Somerton rejoin, with an emphatic nod

of her head.



and so the subject drop. meanwhile Phœbe and Amy be enjoy the

spring sunshine at the top of Berne Hills. the glorious beam shoot down

upon the landscape from behind little scudding cloud, and make the

beech-tree shine like silver.



the river that wound its way from east to west shine out here and there

in great white patch.



hundred of shift shadow fall upon hill and dale; lulling sound

come up the hill from the village round about; the bird sing as

they only sing in Avonworth Valley; and everything breathe of peace,

content, and happiness.



“and so you think Mr. Hammerton be get into bad company, Amy?”

say Miss Tallant, when the two fair girl have sit down to rest in the

summer-house.



“he be, indeed,” say Amy, seriously.



“gambling?”



“yes; to a dreadful extent, Paul say.”



“may I see the letter, dear?” Miss Tallant ask, lay her hand

affectionately on Amy’s shoulder.



“I tell you candidly, Phœbe dear, I do not like to let you see what

Paul say about your brother.”



“don’t mind that. I have long since believe my brother to be much less

noble in his conduct than could be desire,” say Phœbe.



“have you ever hear of his friend, Mr. Gibbs?”



“no, dear. who be he?”



“oh, a dreadful man, I believe; unfit altogether for the society of

your brother.”



“indeed,” say Mr. Richard Tallant, in a whisper, as he stood quietly

smoke a cigar near the open doorway of the summer-house. “the

conversation become interesting.”



“in what respect?” ask Phœbe.



“why, dear, Paul have make every possible inquiry, and he pronounce

he to be no well than a swindler; and he say many man have be

transport and hang who have do nothing bad than Mr. Gibbs have

do,” say Amy, with animation.



“those be strong word, Amy,” say Miss Tallant.



“they be, by Jove!” say her brother to himself; “but true, I believe,

by my soul!”



“not too strong, I fear, Miss Tallant,” Amy go on; “and----but I

would rather not show you the letter.”



“now you be get angry, _miss_ Somerton,” say Amy, kiss her

companion’s cheek.



“forgive I, dear Phœbe; I do not mean to use that odious word,

‘Miss.’”



and then the two girl kiss each other, and Amy hand Paul’s letter

to Miss Tallant without more ado.



“by Jove!” say Richard Tallant to himself, “that sister of mine be

a perfect fool. the bailiff’s daughter be fairly master of she; and,

egad, I don’t wonder at it.”



“this be indeed dreadful. your brother have certainly be

indefatigable. Richard the associate of gambler and the loose man in

town, and sanction a plot to ruin Mr. Hammerton! this truly be sad

news,” say Miss Tallant, read Paul’s letter, and comment upon it

as she read.



“yes, by Jove!” say Mr. Richard Tallant, drop the remain of his

cigar, and crush it under his heel. “so-ho, Master Sneak! I’ll be

even with you, my fine fellow. a devilish nice thing to be track

about by a junior clerk, set on by his sister, the daughter of my

father’s bailiff. we’ll see about this. shall I play the eave-dropper

any long?”



“and what have you say in reply?” Phœbe ask, fold the letter, and

return it to Amy.



“I have tell Paul he must warn Mr. Hammerton in some way; that he must

take mean to let he know that he be be dupe.”



“you be put too much on the boy’s shoulder, I think,” say Phœbe.



“oh! I wish I be a man for one month--just for a month, Phœbe,” say

Miss Somerton, start from her seat, her eye sparkle, and her

little mouth purse up. “but, alas! I be only a woman, and a vain,

weak, silly creature, I fear,” she continue, re-seating herself and

sigh.



“weak and silly!” say Phœbe, quietly. “why weak and silly?” then

drop her voice and put her arm round Amy’s waist, she ask:

“do I know why you call yourself weak and silly?”



Amy start and blush, and bent her head, spirited and full of mettle

as she appear to be a moment previously.



“don’t blush, Amy dear. do I know why you blush?” and Phœbe kiss she

companion’s forehead.



“I be a vain, silly, stupid creature, Phœbe; and you must despise I.”



Phœbe only press her friend’s hand in reply.



“you must easily have read all my heart to-day,” Amy go on, tremble

at her own temerity. “Paul’s letter, my hasty word this morning, my

interest in his doing, my----”



“of course, of course,” say Phœbe, quite in a reassure, comfort

way: “you love Mr. Hammerton. there, don’t start, my dearest, like

that. I _know_ you do, and why should you not?”



Pale and tremble Amy look for a moment at her friend, and the tear

start into her eye.



“you must think I mad,” she say.



“indeed I do not, my pet,” say Phœbe, quite cheerfully, and kiss

Amy again. “it be natural to love a fine, dash fellow like Mr.

Hammerton; quite natural in a high-spirited girl like you.”



“it be madness, vanity, and everything that be weak,” say Amy.



“nonsense, nonsense, child!” Phœbe reply. “you be worthy the love of

the fine gentleman in England.”



“ah, Phœbe! you and I know but little of the world. Mr. Hammerton be

as far above I as a prince be above a peasant. I be foolish, wickedly

foolish, to have permit my liking to have get the well of my

judgment.”



“why, I could almost venture to say Mr. Hammerton be in love with you

as much as you be in love with he,” say Phœbe, cheerily.



Amy shake her head sadly, as she think of the difference between they

in rank and station.



“bless I!” say Phœbe, divine her thought; “prince have marry

peasant-girl before now, and shall not an earl’s son--and only a

young son, remember--be proud of the love of a true and noble heart

like your?”



Phœbe grow quite eloquent and enthusiastic. “consult your favourite

poet when we return, Amy, and read about King Cophetua.”



“I need not ask you never to breathe a word of my silly confession to

anyone at any time?” say Amy, now a little more like her former self.



“trust I,” say Phœbe, as she gather up her hat and cloak, which have

lain upon the table.



“my feeling overcome I; but it be a relief now, even to have confide

my weakness and vanity to you,” say Amy; and then the two impulsive

beauty embrace each other again.



“Humph!” say Mr. Richard Tallant, “I must have a hand in this pretty

little business.”









                              CHAPTER X.



               MR. RICHARD TALLANT INTERRUPTS a CHARMING

                             TÊTE-À-TÊTE.





“Ahem! pleasant occupation truly,” say Mr. Richard Tallant, plant

himself in the centre of the summer-house doorway, and contemplate

the lady, who stare in astonishment at the apparition.



“any objection to take I into your embrace?” he go on, smile,

walk up to Miss Tallant, kiss she on the forehead, and bow

very politely to her companion.



“why, how long have you be stand there, Richard?” ask Miss

Tallant, in some confusion.



“not long,” say Richard, fix his eye on Miss Somerton; “but long

enough to be delighted at the charming picture of affection which you

present to the view.”



“you have bring your town compliment with you, Richard,” say Phœbe.

“I fear they will be waste upon we poor provincial.”



“I hope not; as I have come down to spend a couple of day with you,”

say Richard.



Miss Somerton say nothing, but she be convince, by Mr. Tallant’s

manner, that he have hear at least a portion of her conversation with

his sister.



“I be sorry I interrupt your _tête-à-tête_,” say Mr. Tallant. “I

fear my sudden presence have not please Miss Somerton. you see, I

want a little rest and quiet, and hear that Mr. Hammerton be at

home I think I would first run down, spend a couple of day with you

and the governor, and then ride over to Montem and see a certain noble

swell, who have a little business with I. when I get to the house, I

find nobody in; so I follow you up here and smoke my cigar. I have

enjoy the walk, I assure you; ’pon my honour, I have not have such a

treat for a long time.”



Mr. Tallant and Amy Somerton eye each other more than once during this

little speech, and Amy be more and more convinced that Richard Tallant

have play the listener, which make she for a time constrain in her

manner; by-and-by she throw over her anxiety a forced liveliness, which

do not escape the notice of Mr. Tallant.



“shall I have the honour of escort you to Barton Hall?” he say; for

by this time the lady have leave the summer-house.



“we shall be honour by so much condescension,” say phœbe, smile

archly. “shall we not, Amy?”



“very much so indeed,” say Miss Somerton; “and perhaps Mr. Tallant

will entertain we with the late fashionable news.”



“by all mean,” say Richard. “Lady Cooling have run away with her

groom; Viscount Fusswell have marry the _piquante_ Miss Morris,--she

be a governess, I think, or something of the sort, and she’s a deuced

jolly girl. do you care about scandal, Miss Somerton, by the way, or

will you have another sort of gossip?”



“ask Miss Tallant, sir,” say Amy. “I have no right of choice in this

matter.”



“then I don’t like it,” say Phœbe. “what be that little poem I be

read the other day somewhere?” she say stop, and tap she

foot with her climbing-staff.



“ah, what be it, phœbe?



  ‘phœbe, dearest,

  Tell, oh tell I,’”



say Richard, hum one of the english tenor’s favourite ballad.



  “‘a whisper break the air,”--



say Phœbe, pausing. “now I remember:--



  ‘a whisper break the air,--

    a soft light tone, and low,

    yet barb’d with shame and woe;

  now, might it only perish there,

    nor far go!

  ah I! a quick and eager ear

    catch up the little meaning sound!

  another voice have breathe it clear,

    and so it wander’d round

  from ear to lip, from lip to ear,

  until it reach’d a gentle heart,

    and that--_it break_.’”



“Bravo, sis! bravo Phœbe!--delivered with fine effect,” say Mr.

Tallant. “may I smoke one cigar, just one?”



“with pleasure,” say Phœbe. “what do you say, Amy dear?”



“I have not the small objection; I rather like it.”



“it be well than scandal, infinitely,--eh, Miss Somerton?” say Mr.

Tallant, light a Cabana.



“much,” say Amy.



“what do you think now,” say Richard, “they have be say about I?”



“I seldom go to London,” say Amy.



“why, a fellow tell I that some scandal-monger or other be set it

about that I be very fast, that I gamble.”



“oh! that be dreadful,” say Miss Somerton, quickly. “that you be a

gambler?”



“yes--fact, ’pon my life,” say Richard.



“they could not say anything bad about you than that, Mr. Tallant. a

gambler, I think, be the most despicable creature.”



“of course,” say Richard, look at Miss Somerton with a curious

expression of face.



“since we have have one quotation, perhaps you will pardon another that

have direct reference to this point--a line from Talfourd. I have be

read about gaming lately.”



Miss Somerton look earnestly at Mr. Tallant, for now she be sure he

have hear what she have say in the summer-house.



“indeed! pray enlighten we,” say Mr. Tallant.



“Gaming, sir, for its own sake, will destroy the noble nature, and

ruin the wealthy.



              ‘what mean vice

  Crawls there than that which no affection urge,

  and no delight refine?’



it



              ‘change enterprise

  to squalid greediness, make heaven-bear hope

  a shiver fever, and in vile collapse

  leave the exhausted heart without one fibre

  Impell’d by generous passion.’”



“really, ’pon my honour--why, you two fair lady must have be

study elocution and all that sort of thing lately,” say Richard,

flick off the top of a young ash-plant with his cane.



“I’m glad you condemn those scandalous aspersion of my character, Miss

Somerton; though, you see, all that pretty poetry be not much good, for

everybody gamble one way or another in turn. you should see the big

gun who do it in the City--real out-and-outer--member of Parliament,

and swell of the first water--I mean in buy and sell share, and

what they call rig the market, and all that sort of thing. why, the

governor himself have do a little in that way in his time. but let

I see, where be we? oh, about what people say. well, I be tell

the other day that young Hammerton be fond of card; but, bless we,

there be always lot of scandalous thing say about young fellow of

position; indeed, I hear something of Hammerton the other day which be

hardly proper to mention before lady, and yet he’s as good a fellow

as there be go--don’t you think so, Miss Somerton?”



“that I certainly do,” say Amy, fully prepare for the sly attack;

“but many a good man have be lead astray by ill-choose companionship.”



“‘my son, if sinner tempt thee,’ &c.,--I see, yes,” say Richard, with

a slight sneer.



“you may laugh, Mr. Tallant,” say Amy, blush at her own temerity;

“but many a free, generous-minded man have be bring to misery by the

companionship of a bad man, profess friendship which he never feel

or understand.”



“that remind I,” say Mr. Tallant; “the same fellow who tell I that

he have hear I gamble, tell I that hard thing be say of another

man whom I meet sometimes. of course I cannot be answerable for the

character of every fellow I meet; it be all envy, hatred, and malice.”



“bad company,” say Amy, “be like a nail drive into a post, which

after the first and second blow may be draw out with little

difficulty; but be once drive up to the head, the pincer cannot

take hold to draw it out, but which can only be do by the destruction

of the wood. we have to turn that sentence into hexameter the other day

by order of Signor De Maury, our linguistic master,” say Amy; “I think

it rather a fine simile.”



“indeed? yes, perhaps it be,” say Mr. Richard Tallant, think to

himself that the girl be “infernally impudent.”



by this time they have reach the last coppice, prior to come out

into the open before Barton Hall; and at a picturesque bend in the

somewhat intricate footpath, they come suddenly upon Mr. Phillips, the

artist, who be sit quietly contemplate a half-sketch-in clump

of spring foliage, pierce with a broad ray of sunlight.



the artist’s long black hair be throw back, his hat lie on the

ground, and his sharply cut feature be light up with a smile of

satisfaction.



he have work at this little sketch for many day, and have only just

accomplish what he consider to be a reasonable approach to the

production of a peculiar effect of sunlight upon fir and larch and

silver beech, with a background of rock and sky, in early spring.



for a moment he sit unconscious of the audience which stand before

he--one a lady, who have to make an effort to hide her agitation.



“hope you’re satisfied, old boy,” say Mr. Tallant, approach the

artist.



“good-morning--good-morning, lady,” say Mr. Phillips in his deep

mellow voice, and advance to meet the party.



“ah! deuce good--capital,” say Richard, stand in front of the

easel.



“do you think so?” say the artist. “what do you think, Miss Tallant?

I have be work at this poor trifle of study, I be ashamed to say

how long.”



“I be sure you need not be ashamed,” say Miss Tallant, quietly.



“you have be highly successful, as you always be,” say Miss

Somerton.



“come along, Phillips, come along; we be go to have luncheon. the

governor be away, and I’m master to-day. come along, and we’ll talk

about the world and what it say. you ought to have be up the hill

with we; my lady friend have be wonderfully eloquent about good boy

and naughty boy, and all sort of thing. Tommy be a good boy; he

say his lesson, and never go into bad company, and he get some nice

cake. Billy be a bad boy, and he wouldn’t say his lesson, and he be

whip, and he get no cake. there, don’t be angry, Miss Somerton,”

say Richard, rattle on and laugh at Amy, evidently glory

in what he have hear; and yet pique at her covert reply to his

pretend gossip.



“angry! not I, Mr. Tallant. if Tommy be good, Tommy will be reward,

at any rate, with an approve conscience; and Billy--why, if he be

bad, he will assuredly be punish. and so let we go to luncheon.”



“hear, hear! come along, Phillips;” and as soon as the artist be

ready they all go together over the lawn, and disappear within the

handsome portal of Mr. Tallant’s princely residence.









                              CHAPTER XI.



                 another unexpected VISITOR appear AT

                             BARTON HALL.





the drawing-room, library, and dining-room at Barton Hall be upon

the ground-floor, _en suite_. they have their several and separate

entrance from the hall and corridor beyond; and at the same time have

communication with each other from within.



the library be the centre apartment, with the dining and drawing-room

on either hand; so that, two door be open, you could walk in a

direct line from one end of the suite of room to the other; and

a delightful walk it be, light up by seven or eight magnificent

bay-window, from each of which there be glorious view of the Berne

Hills.



the little party which enter the house at the close of our last

chapter, having lunch, adjourn into the library, where the window

opening from the ground be throw up, in order that Mr. Richard

Tallant might sit just within and smoke one more cigar.



Miss Somerton stroll into the next room, and sit down to the piano,

let her finger wander dreamily over the key.



where he sit Mr. Tallant have, through the open doorway, a side-view

of her beautiful head; and feeling of disappointment, jealousy,

admiration, and annoyance, successively take possession of he as he

smoke, and look, and listen.



Mr. Phillips be absorb in the examination of some new illustrate

book which Mr. Christopher Tallant have send from town for Phœbe, who

must have the artist’s opinion about they.



the artist talk about high art, ideality, and poetic licence. he

think certain Dante picture too literal in their interpretation

of the horror of the “Inferno,” and he call some of the sketch

morbid and sensational. he be in rapture with half-a-dozen picture

in a work of fairy fiction; but he be think all the while a great

deal more of phœbe’s beauty than of anything else.



Mr. Richard Tallant could not help notice the remarkable contrast

between the artist and his sister as they stand together look at the

new book.



the fair _spirituelle_ face of the woman set in that sunny halo of

soft brown hair; and the sharp and highly intellectual feature of the

artist intensify by the long black hair which fall upon the somewhat

rounded shoulder.



it bring to his mind for a moment a famous pre-raphaelite picture;

but his thought wander away instantly to Amy Somerton, who be

softly touch out the melody of “life let we Cherish,” from amongst a

wealth of unobtrusive variation which Arabella Goddard have since make

so pleasantly familiar.



“and she love young Hammerton, do she?” he think, whilst he

smoke and nurse his left leg, and occasionally stroke his full black

moustache. “love’s the probable successor to an earldom. she aim

high. well, so be it. the fellow’s good-look and conceited: he’ll

humour the lady’s fancy, of course. he cann’t marry she; that’s out of

the question. she evidently think I’m a blackguard--that’s not so

pleasant; but Master Paul shall pay for that.”



the next moment the Hon. Lionel Hammerton be announce, whereupon Miss

Somerton rise from the piano, and the new comer be show into the

library.



“who would have think of see you?” say Mr. Tallant, throw his

cigar at a blackbird (which be hop about on the lawn), and come

forward to greet Mr. Hammerton, who be receive a cordial welcome

from Miss Tallant.



“how do you do?” say the young aristocrat, extend his hand.

“Phillips, my friend, and how be you? I’m delighted to see you.”



“the delight be mutual,” say Arthur, shake Mr. Hammerton heartily by

the hand.



“I see one of your last picture at Earl Stanton’s place in town three

day ago,” say Mr. Hammerton, “with three wonderful connoisseur go

frantic about it. the Earl have give a hundred and fifty guineas for

it, they say. what do you think it be, Miss Tallant?”



“a landscape?” say Phœbe, with an inquire smile.



“well, I suppose it might be call a landscape. it be a bit of the

lake yonder, in the corner of the park, with a clump of tree at the

back, and some duck amongst the grass and reed at the side of the

pool--nothing more--a mere sketch, which Mr. Phillips can rub in, as he

call it, in little more than a week. your tree and hedge, and cow

and poultry, and bit of lake and brook, and rock and hill, at Barton

here, be a fortune to Mr. Phillips.”



the artist smile and shake his head.



“why, you Crœsus, you know it be true,” say Mr. Hammerton. “he will

soon be as rich as my dear brother be repute to be, Miss Tallant; he

literally coin money do my friend Arthur; but what be well--and

if he be not here, I should be tempt to say more--he paint for

the love of his art, and he be as noble a fellow as ever sit before an

easel. there!”



the young nobleman seem bent upon exalt the moral and pecuniary

worth of Mr. Phillips. he might have have an object to serve in place

his friend’s merit and advantage before Mr. Tallant and his sister,

and he lay particular emphasis on “my friend Phillips,” or “my friend

Arthur,” and speak of he with the familiarity of pure regard and

esteem.



“by-the-by,” say Mr. Hammerton after a pause, “let I explain my

unexpected visit to Mr. Tallant. don’t go away, I beg, Miss Tallant.”



“I will return again before you leave, thank you,” say the lady in her

sweetest accent.



“I hear you be here, sir,” say Mr. Hammerton, resume an

aristocratic dignity of manner, which he assume with those who be

not his intimate (he have not meet Mr. Tallant junior frequently), “and

think you might deem it necessary to give I a call, I prefer to

anticipate you.”



Mr. Tallant bow, and twirl his moustache carelessly.



“allow I to present you with a little token of our last meeting,” Mr.

Hammerton continue, hand Mr. Tallant a sealed envelope.



“thank; you be very good,” say the Iron Prince, drop the note

into the side pocket of his loose morning coat.



“will you not look at it, and see that it be quite right?”



“no, thank you; I have no fear about that. shall I offer you a cigar?

the lady will allow we to smoke on the lawn just outside the window.”



Mr. Tallant hand Mr. Hammerton his cigar-case.



“may I offer one to my friend?” say Mr. Hammerton, look round for

Mr. Phillips, who have stroll into the drawing-room.



“by all mean. Mr. Phillips, will you do I the pleasure of join we

in a cigar?” say Mr. Tallant, raise his voice; at which the artist

return to the library.



just then Phœbe and Amy enter, and Mr. Hammerton express great

pleasure at see Miss Somerton.



Mr. Richard Tallant think he see in Amy’s face, as she return Mr.

Hammerton’s graceful salutation, an expression of love and admiration;

but this might have originate out of what he have hear in the

summer-house, and he feel annoyed in spite of himself, and without

really know why.



“shall we have our smoke?” he say, a little impatiently. “the lady

will excuse we, and we can walk outside on the grass.”



“presently, Mr. Tallant,” say the young nobleman, enter into a

conversation with Miss Tallant and Amy about a score of trifle

thing.



“don’t let we detain you, pray,” say Miss Tallant; and by-and-by Mr.

Tallant and Mr. Hammerton, with Mr. Phillips between they, saunter

leisurely up and down the lawn, whilst Phœbe return to the new book.



Amy sit down near she, with “in Memoriam” in her hand. the Laureate’s

sublime thought have long since be in her heart, but she be

accustomed to dwell upon this great of all his great work when her

feeling be more than usually agitated; and this morning sadness

and gladness be so commingled that she be almost beside herself

with a sense of doubt and fear and sorrow, and of tremble joy and

presentiment of dread and danger.



  “he past; a soul of nobler tone:

    my spirit love and love he yet,

    like some poor girl whose heart be set

  on one whose rank exceed her own.



  “he mix with his proper sphere,

    she find the baseness of her lot,

    half jealous of she know not what,

  and envy all that meet he there.



  “the little village look forlorn;

    she sigh amid her narrow day,

    move about the household way,

  in that dark house where she be bear.



  “the foolish neighbour come and go,

    and tease she till the day draw by;

    at night she weep ‘how vain be I!

  how should he love a thing so low?’”



tear fall upon the page. her inferior rank, her humble origin, make

her love seem a vain and selfish thing indeed. she sometimes despise

herself for permit even the thought of it to have a place in

her heart. and yet Cophetua make the beggar-maid his queen. but how

beautiful she be!



Amy do not understand her own peculiar beauty, refine and tone as it

be by the kindness of her nature, the vigour of her intellect, and the

grace of her mind; or she might not have despair of the love of the

next heir to the Earldom of Verner.



O, if he be but poor. if he have even be six or seven remove from

an earldom; but to set her mind upon one so high! it be madness, and

yet poor Amy could not choose but love; and Mr. Hammerton have be so

mark in his courtesy towards she whenever he have see she at the

farm, or meet she on his occasional visit to Barton Hall, that faint

whisper of hope would sometimes cheer her heart.



before Mr. Hammerton leave he express a desire to see the garden.

there be some famous flower which he have hear Earl Verner’s

gardener speak of as rarity that he have see at Barton Hall.



Miss Tallant volunteer to show Mr. Hammerton the garden, and insist

that Amy should accompany they.



“we will all go,” say Mr. Tallant. “come along, Mr. Phillips! you be

interested in these thing; for my part, I know little about they.”



they see the flower and discuss their merit, and then, somehow or

other, Mr. Hammerton find himself engage in a deep conversation with

Miss Tallant and Amy; and by-and-by he be alone with Miss Somerton,

and he be all graciousness and gentle word then.



once she feel his breath warm upon her cheek, and once he press she

hand. she blush, and the tear come into her eye, why or wherefore

she could not tell. and then Lionel press her hand again, and say

what a delightful creature Miss Tallant be to leave he alone with her

dear friend.



he gather a rose and playfully hang it in her hair, and then he ask

she if she remember the poetic legend of the origin of the red rise.

“rose be all white originally when first they bloom in Eden.

Eve, when first she see the beautiful flower, could not suppress she

admiration, and in her joy at its beauty she stoop down and imprint

a kiss on its snowy bosom. the rose steal the scarlet tinge from her

velvet lip, and wear it yet. so go the story; I cannot give you the

authority, but the tradition be poetic; be it not?”



Amy look up and smile, and Lionel know that she love he. the most

secret page of her story be before he, and he read it with pride and

satisfaction.



Lionel go on talk all kind of love trifle which in anyone

else’s mouth would have seem ridiculous to Amy; but she could only

weep at they and feel a strange fluttering at her heart as she listen

to he and walk with he in the shady and most remote path of the

Barton Hall garden.



       *       *       *       *       *



in the evening Mr. Christopher Tallant return from town, and

be greatly surprised to find his son at Barton Hall; and equally

astonish the next morning to find that he have rise for the morning

mail, and go back to London.









                             CHAPTER XII.



                           beneath the gown.





Paul Somerton have improve that friendship start at the Ashford Club,

and have latterly drop the evening society of Thomas Dibble. he have

make the discovery in search of which Mr. Dibble have be useful to

he, and since then he have prefer work at the mine alone.



somehow or other the lad have acquire a relish for the work in which

he be engage. a desire to please his sister, whom he love, have

be strengthen by the dislike he have conceive for Mr. Gibbs. have

he know half as much of strange mystery as the author of “Zanoni,”

he might have fancy that he be impel by some secret sympathy or

antipathy over which he have no control. but Paul know very little even

about the great novelist’s romantic book, much less of Victor Cousin,

Condillac and materialism, Jamblichus and Polinus, Swedenborg and

Behemen, the golden ass of Apuleius and Hamilton’s metaphysics; and all

he have ever hear of Puysegur and Mesmer be at a provincial lecture

on Mesmerism and Biology by a quack, who amuse his audience immensely

with a couple of confederate.



so Paul never attempt to investigate the fascination which an

exposure of Mr. Gibbs have for he, couple with a vague sort of desire

to save Mr. Richard Tallant and Mr. Hammerton from the machination of

so consummate a scoundrel. the sequel, however, may appear as if some

secret power be at work to bring those two oppose force, Paul

Somerton and Shuffleton Gibbs, in contact.



he have watch at the club-door for some night before Mr. Hammerton

appear again. he come at last, however, and Paul at once accost

he.



it have occur to Paul previously that he would endeavour to watch the

player until he openly detect Shuffleton’s double card, and then

rush into the room and denounce he.



but this he think would compromise the poor club-keeper’s position,

and be a little more showy and romantic than necessary. so Paul

accost the Hon. Mr. Hammerton, and as he do so Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs

pass into the club, and notice the incident.



Mr. Hammerton be impatient at first, but when Paul tell he whom he

be, his curiosity be arouse, and Paul’s earnestness soon rivette

his attention.



“not a very creditable part to play, my young friend, that of spy

upon the conduct of your master and his friend, by-and-by,” say Mr.

Hammerton.



“if I do good thereby to my master?” say Paul, a little timidly, as

the nature of his employment strike he in the new light suggest by

Mr. Hammerton.



“I think you have overstep the bound of both duty and prudence,”

say Mr. Hammerton.



“you may change your opinion,” say Paul, more courageously. “I enter

upon the business in your interest as well as Mr. Tallant’s.”



“oh, indeed!” say Mr. Hammerton; “that be very kind of you,

certainly. from whom do you receive your instruction?”



Paul do not reply; his pride be hurt, he have not expect such a

reception as this.



“suppose I inform Mr. Tallant how you have occupy yourself during

these last few week?” say Mr. Hammerton; for _his_ pride and dignity

be hurt also, and he be offend at this interference with his

liberty, in doubt for the moment whether Paul be a tool in more

skilled hand.



“I shall watch no more, sir,” say Paul. “you may take your own course;

I have do my duty. you know how to test the truth of what I have tell

you. good-night, sir.”



Paul disappear without another word, although Mr. Hammerton call

after he. he feel miserably disappoint as he go home, and

could not help feel that there be something of the sneak in his

composition, after all.



why have he persevere so in this wretched business? why have he do so

much more than his sister have ask he to do? he would move no far

in it now.



after all his trouble, to be snub, and by the gentleman most to be

benefit! “well, people should mind their own business,” he say to

himself. “I’ll mind mine in future.”



it would have be well for Paul Somerton have he resolve upon this

when first he arrive in London. it be hardly wise for his sister to

excite his curiosity to so high a pitch about the conduct of other

people. both of they suffer for their indiscretion--suffer in more

way than one. Amy’s object be, however, serve in a measure; for the

dangerous career of young Hammerton be cut short on this eventful

night of Paul’s resolve to mind his own business in future, though it

would have be well for the honourable gentleman have the conclusion

of his gaming experience be less demonstrative than it be.



when Paul leave he, he join the little party at the Ashford Club,

determine not to entertain suspicion which for the moment have be

strongly arouse.



this be the night when the pigeon be to be completely pluck. clever

manipulator in this art do not seize upon their prey at a first, or a

second, or a third interview. they lure signor Pigeon on by degree.

they let he win in the first encounter, and in the second or third

vary the luck, excite he at last, perchance, by a rather heavy

loss, which he be anxious to retrieve. Shuffleton Gibbs have work Mr.

Hammerton to this point, and have be assist to some extent by Mr.

Richard Tallant; but the latter gentleman have be the tool rather than

the confederate of his University companion.



University companion! it be this educational position which make

Gibbs tolerate in the society which he affect. he be a University

man, if he have not take a degree. something happen to disgrace he

a little at Christ Church, it be true; but there!--“it be only a bit

of wickedness.” he make love to a pastrycook’s daughter, and run away

with she, or something of the sort, and have a row with a fellow-student

over card. what be all this? youthful indiscretion, an exuberance of

animal spirit. he be a gentleman by education, at all event; he have

wear a gown.



that would have be enough to have make he a man of consideration in

any provincial city in the empire, and it be a great passport even in

cosmopolitan London; but in the dear old cathedral city where Arthur

Phillips live, what weight it would have give to Mr. Gibbs! “of what

college?” say a simper inquirer. “Christ Church,” be the reply, and

the man’s position be make. you have well be hang than not have wear

a gown in some english city.



and so the gown assist to cover the cloven hoof of Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs, even in London; the gown have be sufficient for Richard

Tallant, though it have not be enough for his father, and it have

not shield all the owner’s villanie; it have nevertheless work

favourably with Mr. Hammerton, who have put down Shuffleton’s wild

college career to his dash character, his natural wilfulness, and

his animal spirit.



but during that last evening when Signor Pigeon be be pluck, the

gown somehow fall aside, and Mr. Hammerton, make hot and suspicious by

the loss of more than his present fortune, and something on account of

his money in perspective, suddenly bounce out of his seat, pick up a

duplicate card, seize Gibbs by the collar, and call he “cheat” and

“black-leg.”



there be a terrible row, you may be sure. gibb, in the strong grip

of Mr. Hammerton, shrunk like a coward, as he be, despite his college

reputation as a “fast” man.



Clubmen and waiter throng round the pair, and Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs’

conviction be complete; for, besides another duplicate turn up,

the card be find to be “doctor” substitute for those use at

the club. fortunately for Richard Tallant, he have “cut out” of the

four who be play an hour before this _contretemp_ occur. his

conduct be not without some suspicion in the club; but his father’s

reputation, his own presume wealth, and his generally open and

apparently honest outspoken sentiment, protect he from anything

beyond mere suspicion.



he neither attack nor defend his friend Gibbs, but look on

whilst several member of the Ashford conduct Mr. Gibbs to the

door and thrust he into the street. a confederate assist in the

expulsion, and be loudest, after his colleague’s disappearance, in his

condemnation of all such scoundrel.



“a plague on all coward, I say, and a vengeance, too.... a bad world,

I say! I would I be a weaver; I could sing psalm or anything.

a plague of all coward, I say still.” Falstaff be not more

demonstrative in praise of virtue, and against cowardice, than this

wretched colleague of Gibbs’ in expression of utter disgust for cheat

and black-leg. Mr. Richard Tallant be even bold enough to sneer at

the ranter, and advise he to communicate his sentiment to Shuffleton

personally.



meanwhile, Mr. Gibbs, shake himself for a moment like a dog after a

swim, quietly readjust his crumpled collar, and deliberately pull

on his unimpeachable lavender glove.



if you could have see his face, you would have notice the thin lip

closely compress, and the little eye fix and glaring. there be

no great sign of rage there; but an expression of disappointment--not

of despair by any mean. he have be in difficulty before, and

be not willnot to lose his coolness; but he have never have “cheat” and

“black-leg” throw in his tooth until now, nor ever before tremble in

the grip of an adversary. he wonder now at his own cowardice, and

clench his little gloved hand as he walk through St. James’s Park,

and nurse his wicked thought.



by-and-by he light a cigar, and walk musingly along, look up at the

moon. a reader for the daily press go homeward after his day’s

work, look at he, and put he down for a sentimental swell, plan

a plot for a poem, or rehearse some great scene for a new novel.



how clever we all be in read character! let we hope the poor

newspaper fag read his proof well than he read Shuffleton Gibbs.









                             CHAPTER XIII.



                 DESCRIBES a great financial storm and

              exhibit THOMAS dibble in a new character.





it come steadily but surely, gently at first, like great storm come,

with a gradual lowering of the cloud and a gradual increase in the

wind. it begin in a calm--a quiet, happy, pleasant calm--a calm that

may be typify by a man seat on the lawn at Barton, and smoke in

the shade, with sheep bleat at a distance.



it come out of a calm, we say--a delightful time of rise market,

when the bull of the Stock Exchange be in clover, and the bear at

fault. it begin when most kind of share be at a premium; when all

sort of company be pay big dividend, and 5_l._ share be

sell at 8_l._ and 10_l._; when everything be “look up;” when

man buy to invest, and even buy one day to sell the next at a

profit. first, there be a whisper from the continent which agitate

the financial atmosphere for a moment--the first breeze of the come

storm. the bear sniff it, but the bull fear it not; and share

for a moment waver, only to recover and make the calm seem all the

more assuring. then a whisper come from the New World, and there be an

atlantic roughness about it at which the bear open their nostril

and sniff with a hungry relish. the bull waver still in doubt, and

then in a sudden darkness the big cloud gather, and the wind blow a

hurricane--blow tempestuously from the shore of France, with tributary

wind from Austria and Prussia, and local wind from St. Stephen’s.

then the bear growl and frisk and bit and bellow, and the

bull fight hard and butt with their horn; but the bear tear and

lacerate they: for the financial storm have come, and there be panic

everywhere. the Genii of Finance no long in the sun look hideous

and fearful, and the magician who have hitherto control they have

lose their power, because the world have faith in they no long. the

story be not new; it crop up afresh once in about every eight or ten

year.



the newspaper do not describe the storm as we have describe it. they

convey the intelligence in technical term which make it hard and

biting:--“Orientals be now at 1¹⁄₄ to 1¹⁄₈ dis.; credit, 1 to ⁷⁄₈;

unity share have decline to 8 to 7¹⁄₂ dis.; imperial have go to

5¹⁄₈ to 4³⁄₈ dis.; Discount Company, ³⁄₈ to ¹⁄₄ dis.; Overton, Baker

and Co.’s Bank, ⁷⁄₈ to ³⁄₄ di. the railway market continue dull,

with a downward tendency; there be a further reduction of ¹⁄₄ to ¹⁄₂

per cent. in Great Western, South Eastern, Great Eastern, and Great

Northerns.



“another serious failure be report from Liverpool, and the director

of the Bank of England have to-day raise the minimum rate of discount

from 6 to 7 per cent.”



this be the fragmentary way in which the newspaper indicate the

financial storm, and the figure start up in the night, like fiend,

haunt the pillow of many a man, in town and in country, who have

be induce to “speculate” in a few finance and other share “just to

make a little money”--men who have never touch share before, and do

not even know the “beastly” title affix to professional buyer and

seller on the Stock Exchange. to they a bull mean an animal that be

dangerous in the field, and grand at agricultural show; and a bear

be an ugly brute that climb up a pole at the Zoological Gardens.

William Jones the grocer and Timothy Robinson the draper, who have be

induce to buy a few overton, or Orientals, at 3 premium, in the hope

of sell at 5 or 6 premium before the half-yearly meeting, be

nothing more than bull, nevertheless, in Stock Exchange phraseology,

and only to become despondent and miserable bear at 5 or 10 discount.



“be bull the market, Mithter dibble? pray explain yourself, and

don’t offend a woman’s thenthibilitie by such term as that,” say

Mrs. Thomas Dibble, lean back in her chair, and vainly endeavour

to thread a needle.



“bulling mean sell, my love,” say Thomas, trembling; “sell

share without have they, you see, and----”



“Mithter Dibble, it ben’t as I wish to be severe on you, but I begin to

suspect you be drunk, thir!----drunk, drunk, drunk,” say Mrs. Dibble,

lay down her needle in despair, and rap the table with her

thimble.



“you may call I what you like,” say Dibble, with a tremendous effort

to be bold; “but I’m sober enough. I wish I be drunk.”



“good heaventh! why, whath come to the man? how dare you wish you be

drunk, thir--how dare you, thir!”



“Dare? I tell you, Maria, I’m a miserable bull, a dead-beat bull, as

ever be,” say dibble, weep.



“you’re a beast, if that’s what you mean,” say Mrs. Dibble, convince

that her Thomas be intoxicate.



but Dibble be only suffer from the panic. he have be tempt by

the financial sunshine--and Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs--and have buy the

share of a company that have make a call and fail, and of another

whose share have fall from 10_l._ a share to 5_l._ worse than

nothing. it have be bring about in this wise: Mr. Gibbs be indebte

to Mr. Dibble for many little act of courtesy and attention, as a

visitor to Mr. Richard Tallant at the Iron Company’s office. Thomas

have always a chair and a polite submissive word for Mr. Gibbs, and so

one day that gentleman, argue correctly that Mr. Dibble must have

save a few hundred pound, kindly show that confide porter how to

make a few hundred more; and Mr. Thomas Dibble, in the simplicity of

his nature, become a bull, without the knowledge of his well-half.

whisper of the panic have come into the big company’s office where

Thomas porter it, and at last he begin to understand that his five

hundred pound be toss about in the storm, and liable to be sink

and lose for ever; and on the day in question, when Thomas go home

and confess that he be a bull in a panic, and other similarly insane

thing, Mr. Gibbs have explain to he his position, and advise he to

consider his money lose for the present, but console he with story

of the immense loss which other people have suffer.



“Mr. Gibbs advise I to do it,” say dibble.



“do what, you fool?” shout Mrs. Dibble, who lose all patience with

he.



“speckerlate with the five hundred pound which we have at the bank,”

say Thomas.



“we had--_we_ have, Mithther dibble: it wath my own money, Thomath, and

you have never dare to touch it?” say Mrs. D., her face white and her

eye flash.



“I touch it to make a thousand of it, Maria; that be my full

intention.”



“oh, you monthter! oh, dibble, dibble! oh, Thomath, Thomath! I thee it

all--you have lose the money!”



“ise afraid on it, that I be,” say dibble. “the bull sell, and the

bear buy. ‘if you bear the market now,’ Mr. Gibbs say, ‘you may get

right;’ but, oh Lord! oh dear, Maria! Ise quite lose! what be I to do?

what be I to do?”



Poor Dibble lift up his arm, and look appealingly towards his

furious wife, who sink back in her chair with a scream for water. the

wretched bull, glad of any diversion from the main point, rush to

his wife’s assistance. she have really faint, this strong-minded Mrs.

Dibble, who could think for everybody, and conduct the government of

the country if necessary.



she have often say that have she be a man she would have be in

Parliament; and not only in Parliament, but a cabinet minister. there

be nothing too high for the giant intellect of this domineering wife

of poor Thomas Dibble; and yet here she lie like a dead thing, with she

cap on the floor, her arm lie helplessly by her side, and Dibble

bathe her face, at the loss of five hundred pound. but it be the

insubordination of Dibble which affect she more than the loss of

the money, and when she come to herself again, wet and soddene, she

declare she would never forgive he.



“never, Thomath, tho don’t athk it; ith not ath I bear malithe, nor

be mean, but for a woman who hath love like I, and refuthe the

greatetht offerth from nobleman--I say, for one who give her heart up

ath I do, it ith not in nature to forgive thuch detheption as yourth,

Thomath Dibble. how true it ith, ath it ith write, that the heart of

man ith dethperately wicked.”



and Mrs. Dibble go to bed with her woe, lock her door, and leave

the wretched Thomas to bemoan his unhappy lot in darkness and in the

kitchen, where he fall asleep by-and-by, and dream that he be a

bull be devour by a horde of bear; but he awake, and find that

he be only in danger of be eat by cricket and beetle, which

hold great meeting on the dibbleonian hearth-stone every night. they

be no doubt greatly astonish to find poor Thomas lie there all

his length; for their investigation of he be very minute, much more

so than Thomas like, who jump upon his foot, and roar and kick

until Mrs. Dibble, certain of thief and murder, open the window,

and cry “Fire!” and then, be a strong-minded woman, jump into

bed, and cover her head with the bed-clothe.



happily, Paul Somerton come home just in time to put matter right, and

induce Mrs. Dibble to admit Thomas to her room, at least for her own

protection. poor Dibble say next day he would rather have sleep with

the beetle; he be sure he should have be happy in the kitchen,

after all.



       *       *       *       *       *



meanwhile the storm in the City be rage, and spread far away

to all point of the compass. though the moon shine forth calmly, on

Cornhill and Lombard-street, on Threadneedle-street and on the Stock

Exchange, through all the night the storm rage in man’s heart; it

toss man and woman on their bed, and shake giant of finance where

they lay sleepless and afeared: it tear along the railway, seal

up in letter, which carry the tempest to Liverpool, Manchester,

Sheffield, Bristol, Birmingham, and even to the cathedral city where

Mr. Phillips reside. they be like so many Pandora’s box, these

letter from the City the next morning, let out on be open

evil without end. despair and ruin be in many of they, and all the

country be agitate with fear. if an invade host have be sail

up the Thames, the consternation would not have be so great; for the

people could have go forth and do battle with the foe. but there

be no fight a financial storm,--no contend with Stock Exchange

terror.



after the arrival of Pandora’s letter, there go forth into the

country flight of telegrams,--electric pigeon which settle in

crowd with their missive in all the town of England, and the storm

increase tenfold with the excitement of the electric current.



during the morning hundred of bull put on bear’s clothing, and the

share of Overton, Baker, & Co., begin to fall; and in the afternoon

the lead discount-house in the country give way to the pressure: and

then fresh flight of electric pigeon go forth into the town that

Overton, Baker, & Co., have fail for ten million of money.



you may fancy that this panic bear a strong likeness to the one which

have only recently occur. panic be closely akin, and therefore much

alike. if the crash of 1866 enable you the well to realise that

which form part of the present history, so much the well. Thomas

Dibble will never forget in which panic he lose his wife’s five hundred

pound, and how he suffer by his mad effort to replace the money.









                             CHAPTER XIV.



                       arthur phillips AT WORK.





he sit near the trunk of an oak-tree, and a brook make murmur music

amongst the gnarled and grey and knotty old root. there be big

burdock-leave at his foot, trail bramble full of luscious fruit,

and thick brown and yellow grass.



beneath the branch of the tree, on one side, there be a peep of

distant tender hill, with a foreground of foliage just tint with

autumnal touch of red and yellow. he sit in the shadow of a clump of

grand old Severnshire elm, and on his right at some distance a number

of farm labourer be stack wheat.



it be a bright, sunny afternoon in the latter part of August, and

the sun play amongst the leave of the old oak-tree, keep the

artist’s eye and hand rapidly at work. and never have Arthur Phillips

watch the sunny gleam with more intense interest. a tramp with his

slovenly wife, wander out of the footpath to find a cool shelter

for rest, stand to look at the artist for a moment; and a couple of

school-boy, who have be fish for minnow in the adjacent brook,

sit down quietly in the grass, and lazily watch the glowing canvas.



it would have make a pretty picture this, of the artist and his

spectator. but Phillips be soon alone again; he be too severe and

earnest for the school-boy. a squirrel venture to peep at he from

a branch in the oak-tree, and a couple of mouse whisk by he, and

squeak beneath the leave of the broad burdock. a stupid moth light

upon the wet stump of his paint tree and spoil its pretty wing.



how quiet, how peaceful it be, how thoroughly the country! by-and-by

Arthur lean back on his camp-stool and think so; and his heart

be grateful for the run brook, the whispering tree, the broad

expanse of distant hill and meadow, and above all for the sympathy

which he possess in his own nature for the beautiful and sublime. the

sun disappear behind a cloud for a few minute, leave the oak-tree

almost in its own natural colour, and show the artist’s successful

touch. however far short of the reality, the canvas hold some

wonderful sunny effect: the leave of the grand old tree be fairly

illuminate, as if gleam of sunshine have go through they, indicate

almost the fibre of the low branch.



no man know how far art be below nature; no painter feel more the

inferiority of a picture when compare with the ever-change and

always beautiful reality: but Arthur Phillips know when he have achieve

something beyond the ordinary work, and he be pleased that his labour

on this occasion have be successful; for Arthur be now actually

paint for money. he have long since cease to accept commission,

except for subject of his own selection, and have paint more for

the love of his art than for what his art would bring. the drudgery of

painting have be get over long ago: the year of patient industry and

unrewarded toil; the picture return from the Academy unhung; the

adverse criticism when at last they be hung: all this have long since

be at an end, and Arthur Phillips leave to select his subject and

name his own price for his picture.



but on this bright day in August the artist sit once more hard at work,

paint for money, paint for subsistence. for not only have he

be induce to invest largely in Overton, Baker, & Co., but he have a

deposit account at their local branch in his native city of Severntown,

and the branch have succumb to the same monetary pressure which have

swamp the head concern. and Arthur Phillips be nearly penniless.



there be many other in Severntown almost in the same condition, and

from the same cause. so Arthur, instead of make himself wretched and

miserable, pack up his box of colour, and go out to finish that

bit of local study upon which we find he engage, prior to lock

himself up in his study for month of hard work.



“I think I should find you at last, old boy,” say Mr. Hammerton,

put his hand familiarly on Arthur’s shoulder. “by the aid of your

man, that faithful old grinder of colour and clean of pallette, I

trace you to the cross-road; there I be at fault, and almost give

you up. I believe my old mare scent you out at last.”



“then give my good thank to the old mare, for I be glad to see you,”

say Arthur.



“by Jove, that’s pretty! what a glorious bit of colour! have you

finish?”



“yes; I think so.”



“then pack up--here, I’ll help you--and let we have a quiet chat. your

man say he be to meet you here in about an hour, to carry the thing

home.”



“yes,” say Arthur; “but I have finish. I be just think of

smoke a quiet pipe whilst the sun go down.”



“Bravo! we’ll mingle our smoke together, friend Arthur,” say

Hammerton; add, a little more seriously, “and our tear, too, by

Jove! it’s the last time we shall see each other for a long time, I

guess.”



“indeed! why?” say Arthur, turn the key in his colour-box.



“I’m off to foreign land, Arthur--



  ‘anywhere, anywhere, out of the world.’”



“be you serious, Lionel?”



“I be never more so. I have have a few angry word with my brother; and

though he’s a good fellow, and be sorry for what he have say, I must go

away for a time.”



Arthur look up inquiringly.



“the fact be, I have be a great fool; I have lose a lot of money

lately. I don’t know how it be, but through young Tallant I be

induce to visit the Ashford Club. you have not hear, then, of the row

at that quiet, but now notorious, institution?”



“no; I never hear of the Ashford before.”



“why, it be in all the paper, man,--about a fellow cheating, and

be put out into the street. my name be mention. you shall see

the paper. well, all that naturally annoy my brother; but, to clinch

matter, I be advise to buy a lot of Overton and Baker’s share, to

put myself right, and I have go all to the bad. Overton and Baker’s

have fail, and I not only lose the value of the share, but there

be a liability, and a large one, besides. I suppose you hear of the

failure?”



“yes. I have a large deposit with they at Severntown,” say Arthur.



“you have? by Jove! I’m sorry for that. and you be hit then, too; much,

Arthur?”



“yes, considerably. I must work hard, and make it up again.”



“I’m awfully sorry. but there, cheer up, old boy; there be no good in

worry about it, I suppose.”



“no,” say Arthur, quietly. “and where be you go, Lionel?”



“to join my regiment at Bombay; I be to be gazette next week. I’m not

go in bad disgrace, Arthur--don’t think that; but my brother, the

Earl, twit I with my folly and my expenditure, you know, and, no

doubt, he be right. I have be a fool. a few year in the army will

do a fellow good. there be no chance of war; that’s unfortunate.”



they chat and smoke until Arthur’s man come and carry the

artist’s picture and material away, and then they stroll together

towards a farm where Lionel have put up his horse, and where Arthur have

arrange to sleep.



in the farmer’s clean-sand parlour, Lionel tell Arthur the story of

his loss, not forget the incident of his interview with Paul

Somerton. this, it seem, have annoy Lionel as much as anything

in the whole of the unfortunate affair. he be satisfied that Miss

Somerton have set her brother to watch he.



“I could never have suppose that a girl could have behave so

absurdly. you may rely upon it, Arthur, that pretty bailiff’s daughter

have set her mind on marry I, and she be anxious that I should not

get through my patrimony without her assistance, I suppose. imagine the

absurdity of the thing! the girl fancy I be in love with she.”



“you have pay her great attention,” say Arthur.



“who don’t pay a pretty girl great attention, whoever she may be?”

say Lionel.



“you be in rapture with her picture--not out of compliment to the

artist, but to the pretty face--the aristocratic head,” say Arthur,

significantly.



“ah, you have anticipate I: I shall want that picture,” say Lionel,

with assumed indifference; “but imagine a bailiff’s daughter set

her heart upon the next heir to the earldom of Verner, and make she

brother a spy upon he lest he should lose too much money at card. by

Jove, Arthur, it be an impudent thing to do.”



“do she do it?”



“do she? of course she do. why, the impudent young blackguard tell I

who he be, as if he have some claim upon I.”



“and so he have, if he be warn you against conspirator.”



“look at it in that light, perhaps he have; but what about the other

view?”



“she be a fine, handsome girl, Miss Somerton, and accomplish; she’s

fit for the wife of a prince,” say Arthur, in his quiet, emphatic

manner.



“why, what radicalism you be talk! marry a bailiff’s daughter to a

prince?”



“a prince might be proud of such a wife as Amy Somerton. you have

not see so much of she as I have, and you may rely upon it you have

wrong she.”



“she’s an impudent, meddling baggage, Arthur--a presumptuous, designing

woman,” say Lionel, with an angry flash of the eye.



“I don’t think so, indeed,” say Arthur.



“I be sure; therefore we will not discuss the point far. Miss

Tallant would be a well theme.”



but Arthur Phillips would not talk about Phœbe: and so at last they

part, Lionel shake Arthur by the hand, and tell he that

whatever might come to pass, he should never forget the many happy

hour they have pass together, and that he should always treasure his

friendship. Arthur be not behindhand in reciprocate Lionel’s kind

feeling and expression, and he stand at the farmer’s gate and watch

his aristocratic friend until he have ride out of sight.



  “now come still evening on, and twilight grey

  have in her sober livery all thing clad.”



with all his love of nature, with all his courage, Arthur Phillips

feel sadly lonely now, as he stand listen to the last sound of the

clatter of Lionel’s horse’s hoof on the white, hard road.



it seem as if all thing that he love fade out, or be

unattainable. he have form a warm attachment for Lionel Hammerton,

and he would miss his cheery voice in the cathedral close at

Severntown. Arthur, indeed, have no other familiar friend. he have

follow his art with such singleness of purpose, that his life have

be comparatively solitary, and he know little or nothing of the world

and its doing; hence his like and dislike be intensify.



for the last two or three year his love for Phœbe Tallant have grow up

into a passion which he could not control, and it be only this which

disturb the peaceful course of his life. he have never think of

disclose his feeling to she. it have be a great relief to he to

tell Lionel Hammerton, and more particularly when he have for a moment

fear that he have a rival in his friend. not that Arthur, perhaps,

ought to have look upon any one as a rival, when marriage could

hardly be say to have enter his thought. to be near his love, to

see she often, to speak to she, to dwell on her kind word, that be

enough for Arthur. his ambition so far have soar no higher. how

could he, a poor, ill-shape little fellow, with his solitary life,

ask a fair, bright thing like Phœbe Tallant to throw in her lot with

his--with his, the pay tutor?



no, poor Arthur! he have never arrive at such a daring pitch of passion

and presumption, even when he have a large balance at his banker,

with which to meet, in some fashion, the monetary consideration of

the wealthy father. if he have know more of the world he might have

venture to make this last cast of the die; but a quiet, retiring,

modest, susceptible nature like Arthur’s, willnot to brood over all

sort of imaginary nothing, willnot to dream and set his thought upon

the quiet river, to be waft out far away beyond the world, it be

impossible for he to tell Mr. Tallant that he have fall in love with

his daughter.



once or twice he have think there be something mean in his position

at Barton Hall; that he have take a mean advantage of his position as

tutor to fall in love with his pupil. this idea have take such fast

possession of he at one time that he have almost determine to leave

the country; but his will be not strong enough to shut out Phœbe from

his sight. he be a prisoner to her charm, and content to remain so.

how his excitement have blurt out his captivity to Lionel Hammerton

be something that he could hardly understand himself; but he be glad

that he have no long to carry the secret about alone: it be like a

divide responsibility now that Lionel know it.



“and so I be to begin again,” he think. “well so be it; maybe this

be but a kind act of mercy to give I more to think about. I have be

lazy; I will paint a grand picture.”









                              CHAPTER XV.



               return to avonworth VALLEY, and GLANCES

                      AT MRS. SOMERTON’S SECRET.





the tree be cover with a hundred shade of brown and red and

yellow. a pleasant September breeze wander about, carry with it

here and there the report of the sportsman’s gun. flock of sheep

crop the sweet herbage, and crowd of happy-look gleaner

gather the stray ear of wheat which Mr. Somerton have leave in the

corn-field.



there have be an abundant harvest, and the corn be well and

successfully garner. the big yellow stack peer out amongst the

tree round about the Hall farm, and Luke Somerton sit cozily smoke

his after-dinner pipe.



Peace and plenty be the prevail characteristic of the place, and

Luke Somerton be on particularly good term, at the moment, with

himself and all the world.



“I wonder how Paul be get on,” he say, musingly, just as his wife

have fold up the table-cloth and instruct her servant to “get those

dinner-thing wash up at once.”



“oh, he’ll get on well enough,” say Mrs. Somerton, “if his sister

don’t spoil he with her pack of silly letter. one would think they

have nothing in the world to do but to write letter to each other.”



“well, there’s no harm in their writing to each other; it may keep Paul

out of mischief.”



“he be get very little money for his age; he ought to have enough

to keep he without assistance from we by this time. it’s little we

save.”



“you think too much about save money, Sarah. there be lot of thing

in life well than money.”



“you may say what you please, Luke, the great object of life should

be to make money and get position. if one cannot gain it oneself, we

should try to get it through our child,” say Mrs. Somerton, take

up her knitting and sit by the window.



a stranger wander about the quiet, peaceful, happy-look country

of which we speak in the opening of this chapter, would assuredly not

have look for the expression of such worldly view by the mistress of

that comfortable-look house amongst the tree. the thought pass

over the farmer’s mind, but so lightly that he do not attempt to give

expression to it, though his reply border slightly upon it.



“and what do you call position, Sarah? have it anything to do with

happiness?” ask Luke.



“Position! why, to be above other people. to be look up to instead

of be look down upon. to have servant of one’s own, and not be

servant ourselves.”



“that be, your husband should be something more than a farm-bailiff,

or a farmer even on his own account. the old story; it’s no use, Sarah,

we cann’t alter our lot. it seem to I that a clear conscience, and

owe nobody a penny, be about the good position in the world, after

all, whatever your station in life.”



“I know that be your opinion, Luke, and there’s something in it, for

those who like to jog through the world and be nothing to nobody. we

have money now, and why cann’t we have a farm of our own, at least?”



“oh, we’ve have enough of farming on our own account, Sarah. these be

not the day for farmer with small income. it don’t suit I to be

peddle about in the old style of farming. I have go in for the

science of the thing, and I must have the good machinery to work with;

and you want a big holding for that and lot of capital besides. we be

much well off as it be. Mr. Tallant be rich, and, although he get

now a fair return for his money, he’s sink a lot in this estate.”



“and what for? that young Tallant will soon get through it all.”



“stop until he inherit.”



“ah, there will be change here whenever the old man go. whatever

will become of Phœbe? I shall take it upon myself to speak to he about

that young lady.”



“I should think you’ll do nothing of the sort.”



“why not? I say it be a burn shame to keep she mew up here. she

would pick up a duke, at least, in London; and, as sure as fate, that

little painter fellow will get she if she stay at Barton much long.”



“you seem to be quite insane upon this subject, Sarah.”



“oh yes, of course. everything that _you_ cann’t see through be absurd;

it always be so, Luke. when you have get as far as the end of your

nose there be an end to your prospect, unless you be think about

what crop should follow wheat or barley.”



“now, then; get into a passion. you say you would talk quietly if I

would stay.”



“I be not in a passion--nothing of the kind,” say Mrs. S., knitting at

double-quick speed.



“very well, then, mind you don’t get into a passion,” say Luke,

smile.



“Phœbe Tallant be make to shine in society, and to marry well; and it

be horrible to see wealth and power go out of a young girl’s grasp

just because nobody put she anywhere near the prize.”



“happiness never seem to form part of your philosophy, Sarah.”



“wealth and power, Luke--isn’t that happiness? to wear real diamond,

and heap of they; to drive in the park; to be present at court; to

make other woman envy you. happiness! talk of clear conscience and all

that stuff, to set a room full of woman hate you for your wealth and

beauty be bliss--joy above everything!”



Luke take his pipe from his mouth and gaze in astonishment at his

wife, who have cease knitting, and be look out beyond where he

sat,--but not at the quiet rural picture spread out before she. she be

simply look at her own thought.



“Women, Luke, be devil. to man they be bad enough, but they

treat each other like fiend: they be mean to an extent beyond all

imagination; they hate each other mortally; and a pretty woman be a

mark for all their spite and slander. but she take it out; she have she

revenge; she sting they like an adder.”



“you be a strange woman, Sarah; but you say a great deal more than you

believe,” say Luke.



“do I? I believe woman capable of anything. but man deserve to be

deceive by they, because the first of the race be a sneak and a

coward. ‘the woman tempt I, and I do eat.’”



Mrs. Somerton give a contemptuous toss of her head, and go on with

her knitting.



“what a pity you don’t marry some great gun who could have give you

your full swing of power and wealth. you be a fine showy woman when

I marry you, Sarah; and hang I if you wouldn’t eclipse some of the

young one now. what a blessing it would be if you haven’t such a bitter

tongue.”



Luke seem to be turn this over in his mind, and contemplate it.

he speak half admiringly, half in regret.



“ah, Luke, I dare say you think I be a fiend like the rest of my sex,

and I feel like one at time; but if my time have to come over again, I

should not alter my choice. there be some thing that I’ve do which

I would undo if I could, but not that, not that, Luke.”



“come, Sarah, that do I good,” say Luke, go up to she, and

put his hand on her shoulder. “I have often think we be an

ill-assorted couple, and you’ve say many an unkind thing; but you have

be a good wife to I after all, always do your duty--ay, and more;

and I be sure your heart’s in the right place.”



Mrs. Somerton look up at her husband with a disturbed expression of

face. her heart be in the right place; but her life be blight by

one act of wicked deceit, and she have struggle ever since to justify

it to her conscience.



“there, you may go now, Luke. you don’t believe I be so bad as I seem?”



“you’re a good soul; try and drop all that nonsense about position, and

we shall be a regular Darby and Joan in our old age.”



Luke kiss she on the forehead and go out; and the wife continue

her knitting.



there be some thing that she would undo if she could! the year

of secret hope and fear, and doubt and misery, reveal in this

expression, be not even dream of by Luke Somerton. she have scheme,

and plot, and build castle in the future, and carry about with

she a big, burn secret, and it have lately begin to dawn upon she

that her design would be frustrate.



there may be far-see reader of this book who have already pluck

out the heart of Mrs. Somerton’s mystery. we have make no great effort

to conceal it from this pierce foresight. it be no new thing that

we have invent. our story will not be injure by your know Mrs.

Somerton’s secret from the beginning, neither will it be particularly

enhance by delay the disclosure of the great plot of her married

life.



but there be other thing crowd upon my attention, and we must

leave Mrs. Somerton at present without further explanation, to chafe

against the bar of her own self-make prison-house.









                             CHAPTER XVI.



                 may be say to INAUGURATE a series of

                  IMPORTANT CHANGES in the life of

               several NOTABLE person in this history.





the financial storm have be but little feel, you see, at Barton Hall,

or Mr. and Mrs. Somerton would no doubt have say something about it in

the conversation which be set down in the previous chapter.



Phœbe Tallant and her friend, Miss Somerton, have read of it in the

daily paper, which arrive in a special parcel from Smith & Sons

every day at the near railway station, where a groom be in wait

for they. but Phœbe and Amy know little or nothing about panic. it

be to they very much like what it be to the boy,--“something in the

City.” Miss Tallant’s clever governess, however, know a great deal

about a Panic, which she seem to stroke and pat on the back in her

intellectual superiority.



they little know how seriously such a storm might affect the master

of Barton Hall. it have already demolish more than one or two

establishment of nearly equal importance; but Mr. Tallant be

particularly strong in the back, as they say in the City, and it be

well for he that such be the case, as be speedily exemplified soon

after the first shock of the panic have vibrate throughout the country.



on the very day after the clever governess’s description of a panic,

the half-yearly meeting of the Eastern Banking Company (of which Mr.

Tallant be chairman, and his son a director) be hold at the London

Tavern.



at about two o’clock quite a little crowd of anxious-look people

ascend the stone staircase, and enter that long room with the misty

look picture in it and the great chandelier.



some of the man be talk in loud whisper about the loss of the

company and its evident mismanagement. there appear to be a general

feeling prevail that it would be an awkward day for the director.

but this be no novelty at that time for director of many other

concern. gentleman who have be work for year up to directorship,

and some of whom have think it necessary to obtain seat in the House

of Commons, with a lead idea in this direction, now begin to find

that there be two side to the directoral picture.



the time have be when a gentleman could materially augment his income

by have a seat at various board of management; the time have be

when he not only get thereby a first-rate investment for the nominal

sum which give he the qualification for certain directorate, but

when his social and commercial position be largely exalt by these

appointment. but director at this period, with a commercial panic in

the City and throughout the kingdom, begin to find their seat full

of thorn, and pin, and needle, and everything but curl hair and

feather.



shareholder in almost every shaky concern be down upon the

director, and in many instance very properly so; for gentleman

of repute, honourable man hitherto, have be weak enough to append

their name to prospectus and statement which they know little

or nothing about; and in some case this be knavishly and cruelly

done,--knavishly and cruelly, because honest and industrious people

be induce to invest hard-earn saving in rotten scheme make to

look safe by the name of the gentleman who figure as director.

Sir this, and the Hon. the Other, Lord That, and Mr. This, M.P. for

so-and-so, do not scruple to lend their name to design villain

who plunder the public behind these swellmark, and in more than one

case Sir this and Mr. that do not scruple to go share in the booty.



so you see the time be rather out of joint for directorship, and

many eminent City and country gentleman would have be rejoice could

they all at once have quietly retire from their several board of

management without inquiry or explanation. Mr. Richard Tallant could

have tell you of several safe where share and scrip have be lately

lock away by strong-back man with a firm resolution not to look

into those safe for many month to come. some of these share have be

buy at heavy premium, and now all that remain be the frightful

responsibility which attach to they. but there always have be

panic, people say, and there always would be; and there always have

be financial wrecker and sharper to take advantage of monetary

storm, and will be until the end.



the half-yearly report state that a loss of 100,000_l._ have fall

upon the Bombay branch; but this be by no mean the bad feature in

the affair, accord to the view of the shareholder. their share,

100_l._ pay up, be quote on the Stock Exchange at 5_l._ 10_s._



the chairman explain that there be no _bonâ fide_ reason for this,

the bank be not only solvent, but have 150,000_l._ to the good,

and well advice be expect from India.



Mr. Tallant’s be a long, clear, and honest statement, but it do not

allay the storm of abuse which have be prepare for the directory.



one speaker call for the resignation of the chairman, and be

applaud; another condemn the directory as a body, call upon they

all to resign; another fall foul of the auditor; another say the

manager of the branch be evidently a set of incompetent man, put

in by favouritism.



by-and-by the first speaker, a City man of repute, and famous amongst

company as a financial orator, allude to the fall in their

share, and attribute the depreciation to the conduct of one of the

shareholder.



“yes, gentleman,” he say, “one of our own firm,--one of our partner

in this great concern,--has not only be the chief mean of run

the share down, but he have profit by it; he have sell share which

do not exist, and buy those which timid people have throw upon the

market; he have borrow share for the purpose of depreciation, and----”



the speaker be interrupt for a moment by cry of “Name! name!” but

he be an orator, and he have more to say before he have work up his

theme to the grand climax of name the victim, whom he be pin

down with his long rhetorical lance.



“gentleman, this speculator--to call he by a mild name--be one of a

very small but dangerous set of man, who have be engage in rig

the market and damage great and flourish concern--like wrecker,

put out false light, and then plunder the unhappy mariner.”



Cries of “Shame!” and “name!” and “Swindler!” interrupt the speaker,

who wave his hand for silence.



“I have hope to have see this gentleman here to-day; he ought to have

be amongst we; I give he notice that _i_ should be here.”



this elicit a cry of “Bravo!” and then the chairman rise to deprecate

personality. he fear the honorable proprietor be lose his

discretion by excitement.



“not so, Mr. Chairman,” reply the honorable proprietor. “I be not

speak on the spur of the moment: my word be not bear of mere

excitement, sir. I have think much and deeply about the remark I be

now make; nay more, I have take advice upon they--they have go

through the legal crucible. (cheer, “Bravo!” and confusion.) it be

exceedingly hurtful to my own feeling to bring so painful a subject

before this meeting, but I be prepared to sacrifice self, upon an

occasion of this kind, to public duty.”



“hear, hear!” say several shareholder, whilst other murmur “quite

right.”



“I have ample proof of the charge which I be make; and shall I not

for the credit and honour and safety of the trading community of this

great city, in a time of such financial danger, unmask the dastard

before the eye of the world?”



“yes, yes!” and “Name! name!” cry a hundred voice; whilst a pair of

stentorian lung shout, from the gallery at the extreme end of the

room, “why the deuce don’t you do it?”



in the midst of the hubbub a grave, pale-face gentleman rise and say

this kind of discussion have go far enough. he want to know the

exact position of the bank.



“hear, hear!” shout several shareholder close by; whilst other

could not help laugh at this bit of clerical impracticability,

see that the report state the position of the bank, and the

chairman’s address have be furthermore elucidatory.



the chairman rise to order, and be greet with cry of “sit down!”

“don’t interfere!” “let we have the name!”



meanwhile the financial orator stand, paper in hand, calmly

contemplate the scene, and half-a-dozen other person rise to speak,

include the poor parson, who have be induce to invest all his

money in this bank, chiefly on account of its classical connection with

the East.



“I insist upon know the position of the bank,” say the reverend

gentleman, but his earnestness only raise a loud laugh.



“I fail to see the humorous side of my question,” say the poor man,

thinking of his wife and four little one at the small rectory in

Yorkshire. “be this bank solvent, or be it not? be it go to break?

what be its position?”



Laughter, cheer, and cry of “Bosh!” and “go on with the meeting!”

soon induce the poor rector to sit down, and then the financial

orator say he would resume the case at the point where he have be

interrupt.



“Name! name!” the shareholder cry, and several director at length

grow sufficiently excited to join in the chorus; but the financial

orator beg to be permit to explain the whole case before

comply with the general request; and whilst he be gradually “pile

up the agony,” and drift into his telling peroration, we propose to

conduct you to an adjacent police court, where another extraordinary

scene be be enact.



we can return and pick up the “name” which the honorable proprietor have

be ask for so frequently.









                             CHAPTER XVII.



                 CHIEFLY concern the FORTUNES of PAUL

                               SOMERTON.





whilst the honorable proprietor of the Eastern Bank be fulminate his

financial thunder against somebody at present unnamed, Paul Somerton

stand at the dock of a London police court.



the prisoner seem to be overwhelm with the degradation of his

position.



the police inspector, who stand forward when the case be call from

the charge sheet, say the prisoner have only be apprehend that

morning. the evidence, however, be very short, and he think it would

hardly be necessary for he to ask for an adjournment. the prisoner be

charge with steal a purse contain three ten-pound note, four

sovereign, and scrip of the Barwood Banking Company to the value of

fifty pound.



“do anybody appear to watch the case for the prisoner?” ask the

magistrate.



nobody reply, and the magistrate, put a gold-rim glass to his

eye, address the prisoner.



“judge from your dress and general appearance, you be respectably

connect. have you no friend here?”



“no, sir,” say Paul. “but I be quite innocent of the charge which be

make against I.”



“yes, prisoner mostly say so,” say the magistrate, cynically; “but

that must be inquire into.”



“it be some horrible conspiracy, sir,” say Paul with great

earnestness, his lip quiver and his face quite pale with

apprehension.



a gentleman who be sit near the reporter rise at this juncture,

and ask to be allow to watch the case for the prisoner. Paul

willingly embrace the offer on his part, and Mr. Arundel Williamson,

a briefless barrister and a “gentleman of the press,” step up to the

prisoner, and enter into a brief conversation with Paul.



“would you like the case to be adjourn for a short time?” the

magistrate ask.



“thank you, no, sir,” say Mr. Williamson; and the police inspector

call Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who state that on the previous day he

have business at the Meter Ironworks Company, Westminster. whilst he

be in Mr. Richard Tallant’s room, he have occasion to take something

from his purse, and during conversation he lay the purse upon the

mantel-shelf. about half-an-hour afterwards, when he be leave the

room, he remember his purse, and find that it be go. at first

he think he must have put it into his pocket again, but he search

without avail. the only person who have come into the room whilst he be

there be the prisoner.



“will you ask Mr. Gibbs any question, Mr. Williamson?”



“no, sir, not at present,” the barrister reply.



“proceed with the case,” say the magistrate.



Policeman X 40 say: “late last night he have a search-warrant place in

his hand to execute at the house of Mr. Thomas Dibble, Still Street,

Pimlico. he go there the next morning, and ask an old woman----”



“old woman, thir!--how dare you call I an old woman?” somebody

exclaim in the body of the police court.



“who be that? bring that woman forward,” say the magistrate.



“Yeth, my lord and jury, or whatever you call yourthelveth,” say Mrs.

Dibble, elbow herself, amidst much laughter, towards the bench.



“Silence! silence!” exclaim two policeman; whilst another take hold

of Mrs. Dibble’s arm to increase her momentum.



“how dare you, thir! Handth off, or I’ll have the law againtht you for

falthe imprithonment; and ith more than your plathe ith worth to----”



“take she out--take the woman out, if she will not be quiet,” say the

magistrate.



“at your peril,” exclaim Mrs. Dibble, amidst increase laughter.



“then out with she!” exclaim the magistrate, lose his temper; and

Mrs. Dibble speedily disappear, struggle between two policeman, and

burst her hook-and-eye in the most extraordinary fashion.



“I ask the woman of the house,” go on the imperturbable policeman,

“to show I Paul Somerton’s bedroom. she take I up-stair, and point

a room out to I which she say be his. I ask if the box beneath

the dressing-table be Paul Somerton’s, and she say it be. I break

it open, and find at the bottom, beneath some clothe, the purse

now produce. I then go to the office of the Meter Ironworks and

apprehend the prisoner.”



“be this your purse, Mr. Gibbs?” the magistrate inquire.



“it be,” be that gentleman’s reply.



“and the content now be the same as when you lose it?”



“they be, sir,” say Mr. Gibbs.



“have you any question to ask the policeman?” the magistrate inquire,

address Mr. Williamson.



the barrister, after a short conversation with the prisoner, say he

have not.



the police Inspector who have charge of the case ask if it would be

necessary to call Mrs. Dibble to prove the ownership of the box wherein

the purse be find.



Mr. Williamson say he think, before the Court go any far with

the case, it be well that he should apply for an adjournment until

the next day. from the instruction of his client, who be, as the

bench have judge, most respectably connected, he have no hesitation in

say that the case would turn out to be one of conspiracy against the

prisoner; but he be hardly in a position to deal with it at so short a

notice.



“at present there be ample evidence for committal to the session--a

sufficiently _primâ facie_ case for trial,” say the magistrate. “would

it not be well to defer your defence until then?”



Mr. Williamson differ with the learn magistrate, and press for

adjournment.



“without bail, of course,” say the magistrate.



“I think I shall be in a position to offer substantial bail in the

course of an hour,” say Paul’s new friend.



“I shall be here for two hour,” say the magistrate, “and will

consider your application. I do not think I should be incline to

accept bail.”



the prisoner be then remove, and his legal and journalistic friend

go with he.



Mr. Williamson be a gentleman well-know on the London press, not only

for a certain cleverness in the epistolary style of writing, but for

his peculiar amiability. educate for the Church, certain scruple of

conscience have induce he to give up the establishment just when he

be expect to be ready for ordination.



afterwards he read for the Bar, be call in due time, and take up his

quarter in the Temple. no brief come into his hand, he direct

his attention to the Press, secure an appointment as critic on the

_Sunday Review_, and be appoint London correspondent of _Berrow’s

Journal_, an old provincial paper of considerable repute. he join the

Hamilton Club, where press-man most do congregate, and by degree come

to be regard as one of the craft.



he be in the police court during Paul’s trouble quite by accident,

having call in, out of kindness to little Simpkins, who be the

accredit reporter of the _Daily Mercury_, and who be in a delicate

state of health.



“I know the little fellow be ill, and as he’s only just push his

way on the Press, I have drop in occasionally and relieve he. his

father be an old friend of my father’s, and I feel a good deal of

interest in he.”



this be the brief explanation of Mr. Williamson’s presence in court,

which he think it necessary to give Paul, and then he sit down

quietly beside the prisoner, and make note of all that Paul wish he

to know.









                            CHAPTER XVIII.



                 return to the meeting at the LONDON

                                TAVERN.





the honourable proprietor continue to keep back his secret for some

time, in face of all opposition; several director draw various device

on the blot pad before they; the reporter for the London paper

smile, take note, sharpen their pencil, and nib their pen; the

Yorkshire cleric insist upon know the position of the bank, and

the stalwart layman from the same county loudly proclaim his opinion

that it be just simply “domme nonsense to go on like this.”



the financial orator be a gentleman of experience; he have fight

shareholder and director before now, and he be not go to give way

to these Eastern Bank fellow: he say this in a quiet whisper to a

friendly M.P. who be stand by his side. then turn towards the

directorial seat, he say that a certain empty chair at the board that

day do not at all surprise he.



“Name! name!” cry a few shareholder again; and then suddenly, for

the first time, the chairman look round the room nervously, as if he

seek an absent face; and the shareholder gradually become quiet.



“the gentleman who be most conspicuous by his absence on this occasion

be the absentee to whom I refer,” say the financial orator.



still the shareholder be at fault; some shake their head, other

look as if they know all about it; and the poor parson, in a moment

of exhausted patience, again insist upon know the position of the

bank.



the chairman fidgette uneasily in his seat: sundry anonymous letter

make grave charge against his son, several questionable monetary

transaction in which he have reason to suspect he be engage, and one

or two recent little dispute which he have have with his son, occur

to he, and he begin to fear that the disclosure of the absentee’s name

would be a very painful one to himself.



at length the financial orator, after raise his hand for silence,

say deliberately, “the gentleman to whom I refer be Mr. Richard

Tallant;” and then there go a whisper all about the room--“The

chairman’s son!” in the public mind the name of Tallant have be so

generally associate with everything that be honourable and true until

now, that it seem as if the bank be really break indeed. London man

look silently and inquiringly at each other. country shareholder,

who have never previously attend these half-yearly meeting, look

on in amazement, and wonder what would be the next turn in the

mysterious wheel of fortune.



all this occur in much less time than it occupy you to read what

we have write by way of narrative. not many moment elapse before

the chairman rise. he beckon the speaker who have denounce his

son, and the gentleman come up and begin express regret at be

compel to take a course which must be so painful to the chairman.



“Nay, nay, make no apology, sir; you have simply discharge your

duty,” say Mr. Tallant. “what proof have you?”



the honourable proprietor hand to the chairman a bundle of paper.

having carefully examine these through his eye-glass, and apologise

for detain the meeting, Mr. Tallant, in a voice which fully

indicate the mental agony of the speaker, said--“Gentlemen, you will

readily understand what a blow this be to I. when I rise to order it

be not for a moment with any idea of screen my son----”



“Query,” say a wretched shareholder, who be hiss, and hustle, too,

in a moment.



“it have be my pride,” say the chairman, heedless of the

interruption, “throughout my long business career, to make the name of

Tallant one of strength in this great metropolis, and a name which

should be synonymous with wealth and with honour. my ambition be

unbounded, you may say, but surely it be a laudable ambition. I say

surely it be, more now by way of question than by way of assertion;

perhaps the standard which I set up be too high. but until to-day

I seem to have reach the acme of all my pride and hope; for never

before, I believe, have a word be even whisper against the honour,

and integrity, and soundness of a Tallant.”



cry of “hear, hear!” and a weak attempt at cheering, greet the fine

old man, as he look round the room with something like an air of

triumph in his misery.



“I have hold a high place amongst you now for many year; but we have

fall upon bad time. we be in the midst of a financial crisis which

be not only break bank but friendship; which be not only carry

wreck and ruin to the weak and the false, the fool and the knave, but

which be shake the reputation of man of probity and honour. the

suggestion of an honourable proprietor, make this day, that I should

resign, be greet with a sufficient sound of approve voice to

determine I in my course, before this attack upon my son. it have be

my full intention to resign (cry of “no, no!” and “yes, yes!”). I have

no other alternative.”



here the cry of “no, no!” and “yes, yes!” break out afresh, and

somebody say, “how do we know he ben’t as bad as his son?”



when something like quiet be once more restore, Mr. Tallant say, “I

have be your chairman now for nearly five year. I have strive to

do my duty to this great corporation. through misfortune over which

the director could have but little control, the failure of some great

house in Bombay----”



“and your own mismanagement,” say a fierce and irrepressible

shareholder, who have five thousand pound lock up in the concern, and

who think this a sufficient warrant for be angry and insolent.



but Mr. Tallant do not appear to hear these gall remark,

howsoever deeply they may have impress he.



“and through the failure of some great house in Bombay,” he repeat,

“our indian branch have suffer a loss of one hundred thousand

pound.”



Loud groan, and other expression of anger and contempt, greet

this announcement. in the midst of it the chairman, who have take a

cheque-book from his pocket, sit down, and with a trembling hand fill

it up, and sign it with his well-know clear bold signature.



raise his hand to command silence, he say, “one hundred thousand

pound represent your loss by these failure--the only loss this

corporation have suffer during my presidency. here be a cheque for

the amount, and I shall--never--occupy this chair again.”



Mr. Tallant deliberately hand the cheque to the secretary of the

company, who sit near he, and take up his hat proceed to leave the

room. the shareholder and other make way for the fine old English

gentleman as he pass, and in a few moment his firm steady footstep

could be hear on the staircase.



some minute elapse before it occur to several friend that they

ought to follow he. by the time they reach the street Mr. Tallant

be nowhere to be see. he have call a hansom, and order the

driver to go to the Paddington Railway Station: and he sit there in

the waiting-room for nearly an hour. train come and go whilst he

sit there; people come in and out, happy mother and child, merry

west-countryman, and London tourist, and sorrowful-look people also.



the sunlight be struggle through the great glass roof of the

station, and make the place look quite joyful and festive. white

wreath of steam from noisy engine creep up to the glass, and

disperse in a sparkling kind of mist. there be a general air of

pleasantness about the place that be cheer; but the great London

merchant sit in the waiting-room with his arm fold, and his head

upon his breast, wait for the train.



you have stand at a railway station and see they shunt a train of

carriage upon some weed-grow siding. it seem as if Fate have shunt

the owner of Barton Hall--as if his day be over, as if, after go

bravely through the world for a long time, he have break down, and have

come to be shunt upon a siding. not shunt, like you and we hope to

be shunt some day, smoothly and quietly to rest from our labour;

but roughly, ruthlessly, thrust and bump into a line of off-rail,

cover with the dust of the world, and ticket “not to be use.”



it be a bitterly hard lot for Christopher Tallant, in his prime and in

his glory, but he knuckle down to it manfully, and bent his head to

the storm.



the train come at last, and carry the merchant away to the station

near Barton Hall. the porter be in a state of great excitement

because there be no carriage as usual to meet Mr. Tallant; he take

no notice of their inquiry and suggestion beyond the courtesy of a

pass nod, but walk quietly to the principal hotel. thence he send

a messenger request a local lawyer to attend he at Barton Hall,

whither he depart as quickly as a hire conveyance would permit.



they have hear of the panic at this little out-of-the-way town, and

conclude at once that Mr. Tallant have receive some great financial

injury in the crisis. the town be alive with rumour all the night,

and by bed-time Mr. Tallant be report to have lose a million of

money in railway. but on the following day the true story be tell by

the London paper, or by one of they at least; for the majority have

exclude the point of the denunciatory speech which end with the name

of Richard Tallant.



the law of libel, as it affect newspaper proprietor, be peculiar with

regard to the publication of public saying and doing. the reporter

may set down the most scurrilous and libellous speech which counsel

or solicitor may make in a court of justice, and the newspaper editor

may publish it in his column without a shadow of legal responsibility

rest upon he; but anything say at a public meeting which in any

way affect the character or reputation of a private individual or a

public man, be publish at the editor’s peril: so that several of the

London journal refrain from chronicle all that take place at the

Eastern Bank meeting. one editor, bold than the rest, publish the

meeting at length; and his paper it be which enlighten the people in

the Avonworth Valley with regard to the unusual manner and conduct of

the famous proprietor of Barton Hall.









                             CHAPTER XIX.



                 of certain report in the newspaper.





O, those hard and bitter history, the newspaper! hard as the metal

in which they be print. stern matter-of-fact history of the great

world. they go straight to the subject; they do not prepare the reader

by any quiet preliminary caution that the man who have be find

murder be his father; there be nothing roundabout in that long list

of death. you have no time to think before the awful truth be in your

mind. that railway accident,--is your dear friend unhurt?--whilst you

be wonder, there stand his name in the list of dead. that little

indiscretion of your son’s;--here it be, blazon forth to the world

in the police report: he be only anxious to save his friend, and his

zeal overcome his discretion; he be fine for obstruct a policeman

in the execution of his duty, and here stand the record, to be turn

against he any day.



O, hard and bitter history! they tell the story on that second

day. they tell the two story. they come to Barton Hall, wrap up

carefully and smug as of yore. they be carry to the kitchen fire

and dry. John scan they, and see nothing of importance. Mary

notice a frightful murder stick down in one corner, almost out of

sight. Peter the groom take note of the late betting; but none of

they see what the people at the town find out later in the day; and

none of they see what Phœbe Tallant and Amy Somerton see.



Mr. Tallant have be engage until late with his country lawyer,

and have keep his room on that second day. Phœbe be sure there be

something seriously the matter with her father; for he have press she

hand, and kiss she, and make the tear come into her eye.



this be something very unusual for Mr. Tallant. Proud as he

undoubtedly be of phœbe’s beauty, hers be a sort of negative

existence in his mind. Richard, her brother, have engross nearly all

his thought. Phœbe be like a simple flower adorn the name of

Tallant;--but Richard, he would build up the house and perpetuate the

name, and be the grand, educate successor of his father.



once or twice, however, within the few previous month, grave doubt

as to the propriety of his son’s conduct have cross the merchant’s

mind; but these have be to a great extent dispel by a few word

of conversation with his son. of course, the young fellow have be

educate at Oxford, and have thought, and feeling, and aspiration

altogether different to his father’s. the old man understand this to a

certain extent, but “honour, Dick; remember, that do not come with

college education, my boy,” Mr. Tallant would say; “don’t let Latin,

and greek, and mythology, and grand acquaintance shake plain old

Saxon notion of honour and honesty, and pay your way, and owe no

man, and all those old-fashioned thing which have make the name of

Tallant foremost in the city of London.”



but Richard Tallant be in the whirlpool of fast life, of speculation,

of financial scheming, of gambling; and at length he reach the

vortex, with all the good lesson and example of his father upon his

head.



so these newspaper, as we have say, be dry, and whilst a

couple be send up-stair to Mr. Tallant, two be take into the

drawing-room to Miss Tallant and her friend, Miss Somerton.



never do paper contain so much to startle and interest two girl

before. the Eastern Bank meeting, and the exposure of Richard Tallant;

the charge of robbery against Paul Somerton; and a paragraph recording

the departure of the troop-ship _atlas_ for India, with Captain the

Hon. Lionel Hammerton on board.



they master it all at last, and clung to each other in terror and

amazement. it seem almost as if the world have suddenly come to an

end. phœbe look round, as if to assure herself that she be at home.

there be no mistaking this. the familiar chair and cabinet, and

picture and statuette, all seem to look reassuringly at she.



Amy take thing in a more demonstrative fashion. she press her hand

to her head, and then break forth into a low wail of pain.



“and I do not know that he even intend to leave the country,” say

Amy, by-and-by, all her thought concentrate upon Lionel Hammerton.



Phœbe, with her brother’s disgrace, her father’s misery, and Paul

Somerton’s trouble, each agitate her mind in turn, have scarcely

think for a moment of the sudden and unexplained departure of Lionel

Hammerton. Arthur Phillips might have tell she of it, but the artist

have not be near Barton Hall for more than a month. he have write a

note of apology, and explain that his absence be necessary for the

completion of some important work upon which he be engage.



“not even to say good-bye,” Amy exclaim, rock herself to and fro.



it quite shock Phœbe to see how Amy dwelt upon this departure of

Hammerton; to see how it overshadow all the other bitter news. Amy

have not even utter one expression of pity for the brother whom she

love so well.



this secret love of Lionel Hammerton have burn itself into her very

nature. however much she might have doubt her power to bring he

to her side, and however much she may have despair of the return of

her love, on the ground of their great disparity of position, she have

long since be convince that Lionel care a little for she. she have

brood over his act of kindness and courtesy; she have bind up his

image in all her way of life, and Phœbe know how much she love he.



his leave without explanation, and without a word at parting, be

not only a blow to the girl’s soft and tender dream of love return,

but it strike at her pride, and bring she down to the abject thing at

which she have seem to rate herself in her thought of the greatness

and glory of Lionel Hammerton.



there might have be something like the aping of humility in this

girl’s love; in her own estimation she have be as nothing compare

with he, to whom she have give up her secret soul; but, trodden upon

and slight, she rise up, conscious of her own beauty, and with a

sense of her own desert, burn with wounded pride.



“he treat I with contempt and indifference, Phœbe,” she say, cast

the newspaper upon the floor, and trample upon it. “let he; he

shall have scorn for scorn, contempt for contempt. do he think that

a woman’s heart be to be trample upon because of lowly birth? do he

think true love and English chivalry have exclusive inheritance amongst

the title and the wealthy? do he think I be a poor silly country

girl, with a weak, pliable nature, that will bend and adapt itself to

whatever may turn up in a jog-trot country life? he shall see; he shall

see.”



with this Amy Somerton sweep out of the room like an enraged queen, who

count her subject by million.



“Poor Amy, she have read too much poetry of late, and think it all

true,” say Phœbe, the big tear roll down her fair cheek. “whatever

will become of we all! I be sure my head swim with the thought of all

the dreadful thing that have take place. my poor dear father!” then

she exclaim, and the next minute she have burst into his room, and

fling herself upon his neck.



“dear, dear father,” she say, “do bear up; perhaps it be not true;

perhaps he have repent, and all may come right again,” say phœbe,

smooth the merchant’s grey hair; but she feel how hopeless be

Richard’s case notwithstanding.



Mr. Tallant submit to his daughter’s caress, and his mind be

suddenly carry back to the day of his second wife. in the midst of

great trouble and distress of mind the thought will often ramble to

time and thing altogether apart from the immediate cause of your

mental anxiety. Mr. Tallant think of the wife whom he have love so

dearly, and then wonder that no likeness remain of she in his child.



“you be not quite ruin, perhaps, father,” say the girl, by-and-by;

“we can go and live in some quiet little place, where we shall be

unknown.”



“ruin, my love,” say the merchant, with a faint smile, “what make

you think of that?”



“that great sum of money which you pay, father--so nobly, so like your

true self,” say the girl, with a look of admiration shine through

her tear.



“I could do that several time over, and be far from ruin then,” say

the merchant, with just a touch of pride in his manner; “it be our

name that be ruin, our name that be blemish; _his_ name--he who

be to be the pride of the land.”



“but the paper say the name of Tallant have rise high than ever with

your magnanimous and noble revenge,” say Phœbe, timidly, for she have

never in all her life before speak to her father of money and thing

appertain to trade and commerce.



“the paper!” repeat the merchant, bitterly. “what can they say or

do? who care for the paper in time like these, when the great

house in the country be totter to their very foundation. the name

of Tallant would have rise like a rock of gold in this panic, and

be impress for all time in the history of finance, but for this

wretched, this miserable deception.”



“but your own name, father; your own honour,” say the girl.



“what do I care for myself,” say the merchant, interrupt she; “it

be for he that I work, and save, and hoard. do I grudge he?

no; he be his own master; he have the run of my own bank. but there,

there, Phœbe, say no more upon the subject. we will try to talk of

other thing.”



“the somerton, too, will be in great distress,” say Phœbe, “about

their son.”



“why?” ask the merchant.



“do you not read it in the paper?”



“I have read nothing in the paper,” be the reply.



“in prison, and charge with robbery,” say Phœbe, softly; “but a

counsel appear for he and say it be a conspiracy.”



“that be easily say,” the merchant answer. “Robbery! whom have _he_

rob?”



Phœbe shudder at the emphasis in the latter sentence, which convince

she that her father’s opinion of Richard be seal and settle.



“his prosecutor be a person name Gibbs--Shuffleton Gibbs,” say Phœbe.



“the great scoundrel in London,” say the merchant. “well to

have such a man against you than for you; he be the intimate and bosom

friend of your brother. give I the paper, love, and leave I to read

it.”



Phœbe open out the paper which lie upon the table, kiss she

father’s forehead, and go to comfort the somerton.



she look the very impersonation of comfort and consolation, this

gentle, confiding, Miranda-like being, as she quietly glide across the

park towards the farm. an old shepherd dog come bound up to she, and

leap for joy, in its half-blind, shamble fashion; a little group

of deer trot off before she, but turn round to look, and say as

plainly as could be, “we should not have move, have it not be for

that villainous dog;” duck, and hen, and chicken, all come round

about she as she enter the farm enclosure; a great furry cat come

and purr beside she; and Mr. Somerton’s blackbird, which hang by the

window in a wicker cage, begin to sing so merrily that you could hardly

hear the whirr and rattle of the threshing-machine, which be hard at

work in the adjacent stack-yard.



Whilst Amy Somerton be pace to and fro in her chamber at the Hall,

Phœbe Tallant fulfil her office at the Hall Farm, and endeavour

in a hundred gentle, gracious way to console the bailiff and his

wife. so far as Luke be concern, she be not unsuccessful, but Mrs.

Somerton give way to her feeling without the slight regard to Amy’s

consolatory observation.



the farmer’s wife seem to arraign all humanity as if it be in a

conspiracy against she, and she be almost rude to Miss Tallant, so

much so that Luke interpose in an authoritative manner, and phœbe

look hurt and concern.



this only change the manner of Mrs. Somerton’s complaining. she be

satisfied that Paul be guilty. he must have steal the purse; it

don’t often happen, she go on, that people get charge with offence

of that kind unless they deserve it. all her child go wrong;

none of they care for she; none of they make any return to she for

all her care.



nobody know her trial, nobody could understand her trouble; all she

hope be, that the time would come soon, when they would be end for

ever.



Luke Somerton rate his wife in a quiet, manly fashion for her

injustice towards Paul, and her unkind return for the generous

attention of Miss Tallant; and by-and-by Mrs. Somerton begin to cry,

and that be a sufficient apology to the rich merchant’s daughter, who

sit beside the bailiff’s wife and say all sort of comfort thing,

whilst Mr. Somerton set about pack up a carpet-bag for the purpose

of go to London; and eventually Miss Somerton present herself, and

request that she might be permit to accompany her father.









                              CHAPTER XX.



                show how the purse find its way into

                         PAUL SOMERTON’S BOX.





in this world the victory be not always with the good and the true.

it have shake many a man’s faith before now to see the wicked and the

selfish thrive, whilst the noble, and the generous, and the pure, be

beggar.



suppose there be no hereafter? what would compensate we for the

unequal justice which, judge by the world’s standard, be mete out?

what would hinder the unfortunate and poverty-stricken from make

their quietus with a bare bodkin? what would reconcile the man bind to

work on, and toil on, and sweat and drudge in misery, from eat his

very life out with envy of the rich? what would prevent the wealthy

man who, willing to help his poor brother to the full extent,

find individual help like his of comparatively little use--what

would there be leave for he but to put down the unequal distribution

of rich to gross injustice? how could we reconcile it with a good

and beneficent creator, that some be bear and breed in poverty and

wretchedness, and be doom to wear the chain of want all their life;

whilst other inherit all the luxury of purple and fine linen, and

chair of state and command? what else but a future of reward and

punishment would enable we to live and endure all this, rich and poor,

good and bad, selfish and generous?



Honesty be the good policy in the end, so far as personal happiness

be concern. it be a selfish way of preach honesty nevertheless;

but how often, in a worldly sense, do the axiom seem to be reverse.

on the Stock Exchange there be certain man who be dishonest. they

lie wilfully and designedly about the credit of bank and company;

they propagate scandalous report about certain establishment; they

send out thousand of lie letter throughout the country, caution

people against concern which they know to be safe. then they go into

the market and sell share which they do not possess, and secure low

quotation in the newspaper. this frighten people who have invest

their money honourably, and they begin to sell. confidence be shake,

and the “bear” make money. their lie and dishonesty ruin hundred

of honest people; but man like young Tallant and Mr. Gibbs profit by

the transaction. they buy and sell at pleasure, and in the midst of

the general panic select what concern they like for ruin.



it be true that by degree the gentleman know as “bear” create a

storm which they could not control, and that some fall by their own

thunder--some be catch in their own snare; whilst other thrive

and wax rich, and retire on handsome fortune, many of they make

by purchase at a low figure share which they have assist to

depreciate.



Young Tallant be amongst those who make large sum of money. he

be fortunate in all he undertake; and on that very morning when he

be denounce at the great City meeting, his “bear” speculation

represent a profit to the tune of many thousand. it be in this

wise: he be a director of the Mercantile Finance Bank. on the previous

day the share have be run down by false report to ten shilling a

share--scrip upon which twenty pound have be pay. Young Tallant

buy two thousand share at the close of the market. the next day

the _Times_ contradict the rumour, the director make a statement,

confidence be restore in a few hour, and the director who know that

such would be the case, sell his two thousand at an average of more

than seven pound a share.



since the row at the Ashford Club he have act more upon his own

account, and have avoid Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who, leave to his

own machination, have be a little too clever in his stock-job

operation; he have sell largely share which have rally, and be

likely to stand all future assault. but he still have scheme on hand

which seem likely to bear substantial monetary fruit. he be rich

enough, as the reader of this history will no doubt have guess, to

encompass his revenge against Paul Somerton.



the plot have be well and skilfully manage. Thomas Dibble have lead a

life of dreadful misery since his loss of the five hundred pound, and

Mr. Gibbs have aggravate his torture with a thumb-screwish perfection

of cruelty. the share which Thomas Dibble have buy carry a future

responsibility of fifteen hundred pound. so that his loss, instead of

be five hundred, might really have be increase to two thousand.



Mr. Gibbs, by degree, explain this to the wretched dibble, who have

lain awake during long weary night, beside the partner of his bosom,

suffer all sort of agony, and without dare to explain his

misery to Mrs. D., who say enough every day and night about the five

hundred pound to have break down more sensitive mind than Dibble’s.



“I do really think I shall go mad,” he say to Mr. Gibbs, on the day

when that gentleman have torture he up to the last pitch necessary for

make dibble his tool.



“then I must save you,” say Mr. Gibbs, at length.



“oh, Mr. Gibbs, donot ’e trifle with my feeling,” say Thomas.



“not I, my friend; I intend to have assist you when I advise you

to buy those share, and I be sorry they have not turn out so well

as we have a right to expect,” say Mr. Gibbs, tap his tight little

boot with a cane, and look up at the lamp under which Dibble have

accost he in the street.



“no, no--the good intention sir; but dear, dear, bad be the good this

time.”



“come to my chamber in an hour, dibble, and I will see if I can put

the thing right.”



“yes, sir,” say dibble, touch his cap; the two part, and in an

hour dibble be sit on the edge of a chair in Mr. Gibbs’ private

room.



“business be business,” say Mr. Gibbs; “I will take the share from

you, and here be a cheque for five hundred pound.”



“God bless ’e, God bless ’e!” begin Dibble, in an ecstasy of delight.



“stop a little; there be a small condition,” say Mr. Gibbs, place

his hand upon a purse which he lay upon the table.



Dibble look at Mr. Gibbs for explanation, but quite prepared in his

own mind to buy peace at home at any sacrifice.



“you must put this purse secretly into Paul Somerton’s box, in his

bedroom.”



Dibble look puzzled, and Gibbs fix he with his fishy eye.



“it be a very simple thing. take it without examination, and find

an opportunity to-night to put it carefully in the low corner,

underneath his clothe or paper, or whatever else he have in his box.”



“yes, it be simple,” say dibble, pat his forehead, and look at

his boot; “it be very simple, that’s true.”



“do it, and to-morrow morning give I your share and I give you five

hundred pound; here be one hundred on account to-night, in proof of my

sincerity.”



“oh, that be all right, sir--I can trust to what you say; but what be

the meaning of this business about the purse?”



“I like your question--nothing like be open and straightforward with

each other. that’s my motto,” say Gibbs.



“and it be a good un, too,” say Thomas.



“Paul Somerton have do I a serious injury, and I be determined to

punish he; he be a conceited, proud young fellow, and I mean to take

he down.”



“he be proud, that’s true,” say dibble, remember how Paul have

drop his companionship of late.



“I hate and det he, he be a thief and a scoundrel; and I could have

he transport if I like.”



“could you now?” say Dibble, stare in amazement at Mr. Gibbs, who,

despite his effort to appear calm, have clench his fist, and look

particularly ugly.



“I shall punish he by mean of this purse. if you do what I require

you will have your five hundred pound, and have no liability beyond

it; and you will be able to live comfortably and happily again with

Mrs. Dibble. and if you don’t, you will have fifteen hundred pound

to pay beyond the five hundred; you will be sell up and turn out of

house and home, and be do up root and branch.”



Dibble groan aloud at this picture, and jump from his seat, say,

“give I the purse, give it I; I’ll do it.”



“and you swear on your oath--go down on your knee--there, that will

do; now you swear that whatever may take place you will never confess

that you know anything about the purse, or ever see it in your life

before.”



“I swear it all,” say dibble.



“so help you, heaven!” say Gibbs, hold his hand aloft, and Dibble

repeat the imprecation.



“if you should break your oath you will not only go to the devil,” say

Gibbs, solemnly, “but you will before that be take by the police as a

thief, and transport. now, here be ten ten-pound note, and here be

the purse; in the morning early I shall know if you have do your work

properly. good-night.”



“good-night,” say Dibble, slink away in a perspiration of fear and

happiness, of doubt and hope; afraid of his own shadow, yet less afraid

of Mrs. Dibble than he have be a few hour before.



and this be how the purse come to be in Paul Somerton’s box; and this

be how it be that Mrs. Dibble’s joy at see she five hundred

pound on the table before she be neutralise by Paul Somerton’s

apprehension, and the insulting manner of the policeman towards both

herself and her establishment.



that night of Paul’s apprehension and remand be a terrible one for

poor dibble; for during the evening there arrive Paul’s father and

sister Amy, and he be witness of their distress and trouble. he sit

there and listen to Amy’s story of his goodness, and he see the

silent sorrow of his fine manly father. he hear Mrs. Dibble speak

of Paul as the good and kind young man; and he feel that she be

speak nothing but the truth when she say she would rather have lose

a thousand pound than such a thing should have happen.



and by-and-by Mr. Williamson, the barrister who have speak up for

Paul, come to the house in a cab, bring Paul with he; which be

such a blow to Dibble that he have not the heart to join in the general

expression of delight at the poor young fellow’s appearance. he sit

there look on, so pale and woe-begone, that Mrs. Dibble be strike

with his appearance, and pity he for take the thing so much to

heart.



there be quite a scene between Amy and Paul, neither of they expect

to see each other. Amy rush into his arm and sob on his shoulder,

until Paul could hardly help cry himself; and Mrs. Dibble burst

every hook-and-eye she have leave. and dibble could stand it no long;

so he slunk away into the back kitchen, with serious thought of

put his head into the water-butt, and keep it there until he

be dead. after five minute’ consideration he change his mind,

and return to the little parlour calm and more contented, and

sufficiently at ease to shake hand with the release prisoner, for

whom Mr. Williamson have succeed in give bail.









                             CHAPTER XXI.



                WHEREIN THOMAS dibble “runs away,” and

                MEETS with a very remarkable COMPANION.





Mrs. Dibble insist upon Miss Somerton and her father remain in her

house until the next day, when Paul be to reappear at Bow Street; and

this increase in the dibbleonian establishment make it necessary that

Mr. Thomas Dibble should sleep on the sofa in the parlour.



“I’ll make you up a comfortable bed, Thomath,” say Mrs. D., when all

the other member of the household have retire to rest, “particularly

on account of your sympathy with that young man; for if ever there be

innocence anywhere it be in his face: though however that purse could

get into his box be a matter as I have yet to learn. it’s very well for

Mr. Williamson, that barrister gentleman--who remind I of a young

man as make I an offer before I leave boarding-school, which my parenth

be particular in send I to on account of the position I be

expect to take in the world--and he may say it with perfect truth,

that some one have get into the house and put that purse into his box;

but how to get the police to believe it be another thing: but we shall

see in the morning.”



“they’ll believe it, Maria,” say Thomas, very solemnly, with his eye

fix upon his wife’s buxom figure, which would obtrude its plumpness

and its whiteness through her tight dress, either in front or behind,

and more particularly in an evening when Mrs. Dibble unbutton she

dress for the purpose of be able to breathe more freely.



“they will?--it’s all very well to say they will, but if Mr. Williamson

can do no more than show the animas, as he call it, of the persecutor

Mr. Gibbs, it strike I--judge from the villainous manner of

those policeman, who will not allow anyone else to speak except

themselves--that Mr. Williamson will only waste his breath.”



and Mrs. Dibble go on lay sheet and blanket between a sofa and

three chair, and tuck they down at the foot and make the two

pillow go as far as possible in height by the aid of the sofa cushion

and an old carpet-bag; whilst Dibble look on very sadly, but calmly,

and wonder what Mrs. Dibble would think in the morning when she

enter the room and find that the extempore bed have never be use.



“will you give I a kiss before you go to bed, Maria?” say Dibble, in

an appeal tone.



“of course I will, Thomath; for the way as you snatch that five

hundred pound out of the fire, as I may say, deserve ever so many

kiss, Thomath, and as do everything to make our life happy

again, though, as I have say before, it be not the money so much as

deceive I, Thomath; I do think I never could have forgive that;

but there, it’s all over, Thomath, and see other people in trouble

make one’s heart soft than usual: and so bless you, Thomath, bless

you.”



Whereupon Mrs. Dibble put her arm round poor Dibble’s neck and bade

he good-night.



“and good-bye!” say Dibble, when she be go up-stair; “and

good-bye, Maria!” he repeat when he hear the door shut upon she. for

Thomas Dibble when he go out into the back kitchen and contemplate

the water-butt, determine to run away. not only to run away, but

to leave behind he a confession of the part he have take in the

conspiracy against Paul Somerton.



he sit down before the handful of smoulder cinder in the little

parlour grate, and think out his plan. he have suffer much from

Mrs. Dibble about the five hundred pound; he have purchase peace by

its return, and she have forgive he. but how have he buy peace? if

he remain where he be, he would be sure to confess, and then what

would Maria say? what would Paul say? what would his sister say? what

do his own conscience say now? he could not endure the latter, even in

secret, and how could he bear the former?



no, he would run away. his master be at home, in grief and sorrow for

the disgrace of his son. that son have dishonour the name of Tallant,

and Paul Somerton be on the verge of become an outcast. it would be

well that he, Thomas Dibble, should go forth and become a wanderer

and a beggar than that the innocent should suffer, and bring disgrace

upon a respectable family.



then poor old dibble thought about his oath, and fear come upon he

in a remembrance of the dreadful consequence which Mr. Gibbs have

describe. then he think of Maria, but a bitter memory of the

wretched life he have lead with she, during the monetary interregnum,

steel he slightly against she, and he console himself with the

feeling that at least she have the money back again.



a hundred other thing occur to Thomas as reason why he should run

away, and why he should not. it be dishonourable to take an oath and

take a man’s money without stick to the bargain; but no gentleman

ought to have inveigle a poor man into such a plot. no matter which

way Thomas look at the case, he see himself a disgrace man; but he

think there be far less disgrace in run away than in stay

behind, and a thousand time more disgrace in let the affair go on

than in prevent the conspiracy from take effect.



so Thomas decide that he would go, that he would be a wanderer, a

beggar, a tramp,--anything but a persecutor of the innocent. he would

eat Mrs. Dibble’s bread-and-butter no long.



it occupy he nearly two hour to write out in his big, round,

straggle hand a brief account of his share in the plot to ruin Paul,

and having do this, and sign it, and lay it in the middle of the

parlour table, direct to Paul Somerton, he write on another sheet of

paper, “Farwell, Maria, and if for ever, may you forgiv your herring

sinner, T. Dibble.”



then the model porter of the Meter Works think it would be only fair

to let Mr. Gibbs know that he have confess all. he, therefore, write

a very short but very large letter to “Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, Esq.,”

determine to leave London by the West End, and put the letter under

the door of Mr. Gibbs’ lodging as he pass by.



it be on a fine, bright, starlight autumn morning that Thomas Dibble

go forth on his pilgrimage.



turn out of his way a little he push the letter under Mr. Gibbs’

door, and then direct his step towards Paddington. he prefer to

take the long way through the street, because he think he would

like to tread they once more, and say good-bye, as it be, to familiar

scene. on past Westminster he trudge, with a little bundle over

his shoulder, on past the Houses of Parliament, where he encounter

an early coffee man, and invest in an early cup of his refresh

beverage. he would fain have have a pennyworth of pudding, but the

pudding man be all abe, and so be the vendor of chesnut. the

police be awake, and Thomas chuckle quietly to himself, as he pass

certain active member of the force, upon the way in which they would

be sell at Bow Street next day.



he trudge on past Charing Cross and through the haymarket, along

Regent Street and past Regent’s Circus, meet a few roysterer,

early workman go to half-build house, and printer go home from

daily newspaper office; he see a few shambling tramp hang about

doorway, and seek interval of repose on doorstep, whence they

be oust occasionally by policeman; he meet stray cab with early

fare, scavenger, and slouch woman reel from infamous den in

by-street; and he wonder when it would be daylight.



by-and-by the great city and its smile suburb be leave behind,

and Thomas be on the white highway, with hedge right and leave, and

market-garden behind they; and then morning dawn, and he journey

on beside cart, and waggon, and meet tramp with dusty boot and

jacket; for the autumn have be a particularly dry season, and the

road be cover with dust.



at length the afternoon begin to wane, and Dibble turn into the

field, over a stile, and sit down beside some half-cut corn and untie

his bundle. a piece of bread and cheese drop out, and Thomas, be

hungry, fall to with a will. whilst he be eat, a miserable, lean,

lank-look dog come crouch and smell towards he. alone in

the wide world, Thomas naturally feel some little sympathy with the

vagrant dog, and he throw it a piece of bread and then a piece of

cheese. the animal, make certain apologetic snap at the crumb, ate

they, and then stand upon his hind-leg and seem to beg for more.

dibble could not help smile at the quaint, gaunt, spectral-look

dog, with all its rib show through its tight ragged skin; and he

feed it again. then the animal walk round dibble, on his hind-leg,

and perform a sort of double shuffle. dibble be highly amused with

this performance, and he laugh very heartily and pat the dog on

the head. the animal wag his tail, turn a somersault, and stand

upon his head in such a comical fashion that poor Dibble fairly roll

on his back with laughing, the dog leap over he and bark in the

most extraordinary and un-doglike fashion.



thus Thomas Dibble make friend with this singular animal, and resolve

to have it as his travel companion if his dogship would consent.

the dog be nothing loth, and the companionship lead to important

result in the history of Thomas Dibble’s adventure.









                             CHAPTER XXII.



               in which THOMAS DIBBLE continue to “RUN

                                AWAY.”





this strange, mongrel-look dog, which dibble encounter amongst the

corn, be not only a source of amusement to the runaway porter, but

give rise to a variety of speculation far beyond the usual scope of

Dibble’s imagination.



as the evening come on, and the mist begin to rise upon the brook

and river, and the leave whirl about amongst the dust, however,

poor Dibble’s somewhat dull imagination take its hue from surround

object, and he suddenly become very thoughtful. he look at the dog

as it walk by his side, with its nose nearly upon the ground and its

stumpy tail stick up behind, and a sense of fear come over he.



all at once it occur to Dibble that the devil could assume any shape

he please. suppose this dog be the devil, come to claim the price

of the broken oath which Dibble have swear to Gibbs! just then the dog

begin to walk on his hind-leg and bark, as if to confirm Dibble’s

supposition.



the runaway porter quicken his pace immediately, and his heart sink

within he. he be glad to see a cart come along the road; this

re-assure he, and he begin to run as fast as he could; but the dog

soon drop on all four again, and overtook his companion.



Dibble would have cry out to the carter for help, but just at that

moment he come to a bend in the road, and see a roadside inn and a

little village not many yard ahead. the dog, it would seem, see the

inn, too, and the sight be not so pleasant to he as to Dibble, for

the dog stand still, and then turn tail and creep into the hedge, and

howl. Thomas be surprise at this, and pluck up courage enough

to whistle and beckon his companion, believe that if the dog be

not the devil, it be stay behind because of Dibble’s unkindness

in run away, and feel that if it be the devil he might get

some assistance in the village to kill he, and thus get rid of the

devil for ever; which Thomas, in his own way, think would be a grand

achievement.



it be some little time before the dog acknowledge Dibble’s

sympathetic whistle and encourage word to “come along;” but at

length the vagrant animal come forth, and walk sadly and solemnly at

the porter’s heel.



they go into the roadside inn together, along the passage, past the

bar window, and into the tap-room, where two or three rough-look

fellow be drink beer. Dibble sit down, and the dog slink away

into a corner under a long seat with a high back, call a “settle.”

one of the man, a little fellow with a fur cap on his head, and a brown

velvet jacket on his back, evidently notice the dog, for he smile

and wink at another fellow, who sit opposite to he.



“there’ll be some fun jest now,” say the little man, look at

Dibble, who call for a pint of ale.



several other people come in at this moment, three woman amongst the

rest. Most of they have bundle, and the man all wear cap and shabby

coat; the woman wear shawl and showy ribbon, and speak in a hoarse,

foggy style, and remind dibble of the woman he remember preside

over nut-stall and shoot gallery at the Gloucestershire fair

when he be a boy.



whilst he be drink his beer the window at the back be darken

with several show-house, caravan, and ricketty canvas-cover cart,

which be come into the yard for the night, and then dibble know

that he be amongst show people. he venture to ask an old man, who sit

next to he, and who be engage in spin a penny in a peculiar way,

and twitch it up his sleeve, if there be a fair come off.



“severntown race,” say the man, continue his occupation, and

evince a desire not to be interrupt.



“oh!” say dibble, look round, and take stock of his new

acquaintance. several of they, he see, have bundle like himself, and

all of they produce something to eat. bread and sausage, bread and

herring, bread and cheese, bread and onion, bread and black-pudding,

bread and tripe; and bread and many other thing be exhume from

those mysterious bundle, and from deep greasy pocket. the edible

be demolish along with beer, and gin-and-water, and porter, and

cider, and other liquor, which a thick-fiste waiter bring in,

amidst much talking and some swearing.



all this time the little man in the velvet coat keep careful watch over

dibble and the dog; and by-and-by, when the man who have be spin

the penny go out with a person in an overcoat and tight (who have

be stand on his head in the village through which he pass, and

do other funny trick upon a square piece of carpet), the little man

go and sit beside Dibble, at whom he nod pleasantly, and for whose

especial behoof he tap a nose somewhat flatten by hard usage and

dirty weather.



“I forgive yer, old gal, I forgive yer,” he say, direct one eye

towards the dog’s hiding-place, and wink at dibble with the other.



Whereupon the dog come forth, rub his bony side against dibble’s

leg, and lick the porter’s dusty boot.



“oh, this be the gent whose bin keind to yer,--eh, Mistress Momus?”

say the man, nod pleasantly to dibble.



the dog give a short bark, and rub herself once more against Dibble.



“well, well, I forgive yer, Momus,” say the man again, but this time

in a soft voice, and with a coax kindliness which the dog seem

to understand.



“come, then, old gal; stand up and make he a bow,” he go on,

motion to the dog with his hand.



Dibble’s companion stand up as it have do in the corn-field, bow

gravely to dibble, and raise a forepaw to its head, like charity

school-boy on an inspection day.



“you’ve not feed the dawg too much, guvner,” say the man, pat the

dog’s head, and address dibble.



“I only see un this afternoon,” say Dibble, “for the first time, and I

never see a dog so hungry and so quiet over it, nor one half so funny;

I begin to be afeare he wor something evil, he act so much like a

Christian, surely,” say dibble.



“why, he’s be away for this week or more--break-hearted a’most; and

we’ve bin oblige to fall back on the basket trick.”



Thomas look inquiringly at the little man, and wonder why showman

be so addicted to brown velveteen and pearl button.



“she can do pretty nigh everythin’, can Momus; she be the wife of a

clown’s dawg call Momus, so we call her Mistress Momus. Everythin’

she can do pretty nigh, but like a brute I expect she to do somethin’

more nor everythin’; nothin’ would do but she must talk, and she

couldn’t do that of course--no dawg could--and so we quarrel. don’t

we, old gal?”



the dog lick her master’s hand, and look up into his face.



“I want she to say ‘thank ’e, sir.’ poor lass, she try hard, but

she couldn’t.”



Mistress Momus here open her mouth, and jerk out something very

much like “thank,” and wag her wretched stumpy tail.



“never mind it, old gal; don’t try agin,” say the master, pat the

dog’s head. “she couldn’t say ‘thank ’e, sir,’ and I get savage and

kick she, and druv she out, and throw a hammer at she. poor Momus!

she’s sulk before for a day, but aller turn up for the evening

performance; but this time she’s be out, as I be a sayin’, about

a week--reglar do up, poor old gal, and as thin as a skeleton.

why, you’d do to go with the human skeleton from Brummagem eh, old

lass?--eh? they could get up a bit of special business for yer, eh, old

wench?”



the dog bark, as if the notion be highly entertaining, and lay she

head on the showman’s knee.



“that’s a new idea, ben’t it, Momus,” he go on; “but never mind, old

gal, you shalln’t go on as a skeleton. tip we a tumble, just to show

you’ve get the free use of yer limb, and then you shall have yer

supper.”



Momus turn a somersault, walk on her fore-leg, dance on her

hind-leg, and then make another bow to Mr. Dibble; and that runaway

conspirator be so divert, that he forget Mrs. Dibble and all his old

friend, and call for another pint of beer.



the showman order in a dish of tripe, of which savoury meat the

landlord have procure a large supply on the day previously for his

expect customer; and Dibble, the dog, and an interesting young lady

in fade silk and curl, be to be the showman’s guest; the young

lady be his daughter Christabel, as he inform Dibble, and one of

the most rise gal of the day.



Supper be lay on a little round table near the fireplace, and an old

pewter plate be place on the floor for Momus.



“give she all the scrap you’ve get, Dick,” the showman say to the

waiter, “and I’ll come down ’ansum for it.”



Dick bring in a variety of picking, and heap they upon the dish;

Momus speedily devour they, and then lie down beside the plate, at

her master’s request, “beco there be tripe to foller.”



the tripe come in at length, hot and steaming, and float about in a

milky flood redolent of onion. a candle be place in the middle of

the table, and the showman hold it over the brown dish for a moment to

feast his eye upon the content, and then he dash in a wooden spoon

and serve out a plateful to Dibble and his daughter, a few inch to

Momus, and a large quantity for himself. they all set-to with a will,

christabel make short work with her allowance, and help herself to

more, with sudden rapidity. her father caution she not to be greedy.

she only deign to reply in one word, the meaning of which, under the

circumstance, seem to be particularly significant; for her father

begin to heap more tripe upon his own plate, and Dibble begin to ply

his knife and fork with increase rapidity. “Walker” be the word which

the fair christabel have use with such magic effect; but there be no

necessity for the alarm which it evidently create in her fond parent’s

breast, see that she could not eat the whole of that second lot, and

the showman and Dibble be not compel to stint their appetite.



after supper, the showman light a short pipe, and order

rum-and-water for three; Christabel bring some mysterious article

of finery from her basket, and begin to sew; and the three look

particularly happy and content.



the showman drink Dibble’s health, and then ask he what his little

game might be.



dibble drink the showman’s health and the young lady’s, and say he do

not know what the showman mean.



“Gammon,” say the showman. “do yer ’ear that, Momus?”



Momus do not, for she be fast asleep at her master’s foot.



“ever be in the profession?” the showman inquire.



Dibble look puzzled, and say “no.”



“I mean the show business,” say the man, blow a cloud of smoke into

the candlelight.



“no, I’ve be in different employ,” say dibble, feel hot and

comfortable with so much eating and drink.



“look for work?”



“yes,” say dibble.



“would you like the show business?”



“shouldn’t mind anything to turn an honest penny,” say dibble.



“well, as you’ve bin good to the dawg,” say the showman, “I’ll give

you a few week’ regler employment certain, though the season be

get to an end. I’ve be and invest in a horgan. I be afraid

the dawg ’ud never come back, and I’ve add a horgan to the drum for

the sake of hextra attraction on the outside. would yer mind takin’

the outside dooty and grindin’ the horgan? I can give you a matter o’

twelve shillin a week and most o’ your grub.”



Dibble say he be much oblige to the gentleman, and he would be

glad to try his hand at the business; he could only give it up if he

do not suit. so he be engage on the spot, and become part of the

establishment of “the Northern Magician,” otherwise Digby Marquis,

otherwise Bill Smith, the showman’s real name.



the company consist of himself and Christabel, who figure as “The

Mysterious Lady,” and the dog, who be know as “Madam Momus the

four-legged wonder.” they travel with a big cart-load of canvas,

long pole, tressle, board, and box, draw by two ancient horse

remarkable for “high point,” long neck, and droop head.



they rise early the next morning and go on their way over dusty

high-road, through green shade lane cover with leave, over

country bridge, and beneath railway viaduct. they go on, now

merrily down hill with cheery word from Digby the showman, and now

sadly up hill with Dibble and Digby push behind, and Christabel and

Momus urge the horse in front. occasionally they rest beside green

patch of grass, and unlimbere the horse that the poor brute might

crop the herbage. on these occasion the showman smoke his pipe, and

give dibble bit of philosophical advice anent his “outside dootie” in

connection with the organ and the drum.



sometimes they travel in company with cheap-jack and peep-show;

but these be generally too swift of motion for Digby’s establishment.

once a grand photographic saloon on radiant wheel, and with a smart

young lady do crochet work at the front door, go saucily by,

without even a smile of contempt for the magician’s pole and bundle

and box. but Digby have a merry word for everybody, and Momus stand

upon her hind-leg and make derisive bow now and then when the

vehicle be particularly fast and showy.



at night, when the moon have rise, they arrive at the Severntown

race-course, and Dibble sit down to rest, and wonder what Mrs. Dibble,

Mr. Gibbs, and sundry other person, think about his run away.









                            CHAPTER XXIII.



                 be of a miscellaneous and DISCURSIVE

              CHARACTER, but ESSENTIAL to the narrative.





“the early bird for the worm,” saith the proverb, which the

healthy-wealthy-and-wise preacher quote with such stir effect in

the society of young people.



suppose you be a bird, with an inordinate appetite for worm, it be

good to rise early, no doubt; but if you be a worm it be well that

you should not rise at the time when the early bird be congregate

for breakfast.



eight or nine o’clock be quite soon enough to begin the day if you have

to begin it in misery; and if you have happiness before you all day

long, you cannot get up too early to enjoy it.



now Mrs. Dibble have a hard day before she, and not a particularly happy

one, and she rise early at the call of duty; but she might just as well

have have another hour’s peaceful rest, for she be doom to begin a

day of more than ordinary trial.



Shuffleton Gibbs also rise early than usual on this eventful day,

and it be well, for his own comfort, that he do do so, as a certain

bird of very “take” habit only find out his place of residence at

a later hour of the morning, and would have demolish he have he not

sneak away from his customary locality an hour or so early.



so you see, whether we be bird or worm, we cannot count our chance

of success or safety by our early rising. a certain worm may rise too

early for the particular bird which be wait for he, or he may

lie abe just long enough to be snap up by a late and luxurious

cormorant; so, though the early bird may pick up the early worm, yet

the lazy bird may also encounter the worm that be late.



the meaning of this be that proverb be not necessarily the most

truthful and useful thing in the world, though Mrs. Dibble discover

some truth in the axiom, that “it cann’t rain but it pour.”



a series of short, sharp scream be the early indication of

something wrong in the dibbleonian household on this morning of the

“gude man’s” departure.



Mrs. Dibble get up, as we have intimate, rather early than usual,

for the purpose of prepare breakfast with her own hand, scorn to

trust certain little delicacy of bacon and kidney to her diminutive

servant.



the sight of her extempore bed undisturbed and with no Thomas in it

give she a dreadful turn, as she explain afterwards, and that write

on the table with his confession in it might have knock she down with

a feather. so she scream aloud, and as soon as she hear footstep on

the stair she compose her morning gown into become fold, and pose

herself for a comfortable faint upon the previously unpressed bed.



Mr. Somerton be the first to put in an appearance, then come Paul,

and in a few minute his sister Amy, all more or less frightened by

Mrs. Dibble’s scream. Mr. Somerton take the paper from her hand,

read aloud the big open letter, and express his satisfaction in

unmistakable language.



Amy throw her arm round Paul’s neck, and at the same moment her father

throw a jug of cold water into Mrs. Dibble’s face, which rouse that

lady up in a fit of passion and indignation.



“Mithter Thomerton, thir, I wonder you be not ashamed of yourself, to

treat a lady in that outdacious way, throw a bucket of water over

she as if she be a doorstep or some other inanimate thing, or one of

your own cattle; but it’s the way of the world,--oh, yes, nothing but

ingratitude and all that’s bad!”



Mrs. Dibble shake her dress, and wipe her face with a towel, and

shake her head, and storm and stamp her foot, and give other

indication of perfect convalescence, and finally sink down again

exhaust; but she spring to her foot in an attitude of defence when

Mr. Somerton seize the water-jug for the second time.



by-and-by the position of affair be gravely discuss, and Mrs.

Dibble talk of a hundred scheme of restore Thomas to his home.

she would send the police after he; she would advertise for he in

the _Times_; she would follow he on foot through the wide wide world.

then in a moment of indignation she insist upon his never return

to the roof which he have dishonour, and the harmony of which would

never go up to heaven any more on Sunday evening as token of peace

and honour. the old termagant grow quite eloquent in her distress

and passion, and all the time express her conviction that Paul be

innocent as the lamb lead to the slaughter.



the only thing which at all mollify she be Amy’s suggestion that

perhaps poor Dibble have be tempt to do wrong because he love

his wife so dearly; though Mrs. Dibble insist that it be not love

she value so highly as honour and virtue and prudence, however much

she have certainly be attach to Thomas in the early day of their

courtship.



thing be assume, it will be see, rather a ridiculous aspect when

Mr. Williamson arrive, with his grave, amiable face, to put affair

upon a proper footing. he master Dibble’s confession immediately, and

rub his hand over it and smile.



“yes, yes,” he say, “we must change place to-day, Paul; we must put

you in the witness-box, and Gibbs in the dock: that will be a good

joke, eh? it’s really a capital case--as nice a bit of conspiracy as

could well be imagine. I think yours be an honest face, young man,”

he continue, address Paul, “as soon as you appear.”



Paul blush, and say, “thank you, Mr. Williamson.”



the journalist and barrister then make a quiet effort to learn from

Paul his reason for take such an interest in the doing of Mr. Gibbs

at the Ashford Club.



Paul hesitate and look at his sister, who immediately come to his

assistance.



“I induce Paul to make inquiry,” she say.



her father and the rest look for some further observation, she say,



“Paul hear some strange thing, concern Mr. Tallant’s son, and--and

Mr. Hammerton, who reside near we. I be anxious, if possible,

to learn the truth of the rumour, which be to their discredit.

in truth, it seem as though the good name and reputation of Mr.

Hammerton be likely to be lose to he, as if he be be gradually

lead into the society of disreputable people and deceive, and----”



Amy be very much at fault in her attempt explanation; she feel that

she hardly know why she have interfere, now that she endeavour to

justify it. Curiosity, excite by Paul’s letter, have be her first

impulse, and then her romantic love for Hammerton have show she the

danger into which he be drift. her hero a gambler, the man whom she

hold up in her imagination as the good and the truest and pure and

noble, an associate of gambler and speculator and drunkard; the

idea have torture she to an extent quite sufficient to add eloquent

point to her inquiry concern Hammerton and Tallant, which have

at first puzzle Paul, and then enlist he in her service as Mr.

Hammerton’s good angel.



could she explain this, with the eye of her father and Mr. Williamson

upon she? she succeed in leave on the mind of the latter gentleman

the impression that she have have a mind to pry into the private doing

of these gentleman from idle girlish curiosity, and that Paul have

be very foolish in give way to she; but Mr. Somerton see a little

far than this into the secret of his daughter.



“well, we must not stay chat here,” say Mr. Williamson at

length; “I will go and apply for a warrant against this Mr. Gibbs

for conspiracy; and with regard to your husband, Mrs. Dibble, you have

well take no step at present to discover he.”



Mrs. Dibble, who have be mechanically light the fire and boil

the kettle all this time, turn round and request Mr. Williamson to

attend to his own business, and promise the whole company that she

would attend to hers.



upon this Mr. Williamson decline the lady’s invitation to breakfast,

and go away in company with Paul, whom Mr. Somerton and his daughter

promise to meet at Bow Street at twelve o’clock, when Paul’s bail

expire.



a warrant for conspiracy be grant against Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs; but

nearly an hour before a detective from Scotland Yard tap at Mr.

Gibbs’ door to execute the warrant, his landlady have slip inside

her lodger’s bedroom the rough-looking note of dibble’s. it happen

that Mr. Gibbs rise a little early that morning, or he would not

have receive the warning in time to have take measure for his own

safety. as it be, he no soon receive the letter than he commence

to prepare for flight.



in the midst of a volley of “curse not loud but deep,” he deposit

a few article of linen and other thing in a valise, into which he

empty the content of a small cash-box. then from a drawer beneath

the bedstead he bring forth a grey wig, a long strait coat, and a

pair of green spectacle.



“somehow I think I should come to this at last,” he say, toss the

thing upon the bed and lock the bedroom door. “the luck’s against

I.”



and then he swear bitterly, and savagely grind his tooth, and cough,

and vow the dire vengeance against everybody.



take up a pair of scissor, he cut off his whisker and moustache,

and wrap they up in paper.



“I must burn they somehow,” he say to himself. “what an ass I must

be to get myself into this mess to satisfy my revenge on a boy,--a

twopenny-halfpenny clerk whom I ought to have thrash within an inch

of his life.”



he go on mutter to himself as he shave his face clean and bare.

he certainly be not improve by the operation. the bad line about his

mouth come out in painful distinctness, now that the hair be go.



fasten a white band about his neck, Mr. Gibbs next adjust the grey

wig upon the partially bald head, put on the green spectacle, don

the long strait coat, open his bedroom door, listen attentively for

a moment, and then quietly disappear down-stair and out at the front.



he have an hour’s start of the police, and he maintain his advantage

cleverly.



no prosecutor appear at Bow Street against Paul, and the purse be

impounded,--“rather a sell for Mr. Gibbs that,” as Williamson say in

his quiet amiable way afterwards. the magistrate say Paul leave that

court an injure young man, without a blemish on his character.



       *       *       *       *       *



in the evening Amy and her father return home, and they would fain

have have Paul’s company; but Mr. Williamson beg that they would let

Paul spend the evening with he, as he think he could introduce the

lad to a well situation than the one at Westminster.



Amy look the gratitude which she feel for Mr. Williamson’s great

kindness, and Mr. Somerton delicately press a ten-pound note upon he

just “to buy something, you know, in remembrance of the affair--not in

the way of payment for a moment, but to buy a ring or something as a

token of a father’s gratitude for protect his son when no friend

be near.”



Mr. Williamson could not resist the fine fellow, as he say at the Club

afterwards, “there be something so noble in the way in which it be

do. a true son of the soil that Somerton--a fine noble fellow with

his heart in his eye, and then his splendid daughter stand by and

look so appealingly, by Jove, I take the note, and the young fellow

and I go together into Regent Street and spend it.”



this Club of which we speak be the Cavendish,--a Club frequent by

artist, actor, writer for magazine, and newspaper critics,--and

in the evening, Mr. Williamson, one of its most lovable member,

introduce his _protégé_ Paul.



it represent quite a new world to the bailiff’s son,--and a world

which be highly attractive. a new drama have be produce on this

evening, and soon after eleven o’clock quite a small crowd of fellow

come in to eat chop, drink grog, and discuss the new play. some of

they shake hand with Williamson, call he “dear boy,” and ask

what new bit of philanthropy he have in hand. he introduce Paul to one

gentleman as his _amicus curiæ_, his _camarade_, his _fidus Achates_,

and say he wish to recommend Paul to he for a clerkship in his

office.



“I know you have a vacancy, because I inquire yesterday. read the

paper to-morrow about a case at Bow Street--the one in which I be

engaged,--they be talk about it here, you know, last night,--don’t

ask any question, but wait until I call upon you to-morrow.”



“all right, old fellow,” say the gentleman; and when he have join

a companion at the furth end of the room, Mr. Williamson say,

“that gentleman be the proprietor of _the Pyrotechnic_, a musical,

theatrical, and literary paper of which, _entre nous_, I be the editor.”



Paul during the whole night act upon the nursery proverb--listen

and say nothing. he hear all sort of wonderful thing about

dramatic art and literary criticism, and Mr. Williamson point out

to he the most notable personage present. one of the quiet and

“meekest-minded” fellow there be the lead low comedian of a

famous theatre; and the noisy and funniest dog of the lot be the

gentleman who play high tragic character at the same house. the most

“disputatious person” be a musician who talk of german opera and

the unity of the classic drama. a gentleman who be renowne as a wit

speak of the gorgeous poetic beauty of the Psalms; and a preacher who

contribute lead article to a popular religious paper get a little

applause and some quiet expression of irony by designate himself “a

professor of Hebrew mythology.”



Paul do not quite understand this latter bit of smart profanity at

the time; but he learn eventually to estimate it at its true value,

and understand how much of the practical unbelief of the day arise

from the want of downright earnestness on the part of many profess

religious teacher. Mr. Williamson often talk about question of this

character with Paul in after day at his quiet chamber in the Temple,

and Paul find at the bottom of Williamson’s philanthropy a fine vein

of religious feeling. and yet Mr. Williamson be a disappointed man.

the world have not go well with he, he use to say. he commence life

with grand theory and sentiment, and with conviction too strong,

and a heart too susceptible of honour and truth and honesty, to let

he register vow which he do not feel that he could perform to the

letter. otherwise he might have be a shine light perchance in the

Church: at all event he would have be true to she, not like that

miserable fellow who talk about hebrew mythology, and chuckle over

his own infamy. Mr. Williamson have avoid this religious writer ever

afterwards; not, as he say, for be an unbeliever, not because he

be an atheist, but because he belong to the holiest and good of

all profession and make a boast of his perjury and unfaithfulness.

Mr. Williamson give the great latitude to free-thinking, and never

interfere in religious controversy, and he instill into Paul’s

mind opinion of liberality and toleration.



it be strange that Williamson should have take such a fancy to

Paul Somerton; but he be an eccentric, amiable, kindly fellow, and

his way and mode of life, his like and dislike, his selection of

companion, and his general motive of action be not influence by

common impulse: he have habit of thought and way of his own, and he

take it into his head that he would help this young fellow whom Fortune

have throw in his way.









                             CHAPTER XXIV.



                   CHRISTABEL takes dibble into her

                              CONFIDENCE.





though Thomas Dibble never, during all his connection with “the Temple

of Magic,” have see a performance from begin to end, he have see

enough to surprise and delight he, and whenever an opportunity

offer, he communicate to christabel the feeling of wonder with

which he regard she.



“you be certainly the clever lady as ever I see,” say Thomas, one

night after business, as the pair sit alone over supper, in a corner of

the general room of the lodging-house where the magician’s company be

quarter. the renowned Digby have go out to a lamb’s fry supper give

in honour of the birth-day of the Yorkshire giant, whose acquaintance

he have recently make.



“do you think so?” say the amiable young lady, look all kind of

sweet thing at dibble. “ah, I might have be, if poor old Carkey have

live.”



“it would hardly be possible for you to be any cleverer,” say dibble.

“however you do change they card so wonderful, be a mystery to I.”



“ah, that’s easy enough, Thomas; I mean clever at reading and writing,

and all that. you don’t know Carkey, of course. he be father’s clown.

ah, these be the day! we once have a circus company, Thomas; a real

grand affair, with horse, and lady in spangle and tight, and

father use to stand in the middle in jackboot and crack a whip.”



“you don’t say so!” say Dibble, who feel highly honour at the

condescension of the young lady in tell he all this.



“o, yes; it be stunning, I can tell you. I be a very little girl at

the time--very little; I can only just remember it; but Carkey, the

clown, when father be do up, and have to turn to conjuring, he stick

to we for long enough, and it be he who use to tell I all about it.”



“I never see a clown but once,” say Dibble, “and that be when I

and----”



“yes,” say christabel, “you and----”



“well, I be go to say,” Dibble stammer.



“you and----” repeat christabel. “now, you be keep something from

I: if it’s a secret, tell it I, and I’ll tell you another--such a

first-rater.”



“you will?” exclaim Dibble.



“yes,” say Christabel, nod her head, and laugh quite gleefully.



“and you’ll never tell, on your blessed oath?” say dibble. “but what’s

the good of oath? I’d rather trust to your honour.”



“then you may,” say christabel; “for I’m long to tell you a

secret,--one that I’ve keep for, o, ever so long! now, who be it when

you and----”



“well, then, I wor go to say, when I and Mrs. Dibble--which be my

wife,” say Thomas, “once go to a pantomime, and see the clown eat

three yard of sausage, and jump through a clock.”



“so you’ve a wife?” say Christabel, disregard altogether the

wonderful feat of the clown in the pantomime.



“yes; and I’ve bin and run away from she,” say dibble; “so there’s my

secret, and I trust to your honour.”



“what do you run away for?” ask Christabel.



“well, ’cos I’d bin and get into trouble in the panic,” say dibble.



“what’s a panic?” ask Christabel. “I never hear of a panic.”



“why, you see, it’s a sort of row in the City about what share be

worth, and which buy ’em, and who sell ’em, and whether you’ve get

’em, or the other one; but the great thing of all be to know what a

bull be, and which be the bear, and whether, you ought to be one or the

’tother, and whether it’s premium or par, or what the discount be.”



this be one of the long explanatory speech that Dibble have ever

make, except when he be try to convince Mrs. Dibble that he be

a bull, and could not help it. he look at Christabel, and fancy

that he have give a particularly lucid description of a panic; but the

mysterious lady stare in astonishment at dibble, and said--



“so that’s a panic, be it?”



“yes it be, summat near it,” say dibble. “I ought to know, considerin’

as I lose five hundred pound in it.”



Dibble raise his head, and look quite important when he think of

his financial experience.



“well I never hear of a panic before,” say christabel. “I begin to

think you must be go off your head--‘off your nut,’ as father call

it--when you talk of bear and bull, or else that a panic be a

menagerie, and you really have be in the profession before.”



“no, a panic bain’t a menagerie,” say dibble; “it’s bad nor anything

of that sort; it’s something as you cann’t see, but it’s get a way of

get at your money, and swallering of it up in the most outdacious

style, and the more it get, the more you have to give it.”



“why, it must be a menagerie,” say christabel.



“what be a menagerie,--wild beast?”



“of course, you know that,” say Christabel, a little impatiently.



“well, it’s bad than the awfull wild beast as ever you hear

on; but you cann’t see it. I think you could myself, and I go into

the City and inquire. ‘where be the panic?’ I say to a porter as I

know. ‘in there,’ say he, ‘in the Stock Exchange.’ I look into a

place, through a hole, and there I see above a hundred man, a talking,

and shout, and write in little book, and go on like Bedlam;

but I never see the panic. so I ask a man as be stand close by,

and he begin to laugh and tell I to inquire of a fat party again the

door, and he say I be to ask the Old Woman of Threadneedle-street. I

go there, and I see an old ’oman, a selling orange, which I ask at

once. she say she think that be it, point to a great big house;

but I never see it, and I ’eard arter, as it be not to be see, that

it be like the devil go about in the character of a roar lion on

the quiet, never let anybody see ’un.”



Dibble be become quite garrulous upon the panic, and Christabel sat

look at he with a startled sort of curiosity; she have never hear

of such a wonderful animal before; but then, she say, there be no

doubt many thing of which she be ignorant.



“if Carkey have live,” she go on, “I should have know all about

everything, because he say he would teach I, and some day he say I

might become a fine lady. just fancy, wouldn’t that be fizz, to be a

fine lady! if I be to tell your secret, you’d be in an awful way, eh?

it would be a reglar do, wouldn’t it?”



“Hawful,” say dibble.



“that’s right, ’cause I want to tell you mine. now, look here.”



Christabel look cautiously round, to see if the miscellaneous company

be occupy. convince that nobody be watch they, she take from

her bosom a small miniature.



“now, you see that?” she say, in a whisper.



“yes,” say dibble, fully expect to see it change into a pigeon or

something more wonderful still, in the way of conjuring.



“that be the picture of a lady. Carkey give it to I, and he tell I

never to part with it for love or money. it be a picture of a real

lady, such a beauty, and he says,--you swear you will never split?”



“never,” say dibble, solemnly.



“well, that this lady be my mother, and that my father be a

gentleman; that Digby Martin be not my father at all, and that some day

I would perhaps find out my real father. I promise on his death-bed

always to call Digby father, and never to let anything make I not do

so, and that I be to try and learn thing out of book, and read

newspaper, and all that. now, I’ve always want somebody to talk to

since poor Carkey die, and to ask their opinion about it; and now you

and I shall be friend for ever,--eh, Thomas?”



“oh, yes, sure,” say dibble. “I wouldn’t tell your secret for all the

world. what a wonderful girl you be, surely!”



“ain’t i?” say christabel, quite proudly. “I often think of it when

I’m go through the performance, and especially lately. I read in

bed, and sometimes of a morning; and I know it’s true what Carkey say,

because there’s a tale just like it in the paper which I buy every

Saturday morning, as sure as the day come round; and o, it make my

blood boil! o, it’s such a fizz story, and there’s picture of she

in it! she be steal by gipsy, and they make her sell buy-a-broom

and match; and she be a lord’s daughter all the time! and who know,

Thomas, but that I be the same? haven’t I get a picture in my bosom,

and all that? o, wouldn’t I go it if I ever come to be rich! and I mean

to be, dibble; I’m not a-go to be always perform here, don’t

think it!”



Dibble say Miss Christabel ought to be in London, at the British

Museum, or somewhere.



when she know a little more of thing in general, Christabel say she

mean to try her fortune. there be lot of marriage in the tale she

be read, and always a lot in the newspaper. why shouldn’t she be

married?



“why, you be too young for that,” say dibble. “I know a young

gentleman as would make such a sweetheart for you,” say dibble; “such

a sweetheart!”



“yes,” say christabel, smile her sweetest, and put her hair to

right.



“but there, he be mile and mile away from here,” say dibble; “and

you’re never likely to see he, Ise afeare.”



“what be he like?” say Christabel, prepare for a flirtation in fancy.



“o, a handsome, nice young gentleman; and his name’s Paul.”



“what a jolly, stunning name!” say christabel.



“he wouldn’t like you to speak like that,” say dibble.



“how do you mean?” ask Christabel.



“why stunning and all that--it bain’t perlite; he talk so fine

himself, he do.”



“I know what you mean,” say the young lady. “I can talk fine, too. I

know stunning ben’t fine; but I know what be, so there!”



“you bain’t angry now?” say dibble.



“not at all--oh, no,” say christabel. “what’s his other name?”



“Somerton,” say dibble. “Master Paul Somerton.”



“oh! and do you think he would fall in love with I?”



“I should think he would,” say dibble, astonish that there should

be any opening for doubt upon the subject.



“oh, how nice! I often think some grand young gentleman will come into

the Temple and fall in love with I; but I never see a real handsome

one come in, dress pretty, you know, and with a little moustache,

like the picture in the tale that I be tell you of. I always look

round the audience to see if there be aireyone as be in love with I;

aireyone as I could love, you know. but they be all such a gawky lot.

Most of they be in love with I--I know that, of course; but they

be hardly worth be make miserable. o, I give they such look

sometimes!”



Christabel seem to hug herself upon her assumed capacity to make

some of the male portion of her audience unhappily in love with she,

and dibble feel morally certain that it would be impossible for any

young gentleman not to fall in love with she; but as for marriage it

be nonsense, Dibble tell she, to think of that,--such a very young

lady as she be; he should think for his part that she ought to be able

to conjure some handsome young gentleman into that basket when she

disappear at the touch of her father’s wand--disappear nobody know

where. but the young lady only laugh at this, and think it a good

joke.



what if she could conjure into it that handsome Paul Somerton, she

say, who talk so fine!



Dibble say that would be splendid, and then christabel as a further

proof of her favour, give Thomas her royal permission to call she

“chrissy.” Carkey, the clown, have always call she “chrissy,” and in

future dibble should take the clown’s place, and be her confidant.



“but mind,” she say, clench her little hand, “if you dare to betray

I--if you do not keep my secret,--I will not only tell your, but oh,

I don’t know what I will not do besides--shoot you, perhaps, with a

pistol, like the lord’s daughter in the tale.”



Christabel say this so fiercely that dibble almost wish she have not

confide her secret to he. just as he be about to make a remark to

this effect, there stagger into the room, reel through the smoke,

the showman and his “dawg.” the company hammer their glass on the

table and shout “bravo,” as Digby strut in with the Yorkshire

giant and Momus, the giant smile benignly upon his tipsy friend, and

Momus marching in front with her head very erect, and her nose turn

towards her proprietor.



Thomas Dibble have hardly raise his eye to look at his new master and

the giant, when Digby seize a cup and throw it at Momus, and, miss

his mark, make stupid effort to kick the animal, whereupon christabel

rush to the dog’s rescue and call the showman a brute, at which

there be another burst of applause. the giant hereupon lift Digby

up by his collar out of harm’s way, as if in terrible affright at

Christabel; at this Digby kick and swore, and the giant, drop

he, say the young lady be right, Digby Martin be indeed a brute;

and it be generally agree that this be the most courageous thing

that a giant have ever be know to do and say. this lead to a dispute

between a very tall gentleman in the peep-show line, and the proprietor

of a boxing booth, which end in an extempore fight on the spot; in

the midst of which Christabel retire in disgust, quietly intimate to

dibble that she would not put up with “this sort of thing” much long.

dibble slunk away too, and wish there have never be such a thing as

a panic in the City.





                            END of VOL. I.





           BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









                          Transcriber’s Notes





Italics be indicate as _italics_.



apparent typographical error have be change.



inconsistent word hyphenation and spelling have be regularize.



Page 46: “o’clo k” change to “o’clock”.



Page 71: “fear o rivalry” change to “fear of rivalry”.



Page 107: “TÊTE-À-t te” in title change to “TÊTE-À-TÊTE”.



Page 128: “the oolish neighbour” change to “the foolish neighbour”.



Page 142: “walk through” change to “walk through”.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 1 (of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





