The project Gutenberg eBook of the Tallants of Barton, vol. 3 (of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the tallant of Barton, vol. 3 (of 3)

        a tale of fortune and finance



author: Joseph Hatton



Release date: May 21, 2023 [eBook #70827]



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Tesley Brothers, 1867



credit: Sonya Schermann, Debrah Thompson and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 3 (of 3) ***











                                  the



                          tallant of BARTON.



                     a Tale of Fortune and Finance.



                                   BY



                             JOSEPH HATTON,



     author of “bitter sweet: a Love Story;” “against the Stream,”

                               etc., etc.



 “the wheel of Fortune turn incessantly round, and who can say within

          himself I shall to-day be uppermost?”--_Confucius._



                           in three VOLUMES.



                               VOL. III.



                                LONDON:



              TINSLEY brother, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.



                                 1867.



               [_the Right of Translation be reserve._]









                                LONDON:



            BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









                               content.





      CHAP.                                                       PAGE



      I.--WEDDING bell                                             1



      II.--“YET OFT O’ER CREDULOUS YOUTH such sirens

            TRIUMPH, and lead their captive sense

            in chain as STRONG as ADAMANT.”                       17



      III.--COMING HOME                                            35



      IV.--TRAVELLERS by LAND and SEA                              49



      V.--LORD and lady verner                                     60



      VI.--IN which dame fortune play off her grim

           joke UPON LIONEL HAMMERTON                              74



      VII.--CONTAINS a letter from a DEAR FRIEND, and

            takes the reader once MORE to SEVERNTOWN               88



      VIII.--PORTENDS a deed of VENGEANCE                         101



      IX.--GLANCES AT WILLIAMSON’S STORY, and TERMINATES

           PAUL SOMERTON’S ADVENTURE                              112



      X.--“FROM GRAVE to GAY”                                     119



      XI.--EXPLANATIONS that come too late                        128



      XII.--“WHAT the MOON SAW”                                   144



      XIII.--IN which the SEVERNSHIRE CORONER hold

             an inquest                                           157



      XIV.--THE chief of the BRAZENCROOK POLICE makes

            a bold stroke for the government reward               175



      XV.--CONTAINS a curious illustration of DETECTIVE

           PHILOSOPHY, and be an IMPORTANT

           LINK in this history                                   184



      XVI.--“BAL. to R. T., £300”                                 198



      XVII.--IN the FIRELIGHT                                     209



      XVIII.--THE beginning of the END                            221



      XIX.--IN which SEVERAL PERSONS QUIT the stage

            for ever                                              245



      XX.--CLOSING SCENES                                         262









                              CHAPTER I.



                            wedding bell.





as the sail which we first discern, like a speck against the sky,

come into port at last, so the wedding-day of Miss Amy Tallant arrive

in due course of time; and in order that we may present the event to

our reader in the most familiar manner, we have compile from the

newspaper the follow account of it, discard on the one hand

the rhapsody of a Severntown reporter who introduce the whole of

the marriage service into his version of the ceremony, and omit

on the other hand certain swivellerish flight of fancy in which the

redoubtable Mr. Jenkins himself indulge after he have dine with

Richard Tallant, Esq., at his “palatial residence” in Kensington Palace

Gardens.



the marriage take place at St. George’s, Hanover Square. the bride be

accompany to church by her brother, Mr. Richard Tallant, her aunt,

Lady Amelia Petherington, Miss Somerton, and Lady Georgina Evelyn.

the Earl of Verner, accompany by his “good man” Lord Tufton, go

to the church from the Gordon Hotel, Pall Mall East; and the bride

from her brother’s princely residence, Kensington Palace Gardens.

the bridesmaid be Lady Georgina Evelyn, Lady Maria Fotherington,

Miss Fredrika Lionel, Miss Alicia Lionel, Lady de Witz, and Miss

Somerton. the bridegroom be first at the church, speedily follow

by the bridesmaid, who come from their respective residence. the

bride arrive at eleven o’clock, and be conduct to the altar by her

brother, a voluntary on the organ be play meanwhile.



long before this, a distinguished party of friend and spectator have

take their place in the church, and amongst they we notice Lady

Duval, the Countess of Wharton, Major Darfield and Mrs. Darfield, the

Hon. J. Delafield and Mrs. Delafield, the Hon. Mrs. Dawkins, Miss

Elizabeth Dawkins, Miss Amelia Dawkins, and Miss Felicia Henrietta

dawkin, the Misses Constantine, and the Marquis of Questfield, Sir

John and Lady Bewdley, Lady Elizabeth Himley, the Hon. Captain Evesham,

Mrs. Evesham, and Miss Evesham, Lady Worcester, the Marquis of Forth,

Mr. De Lawtworth and the Countess Dawnforth, his Excellency the French

Ambassador, his Excellency the Prince Calignousky, accompany by the

Baron Dionsky and General Dronkoni, Mr. Dest, Lieut. Somerton, Captain

MacSchauser, &c., &c.



the bridesmaid await the arrival of the bride in the central aisle,

and their appearance be as charming as the lovely bride could

desire. their dress be of white grenadine trim with cerise satin

and sash of the same colour. the wreath be of lily of the valley

and violet.



the beauty of the bride be the theme of general admiration. she be

say to be much like the Petherington family, of which her noble

mother be reckon the great beauty. her bridal dress be of the

costly and most become character,--a robe of white satin with a

veil of exquisite point-lace, which fall in gorgeous fold upon she

heavy sweeping train. she wear a necklace of pearl and diamond, and

bracelet to match.



the ceremony be perform by the Rev. Francis Clifton, vicar of

Brazencrook, assist by the Hon. and Rev. James Fitzpatrick. the

response be give in clear and distinct tone, and the ceremony be

altogether most impose and impressive.



amidst the magnificent strain of the “Wedding March” the bridegroom

lead the newly-create Countess to the vestry. the register having

be sign and attest, the bridal party leave the church for the

Gordon Hotel, where a sumptuous _déjeûner_ be prepare for the bridal

party and friend. the bill of fare be quite a curiosity in the way

of luxurious indication of the feast, and the table be adorn

with the most exquisite ornament and rare flower. the bride-cake be

design by an artist of high repute, and be surmount by a design of

the noble Earl’s magnificent castle of Montem.



before the company retire from the dining-room, Lord Tufton rise, and

in a few appropriate sentence propose “health and happiness to the

Bride and Bridegroom.” the toast be receive with rapturous applause.

in reply, Lord Verner say that a year ago he have not even dream

of such a day as this; but the time would never be efface from his

memory as one of the great happiness he could possibly experience:

it not only be a day never to be forget by he, and always to be

remember with gratitude and delight as that upon which his dear wife

have give herself up to his keeping; but it be to be remember also

with unfeigned pleasure on account of the many friend it have bring

around he, and from whose society his former bachelor habit have, to

a great extent, exclude he. it be indeed the happy, the most

important, the one red-letter day of his existence. loud cheer greet

his lordship’s earnest speech, and then the bride retire to prepare

for her departure for Horton Hall, Essex, the seat of Lord Tufton,

where they would spend the honeymoon. the Marquis of Questfield then

propose “the Bridesmaids,” and Mr. Tallant acknowledge the deserve

compliment in eloquent term.



at three o’clock the bride and bridegroom take their departure,

proceed by special train to Corfield. the lady’s travel dress

be pronounce to be in the good possible taste.



the journal then give a list of the present to the bride, which we

need not republish; the gift be from great people mostly, and be

of the costly character. they include necklet, with pendant of

diamond and pearl; bracelet set in brilliant, diamond, brooch,

workbox inlay with gold, dress case, sévre vase, antique

china, crosse set with diamond, write tablet, watch, fan, and a

hundred other thing of gold and silver and precious stone, and wood

and china, and leather work.



the monitor of the Press, who give to the world this interesting

account of the marriage, may almost be say to have be everywhere

on that eventful day. they have be to Mr. Tallant’s residence and

see all the wedding present; they have talk with the fashionable

dressmaker and milliner who have have the making of the _trousseau_. they

have see the _déjeûner_ lay out in that fine room of the Gordon Hotel;

but it be only the privilege of the writer of this history to follow

the lady into her chamber.



how handsome she look! those observant newspaper gentleman might well

speak of her charm and graceful carriage. when her maid have remove

the long lace veil, and the bride’s hair have fall loosely upon her

shoulder, she present a picture of _débonnaire_ gracefulness and

beauty. and what a contrast they were,--the Countess, and Phœbe, with

the Miranda-like simplicity and sweetness!



“you may leave I now,” say the bride to she maid.



“yes, your ladyship,” say the woman.



the title sound strange and harsh somehow to the newly-make countess.

it seem to cut she off from the people whom she have know from

childhood; and yet her heart beat with pride when she feel that she have

reach the high point of her ambition--that all her wild dream have

come true.



“how charming you look, my pet!” she say to phœbe.



“reflect beauty,” say Phœbe, put her arm round the bride. “only

reflect beauty, for I never see you look so pretty, so lovely as you

look this morning.”



the Countess smile a little sadly, but this might only be a woman’s

tribute to the importance of the occasion.



“how kind his lordship be! how very kind,” say the bride, as she

discover some new gift on the dress table.



“it make I cry to hear he speak so earnestly and nobly to-day when

your health be propose,” say Phœbe.



“you be very tender-hearted,” say the Countess, “I do not see any

one else look like cry; but the word touch I too. he be a truly

generous, warm-hearted man, I be sure.”



Phœbe look at her friend, as much as to ask she if she have ever

doubt it. the Countess read the thought in an instant.



“you think I a strange woman. I have never think much about his

feeling or his heart until lately, Phœbe, and never so much as I have

do this morning. it have be all ambition and revenge until to-day,

Phœbe; what be it to be in the future?”



she sit down as this thought present itself to she, and look at

herself in the great mirror that repeat her supple figure over and

over again. she sit and look at herself, and Phœbe, know her

secret, creep near she and lay her head upon her shoulder.



“duty in the future,” say Phœbe softly; “your noble husband’s love and

generosity will make you love he in the end I be sure, as he deserve

to be love; the path of duty lie before you and cannot be mistake.”



“he have long since win my respect, Phœbe, and my gratitude; he love I

with a good man’s truthfulness and sincerity, and I will love he; you

know how I have struggle, you know what I have suffer: let we both

blot all that part out now and for ever, Phœbe, and as you love I pray

that I may be sustain in the wifely path of duty and obedience.”



the Countess speak like her former self in those past day before that

cloud of sorrow fall upon Barton Hall; in those past day when she be

the bailiff’s daughter and the sisterly companion of she whom she have

since supplant in fortune and position.



the tear come into Phœbe’s eye again, and the two woman embrace each

other tenderly.



“bless you, my own dear friend,” say the Countess, “believe I, I

will make reparation for all my unkindness to you. there dear, do not

reply--kiss I again and leave I--it be well I should be alone a

little while.”



alone, the Countess fall upon her knee, and pray with passionate

fervency--pray as she have not pray since that change come over

she on that never-to-be-forget day when she learn of _his_

departure--pray as she have not pray since that scheme of ambition

leap into her mind at the appearance of that carriage with the

coronet on the panel.



she rise with a calm expression upon her face, refresh by the

outpouring of her supplication, and determine to do her duty in the

high station to which she have rise, and towards her husband.



unlock a small dressing-case which stand near his lordship’s late

present, she take out an inner drawer which be curiously conceal.

her hand tremble slightly as she withdraw the content--a letter. it

be _his_ letter (if it might be call a letter)--the only memento of

he which she possess except in memory. there be only three line

upon it, and these be write on the day follow that day when they

have walk together in Barton Hall garden.



“Dearest--I shall be at Barton Hall at four o’clock to-morrow. do

not let I go away without see you. L. H.” this be all the note

contain. for long day and week and month afterwards she have

treasure up that poor little scrap of paper--wear it in her bosom,

weep over it, kiss it, and cherish the memory of that hour of

happiness which follow it.



for a moment she hold it in her hand hesitatingly. she feel that it be

the only link between the present and the past. light a vesta, she

hold the paper in the flame until it be consume, and then she stamp

her little satin-slippere foot upon the ember. the flame burn she

finger before it go out, as if there be venom in the perjure

word that the fire be consume. but this be nothing to the fire

which have sear her heart long since, burn into it those serpent

word that have look so fair only to ste the deep. but it be

over at last, and now she be Countess of Verner.



“my lady” rang for her maid, and prepare to dress for the bridal

journey. whilst her robe be be remove she glance round the room

which have be furnish with so much magnificence for her reception,

and then she think, with a grateful smile, of the homage which she

husband have pay she in all thing.



the maid be ask some simple question, tell she how the health of

the bridesmaid have be propose, and how her ladyship’s handsome

brother have make a beautiful speech in reply. this she think would

please her ladyship very much indeed; but it only excite uncomfortable

thought in her ladyship’s mind--a vague kind of danger seem to

threaten she through Richard Tallant.



her ladyship ask no more question, but go through the elaborate

process of her toilette in silence, and by-and-by leave the room robe

in purple moire, and lace, and look every inch a countess, to the

everlasting envy of Lady Petherington and her young sister, and to

the delight of her husband and the rest.



all this time the bell at Severntown, Avonworth, and brazencrook rung

out over town and field and river. the summer air be full of their

glorious old music. the ringer in their shirt sleeve pull with a

will, until the church fairly shake again. mighty jug of ale pass

from hand to hand, from lip to lip, in the interval of this labour of

love, and major and triple bob-major and all kind of curious change

be perform on the swinge bell. Avonworth catch the faint echo

from Severntown, and Brazencrook, pick up the trembling tone from

Avonworth, take they up into its own ringing measure, and carry the

grand old-fashioned harmony away down the river to distant village,

where woman stand at cottage door and listen, and man rest on

their scythe to wonder why Brazencrook bell be ring.



glorious bell, merry bell, wedding bell! Arthur Phillips sit in his

studio with the window wide open listen to the joyous music, and

thinking of the peal that would soon ring out the news of another

marriage. he look away beyond the Linktown hill in the direction of

London, think of his darling Phœbe in her bridesmaid’s dress, and

picture she, in a wreath of orange blossom at a country church, by a

time-sanctify altar in Avonworth Valley.



happy bell, tuneful bell, olden bell, wedding bell! Luke Somerton

hear they as he sit with his wife at the Hall Farm, and puzzle his

brain with all sort of vague happy fancy that seem to soar upwards

in the smoke of his early after-dinner pipe. his wife speak cheerily of

the music, but it be a great struggle for she. something would whisper

in her ear that the Countess might perhaps have be her daughter, but

the next moment she remember that Phœbe be there as her ladyship’s

friend, and that Lieutenant Somerton be amongst the distinguished

visitor. that strange dream of ambition, you see, have not all pass

away from the proud Lincolnshire woman’s heart.



joyful bell, brazen bell, jubilant bell, wedding bell! travel your

happy strain adown that glimmering river; no whisper of your tender

music can reach that home-bind ship that ride on the indian sea.









                              CHAPTER II.



               “yet OFT O’ER CREDULOUS YOUTH such sirens

               TRIUMPH, and lead their captive sense in

                     chain as STRONG as ADAMANT.”





the day after the marriage of Miss Tallant, Lieutenant Somerton sit in

Mrs. Dibble’s front parlour, discuss, with her interesting lodger,

the detail of his scheme for the future.



embellish with several picture and vase, a lady’s easy chair, and

other little thing which the Lieutenant have purchase from time to

time, the room look quite neat and attractive.



they would be content, Paul be tell she, with something a little

well than this in their distant home, where they would begin the

world all afresh, and remember nothing but their own true love for each

other. “what an infatuated fool he must be, most renowned Asmodeo,”

Don Cleofas would say. “why, the young woman be vulgar too. do you not

notice how ignorant she be? and what shamble effort she be make

to hide it?” “you forget that my business,” say Asmodeo, “be to make

ridiculous match, marry maid to their master, greybeard to raw

girl; and see here, you forget the cloak!” refresh his memory upon

these point, Don Cleofas would be satisfied of course; and so must

we; for Paul Somerton see only charm in “chrissy’s” defect. we need

hardly say that she have improve considerably in her manner since that

conversation with Dibble at Severntown; she have long since cease to

call thing “stunning” and “fizz.”



that gentleman, who be enamour of her dexterity at card, have do

much to prune her exuberance of expression in this respect, and it

be wonderful how quickly she far improve during her stay with

Mrs. Dibble, not under the tuition of that elegant lady, but with the

inspiration of Paul’s book and her own cunning instinct.



she have often think of that night when first she hear the name

of Paul Somerton. “I know a young gentleman as would make such a

sweetheart for you--such a sweetheart!” old Dibble have say. and her

own remark--what if she should conjure into the basket that handsome

Paul Somerton, who talk so fine! how strange that she have conjure

he to her side! she wish she have see he before she see Crawley.

why do he not come into the Temple of Magic first? it be not her

fault that he don’t. she would have have he for her husband soon

than she would have have that mean sneak, Crawley, who care nothing

at all about she, and who never admire she at all after they be

married. and what a funny thing that she should be live with Dibble’s

wife! there be lot of murder and robbery, and other awful thing

in that tale in the _Weekly Sensation_, but her own story be certainly

as strange as that of the young lady who be steal by gipsy. she

have not be confine in a castle, and leave for dead in a cellar to be

eat by rat, be rescue by her father, and afterwards stab the

villain who have run away with she at first: none of these thing have

come to pass yet in her history; but there be no knowing how soon they

might.



she be prepare at any moment, she feel, to enter the next phase of

her career, whatever it might be, and have go so far in her imitative

insane fashion, as to sleep with a dagger beneath her pillow; but she

secretly hope that nothing would occur to prevent she fly with

Paul. in her own fashion, she love this mad-headed soldier, and she

dread the discovery of her wickedness and deception. if she have be

bring up in a respectable home, with moral influence about she and a

mother at her elbow, she might perchance still have do justice to her

home education, as she do now; but it be not necessary that we should

enter into speculation upon this point. her story be before we, and

it be the duty of the writer to tell it fairly, and leave the reader

to form his own opinion about what education and good moral home

influence might have do for this woman of the booth and the fair,

the race-course and the gaming-room, who, with the brightness of youth

still about she, manage, with siren-like skill, to look so innocent

and attractive in the eye of Paul Somerton.



the day after that grand wedding at St. George’s, Hanover Square,

Mrs. Dibble tell Chrissy that her husband would be come to pay she

a visit in a week or two, and Chrissy know that it be necessary she

should leave Mrs. Dibble before that period: so she have talk of

change of air, and Paul, give over to the reckless passion of his

first love!--(Heaven save the mark!)--had resolve upon a quiet private

wedding at Brighton that day week. the Lieutenant be just explain

his view when there come a loud knock at the front door, and after

considerable bustle and confusion in the little narrow passage, Mrs.

dibble burst into the room with her husband.



“Lor, Mithter Thomerton, Leftennant, thir, Thomath thaith he mutht

shake hand with you, and he hath come before hith time, becauth it

wath more convenient, and I’m sure you will excuthe he, when you think

of old time and----”



“of course, of course,” say Paul, wish old Dibble at Hanover; “and

how be you, Thomas? how do you do?”



Dibble make no reply, but allow his hand to be shake in the most

condescend fashion, whilst he fix his eye upon the young lady.



“why, deary I!” he exclaim, all of a sudden, “Miss Christabel, how

do you do? well, who would ha’ think as I should find you at Mrs.

Dibble’s?”



the lady address look at Mr. Dibble with the great possible

astonishment, and then turn to Lieutenant Somerton, as if she seek

some explanation of this extraordinary conduct.



“daughter of the northern magician, you know,” say dibble, address

the Lieutenant; “the cleverest young lady as ever I see. Lor’ bless

you, I----”



“what the devil do you mean!” exclaim the Lieutenant.



“surely the man be not sober,” say the young lady in her fine style,

and with just a faint smile at Dibble’s bewildered look.



“it hain’t the voice quite,” say dibble; “but it be Chrissy, you know;

she be the mysterious lady and----”



“and what?” exclaim the Lieutenant.



before dibble have time to answer he catch “chrissy’s” eye and its

sudden expression of warning, such as that which he remember couple

with her threat about the pistol; so he only stammer out something

about be mistaken, and beg pardon----



“you’re alwayth make thome mithtake or other,” say Mrs. Dibble;

“there, come along in the next room. I’m thorry I allow he to come

in, Mithter Thomerton, but hith headth bewildered, no doubt, with

having be away from home tho much and having previouthly have my eye

on he: and what he would do without ith a mythtery to I.”



the Lieutenant say, “all right, Mrs. Dibble, don’t apologise,” and

poor dibble slunk away into the kitchen and sit down, Mrs. D. follow.



“there, Thomath, never mind,” say Mrs. Dibble in her blandest tone;

“come and tell I all about it.”



but dibble remember how clever that mysterious lady of the show be;

how fierce she be, and he tremble at the bare idea of she exercise

any of her black art upon he, in case he should betray her secret.

it be quite clear that she do not wish he to know she; but he have

make no mistake at all, he be sure of that; and Mrs. Dibble be

sharp enough to see that there be some mystery here which she would

assuredly have clear up before Dibble go to sleep that night.



an unfortunate night altogether be this for the “mysterious lady.” Mr.

Williamson have send a messenger to the house for Lieutenant Somerton

soon after Dibble’s strange arrival, and Paul have take a cab, as

request, to the Temple, where he find the barrister in company with

an unknown gentleman.



“this be Mr. Bales, the detective officer, of whom you have hear I

speak,” say the barrister.



Paul bow.



“my friend, Lieutenant Somerton,” say the barrister, introduce Paul.



the detective nod in deliberate professional fashion.



“Mr. Bales have execute that old warrant to-day, and Shuffleton Gibbs,

_alias_ Mr. Jefferson Crawley, of Carr Court, Regent Street West, be

now in custody. (Paul look a little bewildered, and sit down.) Mr.

Bales be a great friend of mine, and I tell he that it might not be

advisable after all this time to reopen the case. Mr. Bales fear that

we shall be compel to proceed with it. but there be, it appear,

some other case against he, though not quite so clear as that of the

pocket-book. Mr. Bales will call here again in an hour before anything

far be do: meanwhile you and I will talk affair over. good-bye

for the present, bale.”



the detective officer nod in reply and leave the room, and then Mr.

Williamson, allude to that first gleam of suspicion in connection

with Paul’s attempt to borrow money, go on to tell his friend that

this woman whom Paul have make up his mind to marry be the wife of

Shuffleton Gibbs. he believe he should be able to produce the marriage

certificate. Gibbs know where she be, and have tell this to the

detective. he have find she out within a week of her disappearance,

through Macschawser, and he talk boldly of an action for abduction

and other tremendous thing.



Paul would not believe a word of it. his friend have surely enter into

a plot against he. then he remember the strange conduct of dibble,

and hesitate.



“I have only one duty to perform in this matter,” say the barrister,

“and that be to show you the character of the precipice upon which you

stand, and then leave you to your fate. have you obtain the sanction

for your change of regiment?”



“yes,” say Paul; “and the vessel sail next month.”



“for the Cape of Good Hope?”



“yes.”



“now, my dear boy, I know you believe in my friendship; will you permit

I to investigate this affair for you, and undertake to give the fact

proper consideration before you take further action?”



“I will,” say Paul, “provide that in all you do you respect she

feeling, and remember that I love this woman well than all the

world.”



Mr. Williamson shrug his shoulder.



“I love she well than all the world, and I only consent to this

active interference because I know she will come out of the inquiry

clear. the idea of she be Gibbs’s wife be absurd,” Paul go on.



“but suppose it be true?” say the barrister.



“I will suppose nothing. why do you try to bring unhappiness between

we? in less than a month we should have be on the sea to begin a new

life in a new country--turn our back upon the past.”



“and upon your friend,” say the barrister. “you would be leave

father and mother and sister and friend in the society of an abandon

woman.”



“Mr. Williamson,” exclaim Paul, “I will not stand this!”



“in the society of an abandon woman,” repeat the barrister, “not

like those poor people in the picture ‘seek New Homes,’ with the

association of pure affection and honest noble aim of independence.

your whole life would have be blight, your family disgrace, and

yourself a miserable man.”



“I will not get into a passion with you,” say Paul, “but I cannot

stand this, so good-night;” and before the barrister have time to

intercept he, Paul rush out of the room and hurry away into the

street.



meanwhile Mr. Bales return. the barrister inform he that he

think it would be impossible to proceed with the case of conspiracy.

the officer say he have another charge against the prisoner upon which

he could secure a conviction, and so the two part; the detective

to complete his entry in the police charge-sheet and arrange for the

appearance on the next day of certain witnessess, and Mr. Williamson to

the residence of Mrs. Dibble, where he at once introduce himself to

her interesting lodger as Lieut. Somerton’s friend.



he do not hesitate at all about the part he should play. assume the

position of Lieut. Somerton’s legal adviser, he tell the lady that Paul

know everything, and when she assume an injured and indignant air,

he show she a copy of that very marriage certificate which she have

burn. Nay, more; he say that he know where her father the showman be

to be find, and that her husband, who be in custody, have explain

everything to the policeman who have apprehend he.



and yet whilst the barrister be utterly crush the girl, and even

threaten she with a police cell, he feel a strange interest in she.

the remembrance of a well-know face which have fascinate he when a

boy come so vividly into his mind as he stand before the showman’s

daughter, that he grow strangely embarrassed in his manner. shortly,

his assumed austerity give way, and he find himself speak very

gently and tenderly.



the girl be quick enough to observe this, and she proceed at

once to make capital out of it, appeal to his kindness and

sympathy, assure he that she love his friend with all her heart,

acknowledge to the full how she have deceive he, and then humbly

solicit the barrister’s advice.



old memory come back to the barrister as the woman continue to talk,

and her tear do not fail to soften the hue of that picture of old

which would rise up between himself and the humiliated woman before

he. lead she on from one topic to another he induce she to narrate

her history, and by slow degree she repeat to he the head of the

story which she have tell Dibble on the Severntown race-course. feel

sure that this would excite the barrister’s sympathy, she hope that it

might in some way make he her friend.



watch the effect of all she be say, the girl perceive that

her listener be peculiarly touch; and when at the proper moment

she produce that little miniature which she have show to dibble, Mr.

Arundel Williamson, exclaim “good heaven, can it be possible!”

throw himself back in his chair and nearly faint.



fix her eye upon he as he grasp the locket, the woman, with the

cunning of the race-course and the lodging-house, the precocity of

poverty, and her fix faith in Carkey’s prophecy about her parentage,

feel at once that the hour of discovery have come.



“you be my father!” she say, with an air of pride and triumph. “that

lady be your wife.”



“God help we!” say the barrister solemnly. “he visit the sin of the

father upon the child indeed!”



“you willn’t drive I away now,” say the girl quickly; “you willn’t try

to make he hate I, and put I in prison now. if you don’t like I

to be your daughter, let I go away with he; tell he all that about

Gibbs be a lie,--he will believe you--he will believe anything--don’t

separate we--I will never tell anybody you be my father.”



the barrister make no reply; he rock himself to and fro in his chair,

and look vacantly at the girl, as if he be in a dream.



“I be your father,” say the barrister presently; “there be no doubt

about that. the sin and the punishment be so equal, and the parentage

be so fearfully verify in your own career and conduct: there be

no cheat heaven, no trick the law of punishment in this world.

God know I have suffer too, without this additional pain and

degradation.”



“you’re ashamed of I, then?” say the woman. “Lieutenant Somerton be

not; let I go away with he.”



“never!” exclaim the barrister: “never!”



           *       *       *       *       *



“well, it thertainly ith the motht exthraordinary thing I ever hear

of,” whisper Mrs. Dibble to herself and Thomas in the passage after

she have be listen at the keyhole for nearly half an hour: “motht

wonderful. now come here, thir, and juth tell I all you know about

that woman. it’s bad enough to have one’s money lotht and bring to

poverty, without secret of this sort be keep away from the lawful

wife of your bootham, Mithter Dibble. you thall tell I every word

before you go to bed.”



Dibble struggle a little against this decree, but without avail.

whilst he be tell his wife all that he know about Christabel, Mr.

Williamson be endeavour to bring that remarkable young woman to a

sense of her position. to what extent he succeed we may hope to learn

hereafter.









                             CHAPTER III.



                             come HOME.





yes, they be come home; the Earl and Countess of Verner be come

home. the “Severntown Mercury” say so, and mention the exact day

on which they would return. Nay, more, the accomplished journalist

announce that during that very week his lordship have accept the

colonelship of the Severnshire Yeomanry, and that the local troop

would receive the distinguished couple at the Severntown Station, and

escort they to the junction, from whence they would continue their

journey to Avonworth. a member of the old county family, and the

most distinguished of the local aristocracy, the “Mercury” suggest

that the civic authority should show his lordship some mark of their

respect as he pass through the ancient city on his way to the

historic home of his father.



the right honourable the Earl Verner be descend from that famous

verner who figure so magnificently in the early day of the reign of

Henry IV. in the tournament of that time, Henry, Earl Verner, be

the brave and most formidable of all the gallant of the period. he

fight like a lion at the battle of Shrewsbury, and serve the king in

various part of the country with unequalled bravery and success. the

Verners have always be splendid man. there be another of the race

who distinguish himself as highly in the senate as the Verner of

Henry IV.’s time have in the field. it be to this senator that England

owe so much in those critical time when the doctrine of the French

Revolution be make progress in our own country. the Earl’s speech

in parliament upon this grand question be one of the most powerful

oration in history. he fill several high office of state, and his

fine administrative ability could be trace throughout the important

epoch in which he live. the present earl, though he have hitherto

take no lead in public affair, be an accomplished scholar, and have

contribute several important pamphlet to the literature of art and

antiquity; and he would, no doubt, now take that position in the county

to which his family distinction, his accomplishment, and his great

wealth entitle he.



the Countess of Verner have also spring of a stock not by any mean

of small celebrity. her parentage might be say to have represent

the aristocracy of birth and commercial enterprise. her father, the

late Christopher Tallant, Esq., have rank high amongst the merchant

prince of Great Britain, and have come of an old Yorkshire family. her

mother, a lady of the noble house of Petherington, be a descendant

of the Petheringtons of Fife. the Lord Petherington of that ilk it

be who distinguish himself in Egypt in 1800, and who fall fight

the battle of his country in Spain. celebrate for their beauty, the

daughter of the house of Petherington would be familiar to those

admirer of “female loveliness” who have study “Garton’s Beauties of

the Court.”



the “Mercury” grow quite eloquent in its historical revelation, and

Severntown resolve, in accordance with the editorial hint, that the

Earl and Countess should be “receive” at the station, and escort to

the junction in right royal fashion. so, when the day come, there be

quite a crowd of people at the station. a troop of the Yeomanry Cavalry

be there, and their horse prance and curvet, and stand upon two

leg, in the most approve military fashion; a number of lady who

have seat upon the platform, present the Countess with a handsome

bracelet and a charming bouquet of flower; the mayor come forward, and

make a pretty little speech to the newly-married pair; and the Earl

reply in a hearty address. then his lordship conduct his wife to

a carriage, and drive off to the junction, amidst great cheering, in

company with the gallant Yeomanry on their prancing steed.



but it be at Brazencrook where the great demonstration be make.

Severntown be somewhat proud and dignified; but Brazencrook be full

of rejoice. nearly the whole of the long street in Brazencrook

belong to Earl Verner, and the people have always be warmly attach

to the noble proprietor of the Castle of Montem. Brazencrook be the

near station to the castle, and Brazencrook determine to make the

return home something not to be forget. the Town-clerk have be

instruct to prepare an address for the occasion. the cordwainer

of the place have make the Countess a pair of dainty slipper; the

glass-cutter have manufacture and make wonderful toilet-bottle for

she; the lady of the town have subscribe for a gold casket; and the

civic authority have order the town to be decorate, and the bell

to be ring in honour of their distinguished friend and neighbour.



the old Guildhall be carpet, and a daïs erect in the ancient

assembly-room. the earl have consent to bring his wife here to

receive the civic congratulation and the big town’s present.

Brazencrook have always be celebrate for do thing well; it be

one of the lead motto of the local newspaper, that “if it be

worth while to do anything it be worth while to do it well.” thus

the welcome home of the earl and countess grow and grow out of the

first proposal into a demonstration worthy of royalty. if our friend

Asmodeus have take you there on the morning of the celebration of this

return-home, you might have fancy that you have be transport

back to the “good old time” of provincial display. the visit of a

queen, the close of a three week’ election, the termination of a

great war, the inauguration of some old-world revel, or something on

an ancient scale of grandeur, would have seem to be manifest in

those flutter flag and banner; those half-military man in the

street; that ox roast in the market-place; those great cask of

ale ready tap under the ancient piazzas of the market-house. band

playing, bell ring, shop close, triumphal arch receive the

last-finish touch, old gable house with device paint up

between the window, Odd-Fellows in sash and apron, gentleman with

white rosette on their breast, woman with baby in their arm, boy

climb lamp-post, and again Yeomanry Cavalry with brass helmet and

unmanageable horse, Brazencrook have never present such a scene of

jubilation and bustle. the fine old town seem to rub its jolly big

hand, and say, “how do you do, everybody--glad to see you. have a

drink--we be go to enjoy ourself to-day. it be a little foolish to

make such a tremendous fuss, we know; but never mind;--better to do a

thing well, if you do it at all, you know.”



somebody have draw an allegorical figure of the town, and it have be

sculpture by a famous artist. it be a brawny athletic man, with a

hammer in his hand, lean upon a rock from which water be suppose

to be burst forth--the source of the river upon which the town be

build. if the figure could have speak it would have say something

like what we have just write, and it might have lay down its hammer

and smile pleasantly at the Brazencrookians as they bustle about on

that memorable morning.



there be a glow of pride and delight upon the rosy cheek of the

Countess as she sit by her lord in that pretty open brougham which

convey they to the Guildhall. it be like the reception of a prince

and princess. Lord Verner bow like a king to his bend subject,

and the Countess smile and bow with a gracious condescension that

be quite charming to see. the people cheer and shout and throw up

their hat, and “Welcome Home,” “Long Life and happiness,” and good

wish of all kind greet they from nearly every banner and triumphal

arch.



meanwhile a dense crowd congregate at the Guildhall, and a fashionable

throng be congregate within. there have be many local feud about

place. the town-councillor have to be accommodate first, and their

wife next, and we regret to say that quarrel which time will never

heal arise out of the preference show to some lady over other

in the selection of the committee to represent the lady who have

subscribe for the casket. it be quite grand to see the aldermen in

their blue cloak and chain, the councillor in their gown, the mayor

in his cocked hat, the sword-bearer with their fur helmet on and

their beaver up. then there be the mayor’s officer in their new

livery, and his worship’s own footman with a bouquet in his waistcoat

as big and as round as his own rubicund face. the military pensioner

with their shine accoutrement be draw up in line ready to present

arm. even Earl Verner be strike with surprise and amazement as his

coachman pull up opposite the hall. what a scene it be, to be sure!

“eye front--fix bayonet--present a-r-r-r-rms!” could be hear half

way down the street, as a fierce old officer, on a plunge horse and

half pay, thunder out these command to the pensioner; and then,

oh, how his stentorian voice be drown with drum and fife and

“hip-hip-hip-hurrahs!”



the Countess begin to feel terribly nervous as his lordship hand she

out and introduce she to the mayor, who offer his arm and march

magnificently into the Guildhall along the crowd corridor and into

the great assembly-room, where a thousand well-dress person rise to

receive the noble visitor. onward through the smile throng, with

his head in the air and the Countess by his side, go the Mayor of

Brazencrook, up to the daïs of crimson cloth, where the Countess sit

down in a gild chair of state, and the Earl stand beside she, his

lordship look almost as proud as his worship the Mayor himself.



suddenly the Countess recognise Phœbe, Arthur Phillips and the bailiff

sit close by. she rise instantly, advance towards they, and the

next moment have kiss her friend with a heartiness that make the

tear come into phœbe’s eye, and quite electrified everybody. who

be the lady whom she have kiss? everybody ask everybody else, and

nobody know. who be that strange look little man with long black

hair? and who be that fine-look country gentleman? nobody know,

and everybody make a guess in reply, so that there be quite a buzz

of conversation. then the Mayor introduce the aldermen, who have all

promise to introduce their wife and don’t; then the Mayoress be

introduce, and the Countess shake hand with she, and so do the

Earl; whereupon several friend of the chief magistrate’s wife say

the Mayoress be “stick up,” and a score of other lady say the

whole affair be a perfect farce, and they certainly would not have

sanction it if they have know there be go to be so much nonsense.

who be the Countess, they would like to know? nobody but a merchant’s

daughter, and her husband old enough to be her father. and who be the

Mayoress?--a seedsman’s wife,--and what a bonnet! it be a pity people

should make themselves so ridiculous! and the Countess too; there

be woman in the room quite as handsome and quite as graceful. fine

feather make fine bird!



the Countess might fairly have dispute the prize for beauty with all

Severnshire, nevertheless; her chief competitor, to our mind, would

have be the artist’s _fiancée_, but the two style of beauty be

entirely different, as our reader know.



it be not long ere the Town-clerk have read the civic address, and the

various present be make. the Earl reply in a manner that promise

all the old borough hope for with regard to the future; whilst the

Countess say a few word of thankfulness, which be so gracious, so

sweet, so become, so perfectly modest, that even the lady who have

be exclude from the committee aforesaid could not resist join in

the general expression of approval.



how sincerely the Countess vow in her own heart to be an obedient

and faithful wife to this man who have raise she to such a height of

distinction! he have never see she look so affectionately upon he

as when they be once more move on their way to his magnificent

house at Montem. the welcome which they have receive at Brazencrook

be of such a right royal kind, that it kindle not only sensation

of pride in the woman’s heart, but feeling of the deep gratitude.

the sublime and the ridiculous be often to be see in very close

proximity. the Countess could not fail to notice some of the laughable

incident of the Brazencrook display, but she feel to the full the

earnestness of the scene, the manliness of the civic address, the

outspoken, independent allegiance of the great body of her husband’s

tenant, represent by a fine old man, who talk of the ancient

day of Brazencrook, and how the retainer of the House of Verner have

fight, under previous earl, the battle of their king and country.

but it be the arrival at Montem Castle itself which most impress the

Countess. that long drive through the luxurious park, that long line of

citizen soldier, that body of local tenant at the castle gate, those

loud cheer, that other address of welcome, the bend servant in the

grand old hall, and the gracious word of the Earl introduce she as

the mistress of Montem Castle. she weep tear of joy and gratitude.

there be no act in this. when she see Earl Verner first she have

commence to act a part which she hope might lead up to some such

scene as this; but she have never imagine that the actress would weep

real tear, and feel a deep and fervent gratitude to the nobleman who

have take her hand and place she by his side.









                              CHAPTER IV.



                      traveller by LAND and SEA.





in the morning after Mr. Williamson’s discovery of his daughter,

Lieutenant Somerton seek the woman whom he have love so wildly--he

seek she with a troubled heart, and a half resolve to see she

no more, if she have deceive he so grossly as the barrister have

intimate. he have think long and seriously over all the circumstance

which his friend have lay before he, and he resolve to search out the

truth.



when he reach the house, however, he be spare the scene of anger,

mutual explanation, and final triumph of love and frenzy which he have

imagine. the bird have fly; there be no chrissy in the little house

with the tree at the back. the room be desert, and Mrs. Dibble

sit weep over the _débris_ of a hasty packing-up.



“She’th go, thir: go for ever,” say Mrs. Dibble.



“yes,” say Thomas, who stand by, look more frightened than

sympathetic.



“Gone--what do you mean?” ask the Lieutenant.



“she wath a wicked creature, thir, and she hath flee,” say Mrs.

Dibble; “if my poor dear papa could only rise from his grave and see

the path to which hith daughter Maria hath come.”



“hang your papa!” exclaim Paul; “tell I what all this mean.”



“how dare you, thir,” say Mrs. Dibble, start up; “how dare you hang

my papa! ah, I forget, of courthe poverty mutht be insult, and I be a

wretched dependent, though I have have a boarding-school education, and

be bring up to----”



“confound it, Mrs. Dibble: will you talk common sense for a moment. I

don’t wish to insult you, nor to be unkind in any way. will you tell

I how it be that this lady have leave your house?”



“here be a note,” say Mr. Dibble, timidly take a small _billet_ from

the mantel-piece.



Mrs. Dibble scowl at her husband, and begin to weep afresh over she

fall fortune.



Paul hastily open the note, which Dibble give to he, and read as

follows:--



     “MY DEAR PAUL,--I have save you from a great sin and from

     terrible misery. this wretched girl be my daughter. I have take

     she away; do not seek to follow we. you shall know _all_ in the

     course of a day or two. ‘he visit the sin of the father upon

     the child unto the third and fourth generation of they that

     hate he, and show mercy unto thousand in they that love he

     and keep his commandment.’



                                  “believe I to be ever your in truth

                                        and affection,

                                                       “A. Williamson.”



Paul read the note twice and in the great astonishment. his mind be

in a chaos of wonder and amazement. he sit down upon a chair, and read

the strange word over and over again, until Dibble interrupt he.



“it be all true, sir,” say Dibble, “what I say yesterday; she be

the show-girl, Chrissy, who conjure, you know, sir, at Severntown.”



Paul make no reply.



Mrs. Dibble only nod her head to signify that she have have a

boarding-school education, and have be bring to this wretched

plight, nevertheless.



“she be main clever, surely,” say dibble, “and improve wonderful.”



“when do she leave here?” ask Paul, look to Mrs. Dibble for a

reply.



“before daylight, by the mail,” she say; “and what with pack and

Mr. Williamson’s fidgeting and go on, and his wild way, I hope I

shall never see such a night again.”



“they leave together,” say Paul, stare vacantly at the barrister’s

note.



“Yeth, and dibble fetch the cab.”



“do she seem willing to go; do she leave any message for I?”



“nothing,” say Mrs. Dibble. “she wath willing enough to go; but

anybody would have be willing to do whatever he thaid, he theeme to

order about so.”



“Order! in what way?” ask the Lieutenant.



“why, ath if he be her father, which he thaid he wath, though that

wath never to be repeat to anybody but you, and he go home and

bring some money, and wath motht liberal for all we have do, though

I thertainly would have return it if Mithter Dibble have not lotht

money in the panic, and that bank have not break, which leave uth almost

in poverty.”



the Lieutenant take little or no notice of Mrs. Dibble’s long speech,

but they be full of dagger to Thomas Dibble, who would have lay

down his life if he could have obtain money enough to put an end to

his wife’s taunt about their loss.



Paul be altogether at a loss to know how to act. his first impulse

be to make an effort to follow the fugitive; his first impression

be that his friend have behave treacherously; but when Dibble tell

he all he know about “Chrissy,” and her belief that her father be a

gentleman, and when he think again of all that Williamson have say,

and of the dark shadow upon his early life, he resolve that he would

try to be patient, and wait for the next chapter in this extraordinary

story of his first love.



meanwhile the fugitive be speed on their way to Dover, their

destination be Paris. whilst they be leave England, a traveller

be journey to London in whom the reader have a still great

interest. Lionel Hammerton be come home. he have only be a few

month at his post ere he leave it. nobody know why he do so, or

upon what plea he have obtain permission. he have not be well,

his comrade know; but a general depression of spirit rather than

any physical complaint seem to be the secret of his reticence and

retirement. on board the vessel in which he go out his conduct

be set down to the motion of the vessel, and a few harmless jest

be make at his expense. he be advise to drink plenty of brandy

and water, which would soon bring his sea leg all right; but Lionel

Hammerton do not recover, except when he drink more brandy than be

good for he. now and then this occur, and at such time he be

pronounce to be a splendid fellow, a dashing, daring, high-soule

fellow.



Lionel himself hardly know why he wish to return home. he felt

impel by an unseen influence. like the hero of some ghost story

who at Christmas have see by his bedside the face of a love one at

home, and a beckon finger which haunt he day and night until he

set foot on board a home-bind ship, Lionel Hammerton could think of

nothing but return home. there be something wrong, he could not

rest, he must go home and see the old country once more ere he settle

down in India. for day and week he struggle against this instinctive

longing to re-cross the ocean. that vignette which Arthur Phillips have

paint hang by his bed, inside those mosquito curtain! have this aught

to do with his desire to return home? do he repent of his neglect

towards Amy? do he love she after all? do the memory of those happy

day at Barton torture he with remorse? or have that idea of Amy’s

mercenary motive evaporate in presence of that honest and noble face,

about which he have talk so rapturously in the artist’s studio? if so,

why do he not write to she and say so, or send some message to she

by Arthur Phillips? this would have be easy enough, and sufficient

too for Amy, who would have catch at the mere straw that offer a

prospect of regain his love.



they pass each other on the sea, the two indian ship--one

homeward-bind with Hammerton on board, the other on its way to

calcutta with letter for he, and full particular of his brother’s

marriage. what a world of trouble might have be spare to he and

other, have he yield at once to those home-prompting, or wait

until those letter and paper have reach their destination!



as the vessel bound along through the water, Lionel shape his

course. he be fain to confess that he want to see Amy, to see she

once more, and judge for himself by her own word and conduct whether

she truly love he, or whether it be a mere mercenary passion. it

be a long time before he confess even to himself that it be she

who draw he back to England--he could not rest without she. if she

be really true, true as the artist have paint she, true as he

once believe she, he would confess all to his brother, and ask Amy

to return with he to India as his wife. what a fool he have be, he

think, to doubt she, and to come away without see she. what a

miserable lonely life it be out there in India without a soul you

care for. how happy to have a wife there! no fellow ought to go out

to India without one. and what do it matter about a woman’s origin in

India, so that she be a lady in manner, and the wife of an officer

of rank in his own right? why have he not think of all this before?

it be only by degree that he have permit his thought to run wild

like this. the sea seem to help he out of his trouble; it be so

boundless, so full of life and beauty. his thought appear to mount

the white-crest wave and travel away upon they to some quiet sandy

beach where Amy be walk. now that he have confess to himself why

he be return to England, he give his imagination the free rein,

and picture the future as something almost preternaturally happy. he

never doubt for a moment that when he come back to Barton Hall and

throw his handkerchief at the foot of Amy she would pick it up and be

his slave. that pride which have have so large a share in his leaving

England and neglect the woman whose love he have take the trouble to

win, do not desert he on his return.



when he set foot in London he hesitate whether he should go straight

to Montem, run down to Arthur Phillips’ at Severntown, or take the

train to Avonworth. it have occur to he more than once to visit

Amy secretly; but his well sense prompt he to write a note to his

brother tell he that he should visit he the next day, hope to

return again to India by an early mail.



“he will be surprised,” Lionel think, “to receive this; but he be a

dear old boy after all, and I will soon put he all right. I wish I have

have nothing to do with that infernal Stock Exchange business. I should

then have have no qualm at all about meet he again so suddenly.”



the Hon. officer of her Majesty spend the evening of his return to

England at Drury Lane, and his magnanimous intention with regard to

Amy be stimulate by the action of a drama, the chief lesson of which

be the levelling power of love, and the exaltation of beauty and

virtue above rank and fortune. Lionel go home to his hotel in quite

a sentimental mood, long to confess his unchanging love and receive

Amy’s grateful acknowledgment of the sacrifice which he be willing to

make for she, raise the bailiff’s daughter to his own rank and make

her his wife and companion.









                              CHAPTER V.



                         LORD and LADY verner.





a delightful September morning inaugurate the second day of the return

home to Montem Castle. the sun shine upon the grand old tower which

stand out in clear outline against the sky; and upon the old ruin with

its moss-grow wall and whisper ivy, a grey old token of the past,

with a long line of green turf stretch forth to the more modern

castle which have be build in presence of the ancient ruin. the modern

establishment have be build as closely as possible after the old

model, and furnish too in antique style, but with all modern comfort.



as far as the eye could see, stretch the noble park with grand old

tree shelter group of deer. from the terrace in front of the

castle half a mile of turf, intersperse with bed of flower and

shrub and winding walk and natural glint of rock terminate in a

broad expanse of lake, ornament with sundry island that look in

the distance like float garden. far away against the sky the Berne

Hills melt as it be into the Linktowns, whose topmost point be

hang with a misty mantle which the sunbeam fringe with gold.



the Earl and Countess of Verner sit at breakfast two morning after

their return home in presence of this glorious scene. the window be

wide open, let in the perfume of autumn flower, the song of bird,

the sound of plash water flow from an adjacent fountain. what a

paradise it be! would Amy make it a desert? we shall see.



when her husband say they might expect his brother during the day,

Amy’s cheek lose their colour for a moment, and her hand tremble;

but the change be not notice, and a strong effort of will at once

restore the wife’s self-control. the announcement be so unexpected;

all her speculation have not prepare she for so sudden an appearance.

she have expect to meet this man some day, and have think about her

manner of receive he; but she have never dream that the trial would

come so soon.



“shut the window, Morris,” say his lordship, “the air be rather

chilly, her ladyship will take cold.”



“thank you,” say the Countess, gently.



“you have meet my brother, I think,” say the Earl.



“yes, at Barton,” say Amy, promptly, but with a cold chill at her

heart.



“rather a strange fellow. why he should return home so soon, I cannot

understand. you may leave the room, Morris.”



Morris and his second in command bow and retire.



“there be a time when I could not bear Morris to be away from my elbow

for a moment,” say his lordship, “and now I would rather the fellow

be a mile off when you be here, my darling; there be no chatting

freely to one’s wife with that booby swallow every word.”



his lordship look across the table at the Countess in her white

morning-robe, and smile. “I positively envy those Darby-and-Joan

people of the middle class, who be not bother with a regiment of

servant.”



the Countess look up and say there be Darbys and Joans, she hope,

in hall and castle.



“I know of one couple,” say his lordship, cheerily. “George and Amy

be their name, and they will be candidate for the Dunmow Flitch.

Lionel Hammerton can hardly have hear of our marriage.”



“not hear of it?” say the Countess. this be a new feature of the

case which have not present itself to her mind.



“unless the outward mail make a very quick passage indeed, he have not

hear of it; I question whether he can be acquaint with any of the

change that have take place in our fortune during the past year.”



“what a surprise it will be for he,” say the Countess.



“indeed, it will,” say his lordship.



“be not his departure a very sudden affair?” ask the Countess.



“not particularly so, my love,” say the Earl. “we have not contemplate

his enter the army--that be his freak. he indulge in the luxury of

speculation rather extensively, and I think I be a little emphatic in

condemn his large and useless expenditure. I fear he be make

tie of friendship which be not beneficial to he. perhaps I say

so. in an excitable moment he say it would be well for he to join

the army, and go abroad for a few year. I dislike discuss these

personal question; it rather bore I at the time, I remember; and I

say I think it would be good. and so he make his own arrangement.”



“then he know that he be about to leave the country some time before

he go away,” say the Countess.



“yes, he be gazette soon after our serious conversation, as he

call it, and sail a month or two afterwards I think. I know he

would soon be tired of it, but I have no idea that his return would

be so sudden. he will hardly know the place. I never see so great

and complete an improvement as there appear in the ground, and the

general re-arrangement of the house. the whole place be change, and

with a mistress at the head of affair, I seem to be quite in a new

world, quite. and what a delightful world it be, Amy!”



his lordship be charm with his wife, and with everything around he.

the servant do not see a great change in Montem Castle than they

see in the noble master thereof. from a quiet, retire, luxurious

student, who bury himself in his book, and lose himself in continual

admiration of his pottery or picture, he have become a lively, chatty,

merry gentleman. formerly, with a continual fear that he be go

to be bore, he have guard himself as carefully as though he be

a confirmed invalid. no noise, no open window, as few visitor as

possible; he have appear to mope away existence, and Brazencrook

look forward to a speedy successor in Lionel Hammerton; but old

Morris and the butler both say crack jug often last the long,

and that ail man mostly make old bone. even they, however, be

surprised beyond expression at his lordship. it be marvel enough that

he should marry, but that he should have a really grand wedding, and

make public speech, and come home “lively than a cricket, sir,” as

Morris say, be something which they could never cease to wonder at.



he love his wife with all that fervency which often mark the love of

an old bachelor, who be fascinate out of his former course of life by

a beautiful woman bent on win he. there be nothing that he would

not have do to add to her comfort and happiness. all his bachelor

way, his fogeyism, his book, his picture, his china, none of they

could weigh in attractiveness against the delight of give she the

small pleasure. her ladyship know this, and resolve to interfere

as little as possible with his habit and general course of life; she

would join he in his study and in his pleasure she vow, and be

his companion indeed.



she would also govern his household, and perform her wifely duty to

the letter. be she twenty time a countess she would take her place

as the responsible head of the domestic government. she would give she

command for the day, and do all thing in order, as a wife should.



“you shall do whatever you please, my dear,” say his lordship, upon

the mention of this item in her wifely programme. “you be mistress

here, but do not rob I too much of your society; and one thing I must

insist upon.”



the Countess, who have rise and be stand with her hand in his,

smile archly at the idea of his insist upon anything.



“yes, I _must_ insist; you be to remember that my name be George here,

just as it be when we be in Kent, and that I be to have a kiss

always when we part, you as you say on your morning duty, I to wait

your pleasure in the library.”



the Countess promise faithful compliance with this command, and go

on her way to the housekeeper’s room to signify her pleasure with

regard to the arrangement of the day. Amy (for we be privileged to

call she Amy still, and shall insist upon an occasional exercise of

that privilege) enter upon her domestic reign so mildly, and with

such unaffected modesty, that the old housekeeper gladly obey she

behest, though this extraordinary interference, on the part of a lady

and a countess, with household affair be the subject of some slight

mutinous discussion that day in the housekeeper’s room and in the

butler’s pantry too.



having discharge these morning duty to her own satisfaction by

an inauguration of her system, the Countess ascend the grand old

staircase and seek her boudoir, where she sit down to discuss with

herself and consider the situation which Lionel Hammerton’s letter

have create. she have refrain from ask many question which her

heart have prompt she to ask at breakfast, fear that she be not

altogether fulfil her part of the solemn contract she have enter

into, by learn from her husband the motive which have actuate she

lover without confess how much she know of his brother. all she have

seek to learn be in the way of justification of her own conduct,

and she have be strengthen in this by his lordship’s reply. how

should she meet Mr. Hammerton? how much do he know of recent event

to prepare he for the change at Montem Castle? how far might surprise

betray he or she?



whilst she be think of these thing the sound of wheel attract

her attention, and the next moment she see one of the Earl’s close

carriage, with luggage on the roof, approach the main entrance. the

conveyance have be to Brazencrook Station to meet Mr. Hammerton. she

have no doubt he have arrive. she watch the brougham roll along the

great drive, through the autumn-tint tree--watch it, as she have

on another memorable autumn day watch Earl Verner’s carriage whirl

along, through the die leave, to Barton Hall. it be a coincidence

which strike she forcibly these two autumn day, and seem to bode

evil to she. do she love this man who have win her heart in those past

day, and whose neglect have urge she into a scheme of revenge? she

ask herself the question fearlessly, and her heart say no; but still

there be fear in the answer--a momentary fear that it be well

Lionel Hammerton be in India than here. contrast his conduct with

that of the Earl, remember how niggardly he have be, in those early

day, of tender word, and how he have rather seem to revel in her own

silent admiration than delight in her love; and how devoted the Earl

be; how noble, how generous; how he have raise she up not think

he have do so, but thank she for his own happiness--thank she

that she have consent to be the mistress of these grand old hall, and

the successor of a long line of countess who live in the history of

title and beauty. contrast the two thus, Lionel Hammerton take but

an abject place, and Amy’s heart overflow with gratitude to the man

whom she have swear to love, honour, and obey.



Ringing for her maid, the Countess take a fancy to have her hair

dress afresh, and then she put on a plainer dress, and in a little

time there come a message from his lordship that Mr. Hammerton have

arrive, and would lunch with they.



the Countess expect this, and be prepare for it. when she have

dismiss she maid, she survey herself fixedly in a mirror, as if she

be practise some peculiar expression. she be nervous, and wish

the day at an end. why have he come here? if he know of his brother’s

marriage, it would have be far nobler to have remain away from the

place? do he know of it?



let we answer that question to the reader. Lionel Hammerton hear of

his brother’s marriage for the first time from the servant at the

Brazencrook Station. he hear it, and with no pleasure; for although

he love his brother with a generous affection, he have come to expect

that some day, in the ordinary course of nature, he would be call

upon to succeed he. not only do the disparity of year lead to this

supposition (they be the offspring of two different mother, the

former Earl having marry twice), but the general opinion be that

the young brother be so much strong than the eld, that he must

live out the other. this marriage, therefore, seem to set up an

obstacle to his hope. but the news do not affect he half so much as

might have be expect. the strong feeling about it, we be bind

to say, be one of surprise, which be not a little increase when he

learn that Christopher Tallant’s daughter be his brother’s wife.



all the way to the Castle he ponder over this extraordinary fact,

and wonder how it be with his poor friend, Arthur Phillips. there

be one thing which give he comfort: if his brother could descend to

marry a commoner’s daughter, surely he, a mere officer in the army,

might marry Amy, the daughter of the commoner’s bailiff.



this think in some measure revive his spirit, which have be dash

on the first blush of the matrimonial news. he could hardly believe but

what there be some mistake, but when he see the trim flower bed, the

new gravel walk, the trim sunblind, the cheerful brightness of the

window, he feel that the bachelor day of Montem be certainly at an

end. “how odd,” he think, “to take sweet counsel with my brother’s

wife about Amy Somerton; I will confide all to her ladyship before I

say anything to George--fancy Miss Tallant, Countess of Verner, my

sister-in-law. no wonder I be prompt to come back to England!”









                              CHAPTER VI.



               in which dame fortune play off her grim

                      joke UPON LIONEL HAMMERTON.





“let I congratulate you, George,” be the first word which Lionel

address to his brother; “let I congratulate you upon your marriage

with the prettiest of charming woman.”



“thank you, thank you,” say the Earl, take Lionel’s hand; “rather

unexpected, eh?--never think I should marry, eh, Lionel?”



“no, I certainly do not,” say Lionel.



“the confirm old bachelor, who could not be bore with a wife,

eh?--the lazy old fellow, too selfish to marry, eh?” say his lordship,

laugh aloud and rub his hand. “do the wonderful news bring you

home?”



“no; I hear for the first time of your marriage, at Brazencrook. when

I leave India I hardly know why I leave; but I think I shall be able to

tell you all about it in due time.”



“well, no matter; you know you be always welcome, Lionel--always; my

home be your, dear boy.”



“I know that, my dear George,” say Lionel, who again take his

brother’s proffer hand, and shake it heartily.



“you will find your old room in the old place,” say the Earl. “no

change there, except perhaps a little extra decoration. when you be

ready, come to I in the library, and you shall have an introduction to

your sister-in-law.”



“delighted to renew the lady’s acquaintance in her new and

distinguish position,” say Lionel, leave his brother smile and

nod at the foot of the principal staircase.



the old room be in the old place, at the end of the picture gallery,

and Lionel find no change there for the bad. he find Morris there

unpack his portmanteau; and he joke with the old fellow, and

ask he when he would be marry. Morris think the jest rather

grim, and say it be certainly time for he to think about it, now

that his lordship have take a wife.



“her ladyship be pretty, Morris, be she not?” say Lionel, take off

his coat and throw the window up.



“very pretty, and as amiable as can be, too,” say Morris.



“that’s a good thing; what time do we lunch, Morris?”



“two o’clock, sir,” say the servant.



“ah, it be one now,” say Lionel, look at his watch. “I shall have

time to dress and have ten minute’ walk to collect my faculty for an

introduction to her ladyship, your mistress.”



“yes, sir,” say Morris, deposit waistcoat and trouser, and

hang up coat and cap and sword in the ample wardrobe; “shall I

ring for hot water, sir?”



“no, thank you, Morris; the news have make I hot. never mind undo

that leather case.”



“all right, sir,” say Morris. “you be look a good deal bronze

with the sun, but glad to see you so well. anything else I can do, sir?”



“no, thank you, Morris,” say Lionel, take no notice of the

servitor’s remark about his brown face, but wonder how Arthur

Phillips have take his disappointment. “somehow I never think the

poor fellow have the slight chance of marry Phœbe. Poor Arthur!

such a sentimental fellow, too, he be; it would almost break his

heart I should think; I will hunt he up to-morrow. Fancy George, Earl

Verner, my whimsical, apathetic, luxurious, mope brother, fall

in love with that pretty face at Barton, and marry it! wonder

will never cease! I suppose he must have see she on one of his call

on Tallant about those humbug share. some people believe in the

exercise of a sort of electrical sympathy influence friend at the

long distance. do that worry I in India? a stroke of fate, I

suspect, in the whole thing. well, we shall see.”



thus ramble on the current of Lionel’s thought as he wash and

dress and give his toilette sundry extra touch in view of the

new society which now grace the castle. what a terrible shock of

disappointment and surprise await he! it seem as though fortune

be play off some grim joke upon he.



as she pass through the principal drawing-room on her way to the

library, the Countess see her brother-in-law walking towards the lake.

it be a fine manly figure, in a loose morning costume that set off

the broad shoulder and the stalwart limb to perfection. how she have

love that man! how she have listen for his footstep and tremble

at his voice! she dared not think of the past; she would not think

of it, she would crush it out of memory. she clench her fair white

hand as she make the vow, clench it in an agony of resolve until she

finger pain she; and she go in unto her husband crush out that

forbidden, that cruel memory!



“well, my darling, have you see the Indian?” say his lordship, when,

the Countess enter the library. “I declare the fellow be as brown as

a gipsy.”



“I see he from the window go towards the lake. there he be,” she

say, look in that direction, “return now.”



as she say so, Morris knock at the door and enter with Lord

Cornington’s card. he be walk in the picture gallery, and wish to

see Lord Verner on particular business.



“I will come to he at once,” say his lordship. “excuse I for ten

minute, my dear; Cornington have call about the Darfield property;

I have put he off too long already; I will return as quickly as

possible.”



in the hall Lord Verner meet his brother, and the Countess could hear

he say, “you will find my wife in the library, Lionel; your own

introduction will be sufficient: amuse she with an account of your

voyage until I return.”



the next moment Lionel enter the room. Amy press her hand upon her

heart and summon up all her courage and fortitude. he look at she

for a moment, and then with a sudden gleam of joy upon his face he

rush towards she. Amy step back a few pace and coldly extend

her hand.



“why, what be this, Amy?” say the indian officer. “surely some joke,

some jest to increase my present happiness at sight of you.”



“I do not understand you,” say the Countess, in real astonishment; for

she have dismiss from her mind the possibility of Lionel’s ignorance

of Mr. Tallant’s death and the discovery of Mrs. Somerton’s fraud.



“you be here to surprise I, to punish I for my neglect by a gracious

condescension; you have forgive I, but I be to suffer for leave you

so strangely. I see it all, dear, dear Amy.”



“Sir, be this the language which you address to your brother’s wife,”

say Amy, with a glow of indignation and alarm in her face.



“what do you mean? what be this? pray be candid with I and forgive

I. surely the jest have go far enough; your look alarm I,” say

Lionel, in a passion of appeal.



“there be no jest in this business,” say Amy. “I fear you do not

know all. before Mr. Tallant die it be discover that I, whom you

know as Amy Somerton, be his daughter, and that the lady you know as

Miss Tallant be, in truth, the bailiff’s daughter. I be Christopher

Tallant’s heiress, and I be now your brother’s wife, the Countess of

verner.”



Lionel sink into a chair and cover his face with his hand as Amy, in

a clear, firm voice, speak these word. and this be what he have come

from India to learn. be he in some hideous dream? he look up only to

be the more convinced that he be a victim to cruel fate.



“and now, Mr. Hammerton, if you ever love Amy Somerton, respect she as

your brother’s wife; and if you value his happiness or mine, guard as

a sacred secret the memory of that love which you once profess for

she. now be the time to prove the sincerity of a passion which you

once profess, and which be the joy of that poor girl, until neglect

and indifference step between she and hope, and give her hand to

another. for my sake, for your own, for your brother’s, leave this

house as soon as possible; whilst you do remain, blot out that memory

of the past--crush it out as I have crush it--and never let Earl

Verner’s peace be disturb even by a suspicion of anything more than

a mere acquaintanceship between yourself and his wife. as you fulfil

these my wish, so shall I gauge your love.”



she leave he as she say this, and when he raise his head he look

for she in vain. the twin brother in the “Comedy” be not in a

great maze of bewilderment than be Lionel Hammerton. though the

light break in upon his mind during that cold resolute explanation,

it seem like an ugly dream. he be like a man paralyse by a sudden

blow of misfortune, against which he struggle ineffectually. to fall

from the sunny height of anticipate bliss into a stygian gulf of

misery like this, be enough to unnerve a strong man than Lionel

Hammerton. Pride, self-love, hope, fortune, happiness--all be strike

down when most they should have flourish. it have flash upon he,

at first sight of Amy, that her friend, the Countess, have confess

all with regard to his (Lionel’s) love, and that his generous brother

have concoct a delightful plot to surprise he. but for Amy’s fix,

cold look, he would have be at her foot implore her forgiveness,

and bless she for come there, that he might not lose a moment in

ask she to be his wife. and now she have slip from he for ever,

and Fate mock he with she as his sister-in-law! be it true? be

there hope yet? he would go out and walk; there be virtue in fresh

air. he take up his hat, and go forth into the old ruin; he clamber

up the rotten stone step, and stand upon the moss-grow battlement,

where man-at-arm have defend the garrison hundred of year before;

he look round upon the glorious scene, mellow with a thousand

tint of autumn; he watch the blue wreath of smoke, mount up in

tall ethereal column from the old hall chimney; he see those purple

hill in the distance, beyond which he first meet Amy Somerton. then he

remember the enumeration of her wish so recently express--wish

that be a command to he--a command by the observance of which she

would gauge his love.



“she shall have no reason to complain,” he think, as he come back

again to the hall. “there may be some cruel plot of punishment for my

neglect at the bottom of all this; it be a slight hope, a weak plank in

the ocean of my disappointment, but I will cling to it for this day at

least.”



“why do you run away?” say his lordship, when Lionel return. “do

the Countess frighten you? we be wait for luncheon. cornington

dine with we; he have just take her ladyship in--come along, come

along!”



and the brother, arm-in-arm, enter the luncheon-room, where Lord

Cornington be just hand Lady Verner to her seat.



the Countess never look well than she do this morning, and she

lead the conversation in her good manner; her racy, humorous repartee

remind the Earl of his first introduction to she at Barton Hall. Lord

Cornington think her one of the most brilliant woman he have ever meet.

Lionel Hammerton watch she, and reply to her sally now and then

with undisguised astonishment. Lord Verner be delighted with his wife,

proud of her wit, proud of her beauty, proud of himself that she be

his wife.



none of they see that weary, haggard look which Amy see an hour

afterwards in the glass, when she have retire to her room. she be a

fine actress, and she know it; but the effort now be a severe strain

upon her nervous system. she have hope until yesterday that she would

not be call upon to act again for a long time to come. gratitude

and respect have be ripen into love for her husband; but she

would never be herself so long as Lionel Hammerton remain. she be

beset with fear and alarm; fear lest her husband should discover the

love that have once exist between herself and his brother; fear

arise from her own conscience, burthen with the knowledge of the

revenge she have seek and obtain; alarm lest she should fall in the

estimation of her husband. this be the great fear of all; the idea

of lose one jot of that love and admiration which he have lavish

upon she, be torture. her own fidelity and truth be safe; she never

for a moment doubt her strength to maintain her own self-respect

as Earl Verner’s wife; but there be a wretched spell upon she, with

Hammerton in the house, which make his presence a torment far great

than she could have dream of. all those first passionate feeling of

triumph and revenge which have support she during that time of Lord

Verner’s courtship, have vanish long since, and now she only pray

for peace.



when the soft mellow gong, which announce dinner, resound through

the hall and corridor of Montem Castle, Lord Verner, who have be

sit with his wife in her own room, bring an excuse for her

absence. she be not at all well this evening, he say, and so Lord

Cornington and Lionel Hammerton and the Earl dine together, and Lord

Cornington re-echoed Earl Verner’s hope that her ladyship might come

down to tea. meanwhile Lady Verner write to her dear friend Phœbe,

beg of she to come and stay a few day with she at Montem, and

tell she that Arthur Phillips should have an invitation to dinner as

long as her stay last.









                             CHAPTER VII.



               contain a letter from a DEAR FRIEND, and

               takes the reader once MORE to SEVERNTOWN.





“MY dear AMY,” write Phœbe in reply to her friend’s invitation, “your

letter be indeed welcome, though the news it contain startle I not

a little, and make I regret ever so much more my inability to respond

to your _kind_ and _sisterly_ invitation. my poor mother be so unwell

that I cannot possibly leave she at present. she be suffer from an

attack of the same kind as that which prostrate she at Barton Hall. I

hope she will be quite recover in a day or two, and then I hope to

come to you.



“Dearest Amy, I be sure you will not give way in the slight with

regard to that respect and love which be your noble husband’s. the

_trial_ have come early than you expect, but so much the well; it

will be the soon at an end; trial in anticipation be more grievous

often than when they come upon we suddenly. the memory of your noble

and religious vow in that London hotel when you and I be alone

will support you, and God will help you to keep in the path of duty!

I know what your only fear be; but you may rely upon his respect

your position and consider the happiness of his brother too much

even to utter an incautious word that shall compel you to confess all.

should the bad come to the bad, my dear sister--and this be the

bad--there will be no shame in an honest avowal of the past. don’t

fear, my dear, dear Amy, _he_ must have too acute a sense of his own

neglect to make he otherwise than your true friend, and you will find

he return to India soon than you expect.



“when mother have recover I be to make arrangement for my marriage to

my own dear Arthur. of course you have see how famous he have become;

he be take the high position in art that be attainable. Ere long

he will stand at the high point of success. he come to we from

Severntown every week.



“you will be surprised to receive this letter from Lincolnshire. that

Oldhall farm of which my father use to talk so much be his, and

we have remove thither now a month past--during the month of your

honeymoon. we have leave old Dorothy at Barton, and father be go to

write to you about the tenancy. we be not far from the birthplace of

Tennyson, your favourite poet. I don’t think I like the country quite

so well as Avonworth Valley; but it be a pleasure to see my father ‘at

home,’ as it be, in his native county.



“I shall write again in a day or two. meanwhile accept my most

affectionate regard, and believe I to be



                                                 “ever your devotedly,

                                                               “Phœbe.”



“_Oldhall, Lincolnshire._”



Amy be disappoint with this letter, but she have grow calm since

she have write to phœbe; she have become more accustomed to the

situation, and Lionel Hammerton’s conduct have allay her fear. he

observe a studious courtesy towards she, and have not in the slight

allude to the past by word or deed. it be true she give he no

opportunity, although he have certainly once make an effort to be alone

with she in the ground.



a succession of caller and visitor be of great assistance to the

Earl’s wife, and she encourage his lordship to invite his country

neighbour to dinner. on several day she have to receive present from

local manufacturer at Brazencrook--specimen of their ware specially

manufacture for she. this give her occupation, and her gracious

manner speedily win for she a reputation of which she might well be

proud. she be pronounce in Brazencrook to be the most beautiful and

the least proud of any lady in the land, and the country people be

enchant with her amiability and her sparkling conversational power.

the old vicar and his wife, who have never agree about anything in

their life before, agree that she be a charming woman, and all the

district be singe her praise in less than a week.



Mrs. Somerton’s health do not improve, and so Phœbe do not come

to Amy’s side, and Lionel Hammerton still remain at Barton Hall.

a hundred time he have resolve to go, but he have resolve, as many

time, to stay. by degree Amy become more accustomed to his presence,

though she have take an opportunity, after a fortnight have elapse, to

hint that she be unhappy in his continued stay at Montem.



after this he go away to London for a month, preparatory to make

final arrangement for his return to India; so he say. during this

month Amy’s life flow on again smoothly amidst these new scene; she

receive visit and return visit; she have give a grand ball to the

county family surround Montem Castle, and his lordship have give

an _al fresco fête_ to his tenantry. never have there be such gaiety

at Montem Castle; never have the old place rejoice in so gracious a

mistress.



meanwhile Lionel Hammerton lead a life of excitement in London. proud

and weak, as the reader have see, Earl Verner’s brother could not

overcome his terrible disappointment. he be mad with vexation, and he

hate himself for lose the prize which have fall so strangely to his

brother’s lot. that this woman have love he with all her heart he now

believe, and that she have marry his brother out of pique or revenge

he believe also. why have he doubt she? that miserable think about

mercenary motive; he despise himself for harbour it, and yet it

be a plausible doubt, he confess to himself. what should he do? go

to India again and for good, without return to Montem. he would.

there could be no good purpose serve in see she again. it would be

manly to depart now. he would do so. thus he would resolve at night

only to break his resolution in the morning, and the end be a cab

to Paddington and a ticket for Brazencrook. when Lionel have arrive

at Severntown, however, he change his mind again, get out, and drive

to the College Green, where he find Arthur Phillips at work in his

familiar studio.



“at last,” say Arthur, reciprocate Lionel’s hearty greeting, “at

last; I fear you have forget your friend.”



“no chance of that,” say Lionel; “your name be in everybody’s mouth,

and I have see your great picture ‘now on view.’”



“in England all this time, and not even a letter from you!” say Arthur.



“I mean to have look you up the first day after my arrival,--I do

indeed, but at the time I think you miserable.”



“miserable!” say the artist with some astonishment.



“yes; but it be I all the time who have reason for sympathy.”



“let I ring the bell,” say Arthur. “there! now go on.”



a man-servant answer the bell, the artist say, “take Captain

Hammerton’s portmanteau into the blue room.”



“yes, sir,” say the man.



“of course you will make a short stay here,” say Arthur, once more

address his friend.



“I will not leave you to-day at any rate,” say Lionel. “may I smoke?”



“of course you may,” say Arthur, open the old cupboard by the

fireplace and produce cigar and light.



“how familiar the old room look,” say Lionel. “you have make no

change here.”



“no,” say Arthur; “none be require.”



“_you_ be change, Arthur--change for the well. you seem to have

lose some of your quiet dreamy nature. there be more animation in your

step and in your voice. how well you look!”



“yes, thank God, I be well,” say Arthur.



“success in all thing--success in your profession--success in love,”

say Lionel; “you should look well and happy. by heaven, Arthur, I

envy you!”



Arthur shrug his shoulder deprecatingly, and say no man could

judge another’s happiness sufficiently to justify envy.



“a sop to Cerberus that,” say Lionel. “you wish to discount your own

happiness that my misery may appear the less. it willn’t do, Arthur.

but never mind, I have not come here to croak. I have hear of your

success, of your happy prospect, even in London, and I congratulate

you. you have deserve success; you deserve happiness. if I have

listen to you before I leave England, I too might have be a happy

man. as it be, I be the sport of cruel Fortune, a break-spirit, weak

fool, only fit for the society of idiot.”



“tush, tush! talk rationally, my friend; we have all our trouble and

disappointment,” say Arthur. “you will soon get over this. change of

scene, the performance of duty, will stand you in good stead, and help

you to look upon the past indifferently.”



“I fear I not, Arthur; I be dead beat. I come over to England for

nothing in the world else but to marry that girl; to throw myself at

her foot, and ask she to have mercy on I. in the meantime, as if the

devil himself have plot against I, everything be change--even the

woman herself. Fortune have be play a game of ‘swop,’ and the woman

whom I could have marry meet I as my brother’s wife.”



“the change have be very remarkable--very,” say Arthur, altogether

at a loss how to say anything in the way of consolation.



“remarkable! good Lord! why, the world be turn topsy-turvy. _you_

have come right, Arthur, that’s one comfort, and it be my own fault

that I stand where I do. do she love my brother? how come it all

about? be it revenge? tell I all you know, Arthur: it be some relief

to talk about one’s misfortune.”



Arthur comply so far as he could with this request, tell Lionel

the story of the eventful period between his departure and return.

they sit talk together until evening approach, and then go in

to dinner, Lionel find comfort in his friend’s kindly considerate

word and advice.



at night they walk forth together by the river. Lionel grow calm in

presence of the great swollen torrent, and listen to Arthur’s story

of his own life and its trouble, and of his plan for the future. they

talk of Phœbe too, and of Arthur’s year of patient hope. Lionel

laugh aloud with joy at the story of Richard Tallant’s discomfiture.



“I always hate that fellow,” say Lionel, in his loud emphatic way;

“he be a thief.”



“he have not too high a sense of honour, I fear,” say Arthur.



“he be a thief when I know he,” say Lionel still more emphatically,

“and the confederate of that ruffian Gibbs. what a fine old fellow,

that father of his, to disinherit the vagabond!”



“it be a great blow to he, though he prosper still,” say Arthur.



“and I might have have some of the beggar’s money,” say Lionel, “have I

marry his sister. by heaven! I would have pitch it into the river!”



“he do not want money, they say,” Arthur go on. “his loss have

be great lately, but he talk of go into parliament. in fact he

have select my native town for the honour of his candidature.”



“happy coincidence! Severntown be to have supply I with a seat

in the house, if I have not be fool enough to run my head into that

Ashford Club den, and consent to soil my finger with their filthy

Stock Exchange venture. upon my soul it be time I disappear from the

land altogether.”



Lionel stride on as if he be keep pace with his thought, and

intend to stride out of the land at once, and then he break out into

a loud ironical laugh as he said,--



“fancy anybody contest a seat with a scoundrel like that fellow

Tallant; and yet Amy be his sister, and my sister-in-law. we must all

have be eat of the insane root, Arthur.”



“fact be strange than fiction,” say the artist.



“Fiction! Fiction halt mile behind the ordinary fact of daily life.

what be this fellow then?”



“a great financier, I suppose they would call he: his chief position

be that of manage director of the Meter Iron Works Company, which

his father founded,--one of the rich corporation in the land, I

believe.”



they little think that Mr. Richard Tallant be really in serious

difficulty at this very time. whilst other of his class have be

content to make large fortune and retire, Mr. Richard Tallant have

go on play for high stake. man who have no money to begin with,

have succeed in humbug the public out of thousand; and other

who commence cautiously and equally unscrupulously with thousand,

have retire upon magnificent fortune. Richard Tallant might have be

amongst the latter have he be less covetous; and now he stand in

imminent peril of lose nearly all: nothing but timely aid could save

he.









                             CHAPTER VIII.



                     portend a deed of VENGEANCE.





the difficulty of get up the evidence to support a charge of

conspiracy, in the absence of Mr. Williamson, and Lieutenant Somerton’s

unwillingness to prosecute, save Gibbs from one of the peril which

threaten he; and the other case which Mr. Bales have against he

also fall through. but the ex-swell be remind by the Court that he

have have a narrow escape, and that his escape be rather owe to a

technicality in the law than to any doubt of his guilt.



Gibbs have be fall low and low, as our reader will have see,

since the night of his expulsion from the Ashford Club. now and then

Fortune’s lamp have blaze up for a moment, but only to flicker down

again, and tempt he into low depth of degradation. from bad to

bad, from fashionable gambling to swindle, from cheat at card

to forgery, Gibbs have run the gauntlet of vice and immorality. from

a Stock Exchange bear to a money-lender’s cad; from an advertising

sharp to a beg-letter writer; from haunt club to frequent

hotel; from hotel to tavern; from tavern to gin-shop; from

gin-shop to the low night-house, Shuffleton Gibbs have become a

mean, shabby, out-of-elbow, unshaven outcast of society, who have twice

be within a gaol, and seem likely to die in the gutter.



there be no exaggeration in this rapid downward career--it be a common

occurrence. we be not romance, we be not sermonise, we do not

believe in the Maine Law, we have no sympathy with trumpet-and-drum

teetotal demagogue; but we be none the less sure in our belief that

the first step aside from the straight path, unless at once retrace,

will lead to misery if not to ruin, and that the man or woman who

descend to “neat gin” be beyond human redemption. there be hope in

beer, in wine, even in brandy; but the gin-drinker swallow a devilish

elixir that destroy he body and soul. there be something heroic in

brandy, something noble, the smack of the grape be there, the origin

of the liquor have a glory in it; in gin there be debasement; the

juniper berry have no classic history; who do not shudder, too, at

the compound which the habitual gin tippler consume--the fumetacious

spirit, imbue with turpentine? ugh! Whilst brandy fire the soul of

the hero, the gin of the London stew stimulate the morbid passion of

the thief and the murderer!



Shuffleton Gibbs have come down to gin and fog, to gin and darkness,

to gin and the reeking night air; he be the habitué of the low

night-house, a shiver miserable wretch, and all the more dangerous

to the man whom he hate with the low grovel murderous hate of raw

gin and poverty.



we have tell the reader how Gibbs have apply for assistance to his

early friend, Richard Tallant, and how he have be discard and

disown. he make another effort still, a last effort, the effort of a

miserable hungry beggar, in whose heart every spark of pride and honour

have be drown in juniper juice and turpentine.



“I have do with you, sir,” say the manage director of the Meter

Works, “you be an impostor; I never see you before.”



“not at Oxford,” say the shiver beggar, “not when somebody write an

epigram on the name of Tallant?”



“never! this will be my answer always.”



“not at Westminster, at the Ashford, at Madame ----”



“never, sir!” exclaim Richard, stop Gibbs in his enumeration of

the place on the highway of infamy where they have sup together. “I

once know a scoundrel who lead astray a wealthy merchant’s son and break

the father’s heart; you be something like that aristocratic sneak,

but you be not he. the man I mean be a swell, wear light kid glove,

and splendid shirt. they do say he wear stay, and think himself a

woman killer; _you_ be not that man, but some blear-eye, shamble

vagabond who would impose upon a gentleman in order that he may give

you a night’s lodge in the station house.”



“you infernal damned scoundrel,” say Gibbs, rush towards the cool

satirical friend of former day; “you miserable mushroom huxter!”



Richard Tallant be by far the strong man of the two, and he fell

Gibbs to the ground with ease.



“now, shall I ring the bell and have you pitch into the street, or

will you get up and go home to dinner, or go to your club and have

devil chop and champagne--eh?”



Gibbs gather himself together and stand before his victor, clench

his hand and tooth, and tremble with passion.



“I will go,” he say, hiss out the word as if they scorch he.

“the cat will mew; the dog will have his day.”



Mr. Tallant ring the bell. a servant come on the instant.



“show this fellow to the door; if ever he presume to make his

appearance here again thrust he into the street and give he in charge

of the police.”



“yes, sir,” say the man, “this way.”



Gibbs follow his guide muttering, and nervously clutch his finger.



“now then, old ragamuffin,” say the servant when they be in the

hall, “hoff yer go.”



Hunger, as Zimmermann say, be the mother of impatience and anger,

and never have mother a more worthy son than Shuffleton Gibbs. it be

hunger which have drive he to make that third application to his

friend; hunger and thirst; hunger for money as much as hunger for

food. he have neither money nor credit, even in the stew, where he

have exhaust both, when he make this last appeal to Richard Tallant.

but he get money somehow that night, and he swear an awful oath that

he would wreak a terrible revenge on the head of this vile scoundrel.

the red-eye, low-browed, crouch gin drinker who sit with he at

the midnight orgie--even they notice the satanic malignity of Gibbs’s

countenance, as it work and writhe under a passion too deep for

word; they know that, whatever it might import, that awful oath would

not be break. they fairly clank their glass and knock their

skinny knuckle upon the table to see Gibbs so much excited, and the

woman, with witch-like grimace, pledge his “health” and wish he

“luck.”



there be generally a weak point somewhere in the scheme of man who

set right and virtue at naught, and who endeavour to build up wealth

and fame upon false pretence. religious sceptic will direct your

attention to instance of undeserved poverty and suffering bear

through a whole lifetime; will show you person drag out wretched

life of penury and want, and prove to you that they be good, honest,

honourable people. as companion picture, they will show you man of

wealth and station live luxuriously, and rejoice in the high

state of worldly happiness. and then they ask you what sort of a

sermon or essay you can write upon the text, “God be love.” but the

sceptic-critic have little or nothing to say about real happiness, and

how that be divide amongst the human family. if he have, perhaps he

might puzzle a good many by point to the colliery district, the

factory, or the nail country, and show you the hard, bitter life

to which thousand of child be bear daily. what a blessed thing to

some of these people be the future, found on true christian faith!

but our critic of the way of Providence do not tell you of the

misery of keep up appearance which be behind some of those mark

of wealth; and he do not tell you how score of the prosperous one

to whom he point come to grief at last, as they deserve. he fix they

before you in their full career of success, but he do not show you

their disappointed hope, their unfulfilled ambition, their social cut

and wound, the grievance of their woman, the social failure of their

son and daughter; and, what be more, he do not show you the end of

the man whom he hold up as prosperous, happy, luxurious, revelling,

wealthy villain.



depend upon it, man such as Richard Tallant, who have trample upon

honour and honesty, and above all, upon parental kindness (however

mistaken that kindness may have be), be punish in this world

below, whatever may be their lot in that which be to come.



the weak point in Richard Tallant’s policy be the want of a course

of conciliation towards Shuffleton Gibbs. fate would, no doubt, have

meet he with a just retribution in some other way have he escape the

result of this mistake; but it be no part of our business to consider

what might have be, we who be consider the fact of Richard

Tallant’s career; and as it have not be our purpose to be mysterious

in this simple narration, we do not hesitate to tell you that Richard

Tallant seal his destiny when he reseal that letter of his former

companion,--the last abandon representative of a fall line of

gentleman.



he little know how often he be accompany after this by a shadow

more than his own. once or twice, think he be be watch,

he have turn round suddenly in the London street to see a figure

disappear as suddenly in some dark entry, or round an adjacent corner.

he think this be fancy at first; but finally begin to fear,

he arm himself. he have never think of Shuffleton Gibbs at these

time. a superstitious dread take possession of he at the outset,

thought of his dead father haunt he, and occasionally send he home

hot, and feverish, and nervous. latterly he rarely go out on foot;

but still a mysterious figure occasionally flit by as he alight

from his carriage. sometimes it seem as if an arm be upraised.

that same figure would stand now and then in front of the great house

where Mr. Tallant reside, and contemplate the light window, and

then disappear by crooked unfrequented way, up dark alley, along

neglect street, away city-ward, until it enter a dirty gin-shop

or some wretched lodging-house, where it would assume the appearance

of Shuffleton Gibbs, but sufficiently change in feature to render

disguise unnecessary.



Weird, restless, sink eye, sharp feature, a nervous twitching of

the mouth, and a continual watchfulness, like that of a man charge

with some desperate mission of blood; it be a miserable wreck toss

about on the dark sea of criminal London without sail or rudder, bind

for no port, without a name, without paper; and yet with a compass

point its trembling finger unerringly in one direction, where the

signal light burn red and murky on a dark and dreadful shore.









                              CHAPTER IX.



             GLANCES AT WILLIAMSON’S STORY, and TERMINATES

                      PAUL SOMERTON’S ADVENTURE.





it come at last, that story of Williamson’s life; it come in a heavy

letter frank with foreign postage-stamp; and Paul Somerton read it

with hot curiosity.



there be nothing particularly new or startling in the narration. it

be the old old story of sin and sorrow, with perhaps dark hue of

melancholy in it, here and there, than usual.



during his University career, at a very early age, Williamson have be

attract by the wild beauty of a woman who be the daughter of an

adventurer--a man without principle--seek in a son-in-law an annuity

for himself, as well as a husband for his child. Williamson relate

by what mean and mercenary art this man of the world have lure he

on, and how the daughter have share with her father in the shameful

plot. a long, long story of love, and doubt, and fear, and unholy

passion;--of mad, blind love, and desperate resolve; of a clandestine

marriage, and exposure; of a widow mother’s death; of a son’s sorrow

embitter by his wife’s ingratitude, and a father-in-law’s impecunious

and drunken habit. a long, long story of woe and violence; of a brave

man’s struggle against the misery of a bad than unlove wife, and

a wretched home, in the midst of comparative wealth.



soon there appear on the scene an infant with bright eye, and a

young doate father seek comfort in its innocent loving way,

in its happy smile, and its first word. but this gleam of sunshine

quickly disappear, and then there come cloud again, dark and

darker; and, finally, there stand forth in the immoral darkness a

husband’s shame, a wife’s infidelity, a father’s miserable death from

drink.



Paul shudder as he trace out the dreary story with the writer’s

special note and comment, intend to apply to Paul’s own position

and act as awful warning.



then at length the husband be alone. the wife have flee with a _cher

ami_ of former day. her child disappear, too. she know that the

infant would have be a source of consolation to the forlorn and

broken man; hence her fiendish vow that he should see it no more. the

wrong which she have heap upon he induce all this fierce hatred

and malice; and, finally, Williamson be alone in the world with his

sorrow.



year pass away, and he hear a strange story of the death of his

wife in connection with a travel theatre or circus. the name of a

celebrate comedian, who have by misconduct be reduce to the booth

and the fair, be mix up with the event in some way; but Williamson

could never clear the story up satisfactorily, and all his effort to

obtain tiding of his child prove ineffectual. how he have live since

those terrible day of his early life his friend know; that there be

a dark shadow upon his history they know also; but of the misery and

despair, the blighted career, the hope destroy, the opportunity

misapply, the break-down ambition, the aching heart, they know

nothing.



and this woman--this wife of Shuffleton Gibbs--this scheming,

unscrupulous woman, be his child! that Paul Somerton should never

see she again would be her father’s chief care; his next, a life-long

effort to redeem she from herself, to straighten the crooked mind, to

win back to the darken conscience some faint light at least of purity

and truth--to combat with the inborn devil, that some essence of the

angel might still revive within that human soul.



and then the writer grow eloquent upon wonderful case of conversion

from the low depth of sin to path of virtue; the faith of the true

Christian break out in burn word, and here and there expression

of parental hope in the future. but so far as Paul be concern, he

be remind in firm, but kindly word, that there stand between he

and this woman marriage vow plight to another, and the claim of a

long suffer father pledge to a great and holy work of religious

duty. some day, ere the deep shadow of the future close upon they all

for ever, and there be an end of passion and repentance, they might

meet again, but for the present their path in the great world lie in

different direction.



weary and unhappy, Lieutenant Somerton lie down on his bed that night

when he receive this letter. the next morning he wake with a sense of

pain and weakness. for day after this he be delirious. his constant

attendant during this time be his gentle sister Phœbe, who come to

town with her father on a special summon from the young officer’s

medical attendant.



though in point of time we anticipate slightly some of the event of

the next few chapter, we think it well to finish Paul’s “first love”

adventure in this place. we take the liberty, therefore, to say that

when he have sufficiently recover his father take he down into

Lincolnshire, and in course of time, amidst the brace air of wold

and fen, health and strength come back to he. what a quiet, dreary

time it be these few month, in the heart of the great agricultural

district! sluggish river, with sedgy bank; long hard road; low trim

hedge; sleek, short-horn cattle; big hay-rick and straw stack--how

familiar they become! then there be an occasional ride to the hound,

visit to the local market, unsophisticated evening party, and all

the other rural pleasure of the place.



Paul feel happy in the society of his new sister, as he call she--the

happiness of an aspire mind in the presence of its superior; and

Arthur Phillips, with his grand thought and his quiet manner, be a

welcome guest at the old Lincolnshire house. Mrs. Somerton be not a

happy woman, though she evidently make a constant effort to appear so;

but Luke be full of life and spirit. he be the lead man of the

district, and rapidly become the most popular. it be like read

a book, his Lincolnshire friend say, to hear he talk about farming,

and the newspaper report his speech in full when he preside at

the District Agricultural Society.



after a time the Lieutenant rejoin his regiment, and leave England for

the Cape of Good Hope, a wiser and a well, though not a happy, man,

for his adventure with the barrister’s mysterious daughter. he keep his

secret all the time in the Lincolnshire fen and marsh, and carry

it with he to kaffir-land. may we hope to hear of he before our story

close, that he find consolation in the love of some other woman more

worthy his devotion. the laceration of young heart often heal with

astonishing rapidity.









                              CHAPTER X.



                         “from GRAVE to GAY.”





Joy and grief, how they alternate! what a busy, sorrow, cheerful,

merry, sad, wicked, virtuous world it be! birth, marriage, and

deaths!--a text for all preacher--a safe guide for novelist and story

teller. birth, marriage, and death! the same story every day tell by

every newspaper. what then can a true history of life be but a story of

birth, marriage, and death?



Unroof yon street, friend Asmodeo, and let the reader judge for

himself. here a child be bear; there a bridegroom have just bring home

his newly-marry wife; yonder lie a dead man with sorrow weep by

his side. carry we away to that village in the soft, sunny country.

the same story still. birth, marriage, and death--joy and grief

alternating! what bell be those that ring so merrily? what bell be

that which groan, and sob, and wail?



thank goodness, the merry bell be for our ear in this chapter. the

sound come from a great square tower, that stand up like a beacon in

the Lincolnshire cornfield. the clash and clang of the bell comes

rush out through the belfry aperture into the clear air amongst

the rook and the swallow. the dead who lie beneath those gaunt,

crumble, half-bury grave-stone, hear they not, though they rung

out joyously at their marriage. the hard, grimy face in the church

porch, and the cherubim that ornament the water-spout, hear the bell

now quite as well as the man and woman who pass they by on their

way to the altar year and year ago. you would think the bird hear

the melody and rejoice in it; they chirrup, and sung, and flit

to and fro with a gaiety which they rarely exhibit in autumn day;

for they know the year be come to an end, and that the north wind

cometh after harvest. that ancient sluggish river, which have be

red in olden time with the blood of the last Saxon warrior, let the

bell-music rest upon its bright bosom in which the cloud mimic each

other, and hide themselves amongst spike of wave rush and green

water flag.



they be ring, these Lincolnshire bell, in celebration of the

marriage of Arthur Phillips and Phœbe Somerton, who have walk arm in

arm to church to be marry, unattended save by Luke Somerton and Paul,

and their own true love. it be Arthur’s wish that it should be so; and

nobody but those most intimately concerned know of the marriage until

the bell, big with the secret, burst their iron bond, and give birth

to that joyous melody.



and whilst they be ring out their blithe and hopeful song, the

Earl and Countess of Verner be discuss the happy event at Montem

Castle, walk by the side of that sunny lake in the park.



“the news come so suddenly,” say her ladyship, “that it be almost

tantalise.”



“what a sly little fox it be,” say his lordship.



“I have press she upon the subject several time, but unsuccessfully.

never mind, I will be even with she. it have be in my mind very often

to tell you of my idea of a wedding present for these dear friend of

our.”



“yes, yes,” say his lordship; “what be it, dearest?”



“oh, something so dreadfully expensive,” say the Countess; “something

almost unheard of as a wedding present.”



“you excite my curiosity,” say his lordship, gaily.



“it be something belong to you--a gift in your own possession.”



“our picture?” say his lordship, eagerly.



“no, my love.”



“our pottery, our book, our jewel?” say his lordship, toss a

stone into the lake for the amusement of a water spaniel.



“no; I fear you cannot guess,” say Amy.



“then I will give it up at once: whatever it be, Amy, it be yours to

bestow upon bride or bridegroom,” say his lordship.



“thank you, my dear George; how good you be,” say the Countess.



“not half good enough to have such a dear, dear wife as you, Amy,” say

the love old lord. “and now what be it?”



“the Barton Hall Estate,” say Amy, triumphantly. “the house where

Phœbe be bear, where she live, and which be really her home, the

field in which she walk, the rock and tree which her husband love

to paint, the place where Phœbe and your Amy live and love together.”



“good, good!” say the Earl.



“you consent?” ask Amy, joyfully.



“certainly,” say his lordship, “with all the pleasure in life; you

never doubt it. besides, the estate be your own, Amy.”



“my dear love,” say the Countess, a warm affectionate smile lighting

up her beautiful face; but her countenance fall immediately, as Lionel

Hammerton emerge from a thicket close by.



“oh! Lionel, go for a ramble?” say the Earl.



“yes,” say Lionel, raise his hat to the Countess, “the weather be so

tempting, and my time down here so short.”



“indeed; when do you leave we then?” ask the Earl.



“next month,” say Hammerton.



“thank God!” say the Countess in her heart.



“your friend the artist be married to-day,” say the Earl; “a quiet

wedding all to themselves, and a secret.”



“I understand it be to be so,” say Hammerton. “I hope they will be

happy.”



“as happy as two other friend of your,” say his lordship, merrily.



“Happier, if that be possible,” say Lionel.



“but it be not possible,” say his lordship. “be it Amy?”



“I think not,” say Amy, cast a side-glance of defiance at Lionel.

“when two people marry, happiness come to they in a hundred different

way.”



“what do you think her ladyship’s wedding present be to be?” his

lordship ask.



“diamond and pearl, and bracelet of gold, and ruby,” say Lionel.

“her ladyship have good choice of jewelry and thing that be costly.”



Amy could understand the covert sarcasm of Lionel’s reply, but his

lordship laugh and say:



“I know you could not guess. I try much more likely present than

those, without avail. guess again.”



“book of poem bind in gold, full of legend of love and constancy.”



“no--you’ll never guess. what do you think of the Barton Hall Estate

for a wedding present?”



Lionel hesitate and look at Amy, who have take her husband’s arm and

be walk quietly by his side.



“I be not joke. what do you think of a woman who present to her

friend Barton Hall, and the land surround it, chiefly on account of

the dear association connect with it, and all that sort of thing?”



“why, that she be a truly noble woman, and worthy to be the wife of

Earl Verner,” say Hammerton, with genuine enthusiasm.



“thank you, brother--thank you,” say the Countess, with tear in her

eye, and something of the tender expression of those past day which

Lionel be honestly try to blot out for ever.



“why, my darling, there be tear in your eye,” say his lordship.



“tear of joy and gratitude,” say Amy; “gratitude for your kindness,

and joy that your brother think I worthy to be your wife.”



Earl Verner hardly know what to make of this little outburst of

feeling; but he love his wife all the more for her generosity to her

friend, and say he hope Lionel have never doubt that his wife be

equal to any previous Countess of Verner.



“never, your lordship; and this act of gracious consideration for

her friend, this sanctifying of the past, if I may use so strong a

phrase, by the gift of Barton Hall to Arthur Phillips and his wife, be

a crown act of grace which have no parallel in the history of the

lady of our house.”



Earl Verner do not see that there be quite so much in it as Lionel

would make out; but he have never doubt his wife’s generosity, and

Lionel have. there be a peculiar graciousness in the gift which would

especially commend itself to one who know more intimately than Earl

Verner do, the early history of his true and faithful wife.









                              CHAPTER XI.



                   explanation that come TOO late.





“I have many time endeavour to converse with you alone; you have

studiously prevent this until now,” say Lionel Hammerton, address

the Countess, as she sit at the piano the morning after their meeting

by the lake.



Lord Verner be in the library, indulge in his morning’s devotion at

the shrine of his favourite author.



“I fear you until yesterday; I fear you no long, because your

sympathy have at last be awaken in my favour,” say Amy.



“I think you mercenary--let I confess it--I think you worldly and

selfish; that you have marry not only for revenge, but for rich.”



“you be pleased to be candid,” say Amy, a little indignantly.



“not to wound you, any more than myself; for I love you with all my

soul----”



“I must not listen to you if you talk of love,” say Amy, interrupt

he.



“you must, you shall,” say Lionel, firmly. “it will be the last time.”



“have I deserve your reproach?” say Amy, look straight into his

eye. “you, who desert and neglect the woman whom you profess

to love,--deserted she because of her lowly birth,--did you think

there be no pride as well as humility in love? how do you mention my

name to your artist friend when you leave England without even say

farewell to I?”



“what do I say to Phillips?”



“yes, I ask he. it be the last straw to which I clung.”



Lionel remember his parting conversation with Arthur.



“what do he say?”



“he would not tell I how you have speak of I. this be when I be

rich, Lionel, an heiress, possess of fortune--aye, and of modest rank

too. I press he. he confess you have speak of I. ‘do he speak

of I as you would wish to have hear your sister speak of by the man

whom she love?’ I ask he.”



“and what be his reply?”



“he say ‘No;’ and from that moment I renounce you and your false

love. I have only be in a whirl of jealousy and pride before.”



“he say truly--Arthur Phillips say truly; but o, I love you then,

Amy, love you still in my heart; and when I return to England,

ignorant of all the change which have take place, I come to throw

myself at your foot.”



Amy tremble as he speak, tremble at the thought of the happiness

there would have be in this; but respect for herself, gratitude to

her lord, womanly, wifely pride step in and restore her former

self-command.



“and what _do_ you say then to Arthur Phillips?” ask the Countess.



“I think you care more for my position, for my presume wealth

and prospect, than for myself alone,” say Lionel. “why do you

interfere in my private affair? why make those inquiry concern my

relationship with Richard Tallant, or my doing at the Ashford Club?”



“it brook little now how much I love you, Lionel; and an explanation

of my motive can do no good, see that neither of we can restore the

past; but Heaven know I grieve that your station be so much high

than that of the girl who love you so well. and still I could not

bear to see you fall, to hear of your noble nature lower itself to

the level of the base and the mean, to have it sully by contact with

gambler, and----”



“there be no thought of self in this? no jealous watch over my

expenditure? no worldly speculation of the future?” say Lionel,

hurriedly interrupt she.



“for shame!” exclaim the Countess, rise; “for shame! if this be

how you interpret my weak conduct--if this be how you estimate the

homage of my poor girlish heart--thank God, Lionel Hammerton, you and I

_be_ part for ever! have my love be bless with your acceptance,

this discovery would have be like a curse upon it--it would have

break my heart.”



Lionel bow his head before this storm of womanly indignation.



“never talk of love again, Lionel, unless you can believe that

woman’s love have nothing of self in it; that it be above the world

almost as much as the angel be; that it be self-sacrifice, meek,

lowly--content to be tread upon by the live idol which it set up

for worship. _this_ be _true_ woman’s love: in my love for you there

be, indeed, the worldly leaven of pride; the inborn spirit of my race,

I suppose. but for this I should have sink under your neglect and

wither and die. with pride come the desire for revenge; and the love

that be scorn and neglect, I pluck it out of my heart, trample

upon it as _you_ have do, and in its place, Lionel, I plant

ambition. as fate would have it, your brother come in my way, and I

be his wife. I have swear to honour, love and obey he, and I _will_

to the end. his kindness, his devotion, have already make I deeply

grateful to he; and love, the love of devoted friendship--not that

passionate love of past day, but constant considerate love--will come

with time. and now you know all my secret.”



“you can never forgive I,” say Lionel; “I can never forgive myself.”



“just now I think I could not, but I can forgive you, Lionel: I do

with all my heart. do you forgive I? I ought to have wait--I know

all that meek and lowly love should have do--but my soul be on fire

with my wrong, my hope be all cast to the wind; my mother, or

rather Mrs. Somerton, taunt I with my folly, and I scarcely know

what I do.”



“God bless you, Amy!--if there be aught to forgive, I forgive you

freely. I be anxious that we should both understand each other;

that there should be a mutual explanation, a reconciliation, Amy--a

restoration of some little of that old love in which we may pray for

each other as brother and as sister.”



Amy give Lionel her hand, as the tear course down her cheek: he take

the fair white finger and press they to his lip; and just at that

moment a face peer in at the window. it be Richard Tallant; he have

come down to Brazencrook, leave his luggage at the hotel, and walk

over to Montem Castle, smoke a cigar, and revolve his position

and prospect in his mind. he have come over to see the Countess on

business; he want a large advance of money, or some security which

would enable he to raise fund. he be in what commercial man call

a “cleft stick,” and he would speedily be what they call, in equally

significant language, “up a tree.” not content with a moderate fortune,

he have continue his course of speculation, and the tide have turn

against he. the bill which he have unwarrantably keep afloat in

connection with the Meter Works have be mostly “do” by a discount

house which have suddenly fail, and there be large payment to meet

without delay. a bank, of which he be a director, grow suspicious

of his transaction, and he be call upon by his colleague to

put his account straight. another bank, where he have deposit his

Meter share, suffer from so great a pressure that the manager be

compel to threaten that in two day those share would be send into

the market for sale. therefore, without some immediate and extraneous

aid, he be a ruin man.



in this fix he determine to seek the assistance of his sister. he

have compel she to help he before, and, what be more, to invite

his co-operation in that famous marriage ceremony. he have pay a

formal visit to Montem since then, and have not receive any further

encouragement for keep up the family connection. but he feel that he

have a hold upon the Countess; if she would pay for her secret once, she

would pay twice--and she should.



“the ill-mannerly fellow,” say Lionel, as he catch a glimpse of the

face in the window.



“it be my brother Richard,” say Amy; “what can he possibly have

come here for, without announcement, and evidently on foot, from

Brazencrook?”



Lionel leave she, and the next moment Richard Tallant send in his card.



her ladyship’s reply be, that she be indispose, and would not be

able to see Mr. Tallant at present. he would find Lord Verner in the

library.



“thank you,” be Richard’s reply. “I will take a little walk, and

return shortly. I will not disturb his lordship.”



meanwhile the Countess seek her room, and Lionel call old Morris to

pack his trunk that he might leave for London by the morning mail. he

feel that it be now really time he should leave Montem Castle for good.



the Countess do not put in an appearance until dinner-time, and she

be surprised to find her brother dress and wait to conduct she to

her seat.



“Lionel have ride Hector into Brazencrook,” say his lordship; “he

fancy that he must make certain inquiry himself concern the

train; he find that it will be necessary for he to be in London

to-morrow. it have suddenly occur to he that he must really get back

to India. Queer fellow, Mr. Tallant, my brother.”



“so it would appear,” Mr. Tallant reply.



“and you be a queer fellow too! Imagine, my love, he have leave his

luggage at the Verner Arms in Brazencrook, and decline my invitation

to dinner. of course I order his luggage to be send for immediately.”



his lordship have do this, not because he have any particular regard

for Mr. Tallant, but simply in the hope of please his wife; for,

truth to tell, the Earl dislike this fellow, who have be a source of

so much sorrow to that poor old man, his father.



the dinner be a dull affair, despite Lord Verner’s effort to make it

cheerful. the Countess complain of headache. Mr. Richard Tallant

would talk of nothing but money and finance, of foreign bond and

national liability, and great house which be at that moment

experience the pressure of the panic more than they have feel it when

the storm be at its height.



Lord Verner think politic almost as dull a theme as finance; but

he be more at home when Mr. Tallant speak of the probability of a

Government crisis, and Lady Verner find that she, too, could say

something about whig and Tories, Liberals and Radicals; and so by the

time the last course be remove a conversation have be start and

maintain in which Mr. Tallant do not monopolise all the talking.



Lady Verner rise to leave the room much early than usual at dessert,

and tea be announce before the two gentleman have well taste the

Earl’s choice old port.



“her ladyship be early to-night,” say Lord Verner. “I suppose she be

anxious that we shall come into her dominion as soon as possible.”



“perhaps her ladyship fear you may become a financier, if I be

honour with your society too long over wine,” say Mr. Tallant.



“no fear of that,” reply Lord Verner. “Hammerton induce I to invest

in some new company, and I don’t think it at all likely that I shall

make such another mistake.”



“there be peer of the realm, and cabinet minister too, bishop also,

who have think it quite legitimate to do a little in finance lately,”

say Mr. Tallant; “your lordship might do bad than be at the head of

some gigantic company.”



“you think so?” say Lord Verner.



“I do indeed; rank and fortune, the high aristocracy in the land,

have not think it _infra dig._ to take part in promote the

commercial prosperity of their country.”



“gigantic company seem to be gigantic humbug just now, Mr. Tallant,

and I assure you that be not in my line; and so we will in to tea--Lady

verner do not like to be keep wait.”



from the grand old oak dining-room, with its black polished

wainscoting, its great black elaborate sideboard and antique chair,

into an adjacent drawing-room, be quite a little walk over Turkey

carpet and soft fluffy mat. the tall flunkey in attendance be a

splendid match both in manner and matter; and, however much Mr. Richard

Tallant might ape this sort of thing at Kensington Palace Gardens, he

could not help feel that he be in presence of the real thing here.

there be no veneering at Montem Castle, no attempt at display, none

of that demonstrative show with which Plebeian Upstartism impress

you. whatever there be at Montem Castle strike you with its reality,

even to the form and ceremony. it be not put on for special occasion.

the inmate be use to it. the good of everything be for my lord

and lady, and the guest come in for their share of the good. there

be certainly in the castle grand plate service for state occasion,

when number be the chief consideration of cook and butler; but the

grandeur of Montem Castle one day be the same as the next, and Mr.

Tallant feel that this be the great difference between his place at

Kensington Palace Gardens and the magnificent reality of Montem.



the drawing-room in which the Countess await her husband and brother

be the small of the two drawing-room--an exquisitely furnish

room in which pale green and pale gold predominate in colour. the

wall be enrich with delicate water-colour sketch, and there be

dainty vase and statuette here and there. pale green curtain hang in

massive fold beside each window, and the cornice above be floral

design in white and gold. mirror between each window reflect the

picture and the vase and the cabinet over and over again, and the

great chimney-glass carry facsimile of the chandelier far away as

though you be look down a long vista, until the hundred of wax

candle flicker like star in the distance.



the blind be not draw, and one of the window look out upon

the terrace be open; for it be twilight and unusually hot, and the

harvest moon be just rise.



the Countess, in a low evening dress, and wear the diamond necklace

which his lordship give she on her marriage, be sit near a tray of

silver service, and one of those say match servitor hand to the

Earl and Mr. Tallant tea and coffee, whichever they desire.



in a short time Mr. Tallant say he should be compel to return to

town in the morning, and he would like to have a little conversation

with her ladyship on some family matter that would not interest Lord

Verner. as it be such a charming evening, might he suggest a walk on

the terrace.



“by all mean, if Amy would like it; I think it would do you good, my

love. Lionel will be here presently, and he and I can chat whilst Mr.

Tallant be engage with you.”



“I hope her ladyship will pardon the liberty I have take,” say Mr.

Tallant, “and your lordship too.”



“certainly,” say Amy, “kindly ring the bell, my love.”



one of the match one come presently and bring her ladyship an

indian shawl, follow by her ladyship’s maid, who bring a light

tuscan hat; and then the Countess and her brother go out upon the

terrace, whilst the moon be begin to show itself through the

evening cloud and in the lake beneath.



whilst they be on the terrace the vicar of Brazencrook, who have be

visit in the neighbourhood, make his appearance, and he and the Earl

become interested in an abstruse topic upon which the parson desire

reference, they adjourn to the library, leave the Countess and her

brother alone.









                             CHAPTER XII.



                         “what the MOON SAW.”





“the amount be too large,” say the Countess; “too large, I be sure,

even if I ask his lordship to assist I.”



“I must have it, and you must get it,” say Richard Tallant.



“indeed!” say the Countess; “you be very peremptory.”



“as peremptory as Fate,” say the other.



they have walk along the terrace, past the modern mansion and beneath

the ruin of the old castle, Amy think it well that they should be

out of danger of be overhear by servant who might be near any of

the upper window above the terrace.



Lionel Hammerton, who have ride in from an opposite direction, see

the two figure, and, leave his horse in the stable, walk round the

back of the house to the ruin. the speaker have not notice he; and

as he approach behind an angle of the ruin he be startle by Amy

speak in an angry voice, and her brother answer with threat. he

creep within the shadowy wall, beneath a clump of ivy, and listen.

perhaps Amy might require his help.



“by whatever mean you may deem good you must help I out of this

difficulty,” say the brother.



“it would certainly be more become to speak respectfully, and

leave must and threat out of the question until I have time for

consideration.”



“there be no need for consideration. yes or no: it be easily say.”



“suppose I say, no?”



“then I go straight to that fool, your husband----”



“Sir!” say Amy, “this be an outrage!”



“call it what you please--I go straight to Lord Verner, and tell he

of your love for his brother.”



“but what will that avail you now? it be an old story, and I be

married.”



“Lord Verner do not know that you be madly in love with his

brother; that he cast you off.”



“no, no--how despicable!” say Amy.



“he cast you off, I say; that will be my story to Lord Verner. I shall

tell he as a matter of duty. and something more too. why be Mr.

Hammerton here?”



“because he be Earl Verner’s brother, of course, and this be his home

when he be in England,” say the Countess.



“because he be Lord Verner’s brother, poor fool! because he be your

lover, my sister!--your lover!”



an exclamation of pain escape from Amy’s lip at the baseness of the

insinuation convey in these word, and Lionel have almost rush out

to strangle her maligner on the spot; but discretion prompt he to

remain where he stand.



“oh, yes, it be very fine to assume an injure tone, but I see he kiss

you this morning--I see he through the window. you cannot deny it.

what will Lord Verner think of that? eh, _ma bonne sœur_?”



“and this will be your story to Lord Verner,” say Amy, tremble with

indignation, “if I do not find the money you ask for?”



“it will most assuredly,” say Richard.



“then tell your story, sir--tell your story at once; I will rather

throw myself upon Lord Verner’s love, the consciousness of my own

innocence, and the honour of Lionel Hammerton, than buy your silence

any long, you miserable unscrupulous man,” say Amy; and then it

seem as if she hurry away, or as if they have pass within the old

court-yard of the ruin castle.



just then the moon shine forth brightly for a moment, and Lionel hear

voice again in the direction of the court-yard; but the intervening

wall be too thick for he to hear distinctly anything that be say.



as he come forth to reconnoitre a pistol be fire, and then a terrible

cry break upon the still evening air--a shriek that echo through the

break old corridor, startle the bat and the owl. hurry to the

spot, Lionel find Richard Tallant stretch upon the turf. and now

the moon shine forth in all its autumnal glory, send a pale gleam

through the court-yard and athwart the figure of the die man.



hastily raise the body up, Lionel find that the man have be shoot

through the right temple. the ball must have penetrate the brain, for

he be quite dead, and the blood be stream down his pale cheek.



one of the castle servant have hear the report of the pistol and the

cry that follow it, and he have hurry to the ruin too, and find

Lionel support the dead body. Mr. Hammerton bid he alarm the

household, and in a short time Richard Tallant be lie dead in the

room to which his luggage have be carry.



what a terrible night it be--that night of the murder! the police

come from Brazencrook, and make all sort of inquiry. they find a

pistol lie near the spot where the body be find. a case of suicide

be the first suggestion; but it seem that a breast-pocket in the

gentleman’s coat be turn inside out, and tear as if something have

be violently remove from it, and there be a bruise on the back of

the right hand as if the deceased have attempt for a moment to defend

himself after he have fall, and be strike with a stick or with the

butt-end of the pistol.



“where be her ladyship?” Lionel ask of the maid.



“in her room, and very unwell indeed,” be the reply.



who could have commit this terrible deed? the thought flash

through Lionel’s mind, and with it just the whisper of a terrible

suspicion. what an awful weight of anxiety and misery it be!



the superintendent of the Brazencrook police intimate that he would

like to put a few question to Mr. Hammerton and the groom in his

lordship’s presence, and also to Lord Verner himself. his lordship,

therefore, invite the officer to go into the library with himself and

the Brazencrook vicar, and here the policeman finish his inquiry for

that day in the following manner:



first he obtain from Lord Verner the particular of Mr. Tallant’s

arrival, and having bring the story up to the point where Mr. Tallant

go out upon the terrace with his sister, the policeman desire to

see Lady Verner, that she might continue the narrative; whereupon Lord

Verner rebuke he as an insolent fellow, and remind he that he be

in the presence of the Lord-Lieutenant of the county.



“who have only a duty to perform, like myself,” say the officer.



“you cannot see Lady Verner,” say his lordship; “and your desire to

do so be an impertinence. if you choose to conduct your inquiry

respectfully you may continue they; if not, be you twenty time a

policeman I would have you bundle out of this room, sir. there!”



“I bow to your superior authority, your lordship,” say the officer,

calmly. “may I ask you one more question before I proceed to put one or

two to your servant?”



“you may,” say Earl Verner.



“do this gentleman come here on business?”



“I think he have some little business with his sister, the Countess.”



“thank you, my lord,” say the officer.



“what be your name?” ask the officer, turn to the groom.



“Jones--Peter Jones,” say the man.



“tell I all you know about this affair,” say the officer, “and how

you find the deceased.”



“I have suppere up Hector after Captain Hammerton have return from

Brazencrook, and I be just leave the stable when I hear a gun or

pistol fire off, and somebody shout. I go in the direction of the

sound, and there see Mr. Tallant dead, and Captain Hammerton hold

his head up.”



“very good,” say the officer.



“will you kindly explain what you know about it, Captain?”



“I hear the report of fire-arm,” say the Captain, “and hurry to

the spot, find the poor gentleman die. he be not quite dead when I

raise he up.”



“how far be you away from the spot, sir?”



“a hundred yard, perhaps.”



“you be near the ruin, then?”



“yes; by the keep.”



“have you be there long?”



“only a short time.”



“be you with the deceased?”



“no.”



“may I ask what bring you near the ruin?”



“see some one walk there, I have go in that direction when I

give my horse to Jones.”



“do you see one or two person?”



“I think I see two.”



“do you hear voice?”



“I believe I do.”



“do any one leave the ruin whilst you be there?”



“I cannot say.”



“do Lady Verner? her ladyship have be walk on the terrace with her

brother.”



“I don’t know,” say the Captain, his heart beat wildly with a

burn suspicion that haunt he like a ghost.



“you be go towards the figure when you hear the pistol,” say

the officer. “do you go straight in the direction of the person you

think you see?”



“not quite.”



“you put the keep and that corner of the ruin to the right between they

and you?”



“yes.”



“thank you, Captain Hammerton. there will be an inquest to-morrow on

the body. I suppose we may rely upon your attendance.”



“certainly,” say Lionel.



“shall we remove the body for the inquest, your lordship?”



“it be not necessary,” say the Earl.



“good-night, my lord--good-night, gentleman,” say the officer, leave

the room.



when he be clear of the castle gate the police superintendent

despatch the policeman who be with he to Brazencrook for three more

officer, who be to meet he near the ruin as quickly as possible.

when they come he post they at various distant point command the

castle, and bid they take any person into custody who might attempt to

leave it during the night, the vicar of Brazencrook alone except.



           *       *       *       *       *



in the castle that night two person give themselves up, during the

still hour, to their wakeful thought. when the Countess hear the

whole story, a terrible solution of the mystery suggest itself to

her mind. Lionel Hammerton have overhear her brother’s threat, and

have shoot he in his fear and passion; for he know how much the Earl’s

happiness be bind up in the love of his wife. it be a terrible

thought, but come again and again into Amy’s troubled mind; and all

the time, think whatever he might, it seem as if the devil whisper

in Lionel’s ear, “she kill he.” he know that it be a miserable

morbid thought arise out of excitement, and overhear the dead

man’s threat, and his violent take off occur at so important

a moment for Amy’s peace. and so these two fight with the ghost of

fancy, whilst the policeman half suspect Lionel, who have blood upon

his coat, which, however easily account for, be still blood for all

that.



           *       *       *       *       *



what a blessing it would have be for they all if they could have see

that dark, halting shadow, which have flit about amongst the ivy,

and in out-of-the-way nook and corner of the old ruin all the day

long; that same figure which have haunt Richard Tallant in the Great

City; that same figure which, on the night before, have sleep beneath

a tree in Kensington Palace Gardens, near Mr. Tallant’s house; that

same figure which have glide behind his carriage in the early morning,

and perch upon the spring behind; that same figure which have

travel by the same train, and disappear amongst the passenger

at Brazencrook, have haunt Richard Tallant far away in the distance,

through the harvest field, and along the white highway; that same

figure which have leap upon he with a hiss taunt, and press the

cold weapon to his head that the work of destruction might be certain.

oh, if the police could but have meet that creep, stealthy figure,

as it hug that pocket-book, and creep away towards the wood for

shelter, until the rain, which have be threaten to fall, should

come down, and obscure the moonlight. in less than an hour great cloud

roll before the moon, and the rain fall in big splashing drop upon

the tree, carry now and then to the ground the first brown leave

of autumn.









                             CHAPTER XIII.



              in which the SEVERNSHIRE CORONER hold AN

                               INQUEST.





at noon the next day an inquest be hold on the body at “the Magpies,”

the inn near Montem Castle--a roadside hostelry that stand back from

the road, as if it have step aside for shelter beneath those great

walnut-tree and elm which stretch their umbrageous arm over the

lichen-cover roof. an open space in front be occupy by a pump and

a wide trough, to which waggoner bring their horse, whilst they

sit on the adjacent seat and toss off brown sparkle ale from small

glass, which they refill with a sort of pride from blue foaming

jug. there be the sign swinge between two bar like a wooden

banner, display three magpie in solemn conclave near a wood.

the lichen on the roof have gradually disperse themselves over the

coping-stone of the old house, and the brown and yellow excrescence

vie with the change hue of the shelter tree.



upon the day mention there be unusual sign of life at “the

Magpies.” a crowd of idler and gossip, man from the corner of

Brazencrook street, and boy and girl and hulk farm-labourer,

lounge about the house, watch every movement of the police, and the

coroner and the jury, with a dull but observant curiosity. when the

juryman go to view the body of the deceased man, and the spot where

he be find, the little crowd follow at a respectful distance, and

then come back again, after a walk of nearly three mile, to stare in

at the window where the inquest be hold, or drink beer in the tap-room.



the coroner open the inquiry in a long and judicious address upon the

circumstance of the case, and state that the superintendent of the

Brazencrook police have be anxious that Lady Verner should be call

upon to give evidence. he regret, however, that her ladyship, who

be unwell when the dreadful occurrence take place, have be so shocked

by the event that she be now seriously ill, and her medical attendant

be anxious that she should have repose of mind and body. his lordship

have, however, kindly signify his intention of be present; he

believe that he be now in the house, and if so, they would hear his

evidence first.



Lord Verner enter the room opportunely at this moment, with his

lawyer from Brazencrook, and follow by reporter from the adjacent

town, where the news of a “dreadful murder in the Old Ruin of Montem

Castle” have already supply material for sundry second edition of

sundry newspaper. there be no more startling illustration of the

rapid rate at which we live in these time than that afford by the

chronicle of our daily history. the other day, we be grub over

the file of an old newspaper which be publish weekly, come out on

Saturdays at noon with a foolscap sheet of postal news and rumour, a

few advertisement, and sundry marriage and death; it be the lead

journal of a great city--a city divide by a river, upon which vessel

come and go on their way to America and the East Indies, and other

distant country. in this Saturday’s paper we come across a paragraph

of local news, to the effect that “we hear that a dreadful murder be

commit in Bedminster, on Wednesday evening;” then follow two or

three line indicate the manner of the murder man’s death; and this

be all the information consider necessary for the reader. Bedminster

be really a portion of the city in which the journal be publish,

and in the present day that same paper would, between the time of the

murder and the Saturday publication, have report the full detail

of the crime, with a description of the scene of the murder, the

antecedent of the dead man, a full report of the inquest and finding

of the jury, and, suppose the criminal capture, a full report of

the examination before the magistrate, and committal, occupy in

the narration of this one case as much type and paper (to say nothing

of writer and printer) as would have publish the old journal for

several week.



thus the local newspaper of Severntown, and Brazencrook, and

Avonworth, give the whole district the speedy and full

information relate to the tragedy, with an eloquent and graphic

sketch of the scene by that smart gentleman who “do” the verner

marriage with the prayer-book service in it.



they tell how Lord Verner be the first witness examine, and how his

solicitor, Montagu Masters, Esq. (of the firm of Masters & Filmer of

Brazencrook), watch the proceeding in the interest of the family.

they repeat that story of the deceased’s arrival and his go out

to walk, which be already fully know to our reader. then they give

the evidence of Jones the groom, and finally the somewhat remarkable

statement of Lionel Hammerton, which be the most interesting portion

of the inquiry, see that the coroner caution the Captain in

unusually solemn term that what he say would be take down in

writing, and as he be unfortunately with the deceased when Jones come

up, that circumstance might possibly prove inconvenient and troublesome

to he, to say the least.



Mr. Montagu Masters have quite a battle royal over this point with the

coroner; but her Majesty’s representative finally put the lawyer down

by intimate that he be only permit to be present in this court by

courtesy, and that he (the coroner) would conduct this inquiry in his

own way.



this most effectually prejudice the mind of the jury against Lionel

Hammerton, who certainly give his evidence in a hesitating and dubious

manner, which seem fully to justify the suspicion of the police that

he have murder the deceased.



in the midst of Lionel’s examination the groom be recall.



“how long after the Captain give you his horse be it that you hear

the noise which induce you to go to the ruin?”



“about a quarter of an hour,” be the reply.



“do the Captain go straight in that direction when he leave the stable

yard?”



“he go the short road.”



“be he in the habit of take a walk in that direction after ride?”



“I cann’t say.”



then the surgeon be recall.



“the bruise upon the right hand be recent, you say?”



“yes.”



“suppose the deceased have shoot himself, it would have be almost

impossible that he could have fire the pistol with his left hand?”



“quite impossible, I should say, and consider the position of the

wound there would have be some little difficulty with the right; but

of course he could have use both hand; the wound be quite compatible

with the supposition of suicide.”



the superintendent of police be also recall, and he say that at

the place where the deceased gentleman fall there be mark as if a

struggle have take place, and on search the body no paper have

be find. Morris, his lordship’s man, have see the deceased with a

pocket-book, and from the way in which the breast-pocket of his coat

have be drag open and tear, it would seem as if something (perhaps

the pocket-book, as that could not be find) have be forcibly remove.

he would also venture to point out to the coroner that although the

groom hurry to the spot immediately upon hear the noise, the

Captain be there before he with the deceased’s head upon his knee. if

he have commit suicide the Captain must have be close to the spot

at the time, and yet he hear voice.



Mr. Masters protest against this police statement.



the coroner say it be not evidence, and he be not take it down.



Lionel Hammerton say he have no objection to the policeman’s

theorising. he certainly be the first on the spot; and there be blood

upon the coat which he have just be inform the policeman have send

for to the hall.



it be well Earl Verner have long since leave the court and know nothing

of this, or there would have be a fierce struggle between the lead

authority.



the point which stand out most prominently in the inquiry be the

fact that the deceased have come to Montem on some business with his

sister the Countess; that in the twilight they walk out to converse;

that Lionel Hammerton, on return from Brazencrook, instead of go

into the house, go towards the ruin by the near route; that no

more be hear or see of Lady Verner; that by-and-by a pistol be fire

off, and Hammerton be find support the body of the deceased; that

there be evidence of a struggle, though a brief one; that Hammerton

can give no reason for go towards the ruin except that he see

two figure; that nobody can throw any light upon the nature of the

business between the deceased and his sister; that the visit be

altogether a peculiar one, the deceased leave his luggage at the

Verner arm at first, and then send for it, as though he be not

certain of a kind reception at the Castle; that neither paper nor note

be find upon he; that his pocket-book be miss, though his watch

and purse, contain gold, remain. if the decease be murder the

crime have be one, not prompt suddenly by robbery so much as by

revenge, or a robbery of paper or letter of some kind which might be

more valuable than money.



the inquest be adjourn, and in the evening Lord Verner and his

brother have a long, serious talk in the library; but it consist

chiefly of speculation about Tallant’s death, and the Earl firmly

believe that he have commit suicide.



“what figure do you see, Lionel?--Her ladyship must have return

into the house, poor soul, for her maid tell I she have a terrible

headache, and come in very soon after she bring her shawl and hat.”



“no doubt,” say Lionel, “it could not have be her ladyship.”



poor fellow, what be he to say! “what a tangled thread we weave, when

first we practise to deceive!” one lie lead to another; with that awful

suspicion burn in his heart,--and it would not go, despite all his

effort--Lionel’s chief aim be to shield the Countess.



“you hear voice, you say?”



“yes.”



“be you listen to they, or what?”



“I do listen a moment or two.”



“why do you listen? what do you suspect?”



“I do not know; there be time when we do thing the most trivial

without be able to explain why or wherefore.”



“so there be. your belief that you hear voice, and the statement

that you see two figure, clearly point to the theory of murder as

against suicide.”



“yes,” say Lionel.



“how could the murderer have escape? you be on the spot in an

instant almost, it seem.”



“I be there very quickly.”



“and you see no one?”



“no, only Tallant on the ground.”



“from what Masters say, there be no doubt that that fool of a

policeman have take it into his thick head that _you_ kill Richard

Tallant,” say his lordship, in a tone of contemptuous coolness.



“I think so last evening, and see it clearly to-day,” say Lionel.



“let he have a care, Lionel, how he tamper with the name and fame of

the house of Verner. by heaven I will punish he! the thing be absurd

on the face of it.”



“I suppose the idea be that a man find by the side of one who be

murder should be able to give a succinct account of his death.”



“once a policeman start a theory of his own respect any particular

crime, he think of nothing else; he follow no clue which do not

support that theory; he reject all evidence that may tell against it;

his lead idea be that somebody must be apprehend and convict for

it; and this Brazencrook fellow be a shallow-pat, ambitious booby,

whose finger be itch to have a distinguished prisoner; he be

anxious to create a sensation,” say the Earl.



and so they continue to talk the affair over, whilst the gossip in

the neighbourhood and throughout the country theorise upon it, and

clear up the mystery in their own way. meanwhile, Lady Verner, to all

appearance, continue very ill, and no word concern recent event

be to be whisper in her hearing; but when there be no one present

but she maid she brighten up and insist upon hearing of all that

have occur. Lady Verner be not so ill as she seem.



at night when the shallow-pat and ambitious policeman, as Earl Verner

call he, be smoke his pipe over his own fire, and relate the

incident of the day to his admire wife, an assistant in the shop of

the lead gunsmith of the place knock at the door and wish to see

the superintendent privately and on particular business.



“I come as an act of duty,” say the young man, “although I know I

shall lose my place by it, for the master dare and forbid I to come

to you.”



“yes,” say the officer, shut the door of his private office,

and take his seat at his desk beneath a long row of handcuff and

cutlass.



“Captain Hammerton buy two pistol at our shop to-day.”



“yes,” say the officer, write down the word, the name of the

assistant, the name of the master, &c.



“a revolver, and an ordinary pistol.”



“yes, go on; I will not interrupt you, tell your own story.”



“he buy the ordinary one because it attract his fancy--the stock

be peculiar. the revolver, he say, he want to take to India with

he, and he be go to London in the morning.”



“go to London in the morning; yes,” say the officer, write

industriously.



“he buy bullet and powder.”



“yes,” say the officer.



“that be all; hear what I do about the inquest, I though it right

in the interest of justice that you should know this.”



“quite right; do he take the pistol with he?”



“no; we be to send they by Lord Verner’s groom when he pass with

the letter.”



“oh!” say the officer, “that alter the case. when do the groom

call?”



“not until this morning.”



“what the deuce be the good of that?” say the officer angrily; for he

be greatly disappointed. he have hope that the next moment when he

should produce the pistol find in the ruin, the gunsmith’s assistant

would identify it.



“that will do--thank you all the same, though there be nothing much in

it; however it _may_ be useful; if so you shall hear from I again.”



when the officious apprentice have go, the Brazencrook chief lean

back in his chair and soliloquised.



“it show he be think of pistol, at any rate--that be something;

he have deadly weapon in his mind. not much in that perhaps, be

a soldier, but put this and that together. and then about go to

London to-day. ha! I must get at that point. I’m morally certain he

kill the man, and Lady Verner know something about it. there be a

quarrel, something about she perhaps; she be pretty and young, and----”



another knock at the door, and enter a gentleman whom we have see

before, though a stranger to the chief of the Brazencrook police--Mr.

Bales from Scotland Yard.



the Brazencrook officer be delighted to receive so distinguish a

visitor.



Mr. Bales say he know something of the murder man and his

connection, and on make certain representation at head-quarter,

he have come down “on spec,” in fact, “on his own hook.” a large reward

would, no doubt, be offer for the discovery of the murderer, for it

be a case of murder,--nobody in their sense could doubt that--and

Lord Verner would, of course, second the Government effort to clear up

the mystery.



the local officer say, mysteriously, he be not so sure of that; he

believe he be on the right track; if such should prove to be the

case, of course, he would have the reward, or at any rate the great

share of it.



“certainly,” say Mr. Bales, “certainly; I have not come down here to

rob you, my friend.”



“well, I think not; you be too great a man; but that be mostly the

little game of the London detective who come interfere in a thing

like this, ‘on spec,’ as you say.”



“it be not mine, I assure you.”



“then we will make a bargain.”



“yes, if you like.”



“supposing my clue be right, and I get hold of the right man, you lay

no claim to the reward.”



“I consent.”



“and suppose you be the successful hand, you divide the reward with

I.”



“I consent to that also--but it be just possible neither of we may

touch the money; there be generally a third party who bring these

thing to light in country district: somebody come and give

information of something that have escape the police, eh?” say the

London detective, with just a slightly sarcastic smile.



“there will be nothing of that sort in this case,” say the

superintendent, who make up his mind there and then that, suppose a

reward be offer, and that he receive the announcement of the same

in the morning, he would, at all risk, apprehend Lionel Hammerton.









                             CHAPTER XIV.



             the chief of the BRAZENCROOK POLICE makes a

                BOLD stroke for the GOVERNMENT reward.





the Brazencrook officer, after sleep upon the resolution he have

make, receive notification of the Government reward; and, determine

not to be bilk by Mr. Bales, he go off quietly the next morning to

Montem Castle, and ask for Captain Hammerton.



when Lionel appear, he said,--“Will you be good enough to come a

little way with I; there be a man who have a question to ask you?”



Lionel look puzzled for a moment at the request, and then

replied,--“Certainly, if you desire it.”



“yes I do,” say the officer; and without another word they go forth

together.



when they be outside the Castle gate, the superintendent say, “the

truth be, I do not wish to make any fuss; but I go to Mr. Smith,

the county magistrate, early this morning, and upon the fact that I

consider it my duty to lay before he, he grant I a warrant for

your apprehension; and I now claim you as my prisoner on the charge of

wilfully and maliciously kill Richard Tallant.”



say this the officer lay his hand upon Lionel’s arm, who start as

if he have be sting. the officer thereupon give a shrill whistle, and

two policeman rush out from a hiding place in the hedge.



“if you will go quietly with I,” say the officer, “I will dismiss

these man.”



“you may rely upon it I shall make no attempt to escape, not that your

man would intimidate I be I inclined to have a fight for it,” say

Lionel, stretch himself up to his full height and survey the

force. “you represent the law so far that you be its officer: you may

dismiss your fellow.”



the chief do so at once, and when he and Lionel reach “the Magpies,”

there be a cab wait to convey they to Brazencrook.



when Earl Verner learn what have take place, he ride to Brazencrook,

and demand that Lionel should be release, fume and threaten, and

at last discover that although he be an Earl and Lord-Lieutenant

of the County, the Brazencrook police superintendent be master of

the situation. Lionel be take before the Brazencrook bench, and

remand until the conclusion of the inqu, and be then convey to

“the Magpies” at the request of the coroner, that he might hear the

remainder of the evidence.



the juryman be considerably surprised at what the Brazencrook officer

have do, and so be the coroner, who say, in commence the business

of the day, that the superintendent have, he hope, act on evidence

which have come to his knowledge since the business of the previous

day; otherwise he have no hesitation in say that he have commit

a serious error. he be a plain, outspoken fellow, this Severnshire

coroner, who, though he might not always conduct his investigation with

legal discretion, fearlessly search out the truth, and endeavour to

do justice.



it be soon noise abroad that the Earl’s brother be in custody; and

this fact be conclusive in the mind of large number of person,

especially of the low order, that he be guilty. there be a great

crowd about the inn on this second day, and a numerous body of

policeman, chiefly of the county force, to keep the mob in order.

“the Magpies” never have so good a time of it. the landlord have be

compel to send into Brazencrook for fresh supply of beer and

spirit, and several additional waiter have to be employ in serve

the thirsty customer.



the only additional witness be the gunsmith’s assistant and a

railway clerk; the former to make that absurd statement about the

prisoner purchasing pistol and ammunition, which be not send home

until after the murder; the latter to prove that it be Lionel’s

intention to leave Montem Castle that day. but there be another

fact which the officer think a great deal of. in the prisoner’s

pocket-book there be some memoranda relative to an account between

the deceased and himself, with regard to some share speculation prior

to the panic, and in the margin be write in pencil,--“_This be a

downright swindle of Tallant’s._”



in addition there be a scrap cut from a newspaper, allude to a

_fraca_ which have take place at the Ashford Club, and in which the

Hon. Lionel Hammerton’s name be mention, and also Mr. Tallant’s.



our reader will remember that Lionel have allude to this gossiping

paragraph when he leave England. they also know that Hammerton have be

lead into speculation by Tallant, which have end in grievous loss

that seriously involve Lionel, and have cost the Earl no small sum. the

policeman naturally argue from these paper and memorandum, that there

have be a quarrel between his prisoner and the deceased; and he lay

they before the coroner’s jury with an air of triumph.



but the coroner strongly advise the jury to adjourn for a week, and

they do so, leave the onus of commit the prisoner for trial on

the magistrate. meanwhile Mr. Bales, the detective, do not agree

with the opinion of the Brazencrook police. the case bother he

considerably, he acknowledge; but he could not bring himself to think

that the prisoner have kill Richard Tallant. if the crime have be

commit in London, he would certainly have look up Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs; for, in the course of the inquiry he have make in those past

day for Mr. Christopher Tallant, and since then, he have come across

suspicious transaction in which Mr. Gibbs have be mix up when the

ex-swell be in the hey-day of his questionable glory. hunt out this

same gentleman for Mr. Williamson, and finally bring he to Bow

Street to be unsuccessful in his charge against he, the detective know

that Gibbs have appeal to Mr. Tallant in vain for assistance. but

Gibbs be a break-down, drunken wretch: what could he do down here?

however, it might be worth while to run up to town, and see if the

fellow have be away.



in the evening Mr. Arthur Phillips and his wife arrive at Montem

Castle. the Earl welcome they heartily, and poor Amy, who have come

down-stair wrap up with shawl, fall upon her dear friend’s

shoulder, and sob until Phœbe’s heart ache with sympathetic sorrow.

what a weary, weary time it be!



Lord Verner start early the next morning to town, that he might

personally consult his London solicitor, and take some potent action

against the police, or the magistrate, or anybody and everybody by

whom his brother be detain in custody. the poor Earl be almost

beside himself with indignation and passion.



and all this time that shrink, hiding, halting, slouch figure,

which the reader have see before, have find shelter in Brazencrook.

move in the darkness, with the rain splash on the highway and

hiss in the hedge-row, the figure stalk back again towards

Brazencrook, instead of get away from that town, as the cunning

mind have plan. but have no knowledge of the district, and be

nervous and excited, and lacking gin, the wretched criminal have

succeed the next day in reach the town he would have avoid; and

when Mr. Bales be think of go to town as a sort of forlorn hope,

or an excursion by the way, to see Gibbs, this same Gibbs be imbibe

his favourite liquor at a sixth-rate tavern at Brazencrook, and read

a full account of the murder in the “Brazencrook Daily Banner.”



“hang that bruise on the hand,” think the half-tipsy reader--“clear

case of suicide but for that--clear case of _felo-de-se_--they might

have bury the beast in the cross-road. a rum go if they hang that

swell Hammerton--a very rum go. I must burn this pocket-book, and the

cheque too for the matter of that--it’s no good try to cash they; I

can get rid of the note easily enough. what an infernal scoundrel he

be, to be sure--threaten his sister the Countess! by Jove, I be

close to he then; she ought to thank a fellow for stop his mouth.

how he clutch I--a good thing the pistol be pretty heavy, but

confound that bruise and the torn pocket! that policeman be a clever

fellow; nobody else would have think of the pocket-book: wish I’d have

time to get his purse--these note be a nuisance. I’m safe enough,

that’s one thing--good idea follow the thief by train, deuce good!”



thus the gin-drinker’s thought flit through his mind, as he sit

before the tavern fire drink raw spirit and dry his clothe, a

poor thin, wretched-look object, with one foot in the grave, as the

slipshod servant have say to her boozy master, when he ask who it be

that have such “a big swallow.”









                              CHAPTER XV.



             contain a curious illustration of DETECTIVE

                PHILOSOPHY, and be an IMPORTANT LINK in

                             this history.





“well, I shall be off to town,” say Mr. Bales to the superintendent of

the Brazencrook police, on the third morning after his arrival. “this

case be a floorer to I.”



the constable smile, and think he have certainly do the detective.



“I have be connect with Scotland Yard for some year now, and have a

tolerable experience in America too, and I don’t think I have feel so

helpless as I do in this business; so I call in to say good-bye, and

wish you well through the case.”



“don’t go for a few minute,” say the superintendent: “rather a

singular disappearance of bank note have be report to I just

now; you may like to hear the story; be here on spec, you know, and

not a very successful spec, perhaps you might like to try your hand at

another case.”



the speaker smile a little sarcastically, but as much as to say,

having beat your head off in this Montem business, I can afford to be

generous.



“all right,” say bale; “well luck next time.”



“will you hear about this note job?”



“certainly,” say Bales.



Whereupon three gentleman enter the room. the first, a fat, fussy

little man, say he be the proprietor of the Brazencrook Music Hall;

that half an hour ago he go to the Old Bank to pay in three hundred

pound. it consist of a miscellaneous roll of note. he push the

money upon the counter towards the receiver in the usual way; and at

that moment “this gentleman,” point to the Rev. Thomas Barnes,

curate of all soul, ask he a question about some subscription to

a fund for a poor family formerly in his employ, and when he turn

round the money be go.



the second speaker be the receive clerk at the bank, who say when

Mr. Flooks come in he notice that the gentleman push a parcel upon

the counter; but when he lay down his pen to take it there be no

money to be see.



“what be you do when Mr. Flooks enter the bank?” ask the chief

of police.



“I be cast up some figure.”



“do you attend to Mr. Flooks at once?”



“I do not; I finish my casting first.”



“do you see the note on the counter?”



“I see something which appear to be a bundle of note.”



“when do you know the money be go, Mr. Flooks?”



“as soon as I turn round. I expect the receiver have take it up,

but he say, ‘where’s the money?’”



“and there be only you and Mr. Barnes here in the bank at the time?”



“that’s all,” say Flooks.



“and do nobody come in and go out?”



upon this point there be a little difference of opinion. the curate

believe a person pass out whilst he be speak to Mr. Flooks. the

cashier also think a man come in and go out again.



when it be discover that the note be gone, careful investigation

be make by the manager of the bank on the spot, and a search be

institute, which have be consider rather offensive by the receiver;

but the money be go, and here the story end.



“have you the number and description of the note, Mr. Flooks?”



“no; I very seldom take any precaution of that kind about note,

because I always make a point of pay all cash into the bank myself.”



here, it seem to Bales, be another case as free from a clue to the

criminal as that of the murder at Montem. he feel as if his skill be

specially challenge, and he resolve at once to delay his return to

London.



“you will really not be offend at my meddling in this case?” he say

to the Brazencrook chief.



“not at all--not at all. I question whether Mr. Flooks really put any

money on the counter. these professional, as they call themselves,

be up to so many dodge for advertising and all that sort of thing.

if he do put any money on the counter, I suppose the fact of a parson

condescend to speak to he flurry he, and he forget where he be,

because they have be preach against his entertainment.”



the superintendent be quite friendly in his conduct towards Mr. Bales,

and say he should be glad if he hit the mark in this business well

than he have do in that other little affair.



Mr. Bales, after pay Mr. Flooks a private business visit, and see

several letter refer to £280 (which be really a payment to Flooks

for the goodwill, scenery, &c., of a small music-hall establishment

at Severntown), go to his lodging, report himself for two day

further leave of absence, light a cigar, and quietly think over the

story he have just hear. there be clearly nothing in the Brazencrook

officer’s idea about flook having lose no money: there be the

transaction before he account for the receipt of £280 out of the

£300. could the cashier himself be the thief? no. the curate?--the

receiver? no. have the job be do by a professional thief? he think

not. he could not exactly say why. he think that this be a case of

sudden temptation and robbery. this be his theory: the receiver have

be busy at his desk; Flooks, the casino proprietor, flurry, as the

policeman have say, by talk to a parson--have be engross in the

clerical conversation; a third party have come in on business, and have

walk out again unobserved with the note in his pocket. under such

circumstance, the thief would naturally become worried and nervous,

when he get into the street, as to his next step. what would he be

likely to do? Brazencrook be a large town--a town of some eighty

thousand inhabitant--a busy, bustling place. what would the fellow

do--slink away? if he be a professional thief, no doubt he would.

but a new hand--there be a cab-stand close by, and he would call a

cab--of course he would, Bales repeat to himself. he make inquiry

at once. there be only two fly on the stand, and the driver have not

take a fare that morning.



“drive I to the next stand,” say Bales, step into the first cab.



he be unsuccessful at the second stand and at every other. no driver

remember having take up any person near the Old Bank at about eleven

o’clock. he determine to see every cab-driver in Brazencrook before

he give up this first part of his theory of the robbery. the Abbey

chime be slowly hammer out the morning hymn for the second or

third time that day, when the detective alight from the last cab to

prosecute his inquiry on foot, resolve to stop every fly he meet in

the street.



the chime have hardly finish, when an old fellow pull up an empty

cab near the Abbey entrance, and get off his box to tie a dirty

hay-bag upon his horse’s nose.



bale put his question to he--have he take up anyone near the bank

that morning?



near the bank! yes, he have.



“who?”



“a gentleman’s servant.”



“do he come out of the bank?”



“he do.”



“here be half-a-crown--take I to the spot where you take he up.”



“certainly, with pleasure, sir,” say the man, and in a few minute he

pull up within a few yard of the Old Bank.



“and now drive I to the place where you put he down.”



in ten minute he pull up again. bale alight.



“well, where do he go?”



“he go into that house yonder--the last in the crescent.”



then bale make the driver describe the servant carefully, and after

take a note of the number of the fly, he knock at the door of the

last house in the crescent, feel convinced that he be on the track

of the roll of note.



a maid servant come to the door.



“be James in?” ask Bales, familiarly.



“we have no James here,” say the girl, smile. “our James be a

Thomas.”



“well, be he in the house?”



“no, he ain’t,” say the girl.



“he be in this morning,” say Bales.



“yes, but he ain’t now; he’s go into the country.”



“when do he go? I want to see he very particularly.”



“about an hour ago. his aunt’s take very bad.”



“where do she live?”



“that I cann’t tell you.”



“when be he come back?”



“ah, that’s what master’s just ask I; but that’s what I don’t know.”



“all right,” say the detective to himself, as he leave the house. “this

be my man.”



he make inquiry at the railway station, but nobody remember having

see “Thomas” there. only one train have go out within the hour, and

that to London. bale telegraph to Paddington, but at the same time

feel pretty well satisfied that Thomas have not go away by train.



he make inquiry about other conveyance leave Brazencrook. there

be a coach to Severntown, but only on Monday and Friday, and this be

Tuesday.



“there’s a carrier’s cart to Avonworth,” say the ostler at the Verner

Arms.



“Avonworth! that be on the high road to Severntown and London?”



“yes, it be.”



“when do it go?”



“about four o’clock on Tuesdays, and six on Saturdays.”



the carrier’s cart have be go two hour, and there be a train to

Avonworth half an hour hence. “perhaps my friend start to walk, and

the carrier will pick he up. the road to Avonworth be his most likely

way. he may have start with the carrier and go the whole journey.

it be what he might do, innocent or guilty,” think bale.



in a short time bale have don his countryman’s attire--the smock and

all-rounder, without which he never travel; and by half-past six

he be at Avonworth. the carrier’s cart have not arrive. he loiter

about, and presently have the satisfaction to see it come creep along

the dusty highway, and finally enter the “Lion” yard, and, what be

more, out step “Thomas.”



the man do not enter the inn, but walk away out of the town and

along the road towards Severntown. by-and-by he leave the highway and

turn into the turnpike road. he wear an overcoat and an ordinary hat,

but nobody could have mistake the light brown livery trouser.



bale follow he at a distance for a couple of mile, and then

“Thomas” enter a roadside inn. shortly, the detective be sit in

the same room, where he have order brandy-and-water hot. and lo and

behold, Mr. Bales recognise the face of our poor friend, THOMAS dibble.



the detective direct the girl to bring he a pint of hot ale and gin,

know by the euphonious title of dog’s-nose, of which smoking liquor he

politely offer a glass to “Thomas.”



Poor Dibble treat this little act of courtesy coldly, but taste the

liquor notwithstanding, and then Bales begin to talk. he be a farmer,

go to be marry; he be on his way to Brazencrook to see his Sarah,

who live in service there. how far be it to Brazencrook? dibble do

not know. it be a nice place, Bales have hear? yes, _he believe_ it

be. and then bale order some more gin and ale, for the night be

close in wet and cold.



at length the ice be thoroughly melt, and the two man talk and

smoke and drink in good-fellowship. “Thomas” be highly amused at the

detective’s simplicity.



as the evening wear on Dibble gradually become thick and confuse in

his speech, and then bale say it be time for he to go, rang

the bell and ask the girl to see if the landlord could change he

a fifty-pound note. this be the sum he have save for the purpose of

marry Sarah at Brazencrook!



“you shalln’t schange a fifty-pun’ note,” say dibble; “nosh of the

short.”



“no, master could not change a fifty-pound note,” the girl say;

“pretty well, he think, if he could change a five-pound note.”



“all right,” say “Thomas,” thrust his right hand into a

breast-pocket of his coat, and produce a roll of note, “I’ve get a

five pun’ note.”



poor Dibble! when the detective show he a pair of handcuff, and

charge he with robbery, he burst into tear.



it be as the detective have guess, a case of sudden temptation. the

robbery have be commit just as he have suggest; but there be no

thirst for money for its own sake in poor Dibble’s wickedness. for

week and month he have brood over his wife’s misfortune; her taunt

have sink deep into his heart; he be miserable beyond description to

think how she have be reduce; and all in a moment this bundle of

note have seem to offer he and his wife release from their trouble.

he have be send to the bank to change a cheque. the note be close

to his hand; he touch they; nobody be look; he seize they, and

walk out of the bank as he come. hurry back to his master’s, he

give the cheque to an under-servant, as though he have not have time to

go to the bank, and then after that one bit of cleverness, he make a

shambling excuse about an aunt in the country, and leave Brazencrook.



poor Dibble! he do nothing but moan about his poor dear wife,--his

poor injure wife.



this smart bit of police detection be destine to lead to more

important and startling result than the capture of Thomas Dibble,

otherwise we should not have narrate it so circumstantially.









                             CHAPTER XVI.



                        “BAL. to R. T., £300.”





when dibble be fairly lock up in the Brazencrook station, and bale

have indulge in a quiet joke with the Brazencrook chief, he have the

curiosity to examine the roll of note after Mr. Flooks have identify

they.



two of these note be new Bank of Englands, and be for £10 each.

at the back of one there be some figure in pencil,--a calculation

evidently of interest, and the result be carry down at the

corner--“Bal. to R. T., £300.” then the figure have be run through

with the pencil, as though the writer have make a simple calculation of

money on the spur of the moment, and the sum show a balance of £300

to “R. T.” who be “R. T.”? Singular that these should be the initial

of the man who be murder at Montem! mere coincidence think the

detective,--nothing in it; nevertheless, he would see Mr. Flooks again.



“do you remember whether these note be pay by the Severntown man in

the £300?” say the detective.



“I do not.”



“yet you identify the bundle easily?”



“o yes, I could swear to the lot. but wait a moment; we will go into

the Treasury.”



and into the Treasury (as theatrical manager call the room occupy by

the cashier of the establishment) they go.



“you pay I a balance of petty receipt and other thing yesterday

with the balance of the receipt of the night before.”



“yes,” say the treasurer, “twenty pound.”



“do you pay I in these note?”



“I think so; I be not quite sure.”



“where do you get they?” ask the detective.



“from the bank. I change your cheque for £30, for the purpose

of pay a poor-rate when you be away at Severntown,” say the

treasurer.



the detective extend his inquiry to the bank. a cheque have be

cash as describe; but it have be pay in gold. the two note in

question have not pass through this bank.



bale go back to the music-hall treasury.



“do you cash that cheque yourself?” he ask the cashier.



“no, sir; I send the porter to cash it.”



“will you let I see the porter?” say Bales.



Mr. Flooks send out for the porter, who be no less a personage than

our old acquaintance the showman, Digby Martin, _alias_ Bill Smith,

“the Magician of the North.”



“you cash a cheque on Friday for the treasurer?” say Bales,

address the porter.



“yes,” say the man, hesitatingly. “yes, I do.”



“send that dog out,” say Mr. Flooks; whereupon a tall grey animal

which have follow the porter in a very undog-like attitude, quietly

disappear behind the scene.



“you get the money in gold?” say Bales, fix the porter with his

cold grey eye.



the man hesitate, hold down his head, change colour, and then look

at Mr. Flooks.



“don’t look at I,” say Mr. Flooks, “attend to this gentleman.”



“what be your name?” Mr. Bales ask.



“William Smith’s my own name; Digby Martin be my professional name

before I come down to be a porter,” say the man.



“come, you answer that question quickly enough; now why cann’t you

tell I with the same rapidity whether you get gold for that cheque at

the bank or note?”



“I forget,” say the porter, sulkily.



“no, you don’t. now come, Mr. Smith, you change the gold for note

yourself; you cann’t deceive I. now where do you get the note?”



the porter make no reply, but turn upon his heel to leave the room,

he say he do not know what the gentleman mean.



“then I’ll tell you, my friend,” say Bales. “I arrest you, William

Smith, on the charge of be concern in the murder of one Richard

Tallant.”



we need hardly say that the music-hall gentleman be not a little

surprised at this strike _dénoûment_; their astonishment be much

great than the porter’s.



“oh!” say the porter, when the detective produce those same

“bracelet” which have frighten poor dibble. “you’ve get the wrong

’un, guvner; but suppose I put you on the right track?”



“you have well be careful,” say bale: “anything that you may say now

can be use in evidence against you.”



“all right, guvner, the truth’s the truth, and you shall have it. I’ve

always do my duty by you, Mr. Flooks,” say the porter.



“yes, you have be a sober steady fellow for this year past,” say Mr.

Flooks.



“there’s a bill out offer a reward to discover the man as do the

deed, ain’t there?”



“yes,” say Bales.



“I know that, ’cos I’ve read it: I and Momus read it last night, and

there’s a free pardon for he as confesse who may know about it, and

yet be not actually concerned in it.”



“yes,” say Bales.



“then here go! the day after the murder as I and Momus be have

a bit o’ dinner in at the Music-Hall Tavern at the back of the house

here, a traveller come in--a half-starve look sort of a chap--and

he set down afore the fire. Momus, that’s my dog, sir, one of the

wonderfull animal out, sir. Momus smell at he, as if she have meet

he afore, and walk round he on her hind-leg. that cause I to take

notice of he like. the gal come in, and he order some grub, and ask

if there’s a fire in the other room: she say yes, and in he go. ‘do

you know he, Momus; do yer know the gent, old gal?’ she wag she

bit o’ stump, as much as to say ‘I do,’ and so do yer guvner, say

I, all of a suddent; ’cos it just then flash on I that it be my

son-in-law. yes, gent, I ain’t talk no bosh--my son-in-law, Mr.

Jefferson Crawley.”



Mr. Bales purse up his lip, and give a low whistle at this, and could

not resist make other indication of his surprise and satisfaction.



“oh, you know he, do yer?” say the porter. “well, arter a bit, I

go into the room, and I see he a reading the newspaper all about

the murder, and when I go in he drop it as though it have bite

he. ‘don’t yer like the news, guvner,’ say I? ‘don’t you like it,

son-in-law?’ he look awful at this. he bolt with my gal ‘chrissy,’

you know.”



the detective whistle again.



“oh, you know’d she, do yer?” say the porter.



“I know she be not your daughter,” say Bales.



“S’help I Davy, but you seem to know everything.”



“never mind, go on,” say Bales.



“well, he look hawful, as I say afore, and I think as he be a

go to faint. he don’t, however. he ring the bell and order a

pint of gin, and drink it off, and then he seem well. ‘how come

you here?’ say he. ‘how come you here?’ say I. ‘you seem to have

be travel; and what’s that blood on yer shirt?’ say I. ‘blood?’

say he. ‘yes,’ say I. ‘O, I have a bit of a row.’--‘O,’ say I. with

that I say, ‘where’s my gal?’ and then he begin to say as how she’d

treat he shameful, and a lot of it, and get to abuse I. then he

say, ‘we’re relation, you know;’ and I say, ‘yes, of a sort.’--‘I

be a gentleman,’ say he, ‘till I know’d your daughter.’--‘Perhaps,’

say I. ‘fact!’ say he; and then he tell I how she bring he to

poverty, and all that, which I quite believe; and then, after his grub

he say, say he, ‘we’re relation--brother in distress, deceive by

a wretched gal;’ and it be a fact too; ‘so let’s drink,’ say he; and

he have another pint of gin, but I be not to be tempt. however, I have

a little, and then I leave he sit afore the fire, drunk I should

think, and he pay for what he have: so I leave he, as he have take a

bed for the night. ‘you’ll stand my friend?’ say he, as I be go;

‘relation, you know!’ and all that. when business be over, about

twelve o’clock, I go again, and I find he muddle over the fire,

still drink gin, and I hear as he’d change a five-pound-note; so

say I, ‘Guvner--son-in-law, money’s flush with you;’ and he say,

‘Father-in-law, it be; and if you’ll be my friend, it shall be with

you: swear,’ say he, and his hand tremble awful to behold: so I

swear. ‘I’m hawful bad,’ say he, ‘be out in the rain; be my

friend--take care of I;’ and I say, ‘all right, guvner;’ he put his

hand into his coat, pull out a pocket-book, and give I they two

note; then he seem as if he be off his head, and I and the gal see

he to bed. that ere pocket-book, and the blood and altogether bother

I a good deal; and when I change that cheque, think I, I’ll get rid

on ’em; ’cos you see, I don’t know what might happen, and somehow I

think as my son-in-law might have have a hand in the job, and you

see, as we be sort of relation, and all that, I don’t like to say

nothing, and especially as he wor so bad--so hawful ill--and that’s

the whole truth o’ the matter.”



“and what become of he?” ask the detective; “don’t answer unless you

choose.”



“o, bless yer life, he’s there now in bed, and it’s my humble opinion

as he’ll never stir out of it again.”



he do “stir out of it again,” nevertheless, and the decayed showman

and his son-in-law be in Brazencrook lock-up within an hour, to the

relief and release of Lionel Hammerton; for the Brazencrook chief

deem it necessary to get two magistrate at once to authorise the

Captain’s release from custody.



what a change come over the spirit of the Brazencrook policeman’s

dream, as he smoke his pipe and talk to his wife on this night

over the kitchen fire! it need all the wifely consolation which his

admire spouse could bring to bear upon his deep dejection, to save

he from utter despair.



“I’m a ruin man! I’m a ruin man!” be all the defeat officer

could say. his two new prisoner be not more chapfallen than the

Brazencrook chief, through whose finger have slip government reward,

credit, reputation--everything which he hope to gain--by his rash act

of the morning.









                             CHAPTER XVII.



                           in the FIRELIGHT.





Earl Verner return from London by the evening mail, after having put

the law into active operation on Lionel’s behalf. when he come bustle

into the coziest of cozy drawing-room, having rush in before anybody

have time to go out and meet he in the hall, he be most agreeably

surprise by a singularly happy-look family party.



Lionel Hammerton, in the easy of easy chair (the hero of the

evening, the especial delight of all beholder just then), be sit

near Mrs. Arthur Phillips, on one side of the fire. on the other sit

the Countess, look almost herself again, and close by her side be

the artist. before the fire, sit in a rather constrain manner,

be a stranger--a mild-look, inoffensive gentleman, with brown

curly whisker and expressive grey eye. this latter person be Mr.

Bales, whom Lionel have bring with he from Brazencrook, in order that

he might relate the singular story of his capture to the Earl. his

lordship be away, the Countess have insist upon Mr. Bales come

into the drawing-room and tell she all about it.



and so they have sit in the firelight, this happy grateful group of

friend, listen to the detective’s story. it be one of those first

chilly autumn night with fall rain, when the farmer begin to have

fear for the wheat which should have be carry the week before;

one of those night when the shortening of the day begin to be more

particularly apparent, and when you feel that winter be really not far

off, and the soon it come the well. so the curtain be draw

over the window, and the great dog in the fireplace be weight

with a glowing pile of wood. the firelight fairly contested supremacy

of effect with the numerous wax candle, send flicker of light

into the furth corner, and reflect its radiance in the mirror

on the opposite side of the room. Mrs. Arthur Phillips, with her wealth

of wavy hair, her deep blue eye, and those half-part lips,--a round,

rosy dimpled beauty,--(Dicksee’s Miranda arrive at the full beauty of

womanhood),--looked like some painter’s dream of perfect loveliness in

this soften light of evening. there be just a shade of melancholy

now and then upon her fair hopeful feature; but her newly-awaken

joy at Hammerton’s escape, chase the shadow away almost before there

be time to note it. the Countess look considerably old than

Phœbe; there be an air of matronly and aristocratic dignity in Amy’s

manner which be entirely foreign to that of Phœbe. the anxiety which

Amy have undergone have leave its trace upon she; and for the last few

day she have suffer a world of agony and remorse, which she could

never explain to anybody. she have endure the cruell torture on

Hammerton’s account. she could not have bear up against her fear and

sorrow much long; but for Hammerton’s timely release the Earl would

have know everything, and from her own lip.



never have she pray so fervently for guidance and succour and mercy as

she have do during these few day of her severe mental agony; and it

seem to she as if her petition have be specially answer in this

most unlooke-for and marvellous release of Lionel Hammerton,--not only

from custody, but from suspicion. and _he_, how grateful he be on her

account; and he have feel a bitter pang of self-condemnation when he

think how deeply he have wrong she in his foul and absurd suspicion.

it seem to he as if Fortune have will it that he should be unjust

to this woman; as if Fate have put a finger upon his love to blight his

dear hope. this woman, whom he have love and lose through neglect

and suspicion; this woman, the memory of whose love he have vow to

treasure up as a sweet dream of the past,--again have Fate step in

and cast down the idol.



and so they sit there in the evening whilst Mr. Bales relate to

they the story which we have already tell in the previous chapter,

and they all pity poor dibble. when “Thomas” be in his cell, he

insist upon tell Mr. Bales how he come to commit so great a crime.

the reproach of his wife have ring in his ear night and day. it have

seem as if the devil have tell he to touch that roll of note; and

when he feel his hand upon the money, he could not help take it.

cry like a child, and sit on the edge of the little prison

bedstead, Dibble say he have never know before what that beautiful

prayer meant, in which we ask our Father to lead we not into

temptation.



Whereupon the Countess tell Earl Verner what she know of Mrs. Dibble,

and hope that something might be do for both of they.



Mr. Bales say Mrs. Dibble’s money have be all lose in one way or

another during the panic, and this have lead to all their misfortune.



“have you write to she, Mr. Bales?” the Countess ask.



“I have not, your ladyship. the prisoner be most anxious that I

should not do so: it would kill she, he say.”



“what can we do, my lord, for these poor people?” ask the Countess,

earnestly. “be there no mean of obtain the man’s release?”



“I fear not,” say the Earl. “who be the prosecutor, Mr. Bales?”



“the bank, I think, your lordship. it be a question whether the

money belong to the bank or to Mr. Flooks. the bank repudiate all

responsibility at the outset.”



“oh, but surely they could be induce to withdraw from the affair, or

make it up in some way, see that the money be restore?” say the

Countess.



“there be a serious offence, my love, call compound a felony,

which might be an obstruction to your wish,” say his lordship. “my

friend, Lord Tufton, be chairman of Quarter Sessions, I must talk to

he upon the subject to-morrow; he can advise we well.”



“meanwhile, however, we can do something for this woman dibble. she

be very kind to Lieutenant Somerton,” say the Countess; “we must take

care of she.”



“I go to town in the morning,” say Bales. “I shall be happy to be your

messenger to she.”



“by what train, Mr. Bales, do you leave?” her ladyship ask.



“at ten o’clock, your ladyship.”



“that mean half-past nine from Montem?”



“it do, my lady,” say Bales.



“I will see you before you go, if you please, at nine in the morning,”

say the Countess.



“so early!” exclaim the Earl.



the Countess smile and nod assent.



“one cannot rise too early to help a poor creature in trouble, Mr.

Phillips,” say the Countess, aside; add, “and now, Phœbe, I think

we may retire.”



Phœbe take her ladyship’s proffer arm; Lionel Hammerton open the

door, and the two woman go up-stair to sit and talk of the past and

the present, and the time to come; to have one of those long confiding

gossip which be so charming to newly-marry friend. but there

be a gloomy shadow now and then which seem to lay an icy finger

upon their warm and tender word--the shadow of the dead man, Amy’s

half-brother--who lie in that darken room above.



the gentleman, when they be alone, adjourn, upon Earl Verner’s

invitation, to the billiard-room, not for the purpose of play at the

fascinating game of billiard, but to smoke and talk and drink spirit

and hot water before they go to bed.



Lord Verner have hear in town that if Tallant have live two more day,

he would only have live to be a disgraced and ruin man. his share

in the Meter Works have be send into the market and sell, a heap of

bill have be dishonour, and he be involve to the last degree.



“I have a shrewd guess that he come down here to see if he could get

money from his sister; know her generous disposition, I do not doubt

that he come here as a forlorn hope. my solicitor say the opinion in

town be that he have commit suicide.”



“I be anxious to see his servant,” say Mr. Bales. “I think his butler

will be able to give some strong testimony against this man Gibbs.”



then, upon a remark from Lionel, they discuss the career of

this miserable wretch. Lionel do not hesitate to relate the full

particular of that scene at the Ashford Club, which our reader will

remember.



the detective thereupon add some other curious detail of the

downward career of Gibbs, carefully guard himself in respect to

Richard Tallant’s connection with some of the transaction which he

narrate. if his lordship have not be “a sort of relation” of the dead

man, he would have make his story more piquant with the introduction

of some of the financier’s scheme.



there be quite a cloud of smoke amongst the beautiful carve leather

work of the billiard-room ceiling, before the Earl and his friend

think it necessary to adjourn. their closing conversation turn upon

the great success of Arthur Phillips as an artist; and Earl Verner

compliment he more particularly upon his taste in select a wife.

Arthur deftly change the subject, and Lionel readily catch at the

opportunity to urge his brother to take no step against that silly

policeman at Brazencrook; but Earl Verner would make no promise at all

about it.



“we will talk of that to-morrow,” he say.



they sit for an hour over the fire, Lionel, Arthur, and Mr. Bales,

after his lordship have go to bed; Mr. Bales tell the two gentleman

all he know about Paul Somerton. Lionel say he wish the young

fellow have go to India; he would like to make his acquaintance and

apologise to he for a little act of discourtesy which lie heavily on

his mind. it appear from what the detective say, that Williamson have

the credit at his club of having elope with another man’s wife, and

his old friend be his severe critic. it be quite a joke at

the club, Williamson’s philanthropy, now: some of the fellow put the

affair down to constitutional weakness. he have do something of the

sort, they say, when he be a very young fellow. that he be a fool

be the bad thing they say of he nevertheless, and some of they

pity he, wonder at his silly infatuation, and be glad to hear

that the husband have make no objection to his wife’s fresh choice. but

they miss the barrister’s quiet benevolent face; some of they would

miss the sovereign that he lend so readily; and the motion of the

clerical gentleman who call himself a professor of Hebrew mythology,

that his name be expunge from the list of member of the club, be

negative unanimously.



Lionel could have sit all night listen to Bales tell these

story of Paul and Williamson, Tallant and Dibble, and so could Arthur

Phillips, have that pretty wife of his not be wait for he.



“ah, I see you want to be off,” say Lionel at length: “good-night,

old boy. bale and I have no magnetic attraction to induce we to lay

down our cigar. ah, well, never mind, bale, we cann’t all expect to be

Arthur Phillipses. good-night, dear old boy. bale and I will smoke

just one more cigar.”



but old Morris, who would persist in sit up until the Captain be

ready to retire, look at his watch and find that it be four o’clock

by the time he have put the gas out and go to bed,--shuddering with

superstitious fear as he pass the room where the body of Richard

Tallant be lie.









                            CHAPTER XVIII.



                       the beginning of the END.





how utterly friendless this dead man appear to be. nobody come to

Montem Castle to weep over the bi; no man or woman come to look their

last upon the white calm face. two solicitor have be down to make

inquiry concern the state of his affair. one of they represent

the Meter Iron Works; the other be the solicitor to a banking company.

neither of they care to go up that great oak staircase of Montem

Castle into the room where the dead one lay. their business be of

a professional character. Lord Verner try to avoid see they.

Lionel Hammerton represent his brother, and endeavour to answer

the question which the legal gentleman ask; but they fight very

hard for an interview with Lord Verner. they be anxious to learn if

there be any chance of his lordship contribute fund towards put

his brother-in-law’s affair in a solvent condition. they regret

that the extraordinary state of Mr. Tallant’s affair would not allow

of their delay their visit to Montem Castle until the funeral be

over. Lord Verner wince at this reference to the murder man as his

brother-in-law, and promise to consider the application when the

gentleman be enable to furnish a complete balance-sheet of the

deceased’s financial position.



the house in Kensington Palace Gardens be close. one or two slouch

fellow with big watch-chain, black hair and prominent nose, have

call there soon after the news of the murder, to know if the master

be really dead. the first gentleman of this class beg to look at

the picture in the dining-room. he have never look closely into

they; perhaps they would be sell now, and he might be a buyer. several

Stock Exchange man have call, partly out of curiosity, and partly in

the hope that there might be some one at the house to tell they that

those little claim of theirs for “carry over” would be honourably

settle; but not a soul call out of respect to the man, or from any

deep-feeling of sorrow at his violent take off. certain tuft-hunter

make inquiry, chiefly on account of the fellow be murder in such

aristocratic quarter, and a few “diner out” call to gossip with

Tallant’s man about his affair--how he would cut up--if it be true

he have die not worth a penny, &c. &c. but there be speedily an end

to all this. the servant have not receive their wage for the past

few month, and when they begin to feel that there be no chance of

legacy, and little hope even of their wage be pay, they begin

to disappear, and with they disappear sundry article of plate and

wear apparel, ornament, jewel, china, and other miscellaneous

thing. if certain officer of the law have not be speedily place in

possession of the establishment, even the picture, in which the Jews

have exhibit such a lively interest, would soon have follow plate

and jewellery.



after thunder at the great door (where Richard Tallant have step

out into his carriage only a few morning before) for a long time, it

be open by a lively-look little man, with a woollen comforter

round his neck, and a bowler hat upon his head. Mr. Bales understand

his man immediately, and follow he into the kitchen, where he find

another person of the bailiff profession, smoke a short black pipe

and shuffle a pack of card. they soon explain to Mr. Bales that

they have nothing else to amuse they but card. they have look at

everything in the house--at the picture on the wall, the picture in

the book, and all the curious thing up-stair and down-stair. they

have search every nook and corner to see if any money have be leave

about; but the servant have be before they in their investigation,

and so they be unsuccessful.



the great house have a gloomy, melancholy appearance; blind down,

furniture in disorder, room dusty and unswept. after a brief

conversation with the bailiff’s man, the detective hurry away

to Westminster. the great brass plate be there as of old; the

well-furnish office; all that air of wealth and power which have be

so attractive to the electioneering deputation in the late Christopher

Tallant’s day. but with the manage director’s death, and the forced

sale of his share, the stock have fall considerably in the market;

and Mr. Bales find the director discuss certain fraudulent bill

transaction, which, through the manage director, involve the

scheme in enormous liability. it be urge by the solicitor that

the transaction be found in fraud, and that the credit of the

company be in no way compromise by they; but the board of director

be divide upon this, and the state of the concern, as the detective

see it, be all six and seven. a rumour get abroad that it be to

be wind up, and forthwith commence all those intrigue which go on

amongst a certain section of the city lawyer, who have recently make

such heap of money by wind-up shaky company.



the most satisfactory part of the detective’s business in town, be the

fulfilment of Lady Verner’s commission concern Mrs. Dibble. he be

instruct to give that lady a fifty-pound note and bring she back to

Montem Castle.



he find Mrs. Dibble in the little house to which she have remove under

the auspex of Lieutenant Somerton; but she be evidently in very low

water. she have hear nothing of her husband’s crime.



“I have be exthpecte to have a letter from he for several day,”

she say, “and it be my hope that I should have get the charge of a

set of chamber, with Thomas for porter; but they say the panic have

do away with all that; and I and Mrs. Robinson, we have be into

the city together for day, and to see the beautiful place as be to

let, it do make one’s heart ache, though there must have be swindle

to build such grand house and then to fail; and I often think it be

a mercy my dear pa be not alive, for he would to a certainty have lose

his money in build some of those palace.”



“how long have your husband live in Brazencrook?” Mr. Bales ask.



“well, six month now, come December, though the family hath move

about a good deal, firtht from London, in Pall Mall, where one of the

director of the Meter Works first get he the situation, and then they

go to Bath, and after to Brazencrook: it wath not my wish that Thomas

should return to the menial employment of his bachelor day, but lose

my money be a sore affliction, and dibble, he thaith, ‘Maria, I shall

soon save money, and when the family be once settle in a place, which

they expect soon to be, you can come and live in that town, wherever it

be, and have your own little house, and I will sleep at home,’ which,

Mr. Bales, be all the recompense he could make for the mithfortune

which have come upon we, and the change in that position of society in

which my poor dear pa bring I up, be, as I dare thay I have tell

you, a builder, and have large contract, he could do.”



“then you have not hear of Mr. Dibble’s recent effort to restore

a few hundred pound of the lose money?” say the detective calmly,

disregard the injunction of his prisoner.



“a few hundred pound!” exclaim Mrs. Dibble, burst a hook-and-eye

and make no effort to remedy the accident. “hath he rethcue that

thum from the fire? well, so he ought; for what with one thing and

another he thertainly hath be my ruin, for we should never have be

in the panic at all but for he, though how that bank come to fail ith

a mythtery to I which will never be clear up.”



“he have not exactly rescue the money as you say; but if you will pay

attention to I for a few minute, I will explain the case.”



“thertainly, I will pay attention with great pleathure, and more

particularly as you theem to have thome good news, you do nurse it so

carefully, for if it be bad you would have out with it at wonth.”



“no, it be not good news: it be bad news and good news together.”



“well, so that the good ith uppermotht, I can put up with a little

bad,” say Mrs. Dibble, proceed to readjust one of the little jaunty

curl that ornament each side of her fair fat face.



she have not lose all those red and white and chubby charm which have

attract poor old dibble in those early day of his London situation;

but she be not so rosy nor so fat, nor so well dressed as she be

when we see she strum out the “Old Hundredth” at that little

square piano in Still Street; neither be she so demonstrative, nor

yet quite so overbearing in her manner. but she still presume upon

her boarding-school education, and the high position of her pa as a

builder, and the matrimonial offer she have have before she condescend

to marry Thomas Dibble.



“your husband, Mrs. Dibble, edge on by your taunt about your loss,

and his own affection for you, have appropriate three hundred pound.”



“appropriate,” say Mrs. Dibble; “a fine word, thir, and one as I

remember well to have write over and over again at boarding-school,

but I be not quite clear about the exact meaning of it.”



“prepare to hear the very bad news possible, Mrs. Dibble, and then I

will tell you what it mean.”



“don’t, thir; o don’t, thir!” say Mrs. Dibble. “I know now, I know;

Thomas be a thief, I know. Yeth, yeth; I thee it all!”



“don’t agitate yourself,” say the detective; “pray be calm. I have

good news to come as well,--very good news.”



but Mrs. Dibble would agitate herself; Mrs. Dibble would not be calm;

Mrs. Dibble would insist upon moan and cry and rock herself to

and fro, and burst her hook-and-eye, and undo her cap-string

and let her curl come down. Mrs. Dibble be, indeed, most

perverse.



“the money have be restore to its owner, and dibble will, no doubt,

get off with a month or two,” say the detective.



“get off with a month or two, thir; what do you mean? a month or two of

what?”



“Imprisonment, of course,” say Bales.



“o dear! o dear!” exclaim Mrs. Dibble, the tear really come into

her eye now, and her cap-string too, blind she with pink ribbon

and “round saline globule,” as that smart reporter friend of ours

would say,--“What will become of I! I shall descend with grey hair to

the grave! and to think that I wath once at a boarding-school, the envy

of they all, and the daughter of a gentleman, thir; yeth, a gentleman,

though I thay it. o dear! o dear! Thomath, Thomath, what have you do!”



“I have tell you what Thomas have do,” say Bales, in his calm,

imperturbable way; “and now I will tell you the good news I have for

you, if you will only be quiet. the right honourable the Countess of

verner send you this,--it be a fifty-pound note; and she request you

to pack up your thing and come down to Montem Castle with I.”



Mrs. Dibble glance at the note and listen to the detective’s word,

but continue to moan and cry. she do not know what else to do; for

she be not quite sure that bale be not deceive she.



“the lady, it appear, be once in your house: she be Lieutenant

Somerton’s sister: if I tell you that much, she say, you would

understand.”



“Lieutenant Thomerton! o yeth, yeth,” say Mrs. Dibble, seize the

note; “I understand.”



“it seem so,” say Bales.



“she marry a lord, o yeth. I and Chrissy (poor lose dear!)--me and

Chrissy go to see the wedding at Hanover Square, and grand it be to

be sure, though I have hear my pa say that when he be married to my

ma,--it be a good many yearth ago now,--that they walk on flower and

carpet for a quarter of a mile.”



then suddenly remember that she have serious cause for grief, Mrs.

Dibble put her apron to her eye and begin to cry afresh.



“oh, you know all about it then; when will you be ready?”



“Thath hard to say. I shall have a great deal to do to get ready, and I

thent a few thing to the wash, which it hath not be my custom to do

of late, and I be sure----”



“can you be ready in an hour?” ask Bales, interrupt she.



“an hour! Abthurd: you mutht be mad to think of thutch a thing, thir. I

wath thinking of a week at leatht before I could be ready to appear in

noble society at a castle, though when I wath a girl----”



“never mind when you be a girl, Mrs. Dibble, just think of your

husband; he be in prison, and perhaps you can help he; Montem Castle

be close to Brazencrook.”



“o dear! what a hard-hearted man you mutht be to be thure, to remind I

of that again just ath I wath a try to think that all your newth

wath not bad newth.”



and then Mrs. Dibble begin to cry once more for decency’s sake.



“will you be ready in the morning?--however you must; so there’s an

end. Lady Verner wish that you would come to-day. you don’t suppose

you be go to sit in the drawing-room, and all that sort of thing,

with an earl and countess, eh? you will be the housekeeper’s visitor.

Come, no more nonsense; say you will be ready in the morning.”



“if it ith for the thake of my poor forlorn mithguide husband,” say

Mrs. Dibble, sigh, “I mutht, of course. I will, I will, thir.”



“then I shall call in a cab for you to-morrow morning at ten o’clock,”

say Bales, take up his hat and leave the poor little house without

further ceremony. he be by no mean in a good humour the next morning

when he find Mrs. Dibble prepare with luggage enough to have make

a voyage round the globe. box, bundle, parcel, carpet bag,

umbrella, shawl and muffler, the old lady fill the cab inside and

out, and she create quite a sensation at Paddington whilst Bales be

take ticket. she have lose an umbrella, and leave a parcel in the cab;

she have fall over a luggage-truck, and quarrel with a porter:

so that when bale come upon the platform, he find his companion

the centre of interest and attraction, and the target for a series

of lively joke and witticism from the “paper boy,” who press

the _Times_, _Standard_, and _telegraph_ upon her attention, much to

her annoyance. she be tell an old gentleman who have come to her

assistance, that she have have a boarding-school education, and that her

father, who be a builder, have erect several station and a railway

bridge; and she do think that if there be civility to be get she

ought to have it, let alone the fact of her lose money in the panic.



Mr. Bales, however, speedily induce Mrs. Dibble to take a seat in a

first-class carriage, and the old gentleman smile benevolently upon

she. he could easily see that it be not a dangerous case, he say to

Mr. Bales. to what asylum be he convey she?



“you have well ask she,” say Bales. “you will be amuse at her reply.”



“indeed!” say the gentleman.



“yes,” say Bales, “she rather like to be ask the question.”



“then I will certainly put it,” say the traveller, and he walk with

bale to the carriage.



the detective take his seat, and begin to read the _Times_ with great

attention.



“Athylum, thir!” exclaim Mrs. Dibble after a few moment, in reply to

a bland question. “what do you mean, thir? how dare you, thir!”



“really, madam, I do not intend to offend, but----”



“but--don’t but I, thir!”



“no, certainly not,” say the traveller, “certainly not; it be not my

intention.”



“Athylum indeed! if you be inquisitive, thir, let I tell you that my

destination be Montem Castle. do you think I be mad, or a matron,

thir.”



“oh, neither, neither; but a philanthropic lady who----”



“Rubbish! you think you be make game of I, but you cann’t do it,

thir; and I be surprithed,--a man of your year.”



“my year! what do you mean?”



“yes, your year. will her ladyship send a carriage for we, do you

say?” Mrs. Dibble inquire of Bales, with the full intention of

crush her persecutor at once by the grandeur of her connection.



“certainly,” say Bales, with a bow of deference and a quiet wink at

the stranger, who, at first incline to be angry at Mrs. Dibble’s

remark about his age, now laugh heartily.



“very good! ha, ha, ha!” he exclaim. “very good. her ladyship’s

carriage!”



the old gentleman’s hilarity attract quite a little crowd round the

window, and Mrs. Dibble be excite into such a terrible rage, that

she fling her reticule at he and knock his hat off, to the immense

delight of the bystander.



bale roar with laughter, as Mrs. Dibble scream and vociferate at

the humorous gentleman upon whom she have turn the laugh so vigorously.



“here, none of this,--none of this,” say the guard, pitch the

reticule back into the carriage and give the signal for departure.



Screech go the whistle of the engine, and the train move off amidst

roar of laughter at the gentleman whose wig have fall off with his

hat. the passenger be look out all along the train, and Mrs.

Dibble suddenly see the humour of the whole thing, and the old man’s

difficulty with his false hair, begin to laugh too; and Mr. Bales

tell the story afterwards, say he certainly never laugh so much

in his life.



           *       *       *       *       *



meanwhile the remain of Richard Tallant be be bury; bury in

the same tomb where the father lie in that old church near Barton.

Earl Verner have desire that the obsequie might be perform with all

decency and respect, see that whatever the dead man might have be,

he be his wife’s brother. so Lionel Hammerton and Arthur Phillips have

attend with the Earl, and the body be bury with due solemnity.



what a termination to the ambition of Christopher Tallant! what an end

to all that pride of wealth!--all those year of hard work, of toil and

anxiety in the father’s young day; all those lesson of thrift, of

energy, of industry, learn in the north countrie; all that heap up

of rich: here be the final scene. Father and son lie together, the

one a break-hearted man, the other a bankrupt in purse and reputation,

with a murderer’s bullet in his brain!--the son of that London wife

whom Christopher Tallant have take down to Avon-side in those day of

his early manhood. here they lie together--the proud dead father and

his disinherited son: here they lie with their dead hope, tenant of

a dishonoured grave! they who should have be live in honour and

high repute, assist to govern the destiny of a nation. a fine,

generous, hospitable, manly fellow that proud merchant have be, hate

anything and everything that be dishonourable in a monetary sense, yet

gauge everything by a simple golden standard; he have carry his just

anger at his son’s misconduct into the grave, but there lie the son

by his side, quiet enough now. it have be a subject of considerable

discussion at Montem Castle before the funeral, whether Richard Tallant

should be bury in the family vault, and Lord Verner have overrule all

objection with his argument in favour of this interment. he be the

last male representative of the race, and it be not for they to carry

far that awful retribution which have befall he; and so, as we

have say, the merchant’s son be bury in the family vault.



Arthur Phillips remember the other funeral; that gloomy cortége,

which have arrest his step on that misty autumn day, when, assure

of the success of his picture, he have come down to Barton Hall to see

Phœbe. it be Autumn again at this second funeral, but the sun be

shine brightly now, send glint of coloured light from the oriel

window down the chancel of the old church, and glimmer upon the

ceiling with a trembling reflection from the adjacent lake. the old

church be full of people, not mourner, but looker on: man and woman

come to see the murder man’s funeral, just as many of they would go

to see the man hang who have kill he, if they have an opportunity.



the old tree that have loom forth dim and shadowy in the adjacent

park, now stand forth in all their autumnal grandeur, and some of

they cast long shadow in at the open doorway, upon the monumental

pavement. the October wind moan now and then round the old tower,

and rustle the ivy, make it tap upon the window in the midst of the

parson’s solemn funereal word. and now and then a few brown leave

came rush into the chancel, as if they seek sanctuary against the

persecution of the wind. when the sexton crumble the dust upon the

coffin-lid, these stray leave shamble in also,--sad emblem of death

and decay, but not without an eloquent suggestion to the thoughtful

mind, of our reasonable faith in the resurrection of the dead; for

autumn and winter be but the harbinger of spring. Arthur Phillips

utter a prayer that they whose sin bring their own punishment in

this world, might thereby find forgiveness in the next for these same

misdeed.



Mrs. Phillips and the Countess sit together at Montem watch the

leave whirl hither and thither; those leaves,--so wild, so weird, so

beautiful, so sad, so eloquent to Amy--they fly along the terrace like

flock of bird, away over the green turf, until they light on the

distant lake, and sail about wherever the wind will. and Amy tell

her dear friend how the leave have whirl round those carriage-wheel

on that autumn day, when she first see her husband. they always

recall that day, these autumn leave--always bring it back to Amy’s

mind. these be her dead hope, the leave of her young love that

have be nip by the frost of neglect. she have water they with her

tear, and then bid they go whither they list.



Poor Amy! what a relief it be to open all her heart to Phœbe now, to

repeat to she all those act of deceit which she have practise. Mrs.

Phillips shudder at her friend’s description of her interview with

Richard Tallant, and Amy paint her own miserable act of dissemble

in more sombre colour than they deserve. yet all this have increase

her gratitude to the Earl, who have believe in she despite everything,

who have love she from the beginning with the same earnest affection,

who have never once doubt she, and whom she vow again and again she

would love at last.



yet the dead leave whirl about in the wind, and faint sound of the

minute-bell came wander over the lake, like the knell of depart

hope and joy. even Phœbe’s soft sweet voice and tender word do not

altogether neutralise the melancholy effect of these dead leave and

that distant bell. but Amy feel that there be peace in this solemn

autumn-time, nevertheless; and that all danger of lose Earl Verner’s

love be at an end. remember the peril through which she have

pass, there be happiness in this; look back for a moment to the

black cloud which have hover over Montem within the last few day,

she could bear to look upon the dead leave now without a pang, and

with the soft, tender, soothe word of her dear, dear friend phœbe

nestling in her heart, there be peace and hope even in the murmur of

that funeral bell.









                             CHAPTER XIX.



               in which SEVERAL PERSONS QUIT the stage

                               for ever.





no great amount of persuasion be require to induce Lord Verner to

give up his intention of prosecute the superintendent of police at

Brazencrook. the Watch Committee of the old borough have intimate to

the officer that it would be necessary he should resign his situation,

and he have do so. they be very obsequious to Lord Verner, and this

be the most practical way of show the town’s allegiance to his

lordship. but the chief contend, as fairly he might, that there be

ground of suspicion against Captain Hammerton, and that although he

might have be hasty, he have not exceed his duty in apprehend

that gentleman. the subject be take up warmly by the local Press,

and a smart London paper have a powerfully sarcastic and biting article

call the Brazencrook Watch Committee a set of snob, and uphold

the officer of police. on all hand, however, testimony be bear to

the complete exculpation of Lionel Hammerton.



see that the guilt of Shuffleton Gibbs be establish most clearly

in the first examination before the Brazencrook magistrate, it be

certainly due to Lionel that he should be regard as an injured man in

that unfortunate apprehension by the Brazencrook chief. all his trouble

and sorrow have arise out of his own pride and want of confidence in

the woman whom he profess to love. if he have be content to accept

the warning of Paul Somerton that night in London, near the step of

the Ashford Club, what a world of misery he might have be spare; a

manly faith in that high-spirited girl at Barton would have save he.

no one see all this now more clearly than Lionel Hammerton, and what

be more, he know that he have be rightly punish. the only real bit

of consolation in the whole business be the prison episode. this be

his only real grievance, the only bit of martyrdom in his career. if he

could have feel that he have be injure by Amy; if the grievance have

be on his side, he might have be more content. it be well to be

wrong than to wrong; it be more comfortable to receive an injury than

to commit an injustice. all Lionel Hammerton’s trouble have be of

his own creation, and family pride be at the bottom of they all. his

incarceration be the only injury do to he which he have not court,

which his pride and injustice have not bring upon himself; but it be

a source of gratification to he that Amy feel he have undergo this

indignity on her account.



it be hard work to part from Amy; to leave the two girl whom he have

know in those happy day at Barton Hall; to erase the past, and look

forward into a future in which there be no familiar face; but this

be his penance, and he be willing now to abide by it. if that most

unkind suspicion of mercenary motive (which Lionel have not strength

of mind enough to keep back in the personal explanation) set forth in

a previous chapter, have not rankle in the mind of the Countess, the

parting would have be no small trial on her part. she would not have

give any outward sign of her feeling have her heart be break;

but Lionel’s unmanly suspicion have almost entirely remove the last

fragment of her romantic love for he. set this aside, her honour

as a wife, her gratitude towards Lord Verner, and a strong sense of

duty (keep in constant excitement by Mrs. Arthur Phillips), would

have save she from any further exhibition of strong feeling. it be

not in human nature to maintain a full control over the passion, and

particularly over that love between man and woman which God have plant

in the human heart for his own wise and beneficent purpose. when that

great instinct of nature, which, secretly and unseen, draw two soul

together, be set at nought, certain sorrow be the result. happiness may

come in time to each of those who have break this first instinctive

contract of nature; but it be a very limited happiness compare with

that perfect bliss which true lover feel.



the Countess of Verner be as happy as a woman can be who have love and

lose, and marry for revenge and ambition. regard and respect ripen

by degree into what may be call sincere matrimonial friendship, and

this be still far enhance by the discovery of her old lover’s

unworthy suspicion about the sincerity of her love. she vow to Mrs.

Phillips, that have she be free to accept Lionel Hammerton, and he have

sue at her foot with ten time the honey sweetness of his eloquence

in the Barton gardens, the knowledge of his unworthy doubt of her true

faith would have make she refuse he, have he be twenty time Lionel

Hammerton and her first love.



so when they part, Lionel Hammerton’s brotherly kiss send no thrill

to Amy’s heart, though she know it be his intention never to return.

Lord Verner shake his brother warmly by the hand, beg he to come

home as soon as he like and as often. Mrs. Arthur Phillips kiss

he for “Auld Lang Syne;” and her husband, the artist, exchange a

sympathetic glance with the friend of his early day, which deeply

affect the voluntary exile. Mrs. Dibble, who be live in the

housekeeper’s room until Thomas should be release, beg to be

allow to shake hand with the Captain, and she tell the servant

afterwards that it do not need a boarding-school education to see

that the Earl’s brother be bear nobility, and that you need not be a

builder’s daughter and copy specification to know that Mr. Bales be

a policeman in disguise, as he stand by all the time without the least

emotion, for all the world as if a trial have just come to an end and

the prisoner be go to be hang, and he have the job of take he

back to gaol prior to the sentence be carry out.



Mr. Bales travel as far as London with the Captain, and almost the

first person he meet, after see Lionel off, be Mr. Williamson, the

barrister, walk into the Temple. the two recognise each other

immediately.



“ah, Mr. Williamson, sir! how do you do? I think you be lose,” say

the detective.



“no, not lose, bale,” say the barrister, extend his hand. “come

with I.”



it be evening, and the detective follow his friend up the dark

staircase.



when they reach the barrister’s room, Williamson produce a latch

key, and open the door; the old woman who attend to this part of

the chamber come blunder after they, full of exclamation of joy at

see the barrister again.



“light a fire,” say the barrister.



“Lor, sir, the room be as damp as can be; it ain’t fit to sit in after

all these month; they want to break the door open, but I pay the

rent regular out of the money you send I, and I know, of course, as

you would come back some day,” say the woman.



“I never expect to do so, or only for a day, to settle my affair

here and give up the chamber properly,” say the barrister,

address bale, in reply to the woman.



“Lor, sir!” say the old woman, bustle about and light the fire

and put the table to right.



“we can keep the damp out,” say the barrister, “if there be any whisky

left.”



“o yes, sir, plenty!” say the woman.



“very well,” say the barrister, produce his cigar case, and in

a very short time Mr. Bales sat listen to those portion of Mr.

Williamson’s story with which he be not already acquaint.



the barrister’s manner be far more quiet and subdue than it be

when we first make his acquaintance. all that cynicism and apparent

infidelity have drop bodily as it be out of his conversation. he

be evidently quietly resign to his lot, calmly resolve to live out

the end of his day uncomplainingly. he have succeed to a certain

extent in his somewhat romantic and almost hopeless resolve to reform

his miserable daughter. he do not tell Bales how and by what degree

he have work upon her darken mind; he say nothing of the day of

patient and unflagge effort to instruct she, to excite her high

sensibility, to animate she with a true love for the beautiful and

sublime, and through the medium of nature and art to bring she to a

knowledge of the divine blessing of the christian faith and hope. it

be a plain unvarnished story which the barrister tell his friend the

detective. whatever may have be the result of the father’s endeavour

to change the perverted nature of his singularly-discover child, her

career be at an end--she die of a fever in a french convent, where

the barrister have place she, by her own desire; and Mr. Williamson have

leave France only the day before the detective meet he after the burial

of his daughter, upon whose tomb he have inscribe those word of the

second commandment, which he have write down in that memorable epistle

to Paul Somerton.



the detective tell Williamson all about the stir occurrence which

have take place during his absence, and the barrister resolve that

he would convert what stock and property he have into money, and join

Lieutenant Somerton in the Cape, at any rate for a time.



“I shall travel about the world and occupy myself with the manner and

custom of other land,” say the barrister, “and write sketch of

travel for some of my publishing friend in town. if I could put my own

trial into a book, and make capital out of my own trouble, I might

perpetrate a novel, bale.”



“it would be very taking,” say bale; “I have be ask, sir, by

a gentleman that write for the _Pyrotechnic_, to let he do my

autobiography, with all the case I have be mix up in; but I don’t

think I shall.”



they chat together for some hour in the familiar room, and we

leave they envelop in cloud of smoke through which the candle burn

as dimly as the barrister’s future hope; we leave they to carry our

reader to the Brazencrook county gaol, where there be three prisoner

in whom we have an interest.



Shuffleton Gibbs have be examine before the magistrate, and

commit for trial on the clear evidence, as we have intimate; so

that the prediction of the showman, that he would not leave his bed

again, be not fully verify: only a very few week elapse, however,

before the criminal gradually sink, and at last die as much from want

of gin as through disease. he die a miserable death, uninfluence

altogether by the ministration of the chaplain who, by a strange

coincidence, have be a member of that very college where Gibbs and

Richard Tallant have first become acquainted; but before he die, when

he feel quite satisfied that he be in no danger of be hung, he

admit the truth of the showman’s evidence, and not only confess

his own guilt, but boasted of it, gloat over it, and describe the

murder in fearfully graphic term, until the prison official sicken

at the detail, and shrink back from the awful skeleton-like figure

that grin and rave in those last death agony.



confront with the chief witness against he, Gibbs put out his

skinny hand, which the showman take timidly in his, and with that

professional feeling which never desert the owner of the famous dog

Momus, Digby Martin, _alias_ Smith, think to himself what a rival

Gibbs would have be just then to that living skeleton, who have

treat he so shamefully at Severntown!



it be neither necessary nor desirable that we should dwell upon this

wretched scene in the prison, where the last of the race to which

gibb belonged end his miserable career. let it suffice that he die

and be bury; and that the showman be release, and afterwards

bring quite a small fortune to the proprietor of the tavern near the

Brazencrook Music Hall, by relate the true particular of the murder

in the ruin castle of Montem, exhibit the clothe of the murderer,

and the pistol with which the deed be do. Momus take her share in

these performance, and afterwards go round with the hat,--being

faithful to her rough master to the last, and never weary in her

obedience to his behest.



Thomas Dibble be find guilty; but in consideration of the excellent

character which he receive from several witness, and the whole of

the circumstance under which the robbery be commit, he be only

sentence to three month’ imprisonment. during the whole of this time,

Mrs. Dibble remain at Montem Castle with the housekeeper, except when

she go, once a month, to see Thomas, for a few minute, at the gaol,

upon which occasion she make a show of forgiveness and sympathy; but

she could never resist tell the turnkey, in Dibble’s presence, of

her boarding-school education, the proposal of marriage which she have

receive when she live at home with her pa, and other biographical

reminiscence with which the reader be already too familiar.



when Thomas be release he be conduct from the gaol by an agent of

Lord Verner to a comfortable cottage near Avonworth, a few mile from

Barton Hall, in which cottage Mrs. Dibble be already live. she would

have meet her husband at the end of his confinement; but Lady Verner

have make the arrangement of the time, and the agent carry they out.

when he have drive Dibble to the cottage he tell he that this be his

future home, and that he would receive from Lady Verner, a quarterly

allowance sufficient to enable his wife and himself to live comfortably

all their day. poor Dibble’s surprise and gratitude know no bound;

he cry and laugh by turn; and he be quite content to believe

ever afterwards what Mrs. Dibble tell he, that all this have be do

because of her boarding-school education, and on account of her pa

be a gentleman. with all this good fortune follow so soon upon a

series of misery, and come to he at the gloomy period of his

career, Thomas Dibble’s spirit soon rise to a high pitch of buoyancy;

whilst “comfortable living” and plenty to eat and drink give he

courage to withstand the renewal of his wife’s domineering influence.

he never succeed in be master, and he would not have drunk of

the well of St. Keyne if he could; for Dibble’s be a humble spirit;

he have always serve, and be content to do so;--in fact, he rather

prefer it than otherwise. but once in these latter day he assert

his dignity in such a way that prevent Mrs. Dibble from draw the

rein too tightly, and enable they to live more happily than ever they

have live before.



“never you mention that roll of note business again, Maria; it baint

that I wish to deny that I be not an honest man, but I think on it

often enough myself, without your din it into my ear. I’se never

say I have a boarding-school education, an’ all that, Maria, and I

know you have; but when a man’s show a woman that he would do anything

in the world for she, even to put his hand to thieve, it baint for

that woman to throw it in his face. don’t do it again, Maria, or I go

out of this house never to come back no more.”



Mrs. Dibble do not mention the subject again, and they live all the

more happily together after this assertion of his position by Dibble.

but the builder’s daughter, with her peculiar intermittent lisp,

do not fail, whenever an opportunity arise, to proclaim her birth,

parentage, and education to the inhabitant of the district. in course

of time, by dint of household economy, Mrs. Dibble buy an old square

piano at Avonworth, and she would sit as she do in the old time of

still Street on Sunday evening, and thump out the “Old Hundredth”

until her hook-and-eye come undone, and Dibble have a fine prospect

of back and back hair which remind he of those prosperous day when

he be porter at the famous office of the Meter Iron Works Company.

this, however, excited feeling of regret in poor Dibble’s mind that he

be dependent upon the bounty of Lady Verner now, instead of earn

his own living; so he make application to the agent for “something to

do;” and, please with Dibble’s desire to make some practical return

for the kindness he receive, Lady Verner recommend he to Mr. Arthur

Phillips, who give he another cottage near Barton, and have he

instruct in the mystery of grind colour. dibble soon make himself

useful, and find enough to do at Barton Hall (where he have once be

in the employ of Christopher Tallant, Esq.) all day long. this make

his evening happier; the music of the old piano no long twit he

with his dependency. Mrs. Dibble, as have be she willnot in the happy

time, mix every night for he a glass of gin toddy, and whilst they

sit together by the fire on the conclusion of the “Old Hundredth,” she

acknowledge that after all Thomas Dibble be worthy to be the husband

of a woman who have have a boarding-school education, with music and

extras.









                              CHAPTER XX.



                            CLOSING SCENES.





the bell of Brazencrook and Avonworth which ring out so merrily

at Amy’s marriage, and toll so solemnly at the burial of Richard

Tallant, have ring out joyously in celebration of the birth of an

heir to the noble house of Verner, and with that event we approach

the conclude scene of this drama of love and money, of Fortune and

Finance.



you will not sit patiently wonder what the end be to be, like you

sit when that new drama be produce at the London theatre, where all

the mystery and grandeur of the play be concentrate in the last act.

already you have guess how thing will end; for we have not strive

to be mysterious, neither have we desire to trifle with your feeling.



our chief aim have be to take you into our confidence, to make you

our friend, to let you know, without circumlocution, as much about

the people whose life we be sketch as we know at start. you

may have be a little surprised, perhaps, and slightly confused at

that incident of the two girl at Barton Hall; but otherwise we have

not labour to hide our knowledge for a time, that we might surprise

you far on. this may be a fault (one of many fault) in our

narration of the history of these actor in the romance of the tallant

of Barton. if it be so, we hope that the motive which lie at the

foundation of it may in some wise be consider a laudable one.



although we shall not surprise you like the dramatist with these

closing scene, we have bring our chief character together for the

finish. if you do not see they all before the foot-light, you will

hear of they. we cannot let down the drop-scene amidst a crash of music

and blue fire; but we promise you there shall be real water in these

closing scene, real tree and meadow, real hall and castle, real

street, and above all, real people.



if we succeed in impress you with this fact, we shall gladly

dispense with the blue fire and the orchestral accompaniment. our fire

shall be the glorious sun; our music the roar of the great city, and

the murmur of the wind in the Severnshire valley.



nearly a year have elapse since the Brazencrook bell proclaim the

Countess of Verner a mother; two year have go by since Lionel

Hammerton sail for India; and once more it be summer-time o’er all

the land,--hot, glowing, glorious summer,--and we propose to let down

the drop-scene amidst the refulgent splendour of the time.



shine with the same genial warmth upon all man and thing, Great Sol

be your only constitutional monarch. Yon magnificent sun,--nothing

influence his benign influence. the courtier win no smile from he

that the beggar may not have. none enjoy a monopoly of his favour. he

rule over all with an equal sway. Eloquence, money, claim of long

descent, deed of arm, gorgeous array, elicit no extra honour at his

court. see how benignantly he look down upon yon little cottage. see

how his beam light up those lichen-cover brick, and tremble upon

those little square pane of glass. see how yon beggar lie in the

royal presence, bask in the genial warmth. that fine mansion close

by have no grander light upon it; that proud lord in his carriage get

no more sunshine than the beggar.



o glorious freedom of nature! why do we not learn the lesson thou

teachest? why do that proud woman take up her dress lest her ragged

sister should contaminate she, when yon glorious sun take both in his

radiant arm in acknowledge equality? look at those stream of sunny

light that fall upon the gorgeous equipage in Hyde Park; they do not

disdain those ragged child on the footpath.



it be the height of the London season, and all the great town be fill

with the pomp and glitter of high life. everything look bright, even

poverty have a smile. the beggar be in clover, and the wretched be at

least warm. there be no snowstorm, no cold cut wind to torture

the body and make cheerless hearth still more dismal. London wear she

fairest smile; the sun with one broad depth of light clasp the great

world in a fond embrace. the great town be a whirl of life. royalty,

nobility, commonalty, roll along the glowing thoroughfare in glitter

of gold and silver. the Thames be alive with pleasure-boat, and the

steamer go skim along past the Houses of Parliament, where the

business of the nation be go on despite those everlasting reform

debate, and that continual stream of talk which flow from lip to

pencil, from short-hand note to type, and stare we in the face every

morning in long column of print that be never read from begin to

end, except by those professional reader who correct they in the

garish glare of the gas when we be all abe. it be the gay time of

the year entirely, for the rich more particularly, for beauty, for the

young commence their first season; it be the gay time of the year

for those dash gentleman on prance horse, for those blooming

lady in the open carriage; those lounger in the park; for artist

whose picture be mark “sell” in the exhibition; for opera and

theatrical people in the full tide of success; for West end tradesman

and hotel-keeper; for stroll musician; for everybody in fact; the

hot, gay, bustling, brilliant London season.



there be a time, at this period of the year, when Richard Tallant

ride about amongst the good of those gallant at Tattenham Corner; and

when Mr. Gibbs wear the light of light glove and the tight of

fancy boot that you would see in all the park. Christopher Tallant

too, in his cut-away coat and check trousers,--he have stand by those

railing, in the sunshine, to see his fine son pass by. the Right Hon.

Lionel Hammerton have many a time and oft be in the midst of that

glitter stream of humanity.



surely all this pomp and pageantry cometh not so soon again after that

financial earthquake which swallow up so many heap of gold and

house and horse and carriage! do anything ever make any change

in that magnificent show of national wealth in the London season? do

all those railway over the house-top and under the house, span

street, and burrow beneath the cellar--do they make any difference

to those everlasting row of cab and ’bus and cart and carriage,

and the block in Fleet Street and Ludgate Hill? do anything ever

alter the social aspect of London, the busy, bustling, gorgeous,

golden, seething aspect of the street?



despite the commercial storm, in face of all those wonderful

contrivance of bridge and rail to ease the traffic, London be as full

of life and gaiety and pomp and glitter and show, this third London

season of the Countess of Verner, as ever it have be before. we shall

leave her ladyship in the midst of the whirl of pomp and pleasure, one

of the queen of beauty. she have be kiss by our gracious Queen;

she have excite the envy of many a title dame. she have have many an

admire eye upon she amongst crowd of smile courtier. she have

reach the high point of her ambition, and in the foremost rank of

the first society in Europe; her husband have make a great speech in the

House of Lords; she be still declare to be the most beautiful woman of

this gorgeous London season. their West End house be fill with all

the lead people of the time; the Verners be the rage,--the Countess

be the one bright particular star in the aristocratic atmosphere of

the period. and here we leave she look her good; heighten be all

those charm which once attract Lionel Hammerton, and will live in

his memory, like the sound of fall water to the traveller who have

sink down maim and athirst, unable to taste the cool stream which

go ripple and smile on, and chatter over the rock as if it

mock he. we leave Lord Verner, supremely happy in his married life,

blissfully ignorant of the narrow escape which that happiness have have

of shipwreck; blissfully ignorant, like the mariner, of the shoal and

quicksand which have endanger his vessel in the fog and darkness. we

leave our Countess in the full light of fashion’s splendour, and still

bent on the performance of her duty in the high station to which she

have be exalt. if we be write a mere book of fiction, and not a

true story of life, Lord Verner would probably have die conveniently

towards the end of the story, that Lionel Hammerton might, in defiance

of law and order and everything else, have marry his widow, the twain

end their day by some lake of Como, where the perfumed light steal

through the mist of alabaster lamp, and the law be not too stringent

anent matrimonial license; but, as this be a matter-of-fact history,

Lord Verner do not die for the purpose of reward his brother’s

stupidity with a wife and a title. Nay, more, that title have slip

away from Lionel Hammerton for ever.



we leave the Countess of Verner amidst the splendid pleasure of the

London season, and, with the hope that an occasional expression of

weariness which shadow those brilliant eye may indicate a surfeit

of pleasure, rather than any lack of real happiness, we turn to that

great flat country of Lincolnshire with its green field of wheat, its

long dreamy-looking river, and its rich pasture. we stop at Oldhall

Farm, and there, with the window wide open, we find Luke Somerton

tell some neighbour, who have come in to tea, all about that model

farm in Severnshire. he never weary of talk about those wonderful

cow-shed and stable and granary, and the new yard that be hem

in with building such as those which he be erect at Oldhall. Mrs.

Somerton, with a watchful look in her eye, sit by ply her needle,

and now and then a telling proverb fall from her lip. she have not

quite get over that sarcastic disappoint manner which characterise

her conversation year ago, but she be quieter now and more subdued;

any one can see that she have have her trouble, but she be not an

unhappy woman nevertheless. some people would call she a very happy

woman; but these know nothing of that confession make to the master of

Barton Hall in those past day of her life in the Vale of Avonworth;

otherwise they would have see cause to rejoice over certain occasional

letter from Paul Somerton, and sundry sweet little note from Mrs.

Arthur Phillips, which cheer the latter day of the ambitious

Lincolnshire woman.



the letter of Paul Somerton reveal many circumstance of interest to

the reader of these page. we gather from they, and the batch of cape

newspaper which accompany each epistle, that the Lieutenant soon

cease to nourish his unholy attachment for the siren who, for a time,

have hold he in adamantine chain. there be fever of passion which in

the young heart soon burn out and leave nothing behind but a vague and

harmless memory, without one pang of sorrow or regret. happily for Paul

Somerton, his wild and wretched passion for that poor abandon dupe of

Shuffleton Gibbs partook of this fiery yet transient character. when

his well nature have time to assert itself, and the temptress be no

long in his sight, her image gradually fade out, to be replace by

one worthy in every way to be treasure in the heart, of an honest and

honourable man.



go out to the Cape, Lieutenant Somerton make the acquaintance of

the daughter of a brother officer, a charming girl of his own age;

acquaintanceship rapidly grow into love, and a month after the vessel’s

arrival in Table Bay, they be marry. Paul write home very romantic

letter about his wife, her beauty, her accomplishment, the bravery

of her father, with sundry domestic detail of regimental life at

the Cape, which be highly gratifying to his father and mother. the

latter say to herself that, after all, the somerton be people of

importance in the world. thought of the boy who have go away in early

life and never return, thought of the poor unburied body toss

about beneath the deep water, intervene, to throw a shadow upon these

happy feeling concern her soldier-son; and that confession start

up to mar the happy association which now cling about the Avonworth

region of Barton; but, on the whole, Sarah Somerton be in a certain

sense a happy woman, and Luke would lash himself into ecstasy over

the letter of Phœbe and Paul.



Lieutenant Somerton have not be marry many month when his old

friend Mr. Williamson call upon he, and be pleased to find he

married. the Barrister do not stay long at the Cape, but long enough

to tell Paul the conclusion of the story which he have partly relate

in that big letter which strike Paul down with such severity in those

dark day of his boyish passion. Williamson derive great satisfaction

and comfort from Paul’s marriage, and Paul part from his old friend

with tear of gratitude. Williamson have determine to go into the

interior of Africa with a band of adventurous explorer, and the last

that Paul have hear of he be from some native, who have go out part

of the way and return with satisfactory news of the progress of the

expedition. after the first year of Paul’s marriage some english troop

arrive in the colony from India, one company be in the command of

the Hon. Captain Hammerton, who have at once seek out Paul, and they

speedily become bosom friend.



“we often talk,” say Paul in his last letter, “of Avonworth Valley,

Barton Hall, and the farm. my dear little wife say she get quite

jealous of Barton Hall, and Phœbe and Amy (we never call her Countess,

I and Hammerton) and I do hope that some day I shall bring she over to

England to see you all. she be most delighted with my description of

Oldhall and the Lincolnshire country, for she be bear close by, in the

north of Nottinghamshire, bless she dear little face!



“Captain Hammerton and myself once have a disagreement, which you

know something about. in the most noble way he apologise to I, and

express his regret for any annoyance he may have cause I, and say

it have be a load on his mind for a long time. he be a very agreeable

companion, but rather gloomy and despondent at time. I often think

that he and our Amy that use to be be rather smite with each

other, and that he grieve about having lose she. my wife say it be

easy to see that he have be cross in love. if be careless and

generous; sometimes in very high spirit and at other equally low;

continually with a cigar in his mouth, and sit dreamily look at

the smoke; talk regretfully about England, and say he shall never

see it any more; sometimes visit we continually, and then keep

away altogether, as it be: if these be token of his be cross

in love, as my wife call it, then she be right no doubt. the other day

he have a brush with some Kaffir raider, and fight like a lion. he

go after they with only some twenty man: they encounter a hundred,

kill a dozen, and bring in twenty prisoner. they say the Captain

fight like a very devil, and he talk of the business as if he like

it. he say he should not mind if war break out to-morrow; he would

like to have a year of exciting work. my wife say this be a further

sign that he have be cross in love.



“for my own part, I hope thing will go on peaceably. I think they

will. there be a more settled feeling here than there be. I be not a

coward, I hope; but war for its own sake be not to my liking, and the

chance be that, if all go on comfortably for another year, I shall

be with you for a month or two, with my dear Katy, in your flat but

fertile county.



“I be glad to hear such good news from Mr. Phillips, and it be just

as it should be that Phœbe and her husband should be live at Barton

Hall: I should like to see that well-know district once again, and

sincerely hope to do so before another year be at an end.”



           *       *       *       *       *



it be summer, we say, o’er all the land, and these be summer scene,

these close scene of our. the winter of fickle Fortune have be

with we in many of these page. our story have have more to do with storm

than sunshine; this closing scene be the green and sunniest spot in

our journey. we stand where we do at the opening of our story, within

the shadow of Berne Hills. you know that modern mansion in the smile

vale of Avonworth, with its long gravelly drive, its half a mile of

velvety lawn, its splendid park; its group of cedar, birch tree, ash

and sycamore; its ornamental lake, and those glorious bit of distant

hill and dale in the ever-change light of this western land. here,

where we first see that sweet, fair, _spirituel_ face, with the part

lip and the flow hair; here, where we take you, dear reader, by

the button-hole, to direct your attention to all that be picturesque

and lovely in the hill and the valley; here, where we introduce you

to the lead people in our story; here, where we pause to mourn

over that fine old merchant, dead of his golden sorrow; here, where we

see those love-passage between Lionel and Amy, and where we have sit

beside the artist whilst he have limn those wood-side bit of beauty,

heighten by his dream of love; here, in this glorious summer-time,

with all the familiar association of the place upon we: here we call

upon the prompter to whistle down that sombre-colour scene and bring

this poor drama to an end.



in the room above the portico, look down the drive and command

the full range of those Berne Hills, we find Arthur Phillips in his

new studio. far different to that work-a-day room in the cathedral

close, wealth have step in here to make art luxurious. this studio

be a painting-room, drawing-room, library, all in one, as if the whole

house have be ransack for contribution to the master’s pet room.

cabinet, couch, statue, vase, rich curtain, a piano, curious

clock, mirror, book in elaborate binding, great portfolio, and

a host of thing that might in imagination have grace the room of

some grand old venetian painter of the classic day. from one corner,

these many treasure be exclude by mean of curtain of a neutral

tint, which shut in a space where the artist work with whatever

light he please, with the Berne Hills before he, or with nothing

but the light of day upon his canvas--so perfect and unique be his

arrangement.



here we leave our artist at work finish a picture which he be

paint, with a love fidelity, worthy of the subject. a beautiful

woman like that vignette which we see in the College Green (when Arthur

Phillips discover that he have not a rival in Lionel Hammerton) be

sit beside a cradle where a baby lie fast asleep, with one of its

little round arm outside the lace coverlet. by the mother’s knee be

a curly-head boy, make his first acquaintance with picture-book.

this study from life represent the artist’s wife and child.



whilst he be put in the finishing touch to the accessory Mrs.

Phillips be play a rippling, dreamy sonata on the piano close by.



in at the open window come the warm breath of the summer wind

laden with rare perfume, the music of bird, the faint tinkle of

sheep-bell, and full of suggestive whispering about the summer field

of rustle corn, and the newly gather hay, the wild flower in

the green and sunny lane, the clear ripple brook that glide by

luxurious hedge-row, and all the multifarious rural beauty that be

know to summer wind.



free from all the ordinary care of the world, with faculty

cultivate and imagination influence and soften by the love study

of art, bless in the love of the one woman who have be the dream of

his life, as husband and father, Arthur Phillips have realise far more

than all his dear hope.



and Phœbe,--that frank, confide girl who have love he all along,

and tell he so when he have be courageous enough to ask the

question,--her life be as near an approach to the perfect happiness

of which we speak in some precede page as it be possible for mortal

existence to be.



Arthur have realise to the full that touchingly simple saying of

Anderson’s, that “people have a great deal of trouble to go through, and

then they become famous.”



the only shadow which fall upon the greensward of their path in life’s

highway be those which fall from the memory of other’ sorrow; but,

like the shadow of summer cloud upon the green and flowery landscape,

these only make the way more beautiful, and heighten still far

the glory of that halo of gratitude which shine about their peaceful

life.





                               the END.





           BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









                          Transcriber’s Notes





Italics be indicate as _italics_.



apparent typographical error have be change.



inconsistent word hyphenation and spelling have be regularize.



Page 21: “moral home iufluence” be change to “moral home influence”.



Page 75: “and he joke the old” be change to “and he joke with the

old”.



Page 84: “ethereal colum” be change to “ethereal column”.



page 178: “ent home until after the murder” be change to “send home

until after the murder”.



page 221: “the room be the dead one lay” be change to “the room

where the dead one lay”.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 3 (of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





