The project Gutenberg eBook of the Tallants of Barton, vol. 2 (of 3) : a tale of fortune and finance

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the tallant of Barton, vol. 2 (of 3) : a tale of fortune and finance



author: Joseph Hatton



Release date: May 20, 2023 [ebook #70822]



language: English



original publication: United Kingdom: Tesley Brothers, 1867



credit: Sonya Schermann, Debrah Thompson and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 2 (of 3) : a tale of FORTUNE and FINANCE ***











                                  the



                          tallant of BARTON.



                     a Tale of Fortune and Finance.



                                   BY



                             JOSEPH HATTON,



     author of “bitter sweet: a Love Story;” “against the Stream,”

                               etc., etc.



 “the wheel of Fortune turn incessantly round, and who can say within

         himself, I shall to-day be uppermost?”--_Confucius._





                           in three VOLUMES.



                                VOL. II.





                                LONDON:

              TINSLEY brother, 18, CATHERINE ST., STRAND.

                                 1867.



               [_the Right of Translation be reserve._]









                                LONDON:

            BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









content.



    CHAP.                                                         PAGE



    I.--ENTER the right honourable the EARL of

        verner                                                       1



    II.--CONTAINS important revelation, and TERMINATES

         FATALLY                                                    21



    III.--“ARCADES ambo,” but flourish NEVERTHELESS              34



    IV.--IN which RICHARD TALLANT VISITS BARTON

         HALL again, and arthur phillips complete

         a great work                                               50



    V.--THE two temple                                             64



    VI.--MRS. dibble and PAUL SOMERTON JOURNEY to

         SEVERNTOWN                                                 80



    VII.--IN WHICH MR. SHUFFLETON GIBBS present

          HIMSELF in another CHARACTER                              92



    VIII.--WHAT ARTHUR PHILLIPS see through the

           MIST                                                    108



    IX.--IN which an important will be READ                        123



    X.--ARTHUR phillips have a happy glimpse of

        the future                                                 135



    XI.--DURING the WINTER                                         145



    XII.--DISCOURSES CHIEFLY of UNREQUITED LOVE                    159



    XIII.--THE first OBSTRUCTION in a certain scheme

           of ambition and REVENGE                                 175



    XIV.--OF HAPPY day in SPRING                                  193



    XV.--FINANCE and “FINESSE”                                     212



    XVI.--IN which a certain LIEUTENANT get into

          debt, and try to get out again FALLS

          WICKEDLY in LOVE                                         230



    XVII.--CONTINUES the LIEUTENANT’S ADVENTURE                    243



    XVIII.--A picture for ASMODEO’S CLOAK                          255



    XIX.--“THE coming EVENT”                                       274









                              CHAPTER I.



                enter the right honourable the EARL of

                                verner.





so swiftly do one incident of change crowd upon another at this period

of the life which we fear we be but faintly sketch, that it seem

as if Fortune have arrange all the concomitant circumstance that be

culminate in these few eventful day of autumn.



Fortune, “the great commandress of the world,” have already play

strange prank with those two charming girl at Barton. until lately

their destiny have flow on smoothly and in peace. they have grow

up side by side,--one the mistress, the other the companion and

friend,--and until now there have be no jealousy on either hand--until

now Amy Somerton have be content with her lot. she have brood over

her lowly birth, in those hour when she have love and dream about

her love for Mr. Hammerton, but she have only seem to look up the

high to her love. she have see he as miner see the sky, far above

she, and with hardly a beam of hope animate the thought that some

day he might take her hand and raise she up, as the king select the

beggar maid in the poem.



in those sunny day of doubt and hope and maiden admiration, she have

be happy in her own quiet, dreamy fashion, content with Lionel’s

kind word and delicate attention. he have never, perhaps, tell she

in so many word that he love she, but there be that in his voice

and manner, when he address she, which lead she to believe that he

take delight in her own undisguised admiration. he have signify his

pleasure in her society in a thousand different way, and for the

time be this be enough to satisfy the heart-craving of Amy; but

content to be humble, her pride nevertheless rise up against attack,

with all the fierceness of injury. on that morning when she learn

that Lionel have leave the country without one word at parting, she

know as if by instinct that her love be cast off. he must have know

some time before he leave that he be go, and yet he have not even

deign to say so. she know how weak she have be; she know how little

she have strive to hide her love. Lionel Hammerton know that she have

love he with all her heart and soul. she have not care to disguise

her feeling. she would have give up all the world for he, even like

Goethe’s Marguerite. there be no sacrifice she would not have make, if

sacrifice have be need, at the foot of Lionel Hammerton; yet he have

treat herself and her love with contempt and indifference.



you have see how her spirit rebel against the slight which she

imagine be the assertion of rank and fortune over lowly birth. her

whole nature seem to have undergo a change--a change in which

pride take such full possession of her heart, that there be no more

room leave for love. she who have sit and simper over Tennyson like a

love-sick, romantic girl, dream of Cophetua, and Camelot, and A. H.

H., now think of nothing but scheme of revenge and ambition. if she

be only in Phœbe Tallant’s place, what would she not do to assert the

right of lowly birth and beauty! she envy her friend at the moment

with a hot and a bitter envy, and hate she own more lowly origin.



it be the morning after her return from London. she sit at her bedroom

window at the farm, command a long reach of the carriage-drive to

Barton Hall. the park tree be stand in golden circle of leave;

the great elm be shake down their last autumnal tribute to mother

earth; the old root be wrap in soft carpet-like covering of red

and brown and gold; the long carriage-drive be fringe with the same

remnant of the die year, and anon a gust of wind would sweep along

the road and carry the leave high up into the air, like flock of

bird sport in the sunshine.



but Amy see only desolation in the scene; she see all her good and

holy aspiration toss about the world like the fall leave.

whilst she sit there muse and fret by the window, there enter

the drive a carriage draw by four horse; as it gradually approach,

she see that there be footman behind, and that the equipage be

splendid.



“as there be no fairy and magician in these day,” she say to

herself, “that be not Cinderella’s coach, and I be not Cinderella. why,

it must be Earl Verner’s carriage: _his_ brother be go to call at

Barton Hall. I will go there too.”



and as she say so, the carriage sweep along, with the leave fly

about the horse’ head and sport round the carriage wheel.



Amy be right. this be Earl Verner’s carriage, and his lordship be

on his way to pay Mr. Tallant a personal visit. once, and only once,

previously have he honour Barton Hall with his presence. he be of a

quiet, retire nature; a luxurious and learn nobleman, who care

more for rare book and work of art and old pottery than for anything

else.



he be scarcely fifty year of age,--a lithe, supple man, with brown,

curly hair, and evidently a quiet, luxurious fellow, who like to

have his own way and take thing easily. he have never be marry,

and never would marry, he say, because it would bore he. it would

be impossible, he have often say, for any woman to be happy with

he; she would be jealous of his picture and pottery in less than a

month. and then the go into society, and fulfil those duty of

property which people talk about, and lay yourself out for be

everybody’s friend but your own:--no, he could not marry; he would

leave that, he say, to his brother Lionel.



it be through this brother Lionel that the Earl Verner call at

Barton Hall this second time. Mr. Hammerton have, it appear, not only

invest largely himself in some of the bubble concern of the day, but

he have induce his lordship to divert considerable sum of money into

the same channel; and now that his lordship’s steward have large demand

upon he for call, Earl Verner say to himself, “I will go over and

see Tallant--pay he a visit of condolence, and kill two bird with one

stone.”



so his lordship send in his card, and follow it into Mr. Tallant’s

library, where he find the merchant engage at his desk.



“ah, Mr. Tallant, how do you do?” say his lordship, advance with

opening hand.



“I hope your lordship be well?” say Mr. Tallant. “may I offer you a

chair?”



Earl Verner seat himself, and rub his hand familiarly before the

fire.



“mine be rather a selfish visit, Tallant,” he say. “I fear you must

have think I an unneighbourly fellow; but, you see, I be fond of

quiet, and I rarely pay visit. perhaps I take too little interest in

the county. however, you will believe I when I say that I be grieve

to hear of your domestic trouble--deeply grieve; for I know you have

set your heart upon make that young fellow a sort of intellectual

Crœsus, and----”



here his lordship hesitate, see that the subject be painful to Mr.

Tallant.



“we will not talk about it, Mr. Tallant, but pray accept my sympathy;

and if there be anything I can do for the young fellow--I have some

little influence, I be tell, with the Government----”



“thank your lordship. let we act upon your former suggestion, and not

talk about it. Richard Tallant be no long my son.”



there be something so calm and determine in the merchant’s manner,

that Lord Verner do not attempt to say any more on the subject.



“‘a fellow feeling make one wondrous kind,’ you know,” he say

by-and-by. “my brother Lionel Hammerton, like everybody else, have be

draw into considerable speculation, and, what be more, he have lead

I into the popular folly. finance be a splendid game for those who

understand it, no doubt; but it be bad than the turf to a novice.

my steward inform I that I have five hundred share in the Oriental

Bank, one hundred in the Mardike Mines, and five hundred in the Bank of

Finance. there be call due upon the whole of they, and two be to be

wind up in Chancery. what shall I do in the matter?”



“pay the call, and be prepared to pay up the whole of the Finance and

mining share, and expect no return,” say Mr. Tallant. “the Orientals

may come right, and will come right if the shareholder and director

do not succumb to the bear on the Stock Exchange.”



“Hammerton hold similar share: the same advice will apply with regard

to those?”



“yes, your lordship; you have nothing to do but pay.”



“thank you. I know I should get clear and straightforward advice from

you, Mr. Tallant. I have already occupy your time too long, and I

see you be busy. I will shake hand with Miss Tallant, and take my

leave.”



Mr. Tallant make no reply, but rise, and conduct his lordship to the

drawing-room, bid he good-morning.



in the drawing-room Earl Verner find Miss Tallant and Miss Somerton.

the former he have see once before, the latter he now see for the first

time. phœbe be attire in her ordinary morning style, and look

fresh and bloom as a rose, but with just a trace of languor in her

manner which do not usually characterise it. Amy have astonish she

friend immensely, only ten minute previously, by suddenly enter

the room in a favourite delicate white merino, and with unusual sign

of care manifest in her toilette. her appearance be worthy of that of

a duchess. she look like a queen in her own right. her head never

look nobler; the graceful curve about her mouth and chin seem to

be full of sunshine and happiness; her eye sparkle with unwonted

brilliancy, and when Lord Verner enter he find it difficult to

remove his eye from the lady’s face.



“pray, present I to your friend,” he say, after he have shake hand

with Miss Tallant, and without wait to give Phœbe the voluntary

opportunity of do so.



Miss Tallant present Amy accordingly, and his lordship be not

displeased to see how sensibly his rank affect she. his rank? might

not his appearance have something to do with that faint blush and

unmistakable embarrassment? the thought flash through his lordship’s

mind in an instant, and it flatter he. he grow quite affable, and

insist, in his grand way, upon sit down and have a little chat.



“I be sorry,” he say to Miss Tallant, “to see your father so sensibly

affect by late event; it really grieve I to the heart--such a fine

business gentleman as he be, so full of energy and resource. I must

call again and see he. I fear he be mope. you must cheer he up,

Miss Somerton, you must bring your high spirit to bear upon the poor

gentleman; he be quite downcast.”



“I fear we have well not interfere with he just now, your lordship;

there be trouble which be well nurse and think over. I hope Mr.

Tallant will soon be well again,” say Amy, sweetly.



“trouble ought to be quickly disperse with such companionship as Mr.

Tallant have in his daughter and yourself,” say Lord Verner, bent on

pay Amy a compliment in return for her gracious look.



“I fear I we scarcely understand all Mr. Tallant’s trouble just now,

and perhaps he do not understand our sympathy and desire to console

he. your lordship be pleased to be complimentary; but there be little

of woman’s society at Montem Castle, I have always hear, or you would

understand how easy it may be to tire of it.”



“ah, there you hit I, Miss Somerton; now really that be cruel. because

I be desert by the lady, because I be a mopish, cross-grained, old

bachelor, you think I be a fitting target for your sarcasm. well, well,

be it so. at least I have not to bear any woman’s taunt and jest at

my own hearth. ha! ha!--there, there--I think that be one to I. don’t

you think so, Miss Tallant?” and his lordship laugh merrily at his

own jocularity.



Phœbe smile a little sadly, and with a puzzled look at Amy, who give

she no opportunity to reply, but raise her hand slightly to give

point to her word, she said:--



“no, and your lordship have no woman’s sweet smile at your fireside

either, no chatty sympathise companion in pretty dress to walk by

your side, and talk to you about all manner of thing in which you be

interested; no cheery, pleasant womanly face at the head of your table

make everything bright about you. there--be not that one to I, as

your lordship put it?”



Amy smile so coquettishly, and look so much all that she have

describe, that his lordship soon find himself in an exuberance of

spirit.



“ah, I be no match for you; it be easy to see that you have live

in the world, Miss Somerton. your belgravian gun be too many for

our poor little pop-gun in the country, eh, Miss Tallant?” say his

lordship.



“Miss Somerton have live in the country all her life,” say Phœbe.



“you surprise I,” say the Earl.



“and should never desire, I think, to live anywhere else,” say Amy.

“on the whole I think a country life by far the happy, and the most

independent.”



“indeed, I think so too,” say his lordship. “there be a certain amount

of solitude in a comparatively retire country life, which allow the

great scope for freedom of thought, and for manner and opinion.”



“in what be call society, you sacrifice your liberty, you lose your

own individuality,” say Amy, take up the theme in a manner that

she know would be highly pleasing to Lord Verner, for she have an ample

knowledge of his whim and peculiarity, and she be bent upon play

her new part in the most effective manner possible.



“hear, hear!--admirably well illustrate!” say Earl Verner. “in the

country one be not bored with all the trumpery little gossip of town.

the news get fairly sift before it reach we, as Gibbon, I think,

somewhere say. we be the looker-on, and we can rest or give up when

we cease to be interested. in society, as you say, we be mix up in

the throng, we be part of all that be go on, we must be interested

in all the frivolous nonsense. o, no, nothing like the country, and

especially when you can occupy the mind.”



from this topic, in which Phœbe take great interest, the Earl glide

into more lively subject, and talk of picture and new book; and he

be surprised at the smartness and learning evince in some of Miss

Somerton’s reply. she seem to know a little of everything, and to

express herself with such charming deference to his lordship’s great

wisdom, that Earl Verner be quite delighted. he be not bore a bit;

he have never before be in the society of woman, who know anything

about book, without be bore; he hate woman who be at all clever

as a rule; but there be an unaffected modesty, a charming _naïveté_

about this lady’s manner, which leave its fascinating spirit upon Lord

verner long after he have leave Barton Hall. who could she be, this

splendid speciman of common sense and beauty?



when he have fairly leave the house, Miss Somerton make a curtsey to

herself in a mirror, and say, “_Très bonne, Mademoiselle_, your acting

be really most natural.”



then turn round upon Phœbe, who be gaze at her friend with an

expression of the most profound astonishment, she said:--



“pray forgive I, Miss Tallant; you willn’t cast I off for try to

outshine you this morning? you will not show I the door because I be

only a bailiff’s daughter, and not rich?”



Amy’s sarcasm astonish Phœbe more than her previously extraordinary

manner have do, and she could only think that poor Amy be not quite

right in her mind.



“you surely cannot be in your right sense, Amy?” say Miss Tallant.



“oh yes I be, dear. I be a poor foolish creature once; but I be go

to appear in a new character in future. I will tell you all about

it, like a dutiful companion and bailiff’s daughter, if you will not

denounce I.”



“I fail to understand you, Amy,” say Phœbe, a little pique at this

undeserved reference to their relative position.



any further explanation on Amy’s part be prevent at that time by an

unexpected message from the farm. Mrs. Somerton be seriously ill, and

Luke have send for his daughter, who go hurriedly to the bedroom which

be set apart for she at the Hall, change her dress, and obey she

father’s summon.



Mrs. Somerton have be ail for several day. the shock which she have

sustain by the news of her son’s imprisonment have be but little

relieve by the intelligence of his release. she have persist in

think that his life be ruin. the taint of dishonesty, though it

have only attach to he in imagination, be upon he. he could not

hope, she think, to make a name after that. everything, she say,

go wrong with they, and she be well punish. this have be the

substance of her talk half the night when she should have be asleep,

and in the morning, whilst Amy be act her new part before Lord

Verner, she have fall from her chair, and her husband have carry she

to bed.



when Amy appear at her bedside, the mother turn her head away

sobbing and weeping.



“I’m very ill, Amy,” she say, by-and-by, “very ill. the long day

will come to an end at last. I hope the doctor will be here soon.”



“dear mother, you must not give way so,” Amy say, kiss she

forehead. “what shall I get for you?”



“nothing, nothing. there’s no salve for sore of the mind, my girl,”

reply the sick woman. “let I have a doctor soon,” and then she

close her eye.



it happen that Luke’s messenger to Avonworth meet the doctor at the

cross road, return from Berne; and he come therefore soon after Amy

enter the room. her mother look at he eagerly as the doctor feel

her pulse.



“be there any danger, doctor?” she ask earnestly; “shall I die? pray

do not deceive I. I be not a young woman, and don’t expect to live

long than my time; but do tell I if it have come?”



“there be no danger, I assure you,” say the doctor. “you have be

excited lately, by some trouble perhaps--that affair of your son’s,

which have come all right, I be glad to hear. your great want be

quiet and repose. you must not alarm or excite yourself: you will soon

be well.”



Amy and her father follow the doctor down-stair to obtain a

verification of this statement; and as they leave she, Mrs. Somerton

repeat slowly to herself, “quiet and repose.”









                              CHAPTER II.



                 contain important revelation, and

                          TERMINATES FATALLY.





the next day Mrs. Somerton grow bad, and in the afternoon she

insist that she be die. the doctor, on the contrary, insist that

she be not do anything of the sort.



in the afternoon she express a strong desire to see Mr. Christopher

Tallant.



“I must see he, Luke. there be something which he should know before

I die--something of the great importance to other besides himself.

do, pray, send for he. it do not matter what yon senseless doctor

say; I can feel I be die, and I durst not die without see Mr.

Tallant.”



so Luke communicate this strange intelligence to Mr. Tallant, and

that gentleman proceed at once to the farm.



“oh, how ill you look, sir; how much you be change,” say the sick

woman, when Mr. Tallant appear.



Mr. Tallant pay no heed to the remark, but sit down upon the near

chair, and ask what she have to say to he.



“I be die, sir, I be die,” say Mrs. Somerton.



“I hope not,” say Mr. Tallant; “you look ill and excited, but not like

die.”



“they all say that,” she reply; “but sometimes the patient know more

than the doctor. Luke and Amy, will you leave I with Mr. Tallant; I

have something to say to he. you will know of it hereafter, but don’t

stand by and hear I confess my own wickedness. I be go to confess

in time for a great wrong to be remedie--that be something in the way

of atonement.”



Mr. Somerton and his daughter exchange look of blank astonishment,

and leave the room.



“yes, yes, that be some comfort. there’s little good expose a wrong

when it cannot be remedie,” the sick woman go on, as if commune

with herself. “the very thought do I good; I shall feel easy when

the load be off my mind.”



“what be this secret, Sarah?” Mr. Tallant ask, and his thought

wander back to the time when she act as his housekeeper; the sound

of her christian name come from his own mouth seem like the revival

of an old memory.



“be they go?” she ask.



“yes,” say the merchant; “do not delay; I have business letter of

importance to write for post.”



“you would not think I be a very ambitious woman, Mr. Tallant; it be

true, nevertheless. I be vain and full of be great when I be a

girl, and all my life long I seem to have be go backwards instead

of onward. nothing have come about as I expect.”



“we have all our disappointment,” say Mr. Tallant, dryly; “I hope

you be not go to recount all your.”



“how hard you be, sir; how little you seem move by my wretched

position. have you no fear concern this confession I be about to

make?”



“none,” say the merchant; “my trouble be about over. you cann’t hit

I any hard than I have be hit already, whatever you may have to

tell.”



“you remember your second wife,” go on the woman, half raise

herself in bed; “you remember her dark eye, and her graceful, ladylike

form. you remember how she wear her dark hair, and how musical her

voice be?”



the merchant do remember. the loss of this woman have be the sad

episode in his life.



“have you never see any one like she?” the sick woman ask, look

steadfastly at he.



“never,” he reply; “but why all this mystery?--go straight to the

point, my dear woman, at once, or I must leave you.”



“I have not much more to say. I think your own fatherly instinct

would have assist I. do you remember that you leave I in charge of

your child after Mrs. Tallant’s death? you be so stricken with grief

that you never see the child but once; and when the poor lady be

bury you travel on the continent for more than six month. I have

an infant two month old when your child be bear. you leave your house

and child in my care. I be to do everything that be right and proper

under the circumstance. do you remember?”



the woman grow very much excited, and would not be content with Mr.

Tallant’s solemn nod in the affirmative.



“do you remember?” she repeat.



“I do,” he say.



“do you remember, when you return home, that you come of your own

accord and ask to see the child, and how you call it phœbe, after

its mother--do you remember?”



“yes, most assuredly,” say the merchant.



“that child be my own child. I change they before you have be go a

month.”



here she pause to see what effect the revelation have upon her hearer.

but she could glean nothing from Mr. Tallant’s solemn, passive face.



“Amy Somerton be your daughter, and the young lady call Phœbe Tallant

be mine.”



she go on--“And now I can die in peace. it be all ambition. I

think to be somebody through the mean of my child; it be not all

for her own sake that I do it. I think of it night and day before I

do it--night and day, and day and night, and I change my mind many

a time, until at last Luke, my husband, become accustomed to the new

face, and then I could not go back from my purpose. and yet all my

plan fail, everything go wrong, and this secret have burn into my

life like a red-hot coal, until I be die of it--die of it.”



then she sink back exhausted, and the merchant sit by with his eye

fix upon her face, but without make the slight effort to

give she any assistance. he be a good deal stun by the woman’s

revelation; but if all other thing have be well, he could have bear

it without scarcely a pang either of indignation or regret, for both

girl have be well care for. they have live like sister, now for

a long time past, and Amy have pick up an education almost equal to

phœbe’s.



“what proof have you of this base and ungrateful fraud?” he ask, when

the woman open her eye again.



“look at the picture of your wife--the one which hang in the

library--and then tell I how it be that you have not find out the

deception long ago. Amy grow more like the lady who be go every day,

and Phœbe have not a feature in her face to remind you of she.”



Mr. Tallant see the justice of the remark in an instant, and it seem

like a rebuke when he remember how dearly the wife be belove. with

the picture and the familiar face of the assume Amy Somerton in his

mind for a moment, his whole nature cry out in proof of the woman’s

story; and now he bethink himself of the strange interest he have

always take in the girl, and how indifferent he have be in comparison

to phœbe, lovable as she undoubtedly be, beautiful as everybody must

confess she to be.



it seem for a moment as if a new link of interest between himself and

the world have be forge by this confession.



“you will wait until I be dead, sir--pray do--before you repeat my

story: do, do wait; I should not like to lose Luke’s respect in my last

moment.”



“I will not divulge what you have confess, at present at least,” say

the merchant; “but justice must be do.”



“yes, yes, that be right; but I be not long for this world--there be no

hurry now.”



the merchant promise to keep her secret for the present, but she could

get no other promise from he.



she ask his forgiveness, and he forgive she.



when he leave she she seem to be considerably well. exhaust by

the excitement of her confession, she lie motionless when Amy and her

father return. she have be slightly feverish all day; towards night

brain fever set in, and then the doctor confess there be danger.



       *       *       *       *       *



meanwhile Mr. Tallant have send for his London lawyer, who remained

closet with he all the next day. in the afternoon a clerk come down

with parchment and other material for engrossing, and Mr. Christopher

Tallant make a new and final will, little think how soon it would

come to be read aloud for the benefit of the party interested therein.



he have take every mean for verify the rumour which have reach

he concern his son; for many day past he have have a private

detective upon his track, who have lay before he unmistakable proof

of his son’s commercial dishonesty. the detective have even hunt out

the card scandal at the Ashford Club, in which Mr. Richard Tallant

have not altogether escape suspicion. he lay before the father share

recently transfer by Richard Tallant in the Meter Iron Works

Company, whose stock have begin to fall in the market. the manage

director have sell share at par which have be at ten premium, and

there be evidently a scheme on foot to run they down to a discount,

and then Mr. Richard Tallant would buy up all he could get, for there

be not a well concern in all England than the Meter Works.



it be a sore home-thrust this deal with the Meter share; but not

the bad blow of all. certain bill transaction, in which something

very nearly akin to forgery have be commit, be disclose, and

Richard Tallant appear to be a designing sharper of the first

class,--one of the lead Stock Exchange conspirator, through

whose art so many concern have be bring to ruin, and from which

disaster the conspirator have reap great golden harvest.



the merchant be a just man, and he would have every possible proof

of his son’s dishonour before he wipe he out for ever. he have ample

proof, and he wipe he out accordingly.



on the second night after Mrs. Somerton’s confession the lawyer and

his clerk return to London, and the merchant, having send to inquire

after the bailiff’s wife, who continue dangerously ill, take a light

supper, retire to his bedroom, and dismiss his man for the night.



he take with he the vignette of which Mrs. Somerton have speak; he

pull an arm-chair towards the fire, and sit gaze at the picture

long after everybody be a-bed.



he sit there when the last ember in the grate have fade out, and

he sit there when the sun rise the next morning--sit there with the

picture at his foot--sit there with the red sunlight stream through

the blind, and through aperture in the door of the adjoining room; he

sit there with his head upon his breast, his hand hang down, and

with his eye wide open; but he have be dead for several hour when

daylight look in upon his corpse.



the sunshine be stream in upon he, we say, and it be so; for on

that morning the sun have rise with unusual splendour.



the east be all ablaze with crimson and golden hue, and from its

gorgeous throne the sun shine forth as if with a burn glow sense

of its own grandeur. troop of radiant beam, bear commission

from the mighty king of day, gleam above “the high-raise cloud,”

disperse “the morning fog,” fling wreath of sunny beauty upon the

mantling hill, and glimmer in golden glittering sheen upon the

window of Barton Hall.



not upon the window only do the sunbeam fall, we say, but they

penetrate the darken room and fall upon the dead man; and here

they play softly upon his whitened hair, and steal about the room as

if they seek for somebody whom he love that they might bring they

to his side. through every cleft and crevice the morning sunbeam

stream; a thousand mote spring up and dance in the column

of light, as if they mock the grave; and a reflection from the

merchant’s watch-seal tremble like an active eye upon the wall.



still the merchant sleep on in his long, long sleep, until at length

the sun rise higher and higher, pale with his grow radiance the

gaudy colour of his throne, and send forth stream of purer and

brighter light. by-and-by a door be open in the quiet room, follow

by an expression of horror and amazement, and then hurry footstep

come and go, additional door be open and shut, and in a few

minute the household be astir, heavily laden with the morning’s sad

discovery.









                             CHAPTER III.



                    “ARCADES ambo,” but flourish

                             nevertheless.





all this time Richard Tallant have remain in London; not only remain

in London, but have regularly and assiduously attend to his duty at

the office of the Meter Iron Works Company.



there have be numerous board meeting, and a half-hearted kind of

effort have be make to induce the chairman’s son to retire. Mr.

Christopher Tallant have give notice of his resignation; but the board

could not agree upon the question of his successor. Mr. Richard Tallant

attend every meeting, and have increase his holding of the company’s

stock to a large and important extent.



in his father’s absence he have make himself of value to the company;

the run upon their share have be of brief duration; they have not only

speedily recover, but have go up to a heavy premium. Richard Tallant

hold his own in the company with a tenacity that surprise everybody

connect with it. unabashe by the disclosure at the Oriental Bank,

undaunte by newspaper attack, since that notorious meeting when

his father leave the chair of the Banking Company, he have be almost

ubiquitous. he have commence action against two newspaper for libel,

and have threaten other. some of his former friend cut he dead in

the Stock Exchange and in the Park; but he defy they all, and be to

be see as usual at the Corner, on ’change, and at Westminster.



he have write a long letter full of excuse, and promise, and

regret, and justification to his father; but the proud old merchant

do not even acknowledge it. his disgrace be not so much as a nine

day’ wonder in the City, and his continued success be consider, by

many, to be a sufficient justification of his conduct.



amidst so many failure, with such numerous instance of sharpe,

and in the presence of a panic so severe, Richard Tallant’s name soon

cease to be canvass: he pay every call that be make upon he,

and he maintain his reputation for wealth. it be know that he have

make enormous sum of money in recent speculation, and that he be

financially independent. so many man be shake in their commercial

shoe, that few think themselves able to afford to go out of their

way to interfere with a rich man.



“what have I do?” Mr. Richard Tallant ask at one of the Meter Board

Meetings, when he be attack by an old friend of his father. “what

have I do more than other have do, and be do daily?”



“you have circulate false report to damage the credit of good

concern, in order that you might make money by clever manipulation of

share,” say his opponent.



“that be a mere assertion,” be Mr. Richard Tallant’s reply. “prove

it,--prove it, sir; and take this as a caution if you cannot prove it;

there be an offence call slander, which be actionable at law; rely

upon it, I will not allow these thing to be say with impunity. if I

have make a few hundred thousand pound by speculation on the Stock

Exchange, by carefully watch favourable opportunity for buy and

selling, it be not my fault that other have lose, and I defy you or

any other man to prove that I have do anything without the pale of

legitimate speculation.”



“do you not lend your share in the Oriental Bank, of which you

be a director, to person who be bear the market? do you not

throw share upon the market, and do not timid shareholder sell, in

consequence, at a heavy depreciation, and do you not afterwards buy

all you could get?”



“suppose I say yes? have I not a right to deal as I please with my

own share? if I do depreciate the property of the concern--which I

deny--be I not depreciate my own?”



“why be you absent from that meeting?”



“I have unexpected business elsewhere.”



“why have you not answer the attack which be make upon you?”



“I will answer it in a court of justice, sir,” say Mr. Richard

Tallant, strike his fist upon the table. “do you think I shall permit

the thing to pass over? you shall see how I will put my detractor

down. do you think I will permit the name of Tallant to be sully by

pettifog broker in the City?--by twopenny-halfpenny newspaper? do

you think a man with a balance of two hundred thousand pound at his

banker in these time be to be put down by report and rumour, and

so-and-so say, and bosh of that character? if you do, you do not know

Richard Tallant. and with regard to the Meter Iron Works, how many be

there who have a large stake in the prosperity of the concern than I

have myself? who charge I with neglect of duty?”



Mr. Christopher Tallant--poor man--might almost have be proud of the

way in which his clever, unscrupulous son assert himself. one or two

of the old man at the board applaud and back he up. there be

many thing in which he have be useful during his father’s absence,

and it be chiefly through his influence with a certain railway company

that a recent extensive order for girder have come in from India. above

all, the young fellow have be successful, and there be a manliness

in his stand-up fight against all opponent that seem to carry

everything before he.



the truth be, on that day when his course of knavery be expose, he

have send a trusty messenger to the meeting to report what take place,

and when he learn the result, he quietly shut himself up in his room

at the West End, and debate with himself upon his line of conduct.

“shall I make a bolt of it?” or “shall I fight it out?” these be

the two momentous question which he put and argue out in a dozen

different way.



he know that his father would never forgive he, and, despite all his

ill conduct, this give he, a pang or two of regret and sorrow. it

be not until midnight be long past, that he settle his plan: the

ashe of many cigar lie upon the table, and numerous sheet of paper,

cover with figure, be tear up and scatter about the hearth,

before the final resolve be make.



“I’ll fight it out; I’ll go through with it,” he say at last. “the

world bow down before success, no matter how it be obtain: money

open all door, whoever knock. I’ll go in for money--reputation be

hang. who have get a reputation worth a button in these time? we be

in the midst of a panic that will sweep away hundred of reputation.

what be the reputation of an honest bankrupt worth? where be the

flyblown reputation that money, and success, and bounce, and swagger

will not cover?”



so Mr. Richard Tallant begin to “fight it out” next day. he serve two

person with notice of action for slander, and commence action for

libel against two newspaper; he obtain insertion of a paragraph to

this effect in a monetary journal; he attend to his duty at the

Meter Works with an assiduity that astonish everybody; he write that

letter to his father, and he fight that battle at the Meter Board

which we have briefly indicate; he plunge deeply and deep into

speculation, and he be successful in almost every monetary operation

in which he be engage.



meanwhile thing be not quite so pleasant with Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs.

his overthrow have be complete by poor Dibble’s confession. “whom

the god devote to destruction, they first deprive of understanding.”

Mr. Gibbs ought to have have sufficient experience of life to have

know that his passion for revenge be master his cunning; he ought

to have know enough of character to have see that Dibble would

break down in the part which he have assign to he; but Fortune have

permit Gibbs to have his day, as she let every other dog have his;

and she select her time and instrument accordingly for bring his

day to an end.



with justice upon his heel, he have be compel figuratively to

blot himself out; he could not only not sign his name to anything, but

he could not put in a personal appearance anywhere as Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs; he have venture to do a little business in his semi-clerical

capacity, but failure be the result. the transfer of the share which

he have induce dibble to take have never be complete, and when Gibbs

benevolently take they back again they be improve; but two day

after Dibble run away, they go down to a heavy discount. other thing

in which he be interested go wrong, the purse that the police hold

he could not hope to obtain, and he soon find himself reduce to his

last fifty pound.



he invest this sum characteristically.



assume his semi-clerical disguise, he take lodging in a quiet

respectable street off the Strand, purchase a Newspaper Press

Directory, and write out the follow attractive advertisements:--





“LOANS.--Sums of money, vary from 2_l._ to 2000_l._, may be have for

short or long period, on personal security, on application to the

undersigned. Secrecy observe in all transaction. interest at the rate

of 5 per cent. apply (enclose stamp for reply) to James Marfleeting,

Esq., Accountant, 3, Great Charlton-street, Strand, London.”





“to widow and lady in NEEDY CIRCUMSTANCES.--The advertiser have

patent a new invention, which open up employment for lady in their

own home, whereby they can make from 1_l._ to 2_l._ a week with ease.

send 5_s._ in stamp for material and instruction to the inventor and

proprietor, Henry Cavendish, Esq., No. 6, Burkit-street, City, London.”





having pen these enticing announcement, Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs call

upon an engraver and order a couple of very business-like heading to

be print upon unimpeachable letter paper.



these he obtain in the course of the next day, and meanwhile he

study the Press Directory. this valuable work contain an elaborate

index to the newspaper of the United Kingdom, give their title

in full, the name and address of the publisher, with a brief

description of the town in which they be publish, and the date

of their first publication. it also contain the publisher’ own

description of their newspaper, from which it would seem that each

paper be the good medium for give publicity to announcement of all

description; that several journal in the same town claim to have

the large circulation; that they be all lead paper, first-class

family paper, influential paper; some be the old liberal paper,

some the old conservative paper, many the only Penny paper in the

district.



Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs make a careful list of these numerous journal,

select largely from among the new penny paper, carefully jot

down all the daily, and judiciously balance the old weekly,

in the manufacture district, against those claim to be more

especially county paper.



a printer in Shoreditch strike off for he a number of copy of his

advertisement, and when all be prepare he commence to write his

order for their publication. with these order he enclose packet

of postage stamp, vary in value from sixpence to five and six

shilling. nearly one hundred and fifty go away without any stamp

at all, the writer request a bill for the amount to be send off

when the advertisement have appear, with a quotation for thirteen,

twenty-six, and fifty-two insertion. these be chiefly post to the

penny district paper and to those most recently establish.



these missive duly pass through the post-office, and be open

by newspaper publisher, clerk, proprietor, and editor, the next

day, in all part of England. some of they be open in bright,

well-furnish counting-house; many in dingy little back room; other

be carry up to private house, where proprietor and editor read

their letter before business hour in the morning.



if you could have witness the varied treatment which these letter

of Mr. Gibbs, _alias_ Marfleeting, _alia_ Cavendish, receive, you

would have be highly entertain. some gentleman who open the

letter smile contemptuously, say, “indeed,” and return stamp and

order; other who be not favour with stamp toss the letter

into waste-paper basket; some say, “bah!” and tear the thing up.

in many case, however, the stamp be pass to credit, and the

advertisement order for insertion in the ordinary course of business;

and amongst the new and cheap district paper, half print in London

and otherwise, the order unaccompanie by stamp be duly obey,

and a price gravely quote for thirteen, twenty-six, and fifty-two

insertion, with discount carefully mention for pre-payment.



in a few day, therefore, Mr. Gibbs’ advertising bait be duly

display in numerous journal. several lead paper have at various

time caution their reader against this class of announcement; still

advertisement of the kind occasionally obtain insertion in the

ordinary course of business. thus the two I have mention have place

in many newspaper, and in less than a week Mr. Gibbs find quite a

heap of letter wait for he at the little coffee-house, No. 6,

Burkit-street, City, address to Henry Cavendish, Esq. to the first

batch of these he reply, state that application be so numerous

the material could not be manufacture fast enough, but that they

should be send off in a few day. he have so many communication at

Great Charlton-street, that he be compel to have a print form of

reply, and in this he enclose another form, which the applicant be

request to fill up and forward by return, with five shilling for

inquiry fee and five shilling for preliminary fee, which would be

return in case the loan be not grant. “an agent will call upon

you personally in the course of three or four day with the cash, Mr.

Marfleeting have several agent travel through the province,

as he find this mode of do business safe, more expeditious and

private, than negotiation by letter.”



hundred of client respond to Mr. Marfleeting’s reply, and score of

lady continue to address private note to Henry Cavendish, Esq.



what pinch and starve, and need, and keep up appearance, all

these letter represent! what story they indicate! what fear

of bankruptcy, what hope defer, what cheerless hearth, what

battle for life, what misery! small tradesman with bill of exchange

come due; shopkeeper press for rent; clerk who have overrun the

constable; mechanic with extravagant wife; man of small mean who

have speculate, and have to meet unexpected call upon share which

be to have make their fortune, and would prove their ruin--drown

man in the financial sea--these be they who catch at the monetary

straw of Marfleeting. widow with small allowance hardly enough

to keep body and soul together, widow who live on lodger, widow

keep up appearance, spinster with precarious income, daily

governess, eld daughter in large family, mother with invalid

and drunken husband--these be foremost in the crowd who send their

money to Henry Cavendish, Esq., and see in the future competency and

comfort by mean of his glorious invention; and some of these poor

people go down upon their knee at night and pray that God would

prosper their labour and so extend the use of this new invention, that

it should be a blessing to they and to other who might be in necessity

and tribulation.









                              CHAPTER IV.



                in which RICHARD TALLANT VISITS BARTON

              HALL again, and arthur phillips complete

                             a great work.





the news of Mr. Christopher Tallant’s death bring down his son by

the early train. he hire a fly at the Avonworth Hotel, and reach

Barton in the afternoon of a cold November day.



he feel that his conduct have hurry on the sad event which bring

he once again in the vale of Avonworth. the telegram which Phœbe have

consider it her duty to send to he, have for a moment strike he

down like a blow. but of late he have so thoroughly school himself to

his fate, have so trample upon conscience and feeling, that he soon

recover his former coolness.



the thought occur to he whether any change have be make in the

will which he know have be sign in his favour. be this fine

estate his own? be those field and wood his? have that property in

Yorkshire, those splendid farm on the wold, revert to the only son

of Christopher Tallant? how much have the old man leave?



it occur to he that his father might have change his will, indeed

he have every reason to believe that such have be his intention. but he

would not let this more than probable contingency have a settle place

in his thought; for the desire of possession come upon he as the

country conveyance drag slowly along through the fine well-timbere

park which have be field within his own memory--field overgrow with

hedge and elm tree, and gorse and brushwood.



the blind be down in all part of the house, and Chester, the late

Mr. Tallant’s man, open the hall door slowly, and take Mr. Richard’s

coat and hat without a smile or a word.



“where be my sister?” say Richard, with an air of authority and

command.



“I will inquire, sir,” say the old man.



“tell she to come to I in the library; and look here, bring I some

dry sherry.”



“yes, sir,” say Chester.



Richard Tallant have qualm of conscience as he enter the familiar

hall; a sense of fear come over he; he remember all of a sudden

the thousand act of parental kindness and liberality that have be

lavish upon he. Conscience would not let he forget all this, and

honour remind he how low he have fall; so he speak loud and give

command, and assume a tone of authority.



Phœbe soon come, pale and careworn, and with the tear in her eye, she

submit to be kiss, and she kiss Richard in return, but she say

not a word.



“have you nothing to say?” Richard ask, after a few moment; “no

explanation to give?”



“don’t ask I for explanation--Chester will tell you about it,” she

reply, softly and tenderly.



“oh, very well, as you please, as you please,” he say, assist

himself to the sherry.



“will you come up-stair and see he?” Phœbe ask, put her hand

upon his arm, and wonder for a moment at his change appearance.



he could not meet the glance of those big inquire eye.



“see whom?” he ask loudly and fill another glass.



“see our father,” say Phœbe in a whisper.



the son pause, with the sherry partly raise to his lip, and replace

the full glass upon the table.



“come,” say phœbe; “come, I will go with you.”



“no,” he say at length with a great effort, and withdraw his arm

from her gentle touch, “no; by-and-by.”



he dare not look upon that cold white face; for whilst Phœbe be

talk, conscience grip he savagely and make he a coward. he

could look at nothing but the floor, and there the very board seem

to twit he with his infamy and ingratitude.



his only relief be to rush to the bell and ring for Chester, and when

he come, Phœbe glide out of the room to her chamber.



it have be a particularly sad and anxious time for Phœbe, and she

appear to stand alone in her sorrow. Arthur Phillips, from whom she

have be willnot occasionally to ask advice upon minor thing, and in

whose talk about art she have be so often engross, have not be near

the house for month; the change which have recently come over Amy,

Richard Tallant’s estrangement from her father, that father’s sorrow

and death, all seem to come upon she, blow after blow, and to leave

she without one sympathise soul to whom she could look for a ray of

hope and comfort.



what have become of Arthur Phillips? she have wonder a hundred time.

his absence have be like something go out of her life--like some

domestic affliction. her palette and canvas have lose all interest for

she now. they have remind she too much of her deep and secret sympathy

in all that concern he. she do not confess to herself that she

love he, and, truth to tell, she hardly know that she do love he;

but his absence be a hardship. his quiet homage be something that

satisfy she; his warm enthusiasm about the beautiful and the true;

his story of painter who have win their way to fame and fortune by

dint of their inborn genius and industry; his judgment about book;

his criticism on poetry; his compliment when she have be more than

ordinarily successful in some touch of colour: all this have be part

of her existence, and with Arthur’s absence have come all the manifold

trouble which have afflict her young life, cloud her hope, and

cover she with a sorrow too deep for word.



and what _have_ Arthur Phillips been do all this time? paint that

grand picture which he say he would paint when last we hear he speak

some month ago.



the commercial panic have sorely afflict a special local manufacture

in which a large number of man and woman have be employ at

Severntown. as Arthur be return home, on the day follow that

evening when we see he at work in the field, he meet a number of

operative throw out of work, who with no chance of the factory being

re-open, have set out “on tramp.” Arthur question they, and find

that on the next morning nearly a hundred family be go to leave

by train for Liverpool on their way to Australia. subscription have

be enter into to promote a scheme of emigration start by the

operative themselves, and this first exodus would take place the next

morning.



few of we but will remember, at some period of life, stand in a

railway station, and watch the departure of a train contain some

one the take leave of whom excite all those human sensibility

which find vent in



    “the silent pressure of the hand

    which friend too well can understand.”



we have see to the luggage, find out the good seat for our friend,

advise he to keep clear of the draft, beg of he to write at an

early day, and do a variety of other trivial thing by way of keep

the little time occupy, and smother as much as possible the

sorrow of parting. and then, when the squeezing of the hand be over,

and the engine have shriek the signal of departure, and the train have

move off, and grow less and less until it be out of sight, we have

stand gaze at the long line of rail over which it have disappear,

with thought and regret too deep for word. let we not deny such

touch of nature. the most querulous, petulant, hard-hearted of

mortal have experience these emotion, and with something of the fear

that the future might sever those tie of friendship, the danger of the

breaking of which Bulwer Lytton describe so forcibly when he say:

“the true sadness be not in the pain of parting--it be in the when and

the how you be to meet again with the face about to vanish from your

view; from the passionate farewell to the woman who have your heart in

her keeping, to the cordial good-bye exchange with pleasant companion

at a watering-place, a country-house, or the close of a festive day’s

blithe and careless excursion--a chord, strong or weak, be snap

asunder in every parting, and Time’s busy finger be not practise

in re-splice broken tie. meet again you may: will it be in the

same way? with the same sympathy? with the same sentiment? will

the soul, hurry on in diverse path, unite once more, as if the

interval have be a dream? rarely, rarely.”



here be Arthur’s inspiration; he read the simple thought and the

attendant quotation in a newspaper. the parting with Lionel Hammerton

have prepare he for it, and all of a sudden he say to himself, “this

shall be my great picture, and I will call it ‘seek New Homes.’”



he be at the railway station with the dawn of the next day, busily

engage sketch various point.



by-and-by, as the emigrant begin to arrive, he make hurried sketch

of face and costume, and in the course of an hour or two he stand

there, fully realise all the inspiration which have come upon he in

the highway: his broad elastic sympathy have be excited to the full,

and he stand watch the train that have go, almost with tear in his

eye--stand amidst numerous little affect group of man and woman,

and share their sorrow.



the train which have go be gaily decorate with ribbon, and have

quite a holiday appearance; the passenger have be singe some

well-know ballad; and the friend leave behind have cheer they. People

must do something to keep down that choke sensation which the

strong have feel at parting, and song and cheering be capital

resource for “drive dull care away,” on the occasion of a hundred

poor family seek the mean of existence in a distant land.



great battle have no more moving incident than those social

catastrophe which fall now and then upon manufacture district,

bring all the ill of poverty and starvation, and force idleness

upon poor, uneducated, improvident people. at these time instance

enough of self-sacrifice and love crop up amongst they to make up for

all the story of selfishness and brutality that come out in their

prosperity.



Arthur Phillips do not fail to take in the whole of that scene at

the railway station: he do not forget those man and woman with the

blanch cheek and tearful eye. to they the parting could not be

otherwise than painfully significant. it be a separation more fruitful

of grief and apprehension than the common parting of friend. it be

a forced exile, which those leave behind might soon be compel to

follow--a fly from one ill to another, between which those leave

behind stand waver, with little one around they look up for

comfort and find none.



the artist bend himself to his work from that very day. at night he

complete his various sketch and study his subject, and in the day

he paint from early morn to evening--paint for very life--paint

for love, and money, and fame, and sympathy. it be strike out in a

new line, but he have no fear of the result. in less than a month the

picture begin to assume form and character; never have artist work

with more rapidity and with more earnestness of purpose. the work have

never flag--it have go on day by day without interruption or change

of plan. the subject be so thoroughly map out in the artist’s mind,

that time alone stand between he and its completion. the figure be

few but full of character, and the last touch be give to the whole

on that morning when Mr. Tallant die.



the story be wonderfully tell: the picture be a poem on canvas--full

of human nature, brim over with sympathy. as a work of art--for

conception, drawing, perspective colour, it be truly a grand picture;

and Arthur feel his success as he sit before it that morning, when the

sun be shine upon the dead man at Barton Hall.



on the next day, before the picture could hardly be say to be dry,

Arthur have it pack, and he post with it to London, where he have

arrange for it to be hang at a winter exhibition. Josephs the dealer,

who have previously purchase everything Mr. Phillips choose to let he

have, have hear some whisper about it, and have visit Arthur the

week before; but the artist could not be prevail upon to show the

picture to anybody but his old housekeeper who have nurse he when

he be a boy, and she have sit before it and cry and sob over it

almost heart-break: then Arthur feel that he have paint a great

picture, and he know it when he unveil it again in that long room in

Suffolk-street, Pall Mall, before a small critical company.



in a few hour “seek New Homes” be talk of in artistic and

literary society all over London, and when everybody be ask

everybody else if they have see the new picture, Arthur Phillips drive

down to Paddington and take a ticket for Avonworth.









                              CHAPTER V.



                           the two temples.





the success of christabel, “the mysterious lady,” in some new business

at the Severntown race, together with the high appreciation which the

working class exhibit of the trick of “Momus” and his master,

induce the showman to make a considerable stay at Severntown.



Mr. Henry Bilks, “the only live skeleton extant,” have also make

overture to Mr. Martin to join he in a permanent winter exhibition,

and, so strangely do one thing influence another, that the

advertisement of Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs play its part in the scheme.



the Temple of Magic have already be remove to the Blue Post’s

Yard, where “the rider” and other company of public entertainer

usually take their stand; the public have already be address in

grandiloquent term, in very grey ink, on very thin paper; and Mr.

Dibble have solemnly do duty “on the outside” for many night, when

Mr. Bilks drive to the side-door, (“private entrance, lady and

gentleman, at the side, price three penny!”), and without further ado

go behind the magic curtain, and offer to join the wizard for the

winter season, if the wizard would take a shop in some public street,

advertise the exhibition, and conduct it upon something like high-class

principle.



the “living skeleton” have leave with the showman copy of various

testimonial, and a copy of the _Slumkey Guardian_. it be in

this latter journal that Martin have spell out the Loan Office

advertisement, whereupon he dictate to dibble the term of a letter

which should be send to James Marfleeting, Esq.



it be a strangely quaint and ungrammatical letter this, pen by

Thomas Dibble. it set forth, in big straggling letter, that the

writer be the proprietor of an exhibition of considerable fame in the

province; that he be anxious to add thereto additional attraction,

and make it a permanent thing for the winter at the important city

of Severntown, where it have recently attain to a pitch of great

celebrity.



the writer require a loan of one hundred pound for six month,

re-payable by instalment, and he be prepared to give his bond for the

amount, together with security upon his property.



“indeed,” say Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who be just prepare to remove

his quarter from the street off the Strand. “indeed! Thomas Dibble, by

all that be wonderful! I never forget handwriting, and I shall never

forget Master Dibble’s above everybody else’s. surely he have not turn

showman? no; he be the exhibitor’s fag, his man-of-all-work, and he have

write this letter from dictation. I will reply by-and-by. meanwhile,

I must see what there be to be make out of this with Mrs. Dibble. I

fancy the old girl would give something to know where her faithless

Tommy be.”



thus soliloquise Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, whilst he pack up sundry

letter and paper, and prepare to change his residence.



some of his correspondent be begin to be tiresome; they have

commence to require explanation of the continue delay; and the woman

who have write to the Coffee House in the City, be appeal in

heart-break term for the promise material, or the return of their

money.



“it be get hot,” the ex-swell go on. “I cann’t stand these

pathetic epistle; they hurt my feeling. poor creature! they would

surely be satisfied if they know that they be contribute to

maintain the faded splendour--ah! of a buck out of luck. that’s

rhyme--’gad, bless my soul! who would have think that I should

burst out into rhyme? I be very sorry, lady, that I cannot afford

to forward the material in question, nor the trifling sum which

you have--haw--entrust to my care. and, _messieur, les pauvre

gentilhomme_, and you, ye wretched trader, who get into debt beyond

your mean of payment, I will make further inquiry into your case.

meanwhile I be much oblige to you for the fee which you have

forward so promptly.”



the next day a detective officer inquire at No. 3, Great Charlton

Street, Strand, for James Marfleeting, Esq.; but that gentleman have

leave the house without give the landlady warning, or pay for the

last week’s rent.



shortly afterwards, in the garb of a “Mossoo” of the Leech cut, and

with a heavy black moustache, Mr. Gibbs call at Mrs. Dibble’s. he

find that lady in a very melancholy state of mind, and considerably

thin than when we last see she.



with a strong french accent he ask Mrs. Dibble if her husband have run

away, and if his name be Thomas.



“Yeth, thir,” be Mrs. Dibble’s reply. “it ith with feeling of thorrow

and shame--though why I should have such feeling, ith not my fault or

deserth--it ith, however, with these feeling that I thay yeth to you,

and having have a boarding-school education ath a girl, and be bring

up in the high spear of society, it ith a degradation which I feel

to the core.”



“ah, madame, dat be bad, dat be very bad; for it be goot to have

education,--and why shall your husband leave you?”



Mr. Gibbs shrug his shoulder and raise his hand as he speak, and

Mrs. Dibble sigh and shake she little stumpy curl sympathetically.



“it ith a long story, which I be not inclined to go into

unnecessarily,” say Mrs. Dibble, “and there be grief which be not

improve by be talk about. ath a busineth woman, and one who wath

the daughter of a builder that erect hundred of house and public

inthitution, the specification of which I have write out many a

time,--ath a busineth woman, I would athk what your busineth ith with

I? and then we can go on.”



Mrs. Dibble sit down, smooth her apron, and look Monsieur full in

the face.



“if I shall pre you to vere your husband shall be, be he of--ah! vat

sall I say?--is he of dat value to you for vich you sall pay mine fee,

vich be out of mine pocket?”



Mrs. Dibble do not reply, but proceed to fasten her dress behind,

which require a considerable effort.



“you vill be surprised at vat I ask, but dat vill disappear ven I tell

you I be attach to a Private Inquiry Office, vich be on de french

plan, and dat I be in de detective line _à la Française_, and I can

restore to your arm de husband of your heart.”



“you can?” exclaim Mrs. Dibble. “prove that to I, and I will pay

your fee.”



“be dat his writing?” he ask, show her part of the showman’s

letter.



“it ith!” Mrs. Dibble exclaim. “I should know it in ten thousand.”



“Vell--fifteen pound be my fee for his direction, vere you sall find

he,” say Gibbs.



Mrs. Dibble demur to this for some time, and argue the point in a

dozen way; but Mr. Gibbs be not to be move. finally Mrs. Dibble give

he three five-pound note, and in return receive his address at “the

Temple of Magic, Blue Posts Inn yard, Severntown.”



it be rather a courageous thing on the part of Mr. Gibbs to visit Mrs.

Dibble; but he no doubt feel perfectly secure in his disguise.



he visit she at a time when he calculate that her lodger would be

away at their several place of business; for Paul Somerton might have

be more penetrate than Mrs. Dibble.



Paul still lodge with Mrs. Dibble, and be rapidly make his way to a

respectable position through the kind introduction of his patron, Mr.

Williamson.



his unsophisticated manner, his honesty, his thoroughly english

characteristic, his manliness, and his intelligent face have quite win

Mr. Williamson’s heart, and he frequently invite Paul to sup with he

at his chamber in the Temple.



a quiet cozy little room, up several narrow flight of stair--a snug

little room, though slightly fusty--with two side occupy by law

book bind in calf. there be sundry map and old engraving hung

here and there; a bust of a Chancery judge, a ditto of Shakspeare; a

coal-box, a couple of easy chair, a table litter with paper, and a

mantel-piece cover with visit and invitation card.



when the sombre curtain be draw, and that mysterious old woman,

who turn up from some dark corner outside the door, be permit

to retire for the night, and Mr. Williamson produce the sugar and

lemon and whisky--when the kettle be singe on the fire--then indeed

be that little room snug, and cosy, and everything else that be

comfortable.



“it be pleasant to talk to a simple-hearted young fellow like you,”

say Mr. Williamson upon one of those evening prior to the sudden

death of Mr. Tallant.



Paul smile and sip the whisky.



“and so you think, notwithstanding all your trouble, that it be a good

thing to have be bear?”



“I do,” say Paul, modestly.



“you think an all-wise Providence confer a great boon upon you when

he call you into existence, and all that sort of thing?”



“of course,” say Paul.



“you would not, could you now select, be blot out for ever, and have

all your chance or hope of a future annihilate?”



“oh, no!” say Paul.



“happy youth,” say Mr. Williamson, smoking and blow the smoke up

amongst his book bind in calf.



“well, not particularly happy that I know of,” say Paul; “but still,

with all respect to you, I thank God I be happy than some people.”



“and you don’t think the Bible be hebrew mythology? in fact, you be a

virtuous, good boy. you think it’s a good thing, too, to have be bear

an Englishman, and that we be well and braver than other people, and

all that stuff?”



“all this I steadfastly believe,” say Paul, remember a passage in

the Prayer-book.



“very well; I shall not try to influence your orthodox view, and

I will endeavour to promote your temporal prosperity. you like the

_pyrotechnic_ office, and you think you will get on?”



“yes, thank you, I do,” say Paul.



“I suppose, like most fellow connect with newspaper in any way,

you would rather be on the literary staff? you would like to be give

forth your own opinion, and see they print in long column of leaded

type?” say the barrister, who be evidently highly amuse with Paul,

whom he seem to regard as an agreeable study.



“I sometimes think I should be glad if I could write,” say Paul.



“there’s nothing in it, my boy--nothing at all. at first there be a

kind of satisfaction about the thing; but it all arise from conceit:

it be all vanity and vexation of spirit, as the Preacher say. it be

all very well if you can obtain one or two comfortable engagement,

with permission to write pretty well what you please; and when you can

combine literature, as I do, with another distinguished profession.”



Mr. Williamson smile at this bit of quiet waggery of his own, see

that he have never yet have more than a single client.



“if one have not many client, however,” he go on, as if answer his

own protest against that small boast about combine two profession,

“the law be a distinguished profession after all: make one a gentleman

by Act of Parliament, you know, Paul.”



and then the barrister smile again; he be evidently entertain

himself as well as Paul.



“there be an offshoot of the legal profession, a sort of

jackall-byeway, along which a large quantity of grist come to

the legal mill--I mean the police. the high branch of that

craft present many feature of interest--the detective feature in

particular,” the barrister go on. “I have be study it a little

lately, in the interest of your friend Gibbs; the police seem to have

give the fellow up altogether.”



as they be talk, two literary friend drop in, and the

conversation be change to a gossip about book, and play, and

pictures--“Seeking New Homes” be a lead topic. one of the stranger

say the town be mad about it, and after all it be just simply a

sensational thing--a dramatic bit that would engrave well and be

popular in country district. his companion do not agree with this

criticism, but speak of the picture as a work of really high art--a

poem on canvas, wonderfully well paint.



and so the time wear on, and by degree the barrister’s room be fill

with smoke, and Paul at length bade his friend and patron good-night,

shake hand with the visitor, and depart.



“you be a queer fellow, Williamson,” say one of the new comer as

Paul leave the room and commence blunder his way down-stair.



“oh, this be Williamson’s _protégé_, be it?” say the other.



“yes, that be the young fellow,” say the barrister; “he be quite a

study of english innocence and honesty, and I be go to be useful to

he. his sister be a splendid creature; but, somehow or other, he tell

I now that it be discover she be not his sister, but the daughter of

a very wealthy gentleman. there be something exceedingly interesting

in the whole family: his only brother go to sea at fifteen, and have

never since be hear of.”



“Williamson’s go to write a sensation romance,” say one friend to

the other, in a loud ironical aside; “and here be his material.”



“I be certainly study the young fellow,” say Williamson, quietly.

“a bit of genuine honesty of thought and feeling and expression,

though it be not couple with the high order of education, be very

refreshing to contemplate in these time, and especially when one be

connect with professional critic.”



Williamson smile quietly at the gentleman who have speak adversely of

“seek New Homes,” and the critic laugh good-humouredly in return,

tap his hand upon the table, and said:--



“ah, well! wait until your sensation novel appear, Williamson, and

I’ll take it out of you, my friend.”



and then they all laugh; for who that know Williamson’s lazy habit

would ever expect he to write a story of eight or nine hundred page?

and if he do, who amongst his personal friend, that be critic,

would have say an unkind word of he or his work?



he be a big-hearted, generous pet amongst all the man, this

same journalistic barrister, and know amongst they all as “the

Philanthropist.” it be a happy thing for Paul that the barrister be

on a mission of benevolence at the Police Court on that memorable

morning when he stand at the dock, and equally unlucky for Mr.

Shuffleton Gibbs.









                              CHAPTER VI.



                 MRS. dibble and PAUL SOMERTON JOURNEY

                            to SEVERNTOWN.





it do not need much persuasion to induce Paul to accompany Mrs. Dibble

on her project journey to Severntown. he easily obtain permission

to leave the _Pyrotechnic_ for a couple of day, and on a miserable

December morning they arrive at the famous city of Severntown--famous

in the present day for many thing: for its noble cathedral, as we have

already intimate; for its grand old river, its clean broad street and

its narrow dirty one, through which a king be chase by Cromwellian

troop.



a city to be proud of this same Severntown--to be proud of for its

historical association, its eminent man and woman, ancient and modern;

a city surround by a beautiful country, stud with the seat of

nobleman, whose four-in-hand be still oftentime see rattle over

the white road-way; a city that be willnot, in ancient day, to have

unusually fierce election contest, and which be now settle down

into moderate opinion, and throw its latent political fire into

commercial enterprise. it manufacture all kind of thing which have

a strange sound when mention together, such as steam-engine and

porcelain, pickle and horse-hair, carriage and sauce, fire-grate and

shirt-stud, gin and boot, and other machine, condiment, ornament,

spirit, and wear apparel. it have quarrel about sewer, the price

of gas, and the state of the street, like all other provincial town,

and a long dirty road to the railway station.



there be a row of six cab and an antique sort of bus at the railway

station, and several ragged youngster who offer to carry the

traveller’ carpet-bag.



close by the station Paul detect a comfortable-look inn, into

which inn he and Mrs. Dibble direct their step--not that Mrs.

Dibble approve of inn, for she do not, as she tell Paul over and

over again, although in the course of business her father have be

call upon to build several establishment of the kind, and the

specification have go through her hand; but no doubt they be

necessary sometimes, and she think they be justify in take up

their abode at one, and have something hot and some tea at this inn

in particular, and on the short possible notice; so Paul order the

refreshment whilst Mrs. Dibble, struggle under a load of shawl and

comforter and rug, be show to her room.



if Mrs. Dibble have have the small compunction about enter the

railway tavern, she have no hesitation about the chop and the tea and

the muffin and watercress, which she be liberal enough to commend,

give very practical illustration of her approval of the fare, and

all the time talk of her poor appetite, and tell Paul how

seriously Mr. Dibble’s conduct have injure her health. she become

so confidential upon this point, and at length feel herself so much

at home that she permit the hook-and-eye near her chin to

disengage themselves, and insist upon Paul join she in just

sixpenny-worth of spirit-and-water before they venture out in the

cold to discover the yard by the Blue Posts Inn.



the spirit-and-water make they both very warm and comfortable, and

Paul at length offer his arm to his companion, and away they start

towards the point indicate.



it be a damp, drizzling night, and there be treacherous hole here

and there in the path which Mrs. Dibble assure Paul be in the

high degree uncomfortable. she be sure her stocking would be that

splash that they would not be fit to be see.



Severntown do not look at all invite in the hazy light of the

December gas; but Paul know the place, and redeem its character to

some extent by tell Mrs. Dibble that they be in the back slum,

which she say she could readily understand.



through dirty street, with one or two bridge over black, murky water;

past lazy cart and rumble cab splash through the mud; by narrow

footway, which be sometimes no footway at all; it be certainly no

pleasant route to the Blue Posts. at length, however, they come to a

fine, open, well-light street, and after walk a short distance in this

brighter locality, they turn sharply round into a narrow passage, and

then emerge into an open, muddy square.



here be situate Digby Martin’s Temple of Magic, and Mrs. Dibble and

Paul stop to study the scene before they.



about two hundred person of all age be crowd in front of a show

of the old-fashioned traditional stamp. a small platform, which be

ascend by broad wooden step, be surmount with a very florid

painting of a character that evidently prove highly attractive to the

audience. a lady in a low dress, with a wonderful necklace round her

neck, and very dazzling bracelet upon her arm, be represent in the

attitude of point at a box, from which two pigeon be fly, in

the direction of an auditory consist of a king and numerous officer

in the army. several rabbit be quietly peep out of a saucepan

place upon a fire, a shower of card and fruit and watch be fall

from an invert hat, and in the background be sundry mystic sign

beneath a blaze sun.



the companion picture be, if possible, of a high order of merit,

though of a simple character. it represent the young lady in the low

dress crouch beneath a capacious basket, and it also represent

the same basket be raise by a man with black moustachio, who

significantly point to the vacant space beneath; underneath be

write in big letter, “the Famous Basket Trick.”



Hung at various point in frame of various character, be represent

a tremendous dog go through an exciting and varied performance. here

he stand upon his head, there he fire off a pistol; in another place

he be engage in a sort of pugilistic encounter with a professional

bruiser, and around the frame which contain these pictorial

attraction be print, “the celebrated dog ‘Momus’ in a round of

favourite and world-renowne character.”



the proprietor of the caravan have have a great argument with the artist

who execute these latter work upon the propriety of call Momus a

“dogess,” which the showman think would be sure to “draw;” but the

artist have gravely assure he that such a title would not come within

the rule of strict art, however grammatical it might be, and this

settle the question at once.



upon the platform a young lady, in pink muslin and spangle and

fleshing, with a crown upon her head, and many row of curious bead

around her neck, be march solemnly to and fro, to an old ballad

melody which a fellow in a bowler hat be twist out of an organ, and

to which he be keep time on a very hard drum.



strut backwards and forwards also, sometimes before the young lady

in muslin and sometimes behind she, be a gaunt, greyish-look dog,

dress up in military costume, and occasionally stop to go through

little bit of military exercise.



three flame and splutter naphtha lamp cast a flicker uncertain

light upon the singular scene, make the surround darkness all the

darker.



by-and-by the man at the organ lay down his drum-stick, and, take up

a long whip, come to the top of the ladder, and after crack the whip

in a grave, solemn sort of fashion, he strike the spangled lady in the

picture, and say in a loud voice,--



“now, lady and gentleman, be in time, be in time! there be no time to

lose! we be just a-goin’ to commence! the mysterious Lady of the North

and the hemmernent Wizard--the great wonder in Europe! the wonderful

basket trick, or the mysterious secret, be pronounce by all who ’ave

see it to be the great feat----”



there be no knowing how much more the speaker would have say

concern the marvel of this famous exhibition have he not be

interrupt by three terrible scream, one follow the other in rapid

and startling succession, and utter by a stout woman in the crowd,

who be look up at dibble and fight the air above her head with

two very short arm in a most alarming manner.



“oh, here’s a lark--the old woman’s drunk,” say a boy, throw his

hat up into the drizzly, mizzly air.



“pat she on the back,” say an excited woman with a baby in her arm.



“let I alone--let I alone!” at length Mrs. Dibble exclaim, beat

her way through the crowd, and mount the Temple step amidst roar

of laughter and shout of applause.



the gentleman with the whip become suddenly very much agitated, and

when he see the woman approach the platform, he fairly turn round

and bolt into the Temple.



see this, a crowd rush up after the old lady; but “christabel,”

the showman’s daughter, seize the whip which Dibble have drop,

call “Father” lustily, and begin to defend the pass.



Digby Martin appear in his shirt-sleeve, and in an instant strike

a splendid fighting attitude in face of the intruder, which cause a

number of they to change their mind, and produce from other sundry

copper which entitle they to admission.



when they be inside, Paul amongst the number, they see a gorgeous

array of tinsel cup and vase arrange on a black velvet dais, with

a shimmering wheel revolve in the background, Mr. Dibble lean over

the stout woman and call frantically for somebody to bring he some

water, whilst the renowned Momus be jump round the pair and bark

in a most unmilitary fashion.



before there be time for Dibble’s call for water to receive any

attention, Mrs. Dibble look up and request Thomas, “dear Thomas,”

to conduct she to a private room, at which there be renew shout

of laughter.



Paul Somerton be fain to keep in the background, for he be get

rather ashamed of the unexpected turn which affair be take. Dibble

say a few hurried word to the showman, and then, take Mrs. Dibble

by the arm, disappear at the side-door.



the audience make a rush to follow, but Digby Martin, the magician,

place himself before the doorway and inform they that he could

assure they there be no more fun to be have out of the lady and

gentleman who have just retire, and that he would show they something

ten time funny than what they have just see; whereupon Paul quietly

take his leave, and make the good of his way to the Railway Tavern,

where he find Mrs. Dibble have just arrive with her husband.



Mrs. Dibble be in tear, and Dibble be talk to she rather loudly

and in an authoritative tone; but half an hour afterwards they be

all sit quietly down to refreshment, and Mrs. Dibble’s journey

having end in find her husband, Paul now propose to leave they in

order to catch the mail for Avonworth.



Mrs. Dibble thank he for his kindness, and say she have no far

need, she think, to trespass upon he; so he bid they adieu, and

go off laugh to the railway station.









                             CHAPTER VII.



                in WHICH MR. SHUFFLETON GIBBS present

                     HIMSELF in another character.





amongst the audience who have witness the amusing encounter between

Mr. Dibble and his wife, be Mr. Shuffleton Gibbs, who look on with a

grave air of quiet enjoyment.



you would hardly have know he from our former description. he be

attire in respectable professional style, with just an assumption of

swellishness. his face be cleanly shaven, and he wear a low-crown

hat, and a black wig. from a light, fair man, he have make himself up

dark. to a stranger he wear the mark of foreign travel; his cheek

be “bronze with the eastern sun.”



the disguise be complete, and it certainly make the fellow

infinitely well look than he be in his customary habit, and far

more attractive to the “feminine” mind than in either of his former

disguise.



he have come down to Severntown partly out of curiosity, partly on

speculation, with a personal desire to ferret out poor Dibble’s “little

game,” and also to run through Avonworth valley, and take a peep at

the neighbourhood of Barton Hall. his recent advertising scheme have

supply he with a little ready cash, and he have augment this at

écarté in a recently-establish gambling-house, where he be unknown.



in fund, and anxious to make up a sufficient sum to enable he to set

up as a gentleman on the continent, he have wait upon Mr. Richard

Tallant under an assumed name, and that gentleman have deny all

knowledge of he to his face. he would have no more dealing with his

police-hunt friend, and they have part in anger, Richard Tallant

threaten to hand his former companion over to the police as an

impostor, and Mr. Gibbs make a vow as he leave the high step of the

fine West End house, to be revenge on “this mushroom upstart.”



Defiance and assumption seem to be the lead feature of Richard

Tallant’s policy. he defy everybody, he assume an air of injure

dignity upon the slight reference to his past career, talk of

envy, hatred, and malice, almost weep at his father’s name, and give

splendid illustration of his wealth in noble public subscription.

Scarcely a list of public donor to any charity that appear in

the _Times_ without Richard Tallant hold a place there. he have even

astonish the citizen of Severntown lately by suddenly appear as a

subscriber to various local institution. his father have rarely do as

much as this, though Severntown be the capital of the county in which

he reside; and people soon begin to say that young Tallant be not

such a bad fellow after all.



the action which he have threaten progress very slowly. writ have

be issue in several case; but nothing far seem to have be

do. this, however, speedily close the mouth of other people who

might be incline to say malicious thing about the disgrace director

of the Eastern Bank. it be astonish how people shrink before the

threat of an action for libel and slander, and it oftentime happen

that those person who be most ready to talk of vindicate their

character, and who threaten action for that purpose, be often all

that their traducer have say of they. a public man with a tolerably

settle conscience, and assure of his own probity, do not trouble

himself much about the caviller who attack he, unless they attempt

to undermine his credit: then if he cannot afford to have his credit

undermine, he will blaze out at his libeller, and endeavour to put

himself right with the world. if he have money enough to stand the

undermine principle, he treat it with contempt.



it be so with Richard Tallant: he be not an honest man, and not so

rich as he profess to be; and this make it all the more necessary

that he should set up for an injured man and a wealthy one. he

convince many people that he be the latter, and they speedily give

he credit for be the former.



and thus it be that he have refuse to sully even his memory with a

knowledge of Shuffleton Gibbs, who at once in his own way hold his head

above the plebeian upstart, and thought of his own “gentle blood.”



“I will show the trumpery humbug, whether a Gibbs--the last of his

race--shall be scorn for naught by a mushroom iron-dealer. Shuffleton

Gibbs snub and threaten with the police!--Gibbs, the great

swell of all Oxford undergraduate, the pride of the river and the

forum, the man who drive the good cattle, and give the most sumptuous

dinner! it be certainly go hard with I now, but it shall go hard

with Richard Tallant,” and Gibbs smile sardonically, as he quietly

wend his way homeward, and revolve in his mind the notion of

visit Severntown.



not only be the ex-swell amongst the audience at the beginning of

that evening’s entertainment, in which Mr. and Mrs. Dibble figure so

prominently, but he remain afterwards, and take a lively interest in

“the mysterious lady” whom he applaud loudly.



she be a lively pleasant look girl, this showman’s daughter, active

of limb and nimble of tongue. there be something in her appearance far

beyond the ordinary show girl. then she be young and full of life and

buoyancy. she evidently enjoy the part she play. the wonder and

amazement of the young portion of her audience, and the undisguise

admiration with which some of the elder one contemplate her round

little figure, her paint cheek, and her well-form arm, give

she a real pleasure. she be slightly coarse in her manner, as the

reader have already see: add to this she be vain, so the applause

of the miscellaneous low-breed audience before whom she perform be

agreeable to she; and on the evening in question she be particularly

delighted at the marked way in which the near approach to a

gentleman she have even see in the Temple, express his approval of

her trick and of her personal appearance.



when Christabel bring out those two pack of card, and shuffle

they, and hand they round, and toss they about, Gibbs’s weak eye

begin to sparkle with unwonted fire.



it be quite delightful to see how clever Christabel be with those

bit of pasteboard. the audience might cut they as they please, and

think of what card they like, she could always present they with the

counterfeit of their thought. shuffle they as they might, in two or

three cut she would bring all the suit together: blindfold she, and

she could pick out any card that be mention. she do twenty clever

thing with the card; not the ordinary showman’s trick--not simply

the innocent joke which mark the sport in drawing-room at Christmas

time; but genuine clever unaccountable trick which elicit from Mr.

Jefferson Crawley, otherwise Shuffleton Gibbs, frequent exclamation of

“bravo, bravo.”



it be not the mere trick that enrapture Mr. Crawley either; but

the dexterous way in which Christabel manipulate the card and move

any number of they to that part of the pack where it be necessary to

her success they should be. deal with ordinary player, and with

experienced player too, she could evidently turn up almost any card

she please.



this be the lead thought that crop up in the mind of Mr.

Crawley. he envy the girl her dexterity, her lithe quick finger, and

then he think what a fortune she might be to any one who could give

she an education worthy of her power.



when the performance be at an end, he wait until the magician

emerge from behind the curtain, whereupon he compliment he upon

his power, and desire to be introduce to his wonderful daughter.



the showman with the alias, look inquiringly into the face of the

gentleman with the same possession. Gibbs think he understand the

expression.



“I have an interest in a certain exhibition of some importance, sir,”

say Gibbs, draw himself up to his full height and force as much

assumption of virtuous circumspection into his bleary eye as possible,

“and I have also a very slight acquaintance with a gentleman to whom

you direct one dibble to write request a loan.”



“your humble servant,” say the showman. “Christabel, when you have

dress--this be our last performance to-night, sir,--when you have

dress, here’s a gent wish to see you.”



Momus hereupon come out to see the “gent,” make her good bow to

Gibbs, who take no notice of the “dawg,” but go on talk to the

magician.



“be it only fifty pound you require for the propose extension of this

exhibition, haw?” say Gibbs.



“no more and no less,” say the showman, give Momus a friendly kick

in the rib for persist in force her attention upon a “gent” who

seem studiously to disregard they.



“well, I think the matter may be arrange. my friend be a close-fiste

fellow. I have--haw--only a very slight acquaintance with he; but

be in the neighbourhood, I undertake to call on his account; and,

between ourselves, I have stay here--haw--a little on my own. be

there any likelihood of your clever daughter accept an engagement

in a large concern--a permanent affair in town? you see--haw--I be

straightforward with you.”



“well, it benot a question that, as can be answer in a moment. what

would be the figure--and could you do anything for I?” say the

showman.



at this juncture a boy enter at the side-door with a note in his

hand, which note he present to Mr. Martin.



“here, Chris--come, come, what a time you be!” say the showman,

disappear behind the curtain, that the wonderful lady might spell

out the content of the letter. she have be teach to read and write

in her early day, and she have not much difficulty in make out that

her father’s presence be request immediately, by Mr. Thomas Dibble,

at the Railway Tavern.



“well, then, I must go,” say the showman. “you’ll be careful with this

’ere swell outside, mind, and make no promise--d’ye hear?”



“yes, father,” say the girl, who be not just at that time on the

good of term with her parent, and colleague in the mystic art, see

that he have knock she down on the previous night, and kick the

supper-thing over, because she have contradict he and express a

determination not to join in the scheme for introduce the Skeleton

into their exhibition.



when she come forth Mr. Martin introduce she to the “gent,” and with

a precautionary motion of his finger, he leave the pair, in answer to

dibble.



“I be delighted of this--haw--opportunity,” say Gibbs, show his

tooth as of old, and try to look fascinating, “of congratulate you

on your ability.”



“thank you,” say the showman’s daughter, bluntly; “if you benot make

fun.”



she look quite bright and sparkling; she have make a much more careful

evening toilette than usual.



“make fun!” say Gibbs, take her hand. “I should be more inclined

to make love,” he say; “for you certainly be the prettiest girl I

have see this many a day.”



this be quite up to christabel’s taste--the most delicious bit of

flattery she have ever hear.



“I declare positively you have quite make a fool of I--haw--to-night,”

he go on, show his tooth again. “you be not offend at my saying

so?”



“not i,” say christabel. “what be there to be offend at?”



there be a charcoal stove in the show, and Gibbs draw the young lady

of the mystic cup to a seat beside it, and thereupon tell she that he

have fall madly in love with she; that he be a gentleman, though a

poor one; that if she feel she could love he in return, he would marry

she. but she must keep what he have say to she a secret from her father.



then he dexterously draw from she an account of her life; the story

of Dibble’s join the exhibition; and, above all, an account of the

quarrel with her father; and finally, after a lengthened conversation,

he escort she to the little lodge close by, Momus be leave to

mind the show, after Christabel have duly lock up the side-door,

extinguish the light, and let down the platform.



Gibbs be scrupulously attentive and gallant to the girl, and when

he leave she she promise to give he an answer next day upon the

momentous question of elopement and marriage.



it be a rapid courtship this, but cleverly do; and Gibbs, you

see, have have a large experience in this way. christabel be so much

impress that she go up the dirty creak stair, and parade

before about twelve inch of look-glass, by the light of a tallow

candle.



her father, when he return home that night, be unusually bumptious

in his manner towards Christabel, his daughter, and more than usually

tipsy. dibble have obtain a partial promise from Mrs. Dibble that the

showman should not want for fifty pound, and before that, as we have

see, a “gent” have give he similar hope. everything be go well

with he, and he be independent of everybody; his daughter, too, feel

particularly independent that night, and the result be a wordy warfare

about the Skeleton.



Christabel hate the sight of the Skeleton, and what be more, she

would leave the exhibition if he enter it.



the showman swear that the Skeleton should come into the exhibition,

and what be more, by ----, she should marry the Skeleton if she do

not mind what she be say.



this be the great bit of tyranny in word which the showman feel he

could threaten, and he seem to gloat over the idea. yes, she should

marry the death’s head and bone, he say, and he chuckle and laugh

and thump the table, and become quite jocular at the bare notion of

such a union.



Christabel, however, flame up in return, and by degree the showman

become terribly angry, and threaten to turn she out of door.



the end be that Christabel go up-stair, lock herself in her

bedroom, and begin to look out her thing for pack off the next

day. meanwhile the showman lie down by the fire, go to sleep, and

dream he be proprietor of a pair of giant, two skeleton, five boa

constrictor, and a wax-work museum: that he wear a tiger-skin coat,

and walk about smoke a cigar, whilst a brass band beneath a

gorgeous display of picture perform the Conquering Hero, with real

gas shine on their music book, and that all he have to do be to wear

the tiger-skin coat, smoke thick cigar, and swear at everybody who do

not please he.









                             CHAPTER VIII.



                 what arthur phillips see through the

                                 MIST.





a white, wet, grovel mist; with a long, black procession creep

through it; and the solemn tolling of a village bell; nodding plume

and drape horse; a small group of well-dress farmer, the tenant

of the late Mr. Tallant.



there be something weird and miserable about the whole thing, as

Arthur Phillips view it at a distance; something that chill he and

bow he down.



he follow the mourner into the church; the solemn village church,

with its high-back pew, brass monument, and marble effigy; the

solemn little church, with the ivy nodding round the porch, and the

damp make big blotch on the pavement.



the mourner shuffle into their seat, and the villager come peer

in with vacant look.



“in the midst of life we be in death.” the word be repeat back

again from the wall, and the kneeling effigy in stone seem to take

up the text and say it over again with the echo.



the great black coffin stand in the chancel, and Arthur could not help

picture the dead face of the merchant.



how change everything be. how sad, how hopeless! and yet Arthur’s

own deep love, for a moment, light up his thought with a hope that have

scarcely have a place in his heart before; but he banish the thought

in a moment as selfish.



Richard Tallant be there amongst the mourner, loud in his Amens,

and apparently most move, as he should be, at the pathetic solemnity

of the church service.



Arthur quietly walk over the field to the somerton, whilst the

coffin be be lay in the grave.



a faint streak or two of sunlight struggle through the mist here

and there, but with little or no influence on the soddene, damp

atmosphere, which penetrate everything.



Arthur find Mrs. Somerton alone in a high-back chair by the fire. he

know that he be no favourite with the bailiff’s wife; but he bid she

“good-morning” with a quiet courtesy peculiarly his own, and she be

evidently not displeased at the visit.



“you have be ill, I fear,” say Arthur, notice the unusual wrapper

about the arm-chair, and Mrs. Somerton’s rather pale face.



“yes, sir, very ill,” she say, in a subdued voice.



“I be sorry to hear it; but hope I may congratulate you upon having get

over the bad of it.”



“I don’t know that there be much to congratulate about,” she say,

look at he with a sad expression in her big eye; “but I have get

over the bad of it, they say, thank you.”



“I be very much shocked to hear of Mr. Tallant’s death. I only hear

of it yesterday,” say Arthur.



“what have become of you lately?--you have not be in this

neighbourhood for a long time,” say Mrs. Somerton, evidently only

attend to her own thought.



“I have be engage on an important work, which have occupy I almost

night and day for several month past,” Arthur say.



“will you not sit down, sir?” Mrs. Somerton ask. “I be sorry I cann’t

get about to offer you a seat.”



Arthur sit down beside the neat bright fireplace, and look into the

burn coal with a variety of curious feeling: he long to ask all

kind of question, but fear to do so.



“many strange thing may occur in a few month,” say Mrs. Somerton;

“the purpose of a life-time be easily upset.”



Arthur say nothing, but look curiously up at the speaker.



“we all think we be very clever, and we go on planning and planning;

but thing be not to be as we like: there be a power above we.”



“true,” say Arthur, “we must all bend to the decree of Providence.”



“ah! if we only know that, at the beginning, Mr. Phillips,” say Mrs.

Somerton earnestly, “if we could be content to learn that from other

people’s experience: ‘well learn from your neighbour’s scathe than

from your own;’ but we learn from our own, Mr. Phillips, we learn from

our own.”



Arthur have upon a former occasion be strike with the snatch of

moral and proverbial philosophy which characterise Mrs. Somerton’s

conversation; but he have think she a clever cynical countrywoman

before, and have dislike she: now he rapidly feel himself begin to

take a deep interest in she.



“folk that do wrong have generally plenty of excuse; but I have none

worth the name of excuse, though they say a bad excuse be well than

none. you be surprised at my talk: you will not be so before the night

be over.”



“surely nothing have happen that do not appear to I. poor Mr.

Tallant be dead, and you have be ill; be there anything else?” Arthur

ask as calmly as he could.



“I willn’t torture you,--I know your secret, sir. Miss Phœbe be well,

though, poor soul, she be sadly cut up; but misery be no respecter of

person. ambition and pride be the ruin of most people. you would

hardly think I have be an ambitious, scheme woman, with plan far

above the station I hold?” she go on excitedly.



“I have often think that you would worthily fill a much high

position,” say Arthur.



“ah, well, it be a long story, and I will not weary you with it;

everybody think their own story interesting to everybody else; but,

there, mine need not be tell. I have be an ambitious, scheme woman

ever since I be a woman, and I have always be foil. half my life

have be spend in study how I should play the ace without know

whether I hold it or not, and in the other half I have be learn

the truth of the proverb that wine pour out be not wine swallow.

Lincolnshire woman have a way of talk in proverb, Mr. Phillips: one

can say a good deal like that without seem to.”



Arthur be altogether at a loss to understand Mrs. Somerton; but he

bode ill from all this apparent mystery, and yet a voice seem to

whisper hope all through it.



“you be in love with Miss Phœbe,” say Mrs. Somerton at length, and

with singular abruptness; “I know it. I have not watch and watch

with a mother’s eye for nothing, and I think the young lady love you

in return--if there be such a thing as love--and I begin to think there

may be, or something well than love, something well than love.”



the woman repeat these latter word with unaffected tenderness as

she remember how kindly, how generously, how tenderly, her husband,

Luke Somerton, have nurse she in her illness; how when he know all,

he have not upbraid she; how he have pity she and bade she be of

good heart, for that a wrong atone for be a wrong undone; how in the

early watch of the night she have see he by her bedside wakeful and

gentle, but yet manly, as she remember he when he be young in the

grand old Lincolnshire wold.



“something well than love,” she continued--“friendship, benevolence,

charity, sympathy--I know not what you call it; but perhaps it may be

love, after all,” she go on; “and I don’t think there be any wrong

ambition about you, Mr. Phillips, if you will forgive I for say so.

a man who can sit in the sun paint picture and all that sort of

thing, and be content with it, cann’t very well be much wrong, except

that he be only a painter after all. don’t be angry, sir; we never

think much of painter in Lincolnshire; we use to look at they the

same as we do poet and such like; but I have hear that some of

they make money, and can keep up a good house. however, I will say no

more about that; but somehow, sir, I think you will find thing go

favourably, so far as Phœbe be concern. we shall see; if such should

be the case, Mr. Phillips, no matter what you hear of I, you will not

forget that I be the first to give you hope--that will be something to

think of, perhaps some little consolation to I.”



Arthur be too much agitated to ask any question. he thank Mrs.

Somerton as well as he could for what she have say, and he begin to

look out into the future with hope.



we never know how unexpectedly Hope may pay we a gorgeous visit; how

often she come when we least expect she. with death bar his way,

and funeral plume cross his path, Arthur Phillips could hardly

have expect Hope to come by his side and whisper so confidently of

happiness almost beyond his most sanguine thought. once or twice

in the darkness, once or twice between the act of the day’s solemn

drama, a faint whisper have light up his soul as we have see; but

here he stand at last almost in the full blaze of hope, and the light

have come from the dark of all place, in his own estimation.



and so Arthur sit and ponder, and Mrs. Somerton quietly regard

he, dose off into a quiet slumber, induce by the fatigue of thought

and conversation which Arthur’s visit have occasion.



far away amongst the Lincolnshire meadow, where the long, lazy river

flow by the corn-field and linger amongst the reed and rush;

far away in the green and golden field, and over the brown and loamy

furrow; hem in by short hedge, and dot here and there with

rick of hay and straw and stray clump of tree; far away amongst

Lincolnshire homestead, and mill with their swinge sail, and

square-tower church, and broad lane, and long team of horse

drag well-stock waggon; far away in the past the mind of the

bailiff’s wife be wander, and the dream be a happy one, for it

deal with childhood only.



       *       *       *       *       *



Arthur steal out whilst she sleep. the mist have creep about the valley

and be hover over the hill-top.



he start off to visit some of the familiar scene where he have sit

in the long summer day, wonder and hope and paint in hazy

romantic dream which be not all happiness.



his thought be strangely mixed and intricate now: a host of anxious

feeling have be awaken which he could not control, and which he

could hardly understand.



       *       *       *       *       *



“Gone--be you go?” say Mrs. Somerton, awake from her brief sleep.



“no, I be here,” say her husband, remove a crape hatband from his

hat and lay it upon the table.



“ah, it’s you, Luke; I have have Mr. Phillips, the painter, here.”



“yes,” say Luke--“yes; and what have he to say for himself?” ask the

bailiff.



“not much; I think I have do all the talking, Luke. and so you have

bury the poor gentleman?” she go on, mournfully.



“yes, poor fellow; not many well man ever be bury than he,” say

Luke.



“and now--now they be go to read the will, I suppose?”



“they be all go into the dining-room as I come past. the lawyer

ask I to come in; but I think you’d be lonely, Sarah, and so I

come home.”



Mrs. Somerton could not help think that Luke have well have stay

and hear the will read; but she be too considerate now, to say so.



“you be very kind, Luke; but how shall we know all about it?”



“oh, I forget that; I’ll go back,” say Luke.



“do; I should like to hear it all from your own lip, Luke.”



and the bailiff return just in time to hear the various clause read.



       *       *       *       *       *



when he be go, Arthur Phillips come back again to the bailiff’s

house, determine to learn why he have so suddenly fill himself with

hope that excite he beyond description. he would not be content with

vague hint and proverbial saying, and he would not conceal his own

feeling with regard to Miss Tallant. Mrs. Somerton could evidently

help he in some way or another; she know more than she choose to tell;

she know what he ought to know, and he would endeavour to learn what

she do know.



Mrs. Somerton do not need much persuasion to reveal her secret.

she know that in a few hour Arthur would know it, and it be a

satisfactory sort of penance to tell he herself, and to confess all

her plotting and meanness; to disclose to he her feeling with

regard to herself; to show how jealous she be of her daughter; and to

point some of her moral aphorism with illustration from this last

phase of the failure of her scheme.



it be indeed a new light this to Arthur. he have dream of all sort

of contingency which might bring Phœbe nearer to he, and his only

hope be in the production of some great work that should open up a

golden vista which the merchant might comprehend; for Arthur have always

regard Mr. Tallant as the wealthy commoner who gauge man and thing

by money, and this have dishearten he even more than the thought of

his own shortcoming and the beauty of she whom he have be rash enough

to go on love without dare even to hint at his passion.



and now fate have decree that this difficulty should disappear. do he

blame Phœbe’s mother? no. he sit before she stupifie with amazement.



his first thought, now that the great barrier of all be clear away,

be of his own unworthiness; but he have courage enough to tell Mrs.

Somerton that she have excite hope which have never before dare to

mount so high. he have hear her story with the great surprise, and,

but that his own heart hope and desire its truth, it be almost too

extraordinary for belief.



suppose he dare to hope that Phœbe love he, have he her mother’s

consent to ask she the question?



Mrs. Somerton reply in the affirmative. there be many way in which

amend might be make towards wipe out great wrong, and it seem as

if God have spare her life that she might have time to repair nearly

all the injury she have do.









                              CHAPTER IX.



                  in which an important will be READ.





the last will and testament of Mr. Christopher Tallant set forth in

proper legal phraseology, at great length, that the person know as

Phœbe Tallant, and who be understand to be his daughter, be the

daughter of Sarah Somerton, wife of Luke Somerton, farm bailiff; and

that the person know as Amy Somerton, and who have pass hitherto

as the daughter of the say Luke Somerton, be his, the testator’s,

daughter.



this have be satisfactorily prove to he by the say Sarah Somerton,

who have change the say person when they be infant; and the

likeness of the late beloved testator’s wife bear testimony to the

truth thereof.



but though the testator be fully satisfied of this, and though he

acknowledge the person know as the say Amy Somerton to be his lawful

child, his will have be draw in such a way that its validity and

legal weight should not simply rest upon this; but certain check and

explanation and provision be make, the result be that the person

hitherto know as Amy Somerton should be his heiress, and henceforth

take the name of Tallant.



to this lady he leave the whole of his real and personal estate,

furniture, plate, linen, and money of all description, bank or

fund.



this be set forth in a deed of great length, deal as it do with

an estate which could so well afford long clause on many sheet of

parchment.



property of the value of five hundred a year be leave to phœbe

Somerton; a legacy of 2000_l._ to her father, and numerous small

legacy to servant and other.



the name of Richard Tallant be not mention in any way, and that

gentleman resolve to dispute the validity of the will.



he tell the lawyer that he would file a bill in Chancery the very next

day. the lawyer smile and say he have no objection.



this be the report which Luke Somerton give to his wife.



“and so justice be do,” say Mrs. Somerton. “thank God!”



       *       *       *       *       *



the lawyer have discreetly prepare the two girl for what be to come,

so that the extraordinary revelation and the great change might not

come upon they so suddenly as to be dangerous.



the whole truth, when it be disclose to they, change all those

feeling of estrangement which have lately be engender by Amy’s

desperate conduct.



in a moment phœbe, with all the nobleness of her nature, feel Amy’s

wrong; and Amy’s heart overflow with gratitude to phœbe, and with

love and sympathy.



“Sister, dear, dear sister!” Amy exclaim, fold Phœbe in her arm,

and sob aloud.



Phœbe hide her face in Amy’s neck, with a hundred strange emotion

agitate she.



and then they sit together hand in hand, each occupy with her own

thought; each too much under the influence of the change which have

come to pass, to have any very clear thought about it.



Phœbe have all along mourn for Mr. Tallant with all the sorrow of a

daughter; she have often feel, as my reader know, that all her love be

not reciprocate, but she know how much her mother have be love, and

how deeply her loss have affect he, and she love he as a daughter

and would continue to do so.



she could not for the moment bring herself to look upon Mrs. Somerton

as her mother: she have always admire Luke, and have spend many an

hour talk to he amongst the poultry and the sheep, and in the

corn-field. it be no degradation to be the daughter of such a man

as Luke Somerton, and none, perhaps, for that matter, to be the

daughter of his wife; but it be a great change--too great for Phœbe to

comprehend it thus far. her first thought have be for Amy, and Amy’s

first thought have be for Phœbe.



but in a few short hour phœbe’s highly-work sensibility begin to

reflect back upon she the true meaning of the change in her position.

she be only a visitor here. she have enjoy many privilege in this

house, and many advantage; she be thankful for they, but they have not

be her by right, and now they be her no long in any sense.



she would go home. something like a shudder come over she as she say

this to herself in her own room, and she rebuke herself for it, and

kneel down and pray, thank God for all his mercy, and earnestly

solicit his guidance and protection.



what a sweet, fair face it be, turn upwards in supplication; the

deep blue beseech eye, the half-open lip, the pale cheek,

the round, arch neck, the long wavy hair throw back: what more

beautiful picture than such a woman kneel in prayer?



how different be Amy’s occupation. pace to and fro in her room, and

look at herself now and then in the long mirror which adorn the

wardrobe, she be tear by contend feeling, too varied for peace,

too strong for aught else, at that moment, but walk.



she be overcome by her advancement. lately we have see how high her

ambition have soar; we have see how she have change, how she have

mark out a new line of action, how she have set her heart on something

almost beyond the romantic dream of mere ambition.



her love for Lionel Hammerton--her deep, mad love have be trample on,

and she have rise a new being, with all the pride of her dead mother

beat in every vein, with a sense of insult and wrong far beyond what

she have a right to feel, far beyond the measure of Hammerton’s offence.



the appearance of Earl Verner at Barton Hall that day have give a new

tone to her life. he have appear at the very moment when decision

seem waver; he have come upon she like an interpretation of her

own thought, as if Fate say, “here be your opportunity;” and then it

be that she determine to play for high stake, even at the risk of

ridicule and failure.



and now that she stand on the hill top, and have only, she know, to

raise her finger and beckon, she be bewilder. Lord Verner have

call at Barton Hall twice since that memorable meeting, and have on

the second occasion evince marked admiration of Amy, such as could

not be mistaken, notwithstanding that he know her position, for he have

signify as much.



if even her lowly birth and her poverty have not scare Earl Verner

away, she know well enough that her wealth would only enhance her

beauty and attraction.



what delicious revenge to marry Lionel’s brother, and to make the

chance of a coronet for he all the more remote!



and yet, how she have love this man! how fervently, how fondly? do he

know how much? she ask herself the question, and then blush at the

remembrance of a hundred little act in which she have disclose it to

he.



have he encourage her love? she ask herself that question, too; and

then she recall softly whisper compliment, and delicately hint

regret that society should not welcome beauty into its rank without

require that it should be back with ancestry. and above all, she

remember a time when he tell she a simple narrative, how the brother

of a noble earl have love a beautiful maiden, a farmer’s daughter, and

how when he have make a name beyond that which mere rank could give, he

come back and marry she; and how, upon that occasion, he have kiss

she and press her hand, and leave she bathe in tear of joy and fear.



and yet, without a word he have leave she; without even tell she that

he love she; not even give she the consolation of hope. she have be

too confiding, weak, silly, and he have treat she accordingly: he

should see how Amy _Tallant_ would requite he.



she be walk to and fro, with her earnest eye look out into the

new, strange future, when a servant bring she the card of Mr. Arthur

Phillips.



“tell he I will see he. show he into the library.”



Arthur begin to apologise for call at such a time, but Amy silence

he at once by tell he she have desire to see he; and, full of her

own purpose and feeling, she said:--



“have you hear from Lionel Hammerton?”



“I have,” say Arthur.



“pray excuse I if I appear inquisitive or rude. I have ample

reason for go a little beyond what may seem courteous under the

circumstance. do he mention I in his letter?”



“he do not,” say Arthur, quietly.



“have you hear from he more than once?”



“only once,” say Arthur.



“do he mention Barton Hall? pray, be plain with I: on your honour,

as a gentleman?”



“yes, he do,” say Arthur.



“how? do he send any message?”



“he desire to be remember to Miss Tallant.”



“Meaning Phœbe, of course?”



“yes,” say Arthur.



“and he do not refer to I in any way?”



“no,” say Arthur.



“do you see he before he leave England?”



“I do.”



“do he take leave of you? do he bid you good-bye?”



“he do,” say Arthur.



“pray pardon I, Mr. Phillips; I assure you these question be of

great moment--they concern the happiness of more than one person.”



Miss Tallant be greatly excited.



“do he mention I to you upon that occasion?”



“really, Miss Somerton--Miss Tallant--I beg your pardon,” say Arthur;

“but you must not expect I to go into our private conversation.”



“I do, sir; I command--I _entreat_,” she add, in supplicate

accent, “do he charge you with any message to I?”



“he do not,” say Arthur.



“do he speak of I, sir--do he speak of I--in what _way_ do he

speak of I?”



“really,” say Arthur, in an expostulating manner.



“suppose you be my brother, sir, and suppose I love that man, your

friend; do he speak of I in such a way as you would wish for the man

to speak whom your sister love? you see I be plain with you--be you

honest with I; yes or no.”



“I must decline to answer,” say Arthur.



“and _you_ profess to be in love; nay, you need not start. do you

think I do not know your secret? do you think I do not know how many

sleepless night you have spend; how you have be toss between hope

and fear; how you have curse your lot, and console yourself with

poetic dream, and the voice of she you love? I tell you my happiness

and all my hope be at stake. I know well enough--my own instinct

tell I that he do but trifle with my love, and your silence only

confirm it. now that wealth fall in to fill up the scale and weigh

down the balance, I should despise myself if I accept compromise;

for I very nearly hate he as it be; but I seek for full satisfaction.

I will ask you but one more question. do he speak of I before he

leave England as _you_ would speak to a friend who have your confidence

concern phœbe?”



“no, _he do not_,” say Arthur, earnestly.



“thank you,” say Amy, “thank you, Mr. Phillips, sincerely; and now may

I beg that you never repeat what have pass in this conversation?”



“you may rely upon I,” say Arthur.



Amy put out her hand, and say good-bye, and leave the artist wonder

at her extraordinary conduct.









                              CHAPTER X.



                arthur phillips have a happy glimpse of

                              the future.





Arthur stood irresolutely wonder what he should do next. he have

intend to ask Amy quietly to inform her friend of his presence here;

but she have give he little or no opportunity to do that, as you have

see.



he look round the library where the merchant have be accustom to

sit at his desk. there be no change in the room. the light elegant

book-shelf be there. the grandly bind book be there as usual.

pen and ink and blot pad all in their place; and the leather

chair stand near the desk by the window; but the merchant lie quietly

in his grave.



presently Arthur ring the bell, and summon up courage enough to

send his card up to Phœbe Somerton, who present herself almost

immediately.



she be a good deal change; but her black clothe seem only to add a

sort of refine touch to her beauty.



“I be so pleased to see you, Mr. Phillips,” she say frankly, put

out her hand, “if one really ought to be pleased at anything,

consider that we have bury my father--I mean Mr. Tallant--to-day.”



Phœbe speak with some restraint and hesitation, and Arthur be visibly

nervous and excited.



“I be sure you will pardon I,” say Arthur, “if with the view of

suppress any embarrassment I tell you that I have be make

acquaint with all that have take place. I come down here from London

yesterday, ignorant even of Mr. Tallant’s death; but I could not

return without venture to say to you, personally, how deeply, how

respectfully, I sympathise with you in your trouble.”



there be a tone of deferential homage and sincere interest in Arthur’s

manner which do not fail to make an impression upon phœbe.



“I be sure I thank you sincerely, Mr. Phillips, and appreciate, as I

hope I ought, your great kindness: I have frequently wonder why you

have desert Barton,” say Phœbe.



“I shall hope to have an opportunity to explain to you one of these

day,” say Arthur.



“nothing I hope ever occur here to induce your absence?” say Phœbe.



“o no; on the contrary,” say Arthur, look at the speaker with

undisguised emotion, “engagement of a press character have keep I

confine to my studio.”



then the conversation drop into matter of fact concern the late

Mr. Tallant’s trouble, his illness and death; and eventually phœbe

Somerton and Arthur shake hand, and Arthur ask permission to call

and see his fair pupil on an early day, which permission be readily

grant.



and so Arthur go back to Severntown, to his quiet house beneath the

shadow of the old cathedral, full of new hope, a new man, and with the

future opening up to he bright and sunny.



he find several congratulatory letter at home about his work,

“seek New Homes,” and two offer of purchase, the high being

fifteen hundred pound.



this be cheerful; for though Arthur be by no means mercenary, he feel

that this be a practical tribute to the excellence of his work; and,

moreover, he have, as we have already learn, be a heavy loser through

the recent bank failure.



he sit in the firelight with his happy dream, listen to the roar

of the river without, and let it bear away his thought on its

bosom. the cathedral chime fall dreamily upon his ear, and he think

of a merry village peal which might some day be ring in token of the

consummation of his wild hope.



thought of the cold damp church, with the coffin in it, would crop up

now and then, but they have no abide-place in his mind that night;

happy thought crowd in and disperse they.



his long lonely life, with quiet grassy spot in it here and there,

and nook of peace, dedicate to art, be before he. he travel

over it again in the firelight. he see himself a studious boy without

playmate, without companion; he see himself verge into manhood

with a strangely awaken love of art and nature, and with only a poor

break-down painter take any interest in the mysterious sign which

his genius would make in spite of himself. he see his humble home and

his toil parent; a mother without one gleam of sympathy in common

with his aspiration, and who only bear querulously with his odd way,

and a father whose besetting sin be the bottle, which be his ruin.



he think of his early struggle, of his early privation, of the

burn passionate love of his art. it be a rugged, break road at

the starting, and his first success have bring with it a bitter pang;

it would have gladden his heart to have give his father and mother

this evidence of the practical correctness of his judgment, to have

show they how honourable art be, and how it elevate the humble worker

into the high rank, and place he on a level with prince.



a lonely, lowly road, but by-and-by cover with moss and soft grass,

and sober flower and shady fern; and then umbrageous tree throw

their arm over it, and gleam of sunshine come through the branch.

presently another figure appear in this more cheerful path, but it

only seem to mock the student with its beauty, and to lure he on

into hope that would only strew his way again with broken rock, and

thorn, and rough place.



all at once, however, the sun shine out full upon he, and the figure

hold out its hand, and smile with truthful human eye. and something

say within he that he would have a companion at last to share his

journey, and that the happy, happy goal be near.



that same night Phœbe sit before the parlour-fire at the Hall Farm,

with Mrs. Somerton on one side and Luke on the other.



her right hand lie quietly in her father’s, and she be talk

cheerfully to they both.



they have evidently have a long and affect interview. the storm be

past; the rush of the tempest be over; and it have leave Mrs. Somerton

gaze through tear at her daughter.



no word of rebuke, no complaint, have be utter by Phœbe; she have

say nothing but what be kind and dutiful, nothing that could wound,

except that her kindness sting her mother more than hard word would

have do.



the remorseful woman have burst out into sob and heart-break

lamentation at the first tender act of filial forgiveness, and Luke

have hardly know how to master his own feeling when, in reply to some

remark of his conveying the thought that she would be ashamed of such

a father, she have fling herself into his arm and call he Father.



there be something hysterical at first in the whole proceeding; but

by-and-by the calm come, and then they all three sit and talk. phœbe

be hardly herself, though she have make up her mind so fully how she

ought to act and how she would act.



a sense of duty have impel she to come home to her father and mother,

and there be a vague, strange sense of happiness and safety in sit

between they. the Hall without her sometime father seem full of

desolation and shadow. unaccustomed sound have strike upon her ear,

she think she hear the merchant’s voice and his footstep on the

stair.



a sense of fear and loneliness have be upon she; and she have come home

to her father and her mother, and now there be a sweet lulling feeling

of peace at her heart which she have not feel for a long time past.



have the visit of Arthur Phillips do anything to enhance that

sensation of quiet and repose? he have be in her thought more than

once, as she sit there with her hand in her father’s.



it be no use Luke or his wife expostulate with Phœbe; home she have

come, and at home she would stay. and when at length the wonder

domestic at the Hall Farm come to show she to the room which have be

always set apart for Amy’s use, Phœbe knelt and receive her mother’s

blessing, bade Luke good-night, and call he “Father” again.



Luke and his wife have rarely sit up so late as upon this eventful

night, and so much good will sometimes come out of evil, and sin

confess be so nearly atone for--that Luke and his wife love each

other now for the first time. there be a deep wondering pity in Luke’s

heart for his wife now that he see the secret of her life, and look

at the droop head and the eye fill with tear. Mrs. Somerton have

not expect such a generous forgiveness, and so much sympathy and

gentleness, at Luke’s hand. in the last few week she have suffer a

world of remorse for her past shrewish conduct, and now her gratitude

know no bound; gratitude and sympathy and pity, and memory of the

past, mingle together in these two heart, and on the steady downward

path of life they come to love each other with a quiet calm love that

be near akin to a long-prove generous friendship.









                              CHAPTER XI.



                          during the WINTER.





the winter slip swiftly away, without make many important change

in the position of the people in our story.



important event be in course of consummation, but no special

incident crop up to mark the gradual development of the various

circumstance call for anything more than simple narration.



Earl Verner have take several opportunity to renew his acquaintance

with Amy, and we must do his lordship the justice to say that she

sudden and unexpected advancement in fortune have little or no influence

upon his course of wooing, for he be hit at that first interview, hit

irredeemably. there be something in Amy besides her good look which

have fairly fascinate the earl. the idea of a thoroughly companionable

and intellectual woman have never present itself to he before.

Hitherto woman have represent to he trouble, bother, put yourself

out of the way, and everything that be not be easy and lazy and

loll about, and grub amongst old book, and fadde with ancient

china, and be constantly delighted with picture. woman engross

all this in herself. she want to be old china and book and picture

and antiquity and everything all in one; and this notion do not suit

Earl Verner; but in Amy he feel that there would not be this autocracy.

she be evidently as much interested in these thing as he be himself,

and, consider how much his condescension in marry she would

elevate she in the social scale, he would have an influence over she

that he could not hope to have over a woman in his own walk of life.



the more he see of Amy Tallant the more enraptured he become, and

well he might, for Amy spare no pain to make herself charming and

agreeable in his eye; indeed, Amy have vow to herself that she would

marry he. she would show Lionel Hammerton what a mistake he have make

when he sport with the deep feeling of a girl like she.



       *       *       *       *       *



and so in due course his lordship propose for Amy’s hand, and be

accept.



       *       *       *       *       *



meanwhile, Phœbe Somerton have insist upon stay at the Hall Farm.

her obstinacy upon this point have appear at first to give Amy a good

deal of pain; but Phœbe explain that she have mark out a line of

conduct for herself as the line of duty under the circumstance, and,

whatever she might do in the future, at present she would certainly

live with her father and mother. Amy soon see that there be no pique

in this, that it mean no ill feeling towards herself, and the two

girl understand each other well. Amy be too much engross in her

own scheme to let anything else trouble she.



she have write to Paul Somerton a warm, affectionate letter, in which

she have charge herself with his advancement in life; she have ask he

to select his career, and insist upon bear all the cost of his

study and promotion. Paul have consult his friend Mr. Williamson,

and have discuss the question with he in a hundred different way.

he have for some time almost resolve upon decline this proffer

aid, but he know that this would be hurtful in the extreme to Amy’s

feeling, and Mr. Williamson argue the case so well, from a sisterly

point of view, in favour of its acceptance that Paul becomingly thank

his sometime sister, and leave the point open for further consideration.



finally, Amy request he to come to the Hall, and there she

introduce he to Earl Verner, and tell his lordship the brief story

of the lad’s life; and the end be, with the consent of Mrs. Somerton

and Luke, that a commission in the army be purchase for Paul, and he

commence his military career as an ensign in the gallant ninety-fifth,

with fair prospect of rapid promotion.



Mr. Williamson receive a magnificent memento of his kindness to Paul

in the shape of a watch exquisitely set with jewel, and a courteous

intimation that if Miss Tallant could at any time render Mr. Williamson

any service she would esteem it a delightful privilege to show her high

appreciation of his conduct.



the barrister treasure her sweet-scented little note quite as much as

he do the valuable jewelled watch, and he sigh and rub his hand

over the smoulder fire at his room when he hear of her forthcoming

marriage.



“she be such a splendid woman,” he would say. “I have almost persuade

myself that I be in love with she that first and only time when I see

she in town; and now that she be go to be marry, by Jove, I begin

to think I really be in love with she.”



but the truth be, Mr. Williamson have be hit in early life. there

be a mysterious, vague sort of story, which a few of his old friend

sometimes tell each other, concern a romantic love affair,--a

wedding, a separation and death, under very sad circumstance. whatever

the story be, nobody ever allude to it in presence of Williamson; but

they know who know he that there be no likelihood of his fall in

love again, or any nonsense of that sort, as other would put it. and

the barrister have only sigh at the mention of Amy’s marriage because

a thought of his own love-dream and its terrible termination occur

to he at the moment.



       *       *       *       *       *



Phœbe Somerton and Arthur Phillips be constantly together at the

Hall Farm, and before the winter end Arthur have summon sufficient

courage to discharge his heart’s load of love by a full and ample

confession; and Phœbe have look into his great dark eye, and

respond to his vow with all the frankness and innocent truth of

Miranda herself.



thus Arthur be in the sunny path of his existence at last, and he

seem to become a new being under the influence of his happiness.



Luke Somerton and his wife be calm spectator of all these change,

and meanwhile they have their own little scheme for the future. there

be a certain farm in the Lincolnshire fen which Mrs. Somerton have

know as a girl, and which, from inquiry that Luke have make, be

likely to be “to let.” there be no more fertile pasture than those

which surround it in all the fen country, not a pleasanter house and

garden, no well shoot than be to be have close by, and with the

advantage of be near an important town, and not far from a railway

station.



Luke and his wife have calculate the prospect of settle down in

their own native county, and the bailiff be full of plan and scheme,

which be an everlasting source of pleasant, hopeful talk.



       *       *       *       *       *



all this time Richard Tallant be up to his neck in the great game of

financial speculation, and rumour have over and over again predict

his downfall. the Eastern Bank, notwithstanding his father’s noble

contribution towards its shake capital, have fail. the indian

branch have suffer serious loss, and the retirement of Mr. Tallant

from the directory have lead to other resignation, and Stock Exchange

rumour have eventually shake the confidence of depositor and other,

and the Bank go to the wall. the Meter Iron Works continue to

flourish, but with diminish dividend and gradually fall stock.



Mr. Tallant have be mix up with some of the great failure of the

day, and people say that by-and-by, when he really come to understand

his own position, he would find himself insolvent; but people say this

about dozen of other whose possession have not even be shake in

the panic, and who could show a _bonâ fide_ income of many thousand a

year from real property.



what do Richard Tallant care for all this? nothing, so far as the

world could judge; but it make he irritable and ill-temper in his

own house. his valet could have tell you a good deal about this, and so

could the servant; but to the outside world, whatever else he might

be, he be a straightforward, independent, good-temper fellow. there

be those who say this be all “put on,” and that he be a designing

sneak; but his high-step horse and his splendid dinner soon

silence these doubtful one, whom the great man entertain for that

purpose only, curse they in his heart whilst he smile upon they and

call they friend.



Mr. and Mrs. Dibble have return together to London, to their little

lodge-house at Pimlico, but by no means to live a happy life; for

Dibble have be persuade to lend the showman fifty pound the morning

after that introduction at Severntown, and the money have be lose

irretrievably; for within a fortnight afterwards Digby Martin have

present himself at their house a ruin, ragged, dissipate fellow.



his daughter have elope with some vagabond, and leave he; business

have wane from that moment until it dwindle away almost to nothing.

the skeleton have decline to enter into the propose contract, and

his “trap” have be sell to pay the rent of the ground at the “Blue

Posts.” he have walk all the way to London, friendless and a beggar,

his only mean of subsistence be in the money earn by Momus. the

dawg, he say, have behave like a Christian to he, and he be sure his

friend dibble would do no less, consider how dibble have be treat

in the palmy day of the Temple.



this be all very well, and Mrs. Dibble would perhaps not have

complain have the showman take his departure after the first visit,

and not present himself for renew charity; but he come again and

again, and Mrs. Dibble and her husband have serious disagreement

about it. the lodger be scandalise at the visit of this low

person and his dawg, and one of they have give up his room at a day’s

notice because he have see this friend of Dibble’s go through a

performance with his dog, and beg copper, in a back street.



Dibble have appeal to the showman to leave the neighbourhood, and have

bribe he too. but Digby Martin, _alias_ Digger, _alias_ Smith, know

a trick worth two of that. he only spend the bribe in drink, and come

back to still Street and abuse Mrs. Dibble for be proud and stick

up.



to think that she should come to this, with her boarding-school

education and her semi-architectural contracting father; it be a blow

which Mrs. Dibble could not possibly have dream of, and she upbraid

herself for her weakness in follow dibble and release he from his

degrade position.



“he never ask you, marm,” say the showman, with a drunken leer. “it

wash not our wish you should come and sheek ush out--you old catamaran!”



“Catamaran!” exclaim Mrs. Dibble, dash the tear from her eye.

“Catamaran!--Dibble, if you don’t punch that breuth head I will--so

there!”



“then I must do it, I suppose,” say dibble. “now, look’e ’ere,

friend,” say dibble; “I baint goin’ to stand any more o’ this; so

clear out.”



“Dy’e hear that, Momush?” say the showman; “we’re to clear out,” and

thereupon the drunken magician prepare for the come engagement.



there be the shank-end of a leg of mutton on the table. dibble,

nod to his wife to make she comprehend his plan, take up the

bone and hold it to the “dawg’s” nose. Momus immediately stand upon

her hind-leg and follow Dibble to the back kitchen, where she be

speedily lock in with her supper.



the showman, hardly comprehend this scheme for remove the

protector, by whose side he be so valiant, dart towards the door

before dibble have time to turn round; but not before Mrs. Dibble have

time to insert her arm between the drunkard and dibble, the result of

which be that the magician roll over, and Dibble be save the pain

and trouble of knock his old friend down himself.



it be an easy matter to put the showman into the street after this,

and when a policeman come up Momus be let out, to walk on her

hind-leg, by the side of the man in blue.



a facetious reporter at the police court the next day make a funny

paragraph out of the showman’s appearance, the magistrate having

request the “dawg” to be bring into court. Momus make a bow to the

bench, and stand upon her hind-leg; which put the magistrate in such a

good humour, that he let off the showman with a caution.



the incident be anything but a funny one to the Dibbles, for they lose

their lodger, and Mrs. Dibble lose her respectability and her control

of the street; so she give vent to her feeling by upbraid Thomas,

and the end be that they be exceedingly miserable, and Mrs. Dibble

talk of a “judicious separation,” which be a thing that her “wortht

dreamth have never bring to her mind; and oh! if her poor father could

only rithe and thee she!” poor Dibble, he could think of nothing but

get into the Thames, or thrust his head into the water-butt. he

think well of this by-and-by, however; but not until he have look

at the Thames by gas-light and dip his head a little way into the

water-butt. if the water have not be so cold, we believe dibble would

have put his head deeply into it; but, oh, it be so very cold!



meanwhile Mr. Jefferson Crawley, _alias_ Shuffleton Gibbs, and the

showman’s daughter, be spend their honeymoon, and the ex-swell be

educate the young lady, and introduce she into a new world.









                             CHAPTER XII.



                discourse CHIEFLY of UNREQUITED love.





“I want you to come and spend a week with I, Phœbe,” say _the_ Miss

Tallant to the young lady who have abdicate.



they have meet near Barton Hall, each on a morning’s ramble in the park,

the spring sunshine be so tempting.



“you must really grant this as a favour to I. I want your advice about

a hundred thing.”



“mother be not well,” say Phœbe, hesitatingly; “and father be so busy

just now in negotiation for a new farm in Lincolnshire.”



at first blush it almost seem as if there be a little affectation

in this careful mention of her new position, and the display of duty,

on Phœbe’s part; but it be not so. Phœbe have argue out her duty, have

reason with herself upon the course which she ought to pursue; she

have pray earnestly, and religiously strive to see aright, and the

end be that she determine to act her part as become a dutiful child.

it be not for she to judge her mother’s conduct, nor to repine at her

change of fortune. if she have lose wealth and station, she have find a

mother and father, and she have obtain thereby perfect freedom in the

expression of her love for Arthur Phillips.



on the whole, then, phœbe’s real happiness have rather be enhance

by the discovery that she be not the wealthy Christopher Tallant’s

daughter. a certain feeling of regret would make itself manifest to she

now and then when she remember the luxury of the Hall, the charming

book, the picture, the familiar boudoir, with its dainty furniture;

but this feeling be soon follow by a remembrance of the vague sense

of loneliness which often afflict she there, and the consciousness of

be neglect by her father. though there have be scarcely a wish

that she could not gratify, so far as money be concern, her life have

not be altogether a happy one; it be calm and peaceful, but there

have seem to be no motive in it.



now all this be change. Duty have step in between herself and the

world. “honour thy father and thy mother” be a commandment which have

a new meaning for she. a certain amount of self-sacrifice seem to be

involve, and she make it cheerfully. and all the time she love the

landscape painter.



Phœbe’s be not the love which Amy have feel for Lionel Hammerton; it

be not that mad, passionate, doubting, hopeless, longing love, which

often animate the heart that be fix upon one of high rank and

station; it be not the love of the lowly maiden for the prince, whom

she feel that she lower by her very passion; it be not the almost

fanatical look upwards of idol-worship; but the love which feel

itself worthy of the thing it love--the love of equal, the passion

which have no worldly fear of rank intervening, the love that dream

not for a moment of condescension on either hand, the love that level

by its intense nobleness and generosity the king with his subject, the

noble-bear with the peasant, the rich with the poor.



Amy have love humbly and meekly, but still with a burn passion;

she have look up to Lionel Hammerton as one afar off, and she could

have suffer for he in any fashion, and be his slave; he might

have command she in almost all thing. and when he raise she up

and whisper in her ear the love he bear she, she have go home and

cry tear of joy and gratitude; but be raise, as it be, to

his side, she could not bear indifference, and all her latent pride

have come to her aid when the most generous construction she could

put upon Lionel’s conduct only lead she to feel that she have be

designedly slight. her woman’s instinct have begin to interpret his

attention into mere flirtation sometime before he have so suddenly leave

the country. after that day when he have whisper his admiration so

earnestly, and seal his word with a kiss, he have never call at

the Hall or the farm. she have learn that he have be at home several

time prior to his departure, and that he have be at Avonworth, too;

but he have make no sign to she. this be not love, she know. the lover,

whose mistress have hang upon his tender word, and tell he by a

thousand endearing glance how fervently his love be return, lose no

opportunity of enjoy the sweet of courtship. Lionel Hammerton have

be near Barton, and Amy have sigh for his presence--have long to

look upon he--have count the hour and day since she see he last;

yet he come not. and then he leave the country, deem her unworthy

of a parting word. have he send she some letter which have miscarry?

no. have he leave any message for she with his friend, Arthur Phillips?

no. on the contrary, he have speak of she, not as Arthur would like to

have have his sister speak of, before he leave on that long journey,

which be, no doubt, intend to make a gulf between they that should

separate they for ever.



Lionel have flirt with she, and leave she with indifference, perhaps

with contempt, and the native pride of her mother assert itself, and

revenge have fill up the place which love have occupy.



“ah, I know you will come, my darling,” say Amy. “I want to talk with

you about my marriage.”



“I will come, Amy, with pleasure,” Phœbe reply.



she must have be more than woman if she could have resist that

latter appeal.



“will you come now?” say Amy, take Phœbe’s arm.



“yes,” say Phœbe. “we will first call at the farm, and let mother

know,” say Phœbe. “I know she will be pleased for I to go with you,

and I can go and see they every day.”



“oh, yes, child; but how very dutiful you be, to be sure: more so than

I be, I fear,” say Amy, just a little impatiently.



the spring sunshine stream upon they as they walk, like a

benediction from heaven. the tree be tip with brown and green;

some shone like frosted silver, and other look like mere outline

against the sky, as if nature have just sketch they, and leave they in

outline. the lake shine with a clear bright radiance, and reflect

itself full of the adjacent hill, and you could look down into it and

see a picture of surpass beauty, now and then veil for a moment by

pass cloud that make great flitting shadow over the green turf,

too, and seem to chase each other, like the bird that be build

their nest.



Phœbe feel all the delightful sensation of the time; she step

aside when her foot threaten the daisy just peep forth amongst

the tender grass; she feel the warm breath of the genius of the time

upon her cheek, the bleating of the lamb awaken gentle sympathetic

emotion within she, and she share in the general hope of creation at

the return of the gracious season.



Poor Amy have fix up an entirely worldly standard for her hope and

fear; a standard that be but little influence by any feeling such

as those which animate her companion. the life-give spirit of the

season only animate Amy with fresh vigour in the prosecution of her

plan, and with a more lively animation in carry out the magnificent

scheme of revenge and self-justification.



“what will become I most as a bride?” Amy ask, when they be alone

at Barton Hall.



it be a tremendous question, but it be answer at last, by the aid

of a multifarious collection of pattern of material, and the write

opinion of a French _modiste_ who be come down from town to wait

upon Earl Verner’s intend wife.



then question about bridesmaid be discuss, and the pedigree of

several of the earl’s lady relative, who be to take part in the

ceremony, be hunt up in the peerage.



“of course you will be one of they, my dear,” say Amy, “and the

prettiest of all, I dare be bind.”



Phœbe hesitate, and look inquiringly at her friend.



“I shall think you do not love I at all, if you decline; his lordship

shall ask you himself if you will not say yes to my request.”



“but you be soar so far above I,” say Phœbe, in her quiet gentle

way. “I shall feel out of place amongst such great people.”



“nonsense! beauty shall rank with the high of they that day,” say

Amy, proudly. “Nay, do not blush; you know I would not flatter you.”



“you be so change,” say Phœbe, thoughtfully. “I seem to remember you

as one belong to the past, Amy; and it have often make I feel very

sad.”



“think differently about it,” say Amy, assume a light, gay tone. “I

know I be change, but change for the well. I have drop out of

my bundle of feeling a parcel call sensibility, or sensitiveness,

or something of that kind, Phœbe, and I be glad of it. I find myself

in a world where it be inconvenient to have fine feeling, and I have

resolve to take the world as I find it.”



“suppose,” say Phœbe--“but you will forgive I for be candid with

you?”



“yes, yes,” say Amy, lightly; “say whatever you please, dear; you have

the right to do so.”



“Supposing, then, that Mr. Hammerton should return.”



Amy be discompose for a moment at the suggestion; but she recover

her self-possession very speedily.



“well, suppose he should?” say Amy, whilst she think of her reply.

“how would that affect I?”



“yes,” say Phœbe, with an earnest look in her deep blue eye.



“you be think of what I tell you in the summer-house, in that past

time of which you have speak.”



“yes,” say Phœbe.



“I know you be. well, Phœbe, that belong to the past; Lionel

Hammerton belong to the past--to my past; he have no place in my

future.”



Amy say this solemnly, and with a fierce kind of firmness in her

manner, which tell Phœbe how much revengeful feeling there be in the

change that have come over the new mistress of Barton Hall.



“but, Amy----”



Amy interrupt she.



“there be no ‘but’ in the case, love; he shall have indifference for

indifference, scorn for scorn, and I will trample upon all his worldly

hope as the Countess of Verner, as he trample upon mine as the

Honourable Lionel Hammerton.”



Amy rise from her seat when she say this, and plant her pretty foot

upon the ground with calm determination.



“you love beneath your station, as some would hold, my dear,” say

Amy. “I love above mine: it be the way of the world: the high may

stoop to the low, or trifle with the love that be offer. fate

or Providence, as you would say, have work a wonderful change in

our lot, have reverse our position, and just at the proper moment.

by place you a little low, as far as worldly consideration be

concern, Fate have bring you near to he you love, and bring

hope of future happiness. my exaltation have give I the power for

self-assertion, for blot out a silly passion, grant I, almost

at the moment when I pray for it, the dear wish of my heart. that

carriage with the coronet in the panel, whirl along through the

autumn leave, be the oman--the sign which Fate fling before I. I

accept it, and I shall not turn back; no, I shall not turn back.”



Phœbe blush at the mention of her own love, and pity Amy, know

how she too have love in those past day; but she could give Amy no

soothe tiding of Lionel; she could not deny that his conduct have

be unmanly, and somewhat dishonourable. yet Arthur Phillips have

not tell she of those last word of Lionel’s, nor have he show she

a letter since receive from he, in which Mr. Hammerton say “that

stupid bit of flirtation in Avonworth Valley” he hope be forget

by the bailiff’s pretty daughter, “who have play her part so well

and very nearly with success.” phœbe could not help feel that some

misunderstanding, some mistake or other, have come between the love of

these two, and she would fain have point this out to Amy.



“who know but some dreadful misunderstanding may have----”



“don’t speak of it, Phœbe, love,--I have think of that and

everything, and have resolve. beside, my love, it be not fitting we

should discuss the question. I be betroth; in a few short week I

shall be a wife.”



“it be because you have those few week in which you might still

change your determination that I venture to ask you, suppose Lionel

Hammerton be to return and renew his former attention, and offer you

marriage,” say Phœbe.



“I should not believe in his sincerity,--I would rather be beyond his

reach. I could fain hope that he might feel a passion for I, that he

might all of a sudden love I; that he might feel some of the pang I

have feel. no, Phœbe, if he be at my foot this moment I might smile

and let he sue; but I should not love him,--I should not prefer he to

his eld brother with the title;--oh, no! all that romantic sentiment

be over!--I should prefer to be a countess in possession rather than in

reversion. and now we have say enough about this. I want to talk to

you and ask you all sort of question, and you have literally turn

the table upon I by put I through a most romantic catechism. I

have answer you to the good of my ability and with perfect sincerity;

so now, pray, be content, and let we talk of lace, and ribbon, and

orange blossom, and _glacé_, and _poult de soie_; of bridesmaid, and

Hanover Square, and matrimonial responsibility.”



and Amy rattle away and laugh at Phœbe’s sober face, and kiss she

fair forehead, as joyously as if she be about to marry her first

love; but when she be alone in her bedroom, she fling herself down and

sob aloud.



why have heaven give she all those warm passion, that deep capacity to

love, and set the idol before she, and let all her love go for naught?

this be the burden of the burn thought which phœbe’s conversation

have arouse.



    “alas! the love of woman! it be know

    to be a lovely and a dangerous thing.”



it be questionable whether Byron really know in his soul much about

the true and pure love of woman, though he have describe its dangerous

and passionate phase so well. it be a lovely and a dangerous thing,

undescribable and unfathomable. “all that have be write in song,

or tell in story, of love and its effect, fall far short of its

reality. its evil and its blessing, its impotence and its power, its

sin and its holiness, its weakness and its strength, will continue the

theme of nature and of art, until the great pulse of the universe be

still.”



O, how she have love this man! and he know it! here be the bitter

sting that wound the poor, stricken woman; that stir all her

woman’s pride, and make she almost hate herself that she have confess

so much--make she hate he, or fancy she hate he, the more for having

wile her secret from she.



Love, jealousy, pride, and woman’s modesty, all seem to pronounce

in her mind against the man whom she have love so wildly; and Pride

inflict the fierce pang of all in the woman’s wound sense of

unrequited Love.









                             CHAPTER XIII.



               the first obstruction in a certain scheme

                       of ambition and REVENGE.





during Phœbe’s visit to her old home, Lord Verner call twice. his

lordship be particularly gracious, and evidently deeply enamoured of

Amy.



when he come Amy be careful to put on her good smile. it seem to

phœbe as if she delight in watch the effect of her little sally

of pleasantry and wit upon the love-sick earl. she humour and pet

he in her conversation, and at the same time triumph over he. she

seem to give way to all his whim, and yet have her own way.



his lordship have at first be all anxiety that the marriage should

be particularly quiet, and Amy have appear to enter into his

plan in this respect; but now he be for all sort of extravagant

demonstration, and Amy lead he on so far, that it would be impossible

to give up any important point in the general display.



and she look so fresh, and bright, and happy in his love, and Lord

Verner appear to be so proud of she, that Phœbe almost begin to

believe that happiness would come of the union.



no one could say that Amy would not fill her high station so far as

appearance, and carriage, and manner be concern. she look every

inch a countess already. and she know it; for she take all manner of

pain to set off her graceful, well define figure. dainty robe of

well study colour to throw up her clear, but dark complexion; scarlet

band in her black hair, with a simple diamond star that do not

sparkle more brightly than her own bright eye. pretty ruffle on her

wrist, and about her neck, and dainty shoe upon her foot, that now

and then peep forth from beneath her embroidered petticoat; she have

a powerful fascination for Earl Verner. she seem to be unconscious of

her charm, and this make she doubly attractive.



what would his lordship have say if he could have overhear that

conversation between his betrothed and her friend with the sweet

Miranda face? he would not have be more surprised, we suspect, than

Mr. Lionel Hammerton, who be in India all this time, blissfully

ignorant of all that be go on at Barton,--blissfully ignorant of

the recent change. if any one have tell he that his thorough-go old

bachelor brother be engage to be marry, he would have treat it as

a good joke. and suppose the gossip have supplement that statement

with a true history of the case, he would have give he considerable

credit for imagination, and pooh-poohe the whole thing.



Amy Somerton discover to be Christopher Tallant’s daughter, and Miss

Tallant no other than the bailiff’s daughter!--changed in infancy by

the bailiff’s wife! Old Tallant dead, and make Amy his heiress, cut off

his son, not even with a shilling. and Earl Verner go to marry the

young lady that Lionel have flirt with, and whose likeness be hung

outside those mosquito curtain! of course he would not have believe

a word of it. he would more readily have accept the incident in the

novel he have be read than these. besides, who could be expect to

believe that those two girl have be change in their cradle? it be

such an old story, that; all very well in a poem or a romance, but it

could never occur in the Vale of Avonworth.



perhaps, _cher amis_, you, too, may think in this wise. the idea

be not a new one, we must confess; but if it be a fact, you will

accept it as worthy of record, not for its own sake, but on account

of the consequence arise out of Mrs. Somerton’s mistaken ambition.

remember, friend, there be no new thing under the sun. we have this

upon the authority of the wise of all man, and the preacher be

verify in ten thousand way. as far back as the thirteenth century

one Friar Bacon, probably write upon fact and tradition hand

down from time long antecedent to his own day, anticipate in his

work the railway, the steamship, the hydraulic engine, and the

balloon. the Chinese be printer before the ancient Romans discover

Britain, and the Romans make gunpowder when there be naked savage

live in the neighbourhood of Barton Hall. the Chinese have discover

gas long before we know anything about it. Chloroform, photography, the

telegraph, and a hundred other “new” invention, be old thing use

and forget before we hear of they. have not all the fine thought

that can enter the brain of scholar or poet be think before? and

do not some classical writer anathematise the great man who have

say all the good thing before he? all that long race of thinker

and writer, and poet and orator, and tale-teller and humourist,

and playwrights,--what room have they leave for a mere story-teller to

interest and say something new?



“there be nothing new under the sun.” but there ought to be something

new in a novel, nevertheless, most reader seem to think. critical

reader claim something new at the novelist’s hand, and rate he and

he dare to walk in beat track. next to something new come something

true. this shall protect our neck from the sharp edge of the sword

that hang by that damoclean thread which be so easily sever. we be

tell a tale with Truth for its basis, and how can the mere historian

help it if there be nothing new in one of the main incident of his

narrative? human hope and fear, and sorrow and trouble, and joy

and pleasure, be a constant repetition of the same occurrence, and

love of money form the axis upon which this world of trouble revolve.



when you tell your favourite little story after dinner--incident

in your own life--you don’t think there be nothing new under the sun

then--eh? “new or not, they be true,” you say. very well, sir, and

so be this history; and if there be one part of it more truthful than

another, it be that quiet but important bit of exchange perform in

those early day of those charming young woman, who use to live like

sister at Barton Hall. ask old dibble if this be not a true story;

ask Arthur Phillips and his wife; ask the Right Hon. the Countess of

verner; go down to Avonworth, and visit Barton Hall.



Lionel Hammerton would not have believe it, nevertheless, and he will

return from India utterly ignorant of all the change that have take

place up to this period of our story; for those two letter write

by a certain painter, and the one seal with a coronet, be destine

to pass their owner on the high sea, both travel in different

direction.



if Lord Verner would have be very much surprised could he have hear

that conversation between the two lady at Barton Hall, what would he

have think of the follow dialogue, which be speak a few day

afterwards.



“I must confess I be a little surprised,” say Miss Tallant, “that you

should not have give I notice of your visit.”



“it do not occur to I that such a measure be needful from a brother

to his sister,” say Mr. Richard Tallant, coolly throw himself into

an easy chair.



“brother and sister, truly,” say Miss Tallant, with dignity, “but

hitherto somewhat divided in feeling and opinion, and latterly by a

law-suit.”



“yes, these thing will occur; but you possess rather more than your

share, my sister, of our father’s good. would it have be otherwise

than fair to have give the son and heir half the property?”



“would it not have be brotherly to give the sister an opportunity

at least to consider what course she should take before load she

with threat, and commence an action against she in Chancery?” say

Miss Tallant. “the wish of the dead be entitle to respect, and

especially with regard to property leave behind for other; but the

recipient of a fortune such as that which I have inherit could have

afford to be generous, and would have endeavour, no doubt, to give

effect to the impulse of her own heart, even in the interest of one

who do not deserve compassion.”



“indeed!” say Richard; “you be quite eloquent, I declare. you fill

your high station magnificently. may I ring for luncheon?”



“perhaps it would be a little more courteous in the first place to

explain your business, and in the next to leave the ordering of

luncheon to the mistress of the house.”



“as you please,” say Mr. Tallant--“as you please. I want you to

instruct Twyzell and Kits, your lawyer, to pay four thousand pound to

my credit to-morrow.”



“indeed!” say Miss Tallant.



“yes, I will be frank with you. certain important security which I

hold have suddenly fall in value, and a banking friend of mine who

hold they be anxious that the sum which they do represent should be

make up in cash; I be very desirous of oblige my friend, and I know

you would oblige I.”



“indeed,” repeat Miss Tallant, “I fear I must refer you to the

gentleman whom you have mention; your legal process have quite remove

the affair beyond the pale of my consideration, whatever my feeling

with regard to it might be.”



“indeed!” say Mr. Richard Tallant, altogether uninfluence by the

quiet, sarcastic smile which play round Miss Tallant’s mouth, and

ignore altogether the evident annoyance which his effrontery excite,

and which Amy struggle unsuccessfully to hide.



“be this your reply? will you not _lend_ the money to your brother?”



“it may not be mine to lend; you have threaten to upset your father’s

will, and your lawyer profess to be certain that you can succeed

in do so. I must refer you to Mr. Twyzell; and now I will order

luncheon for you,” say Amy, advance towards the bell.



“stay one moment,” say Richard, stroke his beard, in which already

there be many grey hair; “it be useless to refer I to Twyzell; you

must write a note request he to let I have the money to-morrow. he

may lend it I without prejudice, as the lawyer say, so that it will

in nowise influence any legal proceeding that be pende. you must

do this, or I shall be compel to say something very unpleasant. I

cannot possibly do without the money, and it be most convenient that

you should be the lender.”



“what do this mean?” say Amy. “you know that I have no other course

but to refer you to the lawyer, and it be idle to say more about it.”



“very well; it be hard to force a gentleman and your brother, in

difficulty, to appear ungentlemanly and unbrotherly; but if he have no

other resource, he must use mean which he would otherwise reject with

contempt. you be to be married to the Right Hon. the Earl Verner, of

Montem Castle; it be a great match.”



“well,” say Miss Tallant, impatiently.



“do you remember a confession you once make--it be a long time ago

now--to the young lady who be Miss Tallant then and your patroness.”



the questioner look up to his sister to note the effect of his

interrogation; but there be no change in Amy’s face, though she begin

to suspect why her visitor have exercise so much assumption of power

and authority in this unexpected interview.



“you be sit together in the summer-house yonder on a spring

morning not unlike the present, and you enter into some very

interesting detail with regard to myself, and also concern your

love, or fancy, or liking, or whatever it be call, for Earl Verner’s

brother.”



Amy do not lose her self-control even at this point of the

conversation; but she remember the time to which he allude, and

remember it vividly, for she have always believe that Richard Tallant

have overhear all she and Phœbe say on that particular occasion.



“when you press your ear against the keyhole?” she say, with a

scornful look.



“no, that be not necessary,” say Mr. Tallant; “the door be open a

little way, and two voice force themselves upon my attention--that be

the courteous way of put it.”



“well, you have something more to say? well say all you desire.”



“it occur to I that you might spare I the pain of proceeding

far, and that you would write to Twyzell and Kits at once.”



“since the subject be become interesting at last, I have no desire to

put an end to it now,” say Amy, who have some little time previously

sit down, with the table between herself and her visitor.



“Earl Verner would hardly like to hear that you be passionately in

love with his brother, and that his brother have jilt the woman he

be about to marry; besides, he be a generous fellow--he might give

the lady up to her first love, and particularly as he be invalid

sometimes and fond of a quiet life. I have business with his lordship

and thought of ride over this afternoon, if you could lend I a

horse.”



it be a desperate struggle for Amy to sit still and endure this; the

colour come and go in her cheek, and her heart beat at a fever rate,

and then seem to stop altogether; but still she sit in her chair,

and give but slight indication of the sharpness of the poison shaft

which make such a sensible impression upon she. the humiliation of

bargaining for the maintenance of a secret from her husband--a secret

that might possibly break off an alliance which she have do so much to

encompass. but he would not believe it? and if he do, she could tell

he that all that silly passion be at an end. these thought pass

through her mind much more rapidly than the printer’s type have convey

they to the reader; but she make no sign.



“shall I ride over to Montem, or return to town? if I go to town you

will hear no more from I, at all event until the marriage be over,

unless you would like I to give you away.”



this be another sting; it remind Amy of her helpless and forlorn

position, and as she glance at the fine manly form of her brother,

a pang of honest regret that they be so fearfully sunder, shoot

through her heart, and almost bring the tear into her eye.



“I think we understand each other,” say Mr. Tallant, as though this

suspense make he uncomfortable.



“yes,” say Miss Tallant. “I be sorry to feel that I understand you,

Richard Tallant.”



it require no considerable effort for Amy to maintain her calmness,

though she have lately set up in her own way for a very clever actress;

but she do not break down. she ring the bell, order luncheon for Mr.

Richard Tallant, and desire that gentleman to give she half an hour

to consider his request, withdraw and seek her own room.



“ha!” exclaim Mr. Richard Tallant when she have go, “a devilish

good fight she make of it: there’s no mistake about her parentage; if

anything have be want to prove our relationship, this interview

would clinch it.”



Mr. Tallant thereupon walk up to the mantel-piece, contemplate

himself, stroke his beard, and apostrophise his counterfeit.



“you must be an infernal blackguard, Richard Tallant, Esq., to work

such an infernal scheme as this against a woman! upon my soul I believe

you be a bad fellow, a deuce bad fellow. how be it, my friend, you

be such a rascal? you have a fine opportunity once. I believe that

thief Gibbs ruin you, eh? perhaps; perhaps not. but you have be

put to some tightish shift, have you not, my friend, none tight

than this? when a fellow can see his way out of certain ruin by a bit

of meanness, or whatever you like to call it, the temptation be very

great--be it not? ha, well, it’s a wicked world, a wicked world. you

ought to have be the proprietor of this place, my friend: well, never

mind; you must manage to do with a part of it, eh? yes, with a part of

it: half a loaf, you know.”



“half a loaf do you say?” ask the quick-eared servant who have just

enter with a tray. “yes, sir--white or brown?”



“both,” say Mr. Tallant.



“yes, sir; what wine will you take, sir?”



“Sherry,” say Mr. Tallant.



“yes, sir.”



and the son of the dead merchant commence his luncheon. before he have

finish, the same servant bring he a note from Miss Tallant, which

enclose a letter to Twyzell and kit.



“that’s all right,” he say to himself; “give my love to Miss Tallant,

say I be greatly oblige to she, and that she need not give herself any

further trouble in the matter.”



“yes, sir.”



Poor Amy! she have not count upon this new feature of difficulty in

her scheme of ambition and revenge. but she be resolve that nothing

should frustrate the accomplishment of the whole scheme which she have

plan out. she be betroth to Lord Verner, and she would marry he

at any sacrifice, ay, even to stand at the altar with Mr. Richard

Tallant in the paternal and brotherly position he have mention. it be

rather singular that Richard Tallant as he return to town that day

should have think so much about this same contingency.



“why should I not be one of the wedding guest?” he say, as he smoke

and wait for the next train at Orford Junction. “why should I not

give she away?”









                             CHAPTER XIV.



                       of happy day in SPRING.





and these be the happy day of the courtship of Phœbe and Arthur.

they come with the spring blossom, open up a bright new future to

both.



yes, happy day, perfectly happy. philosophy say there be no perfect

happiness. Mr. Williamson would smile with quiet amazement at your

simplicity if you hold that anybody have be perfectly happy, even for

an hour. but then, you know, he have be hit in his early day, and the

remembrance of his own transient approach to a sense of happiness may

have embitter his later existence.



Arthur Phillips, a year ago, would have enter into an abstract

argument with you upon the subject. he would have tell you, with

Guizot, that the study of art perhaps contain the high element

of happiness; that, in the abstract, it be altogether unconnected

with the struggle and contest of ordinary life. although he would

have tell you that Guizot’s charming view about the study of art do

not always apply to the practice of it, he would have defend his

opinion of the unselfishness of a pure taste for the beautiful in art,

and demonstrate to you that it bring into play and have the power of

exciting the deep emotion, gratify both the nobler and soft

part of our nature,--the imagination and the judgment, love of emotion

and power of reflection, the enthusiasm and the critical faculty, the

sense and the reason;--but the painter would have sigh as he quote

this enthusiastic commendation of art, and think how far short all

this be from perfect happiness.



to ramble about that old cathedral, to think of that dear, sweet

face, be happiness; yet it leave so much to long for and regret, that

sometimes the pain be great than the happiness.



but as he sit beside that fair girl in the farmer’s parlour, what

do he think of happiness now? the philosopher say perfect happiness

be never intend by the deity to be the lot of man, but that he have

give we the power of an exceeding near approach to it. and we do not

hesitate to say, that he do give to some mortal a foretaste of that

perfect happiness which be to be the undying prize of the future day.



a wise lady, and a duchess, too, have say that our happiness in this

world depend on the affection we be enable to inspire. let Phœbe and

Arthur be judge by this standard, and they be to be envy indeed. to

sit hand in hand, to walk and talk with freedom of their love, of the

little incident of past day, to recall their moment of doubt, and

look back to time of utter hopelessness, to trace their little act

of sympathy from the first day of their love, to recall that grand

festival beneath the cathedral roof, to think of the day when each

love the other in secret and in fear and dread and in solitude! be

not this perfect happiness?



Friend Greybeard, do not the old love break out afresh as you

contemplate two lover like these? don’t you remember the old dream? if

there be a picture in thy brain such as that of which sing the poet

whose scrap of rhyme, with an american name at the bottom, have just

attract my attention in the corner of the county newspaper, do not

shut it out.



    “upon the bud apple-tree

    the robin sing by two and three,

    and ever at the faint breeze

      Down drop a blossom;

    and ever would that lover be

    the wind that rob the burgeoned tree,

    and lift the soft tress daintily

      on Beauty’s bosom.



    “ah, greybeard, what a happy thing

    it be, when life be in its spring,

    to peep through love’s betrothal ring

      at field Elysian;

    to move and breathe in magic air,

    to think that all that seem be fair--

    ah, ripe young mouth and golden hair,

      Thou pretty vision!”



let the old dream nestle in thine heart; there be nothing else therein

so beautiful. don’t you remember what noble, unselfish thing you would

have do in those day? what be capital and interest, and share

at par or premium or discount to thee, except so far as money might

concern her happiness? you have not see that curl of hair, wrap

in fade paper, and put away in the dark corner of that old desk, for

year. take it out, old friend; there be nothing unmanly in thy tear,

for it be manly to have love, and it be well even “to have love

and lose than never to have love at all.” it be something to have the

memory of those happy time. you be happy, whatever you may say to

the contrary, you know you be--ten time happy when she smile and

return the pressure of your hand than you be now at the prosperous

state of market and the thrift of your firm. you may deny it; but the

old time come back in the firelight, old friend, do they not, when

the heart confess its own bitterness? don’t deny it, and don’t look

ashamed at your own shadow in the glass, when you unfold that poor

little curl.



the happiness of Arthur and Phœbe be something to look upon and be

happy at. if Asmodeus have take you to that model farm-house, that

you might have be a calm spectator of the love that have fold his

wing and settle down there beside that hearth, you would have be

happy for the sight. for it be a catch happiness, that of phœbe

and Arthur; an epidemic of joy and bliss and peace. you could not

possibly have come within a yard of its influence without feel a

certain delight. if you happen to be a young fellow, a slight touch

of envy might, perhaps, have struggle into your heart and embitter

the sight; for Phœbe might have strike you as the realisation of all

your dream of beauty, so soft, and gentle, and pulpy, and rosy, and

innocent, and loving.



we only meet with those beauty in book, you say, and in picture.

but this be a common calumny upon english woman. such beauty as

Phœbe Somerton be rare, no doubt; but there be tender, kitten-like,

innocent, candid, pretty girl like she in many an english county. ay,

and girl as good and true and generous. if our friend Mr. Williamson

be criticise this book for the _Pyrotechnic_, he would probably

say at this point that so far as the heroine be concern, the male

novelist usually describe his character as the perfection of beauty

and goodness, impossibly lovely, impossibly true and generous; whilst

the lady novelist combine beauty with devilry, and make her charming

woman fiend beyond the imagination of man; and as Mr. W. have a smart

epigrammatic way of writing, he would possibly say that whilst most man

draw woman as they ought to be, most woman depict they as they ought

not to be, and the public be wait to see they paint as they be.



we need not take the trouble to convince the _Pyrotechnic_ that phœbe

Somerton be draw to the life, if the _Pyrotechnic_ think otherwise;

but let we tell you, friendly reader, who have accompany we,

paper-knife in hand, that Phœbe Somerton be all we have describe she

in beauty and in gentleness and truth. and no wonder that she have be

attract by Arthur Phillips, with his big, black, melancholy eye,

and his fine intellectual face. one good nature speedily detect its

counterpart in another, and it be a testimonial of high and noble

character to be love by a woman like Phœbe. love perpetrate strange,

mad freak, but it would have be next to impossible for a pure nature

like phœbe’s to have ally itself with another that be unworthy.



Luke Somerton and his wife grow quite genial in the presence of the

radiating love-beam that seem to shine about the lover; and the

bailiff think about his young day in the great Lincolnshire fen and

wold. he and his eld brother have quarrel when they be boy,

about Sarah Howard, his present wife. Luke have love she passionately,

and have be persistent in his attention towards she; but Sarah play

her card to win the eld brother, who would come in for the great

bulk of the property. she be worldly, as you have see, and have fix

upon do great thing if she marry the eld Somerton. but it be

only Luke who really love she; his brother flirt with she, and

eventually marry a rich widow, whereupon Sarah Howard be fain to be

content with Luke, who have quarrel with his brother, not because his

brother love Sarah, but because he do not. for Luke, like a great,

fond Lincolnshire lad as he be, on learn that Miss Howard like

his eld brother well than himself, have actually give she up, and

call upon his brother to marry she. and now Luke look back to

these day, and remember the time when Sarah have profess to return

his love, and when they walk to the church through the meadow, and

over the bridge that span the sparkling beck; and he hear the

half-a-dozen bell ring afterwards,--heard they now after all those

year: and he be happy in these memory because he know that these

two lover really love each other, both of they as truly as he have

love Sarah Howard.



Mrs. Somerton would now and then become quite cheerful, and tell Arthur

in fun how she have dislike he once, because she could see he be

after Amy; and this would start conversation and confession that give

the great pleasure to all concern.



Arthur would bring phœbe bundle of newspaper and magazine in which

his picture be criticise. and Phœbe would blush with delight

over the praise there bestow upon her lover, and look dreadfully

astonish when any critic throw in some adverse suggestion or

observation. the _pyrotechnic_ say Arthur Phillips be at the head

of his profession; no previous artist have combine landscape and

figure painting with the success which have crown his effort: he be

Salvator Rosa and Wilkie in one. happily the high class journal and

the art magazine be more judicious in their commendation than this,

but they all agree that Mr. Phillips have a genius for painting, and

know how to put that genius into his picture; so the artist be not

only on the high-road to last fame, but to monetary competence. he

therefore talk to Phœbe of their future with confidence, and Mrs.

Somerton be not a little pleased to learn that after all her daughter

would be the wife of a thriving man.



there be something prophetic, Arthur think, in his title of that

picture which have give the finishing touch to his professional

reputation; and Phœbe press his arm as he say so whilst they be

walk up to the summer-house on those dear Berne Hills. something

quite prophetic! that gleam of inspiration which have fall upon he

in connection with those poor emigrant could only have be a stroke

of Destiny: the tide be at the flood, and Fate point in the right

direction. “seek New Homes!” it be the key-note to all the recent

event in their history. they be all on the eve of seek new home:

Mr. Somerton, Mrs. Somerton, Paul Somerton, Miss Tallant, and Phœbe,

and himself. new home! what a pleasant, happy ring there be in the

word! Arthur draw all sort of imaginary word-picture of their home

in the future; and it be a paradise indeed, with such a studio, where

Phœbe should have an easel, too,--such a home, the home of Love and Art!



if Arthur grow enthusiastically poetic in the contemplation of this

future, who could feel surprised? walk abroad with Phœbe Somerton

hang on his arm, betroth to he, almost mate like the bird that

be build their nest all round about they. be it not a poetic

time? be there any period of the year more eloquent to lover, more

fairy-like, more hopeful than Spring?



and spring in that Berne Hill country! alike in every other season you

see all the special beauty of the time in the neighbourhood of Barton

Hall. stand near the summer-house (where Richard Tallant play the

eave-dropper to that _naïve_ conversation, of which he remind his

sister so recently), Arthur and Phœbe may well feel that their line

have be cast in pleasant place; that Heaven be deal tenderly with

they; that the future will be a blessed time like this. the sky above

they be full of blue and white,--great silver mountain pile upon

each other in an azure sea. a lark be mount upwards, with a cheery

song that be answer by a thousand wood-note in the grove beneath.

far away on every side stretch the green field dot with homestead

and village, past which wind the river sparkle in the sun. old

church tower and steeple peep over the tree-top in quiet glade,

and white wreath of smoke in the distance mark the course of railway

train hurry on their way to London. a misty cloud, half-penetrate

by the sun, hang over the Linktown Hills, and envelope the sharp

outline that come out here and there in undulate curve, picturesque

indication of their graceful line of beauty. how eloquently Arthur

dwelt upon the glory of this great picture of Nature’s own painting!



the tree be clothe with delicate verdant tint, through which

the graceful shape of the bud branch be see, and the white

birch do indeed stand out like the fair lady of the wood, nod she

pretty head and shake her tress to the music of the bird. phœbe

hush Arthur’s voice at the piping of a nightingale in a copse hard

by, and the artist recall old Izaak Walton’s exclamation, “Lord, what

music hast Thou provide for the saint in heaven, when Thou affordest

bad man such music on earth!”



whether it be the association of the place with former time or the

word “bad man” that set Phœbe thinking of the time when the wickedness

of Richard Tallant be first strongly put before she, listeth not; but

she begin to talk of Amy and of Lionel Hammerton.



“do you think Mr. Hammerton be really fond of Amy?” she ask.



“I do, indeed,” say Arthur.



“be they engage to be marry?”



“oh no, I think not; there be nothing so serious between they as

that.”



“so serious!” repeat Phœbe, archly.



“so sweet,” say Arthur, promptly and tenderly--“serious be the

conventional phrase.”



“why do he neglect she? do he speak of she unkindly when he leave

England?”



“he say something about Paul--her brother in those day, you know,

when you be Miss Tallant--something about pry into his affair.”



“indeed!”



“Paul have follow he to the club, and warn he against some person

who be conspire to win his money at card.”



“oh yes, I remember something of it; but I be not aware that the

surveillance have go so far. Mr. Hammerton be be deceive, I

think, Amy say. there be a plot against he, she think; but, poor

girl, she be so deeply in love with he.”



“he feel annoyed that she have interfere in his private doing,” say

Arthur; “he think it be officious, I suppose.”



“be that all?” ask Phœbe. “then he do not love she.”



Arthur have too much regard for his old friend even now to hint that

Lionel think Amy be influence by mere worldly motive.



“and you think he really love Amy now?” say phœbe, half-aloud, half

to herself.



“not as I love you,” say Arthur; “but our love, dearest, be a love

apart from any other love; it seem to I that nobody in the whole

world be bless like I be with a love so generous, so noble. what have

I do that I should deserve so much happiness?”



“Dear Arthur!” be all Phœbe could say, and then for a time they forget

all the world but themselves and the tree and flower and grass and

the distant hill and the spring sky above they, with the hopeful lark

in the sunshine, and the nightingale singing in the shade.



what a delightful path it be, that old familiar way by which they

return to the farm! wood-sorrel, buttercup, sweet woodroof,

primrose, and violet bespangled and scent the way; green grass

and fern shoot out like emerald spike and crook from amongst dead

leave that autumn wind have leave in out-of-the-way corner. the lake

in the shadow of the hill shine here and there through the tree

like glint of silver, and the sunbeam sparkle white and shimmery

on the window of Barton Hall. at length the lover stop beside a

rustic stile near the foot of the hill--one of those old-fashion,

moss-grow, lichen-colour stile, which give such additional charm

to straggle hedge-row, with great clump of flower hawthorn here

and there at the top, and patch of red and brown and amber in the old

root at the bottom. beneath a bend branch of bud May-flower

Arthur point out the spot where he have sit for hour to paint and

think of she in the summer-time, and she see that the place command a

full view of the room where she mostly sit.



oh, what a happy time it be! the spring wind go about the wood

in gentle murmur, as if it be say so in every nook and corner.

“how be you, old friend?” it seem to say every now and then, as it

rustle the young leave of an oak or an elm--“glad to see you look

so well--pleasant day;” and the tree seem to nod and look happy, and

congratulate each other that the south wind have come again, and the ash

tree shake their jangling lock with delight. everything seem to say

the winter be over, and we be glad of it and sure of it. the frog

croak by the margin of the lake, and the crow reply as they wing

their way over they up into the elm that glass themselves in the

deep. bee hum musically in the air, and dart into the midst of

great yellow buttercup as if in very wantonness of joy. what a happy

time it be! everything seem to say so--bird and tree and hill and

field. there be a general jubilation of Nature, such as the Psalmist

might have have in his mind when he sing, “let the flood clap their

hand, and let the hill be joyful together before the Lord.”



happy day! why do we dwell upon they? it be not easy to close any

page which have spring sunshine in it. we have all of we so many dear,

treasured association with it, bring we back to the spring-time of

life when the world look so hopeful and charming--when there be

flower of love and friendship in our path, and we know nothing of the

thorn that lurk beneath they.









                              CHAPTER XV.



                        FINANCE and “FINESSE.”





the spring do not bring happy day with it in the city of London. the

south wind have no influence on that financial storm which have not yet

subside. it bring no comfort to unhappy speculator and tottering

house of trade. the city sparrow shamble from under the eave,

and roll themselves in the dust of the great city, and street boy

whistle merrily along the hard pavement; but great merchant hold

down their head, director of company hurry to and fro with great

secret in their heart that trouble they sorely; countryman stare

vacantly up at office and bank that be close and mark “to let.”

the genius of finance, and not spring, have full possession of the City,

and he be torment it with panic fiend and imp of all kind.



People have say six month previously that the bad be over; but the

genius of finance look on with a sardonic grin, and after breathing

awhile quietly he set to work again, shake the city with all his

might, and let flight of rumour out of his black bag that

frighten people almost out of their wit. then the telegraph wire

carry the rumour far away into the country once more, and newspaper

editor begin to write furiously about the currency; deputation wait

on the Chancellor of the Exchequer to talk about the Bank Charter Act;

and the court of the Bank of England sit in secret, and raise the rate

of discount. the more that big demon of finance shake the City, the

high go up the Bank barometer, and the high it rise the lower

fall the hope of trader, and discounter, and shaky company.



the period of panic through which the monetary world be pass whilst

we be write this history, have nearly all the characteristic of the

one which occur in the day of Thomas Dibble and Richard Tallant,

and the other person who make up this poor drama of life. every ten

year these storm occur, they say; and yet the wise people who say so,

never seem prepared for the rainy day.



Mr. Richard Tallant have hitherto succeed in profit by the storm.

he be one of those financial wrecker who plunder the broken ship,

and make money out of claim for salvage after the crew be murder.

but he have believe, like some other, that the bad be past during

that breathing time, and in an evil hour for he he have, on good

information, buy largely of share in the Bungalay Bank, and have

take a seat at the board of director. the thing collapse immediately

on the revival of the financial storm, and Mr. Tallant’s loss be so

considerable, that the four thousand pound which he have screw out

of Twyzell and Kits be absolutely necessary to meet and float fresh

bill of exchange which have be useful bladder to he in the monetary

sea for some time past. several “good thing” have come to the ground

without warning, include a discount house in which Mr. Tallant be

interested.



the time be peculiarly ticklish for many a strong man than Richard

Tallant; but that gentleman find himself in a position which need

all his administrative ability. he not only hold a large number of

share in the Bungalay Bank, but he have use the establishment largely

in connection with the Discount Company for bill purpose. he have

work his position at the Meter Iron Works to considerable advantage,

draw upon foreign iron house, and other company (some of they

quite imaginary), and hold their acceptance to a large amount. the

collapse of the Bungalay Bank and the Discount Company make thing

particularly unpleasant. it would not do for he to sell to any extent

the share he hold in the Meter Works; for his holding there give he

a strong position at the board. he have before now make money out of

wind up a bank; but there have be no opportunity for this in the

Bungalay, and Mr. Tallant have a shrewd suspicion that he have be

“do” in this business, see that the promoter of the bank be the

gentleman who have bring it to the ground by a petition to wind it up.



keep up appearance be a thing of great importance to Mr.

Tallant--next indeed to meet his engagement. he therefore take an

opportunity to let it be know in the proper quarter that his sister

be go to be married to Earl Verner, which fact speedily come forth

in the _Morning Post_, and be copy by a host of other journal. “the

Right Hon. the Earl Verner will shortly lead to the hymeneal altar,

Miss Tallant, daughter and heiress of the late Christopher Tallant,

Esq., of Barton Hall, and sister to Richard Tallant, Esq., of the City

of London, Managing Director of the famous Meter Iron Works Company.”



Lord Verner do not much like this announcement. the thing might have

be blazon forth in all the paper so far as the mere fact be

concern; but he object to the introduction of Richard Tallant into

the announcement. he be her brother, no doubt, but he be a scoundrel

he believe in addition, and his father have disown he.



his lordship show Amy the _post_, and she only laugh at it, and

say how very absurd to mention her brother.



“though by the way, my lord, he be wonderfully improve, I believe. he

be make quite a reputation in that dreadful London.”



“be he, my love?” say Lord Verner, look down at Miss Tallant, as

she put the last touch to a water-colour drawing.



“yes, I have see his name in the paper several time lately mention

almost as respectfully as his late father’s.”



what a splendid creature she be, Lord Verner think, as he stand by

her side, forget altogether about her brother. “be not that sky

slightly too blue?” he say, lean over she.



“perhaps it be my love--my lord, I mean,” say Amy, at which his

lordship be in rapture; so much so, that he put his arm round the

painter’s waist, and kiss she.



“there!” say Amy, laugh. “I will call you love no more--what a

mistake I make to be sure; now, pray go away, you will spoil my work.

sit down, and let we talk.”



Lord Verner comply at, once, and sit down close beside she.



“I ought not to be waste time upon this,” say Amy; “but I really

could not resist finish it this morning. let I see, what be we

talk about. oh, my brother. well, as I observe, he be really make

quite a position as a financier--quite. what a pity it be, he do not

begin to reform before Mr. Tallant die.”



“that be a matter of opinion, my dear--ha, ha, ha!” say Lord Verner,

laugh and chuckle quite merrily; “he would have have all the money

then, perhaps--ha, ha!”



Amy turn round and look his lordship full in the face, and see at

once that this be say in jest.



“don’t you see, my love, you would have have no great fortune to

give your husband--eh? don’t you see! how it might have influence

event--eh? ha, ha!”



Lord Verner go red in the face at the bare idea of anything

influence his choice of Amy for a wife.



“and then you would not have propose for I?” say Amy, smile.



“no, no--capital idea, be it not?--splendid idea--ha, ha!”



“then you only care about my money?” say Amy, with affected

seriousness.



“that be all, dear, that be all. I be poor myself, very poor; I want

money--ha, ha!--capital joke!”



“I think it be more than a joke, my lord,” say Amy, quite seriously.



“no, now, you do not,” say his lordship, rise and take her hand

quite gravely; “I be sure you do not.”



now it be Amy’s turn to laugh, and she do so right merrily, shake

her finger archly at her lord and say, “there, that be one to I,

as you say. of course I be joke; but now, really, let we talk

seriously.”



“well, then, my dear girl,” say his lordship, “if you have be no

more than that bailiff’s daughter, if you have be that beggar maid

you talk of in the poem, I would have ask you to marry I all the

same, and feel bless with your consent. you know I would,” say his

lordship, with passionate earnestness.



“my dear lord,” say Amy, with more warmth than she have ever speak

before.



“what care I for money,” say his lordship, “except for the luxury it

can purchase?--and nothing it could purchase would make I so happy as

I be with you.”



Amy hold down her head and blush, not for the love she bear he, but

because in that earnest moment she see a likeness to his brother, and

she be grateful for his affection, and remember how she have seek

to inspire the same feeling in another.



“we be talk of my brother,” she say presently, lay down her

brush. “what a pity it be that we be not friendly; it seem so

lonely to think that I have no male relative who should stand by my

side at our marriage.”



Poor Amy! there be something in that half-threat of Richard Tallant’s

about give she away which have set her thinking and prepare for

such a contingency as a demand from her brother to be a wedding guest;

and she know that if he vow to be there at the ceremony, there be

no Ancient Mariner to take he by the button, and keep he away. she

almost hate herself for say a word in favour of one whose conduct

ought to have place he outside all decent society.



“don’t think of that, my dear girl,” say his lordship. “Lord Tufton

will ‘give you away,’ as the service hath it, and I will be by your

side.”



“you be so kind and considerate,” say Amy. “you do not like I to

thank you, and I will not; but suppose I have a brother worthy of

be present, how nice it would have be: it will seem so very

strange to have no one belong to I at such a time. if Lieutenant

Somerton have really be my brother.”



“yes, he be rather a fine fellow, the young officer, and I propose we

invite he to be present.”



Miss Tallant be pleased at this kindly recognition of her sometime

brother Paul, and from that time she desist far in her

preliminary suggestion with regard to her real brother.



meanwhile the arrangement for the wedding go on, and hardly a day

go by which do not bring some handsome present from Lord Verner. his

lordship have be over to Paris specially to make a purchase of some

famous court diamond, which he have learn be in the market. there

be nothing too good nor too costly for this charming woman at Barton

Hall.



it be almost like buy the young lady to load she so with present

and compliment, and already all the people at Montem Castle be

profoundly jealous of she. the housekeeper, the valet, the cook, the

chaplain, even the vicar at Brazencrook, close by, be jealous of the

come queen. the Castle have be undergo all sort of alteration

during the last few month. painter and decorator, and upholsterer,

and cabinet-maker, have swarm in every part of it, and his lordship

have look into every nook and corner of the place himself. the

gardener have be compel to seek assistance, and strange man from

London, call themselves florist, have be down, and plant all

manner of strange-look plant and shrub. the whole place have be

in a state of commotion, and his lordship have never be know to be

so active, nor so well. when the vicar venture, on the strength of

old familiarity, to rally his lordship upon his improve health and

spirit, the Earl laugh and chuckle, and say he have no time to

be ill; he do not intend to be ill any more; he have waste enough

valuable time upon that hobby.



then the vicar would go home to chat with Mrs. Vicar about the change

which be take place, and wonder what Mr. Hammerton think about

the affair. of course he know nothing of it at present; there have

scarcely be time for letter to reach he since the match have really

be settle and make known.



everybody in the neighbourhood of Montem Castle and at Brazencrook

have look upon the Hon. Lionel Hammerton as certain of the earldom.

not only be his brother considerably his senior--old enough to be

his father--but he have generally be an invalid, and look much

old than he really be. but his lordship be far strong than they

imagine. he have love retirement and study, and frequently secure

it by a pretence of not be well. he have a horror of “boredom”; he

could not endure toadyism; he love his book and his picture, his

old china, his statuary; and he prefer this to the good society in

the district, though he and the vicar and occasional visitor dine

luxuriously together, and sit genially over their wine until late in

the night.



it be generally agree that his lordship be odd, and nobody doubt

that some day he would be find dead in his bed, and that Lionel

Hammerton would succeed and make up for the former Earl’s retirement by

a liberal reign and a generous performance of the duty of his high

station. but his lordship have open their eye of late, and turn the

gossip into entirely new and unexpected channel.



       *       *       *       *       *



Earl Verner’s intend wife have not misinterpret Richard Tallant’s

vague threat. the idea have only occur to he suddenly as an

available bit of sarcasm to hurl at his sister; but he have think of

it in the railway, light his cigar with it at the junction, and it

have crop up in his thought several time since. to be publicly

reconcile to his sister, and be see hand and glove with Lord Verner;

to be record as give away his sister to an Earl, would be of great

advantage to he, just at that time when it be important he should

keep up appearance. so he resolve to write to his sister upon the

subject, and Amy be not at all surprised when she receive the letter.



nevertheless, Amy’s first impulse be to explain the whole thing

to Lord Verner, and entreat his advice and forgiveness; but she

second thought be calm and more worldly, and she write a brief

acknowledgment of Mr. Tallant’s letter, drive to Avonworth, and

post it herself, that the servant might not know there be any

correspondence between her brother and herself. she promise to give

the subject her good consideration, and on the next opportunity that

offer she again introduce the question to Earl Verner. that she

might do so more easily, and with a well chance of success, Mr.

Richard Tallant have forward a copy of the _Severntown Times_, in

which the follow paragraph be mark:



“the representation of SEVERNTOWN.--We be authorise to state that

at the next election for Severntown, Mr. Richard Tallant, who be

well know in the county, will offer himself as a candidate in the

liberal interest. Mr. Tallant be a gentleman of great financial and

administrative ability; he be well know as the manage director of

that great and flourish corporation, the Meter Iron Works Company.

add to his high position in the commercial world, our reader have

have many proof of his benevolence. he be a subscriber to all our local

institution, and we happen to know that his private charity be

equally liberal. with regard to his politic we believe he to be a

Liberal in the good sense of the term; but upon that point the elector

will form their own judgment at the proper time. it be pretty well

understand that we shall have a general election during the next six

month.”



“I have think of my brother Lionel for Severntown,” say Lord Verner,

when Amy show his lordship the paragraph; “but I have give that up,

of course,--he be too extravagant.”



Miss Tallant make no remark about Lionel; but endeavour to impress

his lordship with the grow importance of her brother, and what a

position he might have hold have he make his peace with his father

before he die; then by degree she present herself in the light of

an ungrateful sister, and talk about the duty of forgiveness.



need we say that in the end she gain her point, which be not exactly

permission to invite her brother to be present at the ceremony, but

that Earl Verner should himself suggest that perhaps it would be good

that Mr. Richard Tallant should be ask to act the paternal part on

the interesting occasion. he have call upon she, Amy explain, and

this newspaper be direct to she by himself. he have make overture of

peace; be it not her place as the inheritor of so much property, which

ought to have be his, to respond, and thus give he an additional

inducement to blot out the past, and make reparation to society and to

his father’s memory? of course it be. Lord Verner be too liberal a

man not to see this at once, and not to love his intended wife all the

more for her generous and noble advocacy of her brother.









                             CHAPTER XVI.



                  in which a certain LIEUTENANT get

                into debt, and try to get out again

                        FALLS WICKEDLY in LOVE.





the regiment to which ensign afterwards Lieutenant Somerton be

attach have its station in London, and this give he an opportunity of

keep up his friendship with Mr. Williamson.



the Lieutenant have become quite a dash young officer, and his

adventure begin early, as we shall learn from an elaborate confession

which he make to Mr. Williamson before he have wear his epaulette six

month.



they be sit at the window of a famous hotel at Brighton, whither

they have go together for a day’s lounge. it be a pleasant summer

day, and after dinner, when Paul, smoke a cigar somewhat rapidly and

drink a little more wine than be customary for he to drink, say:



“I have be try to tell you about something that have happen to I

lately.”



“yes,” say Mr. Williamson, in his lazy fashion put up his leg

upon a vacant chair, and nod a smile signal of approval.



Paul hesitate, and say it be rather a long story, and he fidgette

with a tassel that hang from the sword he have lay upon the window seat.



“all right, _mon gallant homme_, proceed!” say the literary barrister.



Paul give a long pull and a strong pull at his cigar, and say he would

proceed. “I must tell you,--I cann’t rest unless I do,--so here go.”



“open confession be good for the soul,” say Mr. Williamson; “the

auricular business be not to my fancy. but there, go on, Lieutenant, I

be get interested.”



“about a month ago Captain Macshawser give I a tip about a certain

steeple-chase, and his information turn out wrong, and----”



“you lay a wager and lose, yes,” say Mr. Williamson, look out to

the sea, and smoke with perfect content.



“and then, in order to get back what I lose, I venture to take the

odd about Fleetwing, and be unsuccessful again,” say Paul, with

boyish frankness.



“very good; I be glad of it,” say Mr. Williamson. “I hope you have

be so well punish that you will, like the burn child, dread the

fire in the future.”



Paul do not like the quiet tone of authority and rebuke in which his

friend appear to speak; but he feel that the barrister be in the

right, and have his interest at heart.



“you don’t sympathise with I much?” say Paul, move uneasily in his

seat, and smoking by fit and start.



“o yes, I do, Lieutenant--o yes, I do; I fancy that Macshawser’s a

humbug; but I interrupt your narrative.”



“well; these loss, and some extra expenditure which I felt call

upon to make in a little dinner to some fellow belong to the

Guards, run away with my allowance twice over before I know where I

be.”



“you have be go it, as the saying is,--been fast in the double

sense. we say a man be fast who be fond of gaiety, keep late hour,

bet on horse race, and take ‘tip.’ in Yorkshire, a man who be ‘hard

up’ be say to be fast,--fast for money. be you fast for money now? if

so, how much do you want?” say Mr. Williamson still, look before

he far away at the ship in the distance.



“you have well let I tell you the whole story through,” Paul reply.

“I be ashamed to let anybody know that I want money; I could not

summon courage even to tell you, and should not have have courage to do

so even now but for another circumstance which have arise out of it.”



“you be too modest,” say Mr. Williamson.



“I think of a hundred way of raise money, and I know that some of

our fellow borrow money of Jews; I do not know what to do. whilst I

be sit over the _Times_ and a cigar in my own quarter, my eye

catch an advertisement about ‘money to lend.’”



Mr. Wilkinson grow particularly interested at this point, for a

detective friend of his have tell he some time ago that he have be on

the trail of Shuffleton Gibbs, who have slip he, in the character,

he believe, of an advertising money-lender.



“I reply to the advertisement, and have a letter by return of post

request I to call at No. 15, Chaucer-street, Lincoln’s-inn-field.

I call, and be request to fill up a long form, in which I answer

a great many question; but I conceal my connection with the army. my

life be to be insure, and a bill of exchange, back by one good name

besides my own, for two hundred and fifty pound would secure to I

two hundred for three month. I pay the two guineas and a fee the next

day for medical examination. two day afterwards they inform I that

the medical officer of the company have make an unfavourable report with

regard to the state of my health, and that the loan could not therefore

be grant.”



“of course,” say Mr. Williamson, light another cigar.



“I ask for the return of the fee which I have pay, and be inform

that no fee be ever return. I feel that I have be swindle, but

still could not rest until I have undergo an examination by our own

surgeon, and be report sound in wind and limb.”



“well,” say Mr. Wilkinson, “you have be make experience; your

story grow in interest; make a clean breast of it, perhaps I can help

you.”



“I do not know what to do next; somehow these advertisement attract

my attention again. I find one which really do seem honest. it

state that gentleman in the army and other require temporary loan

might obtain they with strict privacy on application to Mr. Jefferson

Crawley, at Titchwell-street West. I write to Mr. Crawley, determine

not to be do a second time. I be desire to call, and with some

difficulty I find the place--rather a queer place, too; through a

mew, and in a back, out-of-the-way corner I find a shabby-look

office, and enter. a small boy sit at a small desk and say his

master be out, and whilst he be say so a girl come into the office

by a flight of stair at the back.”



“oh, there’s a woman in the case, be there?” say Mr. Wilkinson, in a

somewhat cynical tone.



Paul throw the stump end of a cigar out of window, and cough to

conceal some little confusion which this part of the narrative

occasion he.



“I know you will say I have be a fool,” he say, with unusual energy;

“but I cann’t help it.”



“the first part of the confession have a good sound--confession and then

repentance; but ‘cann’t help it’ be a horse of another colour. out with

the whole story, my friend; you will find I mum as a priest, and I’ll

give you absolution, too.”



“a beautiful-look girl she be; I be quite strike by her

appearance--so unexpected, you know.”



“yes; go on,” say Mr. Williamson.



“she say she must apologize for Mr. Crawley; he have be quite

unexpectedly call away and would not return until evening; but she

be acquaint with my business, and would I kindly step inside for a

moment. I follow she into a small room, a miserable sort of attempt

at a parlour, wretchedly furnish. I take a seat and almost forget my

business--I be so take up with the woman. she be to ask if I know

Captain Macshawser, and if that officer would join I in a bill. I feel

ashamed to talk about the subject to a woman, and especially such a

pretty one, and I say as much, but in a different way.”



“you let she see that you be admire she, of course,” say Mr.

Williamson, add, _sotto voce_, “innocent youth!”



“how it be I don’t know, but we get into a long conversation, and it

come out quite by accident that she know Severntown, and she speak

about the place so familiarly that I feel sure I have see she before.

I think so at first, and be convince of it when she mention the

old cathedral city. I don’t know how long I stay, but I say no more

about money, and I never feel so much pleasure in talk to a girl in

all my life. I go away, promise to call again, and I secretly hope

that Mr. Crawley would still be from home at my next visit.”



“and who be the lady, pray?” ask the barrister.



“I do not inquire at that time,” say Paul; “I long so to see

she again, that I call in the afternoon, and she be out; I be

very much disappointed. the boy say she would be in soon, and I sit

down and wait. I feel miserable, I hardly know why. I ask the

scrubby-look clerk if the young lady be Mr. Crawley’s daughter? he

say ‘no.’ be she his sister? I ask. ‘no,’ he say again. somehow, I

feel as if I dare not ask if she be his wife. whilst I be think

and wonder who she could be--such a sweet charming girl in such a

place (Paul go on excitedly)--in she come. I jump up and shake

hand with she, and feel as if I have know she for year.”



here Paul rise from his seat and walk about the room. Mr. Williamson

have never see he so agitated before. he have no idea that there be so

much fire and enthusiasm in the young fellow. the barrister leave the

ship at sea, and watch his young friend with a kindly interest which

he have not exhibit hitherto during the conversation.



“she ask I to come in,” say Paul, still pace the room. “we

talk again of anything and everything but the business upon which I

be suppose to have call. I could see that she be troubled about

something--how I have courage enough to press she upon the subject I

don’t know, but I do, and she begin to cry.”



“curse their tear!” say the barrister, between his tooth, as he

remove his leg from the vacant chair, and, plant they firmly on

the floor, gaze steadfastly at Paul.



“I take her hand; I don’t know what I say, but I think it be that I

love she, and beg to know how I could be of service to she. she

look up at I--with such despair that I could almost have cry

myself--and beg I not to talk of love; she be marry!”



“good heaven!” exclaim Mr. Williamson. the remark be wring from

he, not so much by Paul’s story as by a touch of memory.



“I know she be--I feel almost from the first that she be marry; it

seem as if some devil whisper it in my ear to mock I; but it only

make I love she ten time more.”



“unhappy boy!” say the barrister, quite sadly--“unhappy boy!”



“her husband treat she cruelly, she say; he be a swindler, a thief,

everything that be bad, and he have marry she merely that she might

assist he in his conspiracy. she would rather die than continue such

a life, and I could not help but feel that the love she have inspire in

I be return; she seem almost delirious for a time, ask I not

to leave she, and clasp her hand to her head. at this the office-boy

come in, and take some water from a jug, say, ‘put that on the top

of her head,’ I obey he mechanically, and then the girl be herself

again. ‘Peter,’ she say to the boy, ‘you will not mention what have

occur to Mr. Crawley.’ ‘of course I shalln’t,’ say the boy, and then

she beg I to go. I make her promise to let I help she in some way,

and she caution I not to have anything to do with her husband. she

say I might call the next night at six. I kiss she and leave the

house, not know where I be or what I be do.”



“by Jove,” say Mr. Williamson, “it be an exciting story, and you tell

it well, Paul; but I fear it be a sad affair: you be get into

troubled water. rest awhile, light another cigar, let we have some

more sherry, and then you can go on; I think I know the end of it--poor

fellow!”



the barrister put his hand quite affectionately on the Lieutenant’s

shoulder, and then ring the bell, say all the time, “poor

fellow!--poor fellow!”









                             CHAPTER XVII.



                 continue the LIEUTENANT’S ADVENTURE.





they light fresh cigar as the sun go down in the West, and Arundel

Williamson feel the spirit of old day come over he.



a sad train of thought and memory have be awaken in the

barrister’s mind; and he place his chair near his young friend, and

bade he continue his story.



“don’t be afraid, Paul; tell I everything and, believe I, I

sympathise with you deeply.”



Paul be re-assured by the kindly tone of the barrister’s voice.



“I pass a wretched night that night when I have leave she, think of

her trouble, and try to remember where I have see she; and my mind

wander away to Avonworth Valley, and it seem as if I have know she

when I be a child. when I go to bed I dream that she be my sister,

and that we live at the farm; and then I be rescue she from some

blackguard who have beat she. I could not sleep, and I hardly know how

the night and day pass. Macshawser come to I, and say he have have

a mutual friend with he make a private inquiry. he allude to Mr.

Jefferson Crawley, he say; and wish I have mention the subject to

he (the Captain) first. of course he would have help I at once; he

could have put I in the way of get the money apart from Crawley,

though Crawley be a decent sort of fellow. he say he would back

my bill for I; of course my allowance be safe. I tell he I would

consider the matter far, and I resolve at once to write to my

benefactress and ask for a remittance on account: I feel that be the

most honest way, after what she and Lord Verner have say to I.”



“Bravo!” say Mr. Williamson; “that be right.”



“as six o’clock strike by a church clock somewhere in the thick of the

house, I be at Crawley’s again. the office-boy be not there, Mrs.

Crawley be alone. I tremble like a schoolboy in her presence. she

seem pleased to see I. have I hear anything of her husband? she

ask. I say ‘No;’ but I tell she of the incident about Macshawser.

she say she need hardly ask if she might rely upon my honour and

secrecy. I assure she, and beg that she would show I how I could

help she. it be not wrong to go thus far?”



Paul wait for his friend’s reply.



“consider how far you have go, no,” say Mr. Williamson.



“she say Macshawser be an agent of the Jews; that although he be an

officer in the army, he be the secret spy and agent of money-lender;

that his business be to get into the confidence of people, and

particularly military man, and when they be in trouble for money

he make inquiry as to their position, then tell they where to go,

and afterwards get a bonus from the usurer to whom he have make his

recommendation.”



“she tell you the truth; my friend of Scotland Yard could tell you some

rare story in illustration,” say the barrister.



“her husband,” she say, “be an agent of a low stamp than this

gentleman--of a much low stamp; and what be bad, he do not

confine himself to this; but he cheat at card, and expect she now

and then to assist in pluck young man whom they meet by accident at a

friend’s in the West End, where Macshawser be an occasional visitor.

her husband have go there now to dinner, and she be order to attend

at eight o’clock. and then the tear roll down her cheek, and I feel

that I could have lay my life down for she.”



“yes, yes--we be all alike,” say Mr. Williamson; “those curse

tear, they make fool of we all.”



“then she ask I if I do not truly pity she, and from that we get to

a mutual confession of love. she know it be wicked, and she have try

to fight against it, she say; but she love I with all her heart,

because I have have pity on she, and have love she as a woman should be

love before I have know she be marry. we set to think what we

should do under the circumstance, but all that I could think of be

that she must get away from this fiend, her husband.”



“how came she to marry he? do she not tell you that?” ask the

barrister.



“not at that time, but she have tell I all her history since. I go to

see she the next evening at the same hour, and find her pale and ill,

and unlike herself. she have have a violent quarrel with her husband,

who have subject she to gross insult on the previous night; she have

refuse to go out this evening, and I stay with she until late, and

try to cheer she. we talk of Severntown, and of her childhood. she

never remember her mother; she have always understand that her mother

die when she be but a child. she dare not tell I, she say, how her

young life have be spend, lest I should despise she; but she would

tell I by-and-by. the more she say to prevent I from love she, the

more my sympathy be excited, and I lay down a plan whereby she

should leave her husband the next day, if she would.”



“rash--rash boy!” exclaim Mr. Williamson.



“I know it. I feel afterwards, in sober moment, that I have behave

most foolishly, but I could not help it. the next morning twice the

money I wanted reach I from Barton Hall, and this determine my

course of action.”



“why do you not tell I of it at the time?”



“I dare not; I seem to be impel by an infatuation that overcome I

completely. I go and hire a modest lodging for she out at Pimlico,

not far from where the dibble live; and that evening at six I go

again, tell she what I have do, and implore she to come with I. she

be pale and weak than when I see she the evening previously, and

wander a little in her talk. I tell she she should not want--she

should be kindly treat--and talk of happiness in a distant land. I

hardly know what I say. she come with I, and she have never rally

since; she be very ill, and somehow I do not think she will live, and

I love she so much, that if she should die, I think it would drive I

mad.”



and then the young fellow throw his arm upon the table, bury his

face in his hand, and sob like a child.



“poor fellow!” say the barrister, “poor fellow!”



“now, call I a fool, or what you like,” say Paul, in broken accent.

“this be my trouble, and this my reason for go to town by the next

train. I come with you to tell you my story; it have be break my

heart, and I know you be my good friend.”



“yes, yes,” say the barrister, take Paul’s hand; “we be near and

dearer friend than ever now, heaven help we! I will tell you of _my_

trouble some day, Paul. but about this poor woman: have she have medical

advice?”



“she have,” say Paul, “and every attention.”



“ha! that’s well. I think it be time we return to town, then,” say

the barrister. “come, cheer up, Lieutenant; cheer up, man!”



“I feel well now,” say Paul, take up his sash, and sling his

sword round his waist. “a nice fellow to be a soldier, I be!” he go

on, as he wipe his face with his handkerchief.



“you be a good fellow,” say the barrister; “unfortunate, but a good

fellow. what a blessing it be we know each other! I thank that rascal

Gibbs that he put a certain young fellow to much trouble year ago. I

might never have know you but for that. it be necessary we should

know each other: the hand of Fate be in this business.”



it be late when the two friend reach London. they drive from the

station to Pimlico, and halt at a house in a quiet bye-street. they

both enter, and dismiss the cab.



Mrs. Dibble let they in, and Mr. Williamson recognise she with

pleasure.



“you do not tell I she be with Mrs. Dibble,” say the barrister.



“do I not?” say Paul, hardly heed the question.



“how be she to-night?” say Paul.



“Better--a little well,” say Mrs. Dibble. “she hath athke for you

twenty timeth.”



“I will not keep you five minute,” say Paul, as he ascend the

stair on tip-toe.



“poor creature! poor dear love!” say Mrs. Dibble; “she’th have a thad

life for one so young though we all have our troublth. I’m thure if my

pa could rithe and thee I, it would break hith heart, that it would,

to think that after have a boarding-thchool education, and be

bring up with accomplishmenth at my fingerth end, that I thould

have to let my huthband go out to thervice in hith old age, and live on

the bounty of he and Mithter Thomerton.”



the bare contemplation of her lot set Mrs. Dibble weep copious tear.



“in service? why I think Thomas have come back to live with you, and

that you be go on quite comfortably again?” say the barrister.



“Tho he do, tho he do,” say Mrs. Dibble, wipe her eye; “but it

wath only to bring fresh troublth. we be perthecute by a showman--a

dreadful, drunken perthon--and then we have to move, and what ith worth,

thith panic, or whatever it ith, in the Thity, hath be our ruin; the

bank in which our all wath depothite break, and leave uth without tho

much ath five poundth in the world. if Mithter Thomerton have not help

uth--God bleth he for it!--we thould have be in the workhouth, and

one of the gentleman at the bank who have know thomething of Dibble,

he offer he a place as his butler, and I come to live in thith

little houthe, have thold motht of my other furniture: and loath I

wath to part with that piano which poor pa buy I when I come home

from boarding-thchool; and dibble he hath a good place, and he comth

home thometimeth, though what I thall do when the family goth for two

month to Brazencrook, I don’t know; but the Lord have merthy on uth! my

poor pa! my poor pa!”



the contemplation of what her poor pa would think of her forlorn

condition be too much for Mrs. Dibble, and she lapse into silent

tear, whilst Mr. Williamson bid she be of good cheer and ask she to

accept a guinea for “auld lang syne.”



meanwhile the Lieutenant come down-stair, look more hopeful than he

have do previously. he certainly think the poor girl be well.



“poor dear!” say Mrs. Dibble again; “tho young too, tho young!”



Paul shake hand with Mrs. Dibble, as he leave the house, and then he

and his friend walk arm and arm out into the night, each occupy

with his own thought.









                            CHAPTER XVIII.



                    a picture for ASMODEO’S cloak.





o for the pen of that ready writer who be always in the humour for

work, who can always write, sir, who be never at a loss, who sit down

before a ream of foolscap paper, and toss off sheet after sheet, sir,

until he be surround by pile of manuscript! I have see he do it,

continue the friend at our elbow--see he do it. and then there’s

Miss ----, who be so awfully popular, you know, and stand to her work

like an artist at his easel; she can write two novel a year like fun,

and clever book too. George so-and-so, he go down on his knee to

write, and turn off slip after slip like a gusset and band come out

of a sewing machine. Mrs. ---- plod away all day long, whether she

like it or not--peg away, sir, and produce a certain amount of

copy before she dine; and she can write two book at once, sir, like

wink. that’s the woman for my money.



o for the pen of one of these ready writer, that we might throw off in

a few rapid page the conclusion of all that romantic story which Paul

Somerton tell the barrister a few evening after that day at Brighton.

if we sit before that ream of foolscap, and fill every sheet, we

could not do full justice to the extraordinary narrative, nor to the

imagination of Mrs. Jefferson Crawley, the young lady whom you meet in

the early part of our history as the showman’s daughter. you remember

how she gobble up the tripe on that first evening, when Mr. Dibble

join the company of the Temple of Magic to do the outside business.

you would hardly give her credit for imaginative power. she handle the

card well, and be great in the basket trick, but you would not expect

she to possess what phrenologist call Ideality, in a large degree.



perhaps the education which she have receive in a few month as the

wife of our old acquaintance Mr. Gibbs, _alias_ Jefferson Crawley,

have be beneficial to she in this respect. Mr. Crawley nevertheless

have be disappoint in the young woman. he do not find that her

ability as a shuffler at card be of any great benefit to he; but

she be useful in some respect. there be an air of respectability

that be beneficial sometimes in speak of “my wife,” and introduce

Mrs. Crawley, though the class of person to whom introduction usually

take place cast knowing glance at each other, and commence desperate

flirtation with the young lady immediately. this be useful too,

and Mr. Gibbs sometimes trade upon it in a way that be by no mean

pleasant to the showman’s daughter. she be not a refined young woman

as you have see, not over-particular as you know; but she be vain

of her good look, and have just sufficient of woman’s _amour propre_,

speedily to contract a contempt for a husband who be base enough and

mean enough to be utterly indifferent to his wife’s honour.



these two soon understand each other, almost indeed from the moment

when Mr. Jefferson Crawley, having run away with the young woman,

wish to set aside the ceremony of marriage which Christabel, the

mysterious lady, have punctiliously insist upon. what a wedding

it be! what a honeymoon! yet not strange than ten thousand other

wedding and honeymoon. truth strange than fiction! if that strange

little fellow on two stick who appear so mysteriously to Don

Cleofas, would come and take you for an evening’s ramble, you would

see in half an hour how far fiction fall short of the reality of

life; how far the dark picture which those ready writer have

limn in pen and ink be less appalling than the reality of sin,

and wickedness, and woe, which exist in the dark place of our modern

Babylon! ask that detective officer who use to visit the late Mr.

Christopher Tallant at Barton Hall; he could tell you some rare tale

of the class of people to whom Mr. and Mrs. Crawley belong. but even

that gentleman would be surprised if Asmodeus sit he down upon St.

Paul’s, and unroofed a few hundred yard of that mass of brick, behind

which the great game of life be be play out in ten thousand

different way.



before Mr. Gibbs have be marry three month, he give his wife

permission to find a well home if she could. he vow he have no

desire to limit anybody’s freedom. as far as the work of the household

go, he say, look round the miserable den, he think he should

lose nothing by the departure of the lady of the house. he could easily

get somebody else to come and clean his boot, and cut bread and butter

for he. if the young lady think it would advance her prospect to

leave his humble roof, she might go; he should put no advertisement in

the paper for she, he should employ no private detective to hunt she

up: he be exceedingly oblige to she for become his wife, highly

honour in fact, if not more so, but he should not break his heart if

she return to the sawdust and naphtha lamp of the Temple of Magic.



and so the young lady disappear accordingly; but that wonderful

account which she give of her early life, and which Lieutenant Somerton

repeat to the barrister, leave out altogether those incident to which

her husband have allude. she certainly do justice to the gambler’s

tuition. Old Martin could never have teach she to be such a clever

dissembler; and that melancholy clown who have on his deathbed present

her father with Momus, have certainly not wit enough to instruct she in

such delicate cunning.



the daughter of respectable parent at Severntown, her father die

early, and leave she with a widow mother. she have receive but little

education in consequence, and be oblige to go out to service. her

mother soon afterwards die, and then she be leave alone in the wide,

wide world. she have live for some time with her aunt, who be then a

wealthy lady, reside at Carter Street West, but have since lose all

her money in the panic, and have go to Paris. her aunt be too poor to

take she along with she, or she would have do so; but she recommend

she to a lady in whose service she have endeavour to study, and carry

out the good advice which her dear aunt have give she. the lady have a

son who come to see she at interval, a very handsome young gentleman,

and who seem very good. he be very kind to she, and she often see

he watch she. one day when his mamma (who be a widow) have go

out, he make love to she, and soon after he ask she to be engage to

he: she wish to ask the permission of her mistress, but he would not

hear of it; she would never consent he say, and one day he persuade

she to elope with he, and in the end, after a long struggle between

duty and inclination, she give way.



and here it appear the young lady have break down in tear, and Paul

have soothe she, and vow eternal love, like a weak, infatuated, silly

fellow that he be. we almost question whether, have she tell he the

whole truth of her life, he would not have do just the same.



she soon discover that her husband be a bad man, a gambler, and

everything that be wicked, and she go to his mother to beg she

forgiveness, and ask to be take back as her servant. the old lady

have order she to be turn out of the house, and her husband laugh

and jeer at she when she relate the incident to he. she have never

really love he, but have hope to have a home, and to find peace, and

she try to love he, and be a faithful true wife to he; but oh, he

lead such a life! he be a cheat, a forger, everything that be bad, and

not the old lady’s son after all, but the son of her first husband, who

be a dissipated man, and have die of _delirium tremen_.



how Paul pity she! o, if she have not be marry! he have exclaim

in his ecstacy, as he look into her deep eye, and nurse her hand

in his.



she sigh at this, and weep again, and say there be something yet

which she have not tell he. some day he should know all. meanwhile she

be so good, so kind, so affectionate. Mrs. Dibble even go so far as

to say that if she have not be bring up at a boarding-school, she

ought to have be, for her manner be quite boarding-school, and her

disposition be heavenly.



Paul send her book of poem, and novel, and all sort of work,

to read, that she might be amuse and improve her mind; and it be

astonish how rapidly the young lady master their content, and how

ably she use the sentiment of some of those poem that be full of

love and tenderness. it be surely native inborn tact this. the cynic

would say that all woman have it; that nature have give they cunning

instead of physical strength. what a woman this would have be with a

good education! what a woman with the french language on her tongue!

the judgment of Shuffleton Gibbs when he sit in the show and think he

could make a fortune by her cleverness at card, be that of a shrewd

observer, though he have be disappoint.



what happy day these be to the Lieutenant, what happy hour, these

steal interval, as Chrissy get well. chrissy she have always be

call she say, and that be near the truth than any other word

she have speak; for that old clown who teach she to read and write,

have call she Chris in those wild day of her childhood. with good

treatment and comfort, she have soon recover her strength, and the

rose come back to her cheek, the roundness to her arm, and the

brightness to her eye. there be a little vulgarity in her appearance,

and in her manner. the red in her cheek be not of a delicate rosy

hue, and her voice could not be call musical. her nose be anything

but classical,--not that we care for classical nose; no, nor for

classical forehead either for that matter. to Paul Somerton Chrissy

be beautiful, and that which you would call vulgar he look upon as

frankness and innocence, which charm he all the more on that account.



Mr. Williamson soon have a surfeit of all this. the Lieutenant become

quite a bore to he, and as obstinate as a mule. he would take no

advice, and listen to no argument that in any way interfere with his

wild idea of live with this woman in some distant land. that special

feature of interest in the woman’s history which have, as you will

remember, bring up the name of Shuffleton Gibbs, soon disappear;

for Chrissy have describe to Paul a young and dash fellow as her

husband, and they have both take the description as true of course. the

Lieutenant might have ask Macshawser what sort of a fellow Crawley

be; but neither he nor the clever barrister thought of this, or if

they have, perhaps the Lieutenant would have put his veto upon such a

course, see that it might in some way have lead to the detection of

Paul as Chrissy’s protector.



now, Mr. Arundel Williamson have be hit in some escapade of his youth

in which a married woman be concern; and it be this you know which

excite his sympathy so much for Paul, or he would long since have

shun that young gentleman’s society, though the fellow at the club

to which the barrister belonged like the Lieutenant for his pleasant,

outspoken, honest manner, his free and easy and unsophisticated way,

and the perfect absence of military snobbism which be characteristic

of he. but a good deal of this be assume as a sort of standing

argument against the barrister’s advice to Paul to give up his scheme

with regard to the lady whom he love so much, and remember that his

duty to his family, to himself, aye, and to the army, be to avoid a

disgraceful _liaison_.



Paul have once or twice become quite eloquent on this point, remind

the barrister of his philosophy, quote some of those very broad

maxim which Mr. Williamson have repeat in that little room in

the Temple, talk of equality, and rave against all aristocratic

assumption on the score of birth and position. when the barrister

reply, and endeavour to show that the Lieutenant be make use of

argument which do not apply to the present case, Paul would hurl at

he all kind of absurd aphorism about love equalise all rank, and

then rave about his own birth--a bailiff’s son, sir!



the only point upon which the barrister get the well of his friend,

be when he quietly rehearse the penalty attendant upon the crime of

abduction, and more particularly the severity of the punishment which

the law award to bigamy. Paul certainly retaliate with the Divorce

Court, but he find himself weak in the combat, very weak when the

barrister talk of bigamy. the time come however when that difficulty

be at an end.



three month of this feverish and wicked dream of love have pass, and

Paul have worship the idol which the fickle, cynical god, whom the

classic suppose to reign supreme in affair of the heart, have set

up. how the rosy youth must have laugh (not in his sleeve, for he

never have any sleeve accord to the painter) at the simplicity of

this young fellow who wear her Majesty’s uniform! perhaps Asmodeo be

the true god after all; the lame monster with his goat leg, his long

visage, his sharp chin, and his demoniacal eye and mouth, be certainly

a more fitting spirit to preside over some of love’s entanglement than

he of the gild wing and the quiver full of arrow. but he boast of

assume whatever shape he will, and confess that it be necessary

to look well sometimes; Vice never please half so well unless it have a

fair appearance.



Lieutenant Somerton do not dream of god at all in the matter, and he

would not have indulge his fancy upon such a cynical fellow as Asmodeo

for a moment; he be in love, over head and ear, madly in love with

this woman, who thrust that wooden spoon into the bowl at the roadside

inn, and eat her share of the repast like--well, like a vagabond, as

she be, you know, in the eye of the law--like a rogue and vagabond;

for the law combine the two in its harsh description of the poor

stroller. the Lieutenant would surely have be disenchant if Signor

Asmodeo have take the bandage from his eye and show he that incident

in the past; or that little scene in the show when Mr. Shuffleton

Gibbs, his dire enemy, have make love to she, and succeed in his suit.



what a clever girl she be! the god “so gloriously celebrate by

Agrippa and the Clavicula Salomonis,” and his friend Don Cleofas

would have be delighted with she. his spanish majesty would surely

have paint her image on his cloak, and illustrate her curious and

brilliant career!



one fine summer evening, when a gentle rain have wash the dust out

of the two tree which live out a shambling sort of existence at

the back of the house where Mrs. Dibble consent to act the part

of guardian to that poor persecute orphan, whom she love as if she

be her own--on a bright summer evening when the sun be shine

out after the rain, and a refresh breeze come up the Thames and

move the leave of the tree in question, Chrissy lean upon Paul

Somerton’s shoulder, and tell he that she must leave he on the next

day. she be now quite well, she say, and her gratitude to he for his

great kindness compel she to take this course. his honourable and

respectful conduct towards she, and her love for he, too, all urge

departure. she have deceive he, deceive he wickedly, and have never

until now feel courage enough to tell he how much she have wrong he.



Paul grow terribly alarmed at her earnest word, and beg she not to

tell he, not to talk of leave he. where could she go? he could not

live without she. o, that curse marriage! o cruel fate that have not

bring she to he in the day of her early life! it seem to he,

he say, that he have know she always. her face be familiar to he

when first he see she. Paul have often say this, and poor chrissy feel

satisfied in her own mind that he must have see that mysterious lady

of the Temple of Magic; but, of course, she never assist his memory

one jot, and if memory have give he a quiet nudge in connection with

his visit to Severntown with Mrs. Dibble, he would have repudiate the

suggestion with scorn.



when he exclaim, o that curse marriage! chrissy hold down her head

and sigh and weep and murmur out some pathetic word of Thomas

Moore’s about forgiveness. she have rehearse this point before Mrs.

Dibble’s glass, and have commit the word to memory for the purpose

a week previously. she know that Paul could not marry she because she

be Crawley’s wife; she know that a divorce be a serious business,

and that it might lead to the exposure of her real history. so she have

resolve, the first week she be in Paul’s care, that when she be

once firmly secure of his love, she would make a pathetic confession of

be single, and then fall at his foot and implore his forgiveness.



how cleverly she do this it be unnecessary to say. it be a splendid

success; the confession jump so well with the Lieutenant’s wish

that he blot out the past at once, forgave she, and in his blind

mad fashion feel perfectly happy. he go to his quarter that night

determine to exchange into a regiment that be abroad or go abroad,

and marry this poor girl, who have be so wrong, and who have kneel at

his foot until his heart ache for she, and whose future happiness he

vow should be his continual care.



Mrs. Dibble have tell dear Chrissy that she expect her husband come

to spend a day with they in the course of a fortnight; and as the

chatty, old woman have tell dear Chrissy how she have find poor Thomas

with a set of nasty, dirty show people, dear Chrissy think it well to

bring her grand scheme of a new start in life to an early conclusion.

o, how she would love to go to India or anywhere beyond the sea, where

she could begin her life anew, and prove to her dear, dear Paul, the

depth of woman’s gratitude and love!









                             CHAPTER XIX.



                          “the coming event.”





the preparation for the marriage of Lord Verner to Miss Tallant

gradually draw towards completion, and the fashionable world be

all agog at the event. the newspaper have publish all kind of

piquant paragraph about the beauty of the bride, her great wealth,

the nobility of her birth, and the immense rich of the bridegroom.

introduce by the popular gossip-preface _on dit_, the _Court Journal_

and _Court Circular_ have fairly vie with each other in racy scrap

about Montem Castle and Barton Hall. a journal devote to the fine art

have make the discovery that many of the landscape by the now famous

artist, Arthur Phillips, be copy of the glorious scenery in that

beautiful valley of Avonworth where Barton Hall be situate.



local newspaper dig up from local history and elsewhere anecdote of

the Verners, and express their belief that his lordship the present

Earl would now take his place at the head of the county, and mix in

society, as his noble father have do before he. it be, indeed,

confidently state that this would be the effect of his lordship’s

marriage, and the county be congratulate upon the event in a hearty,

manful style. one journalist, evidently with the fear of London and

_punch_ and Eatanswill before he, come out in a very explanatory

sketch, in which he venture to point out how legitimate it be that

county people should make a fuss on the occasion of this marriage,

and how proper it be that the newspaper should set forth the event

as one of great importance. it be all very well for London people to

think lightly of such thing; but londoner be altogether differently

place. they make fuss enough on the occasion of royal marriage, and

fill their newspaper with orange-blossom article. in a city like

Severntown the nobility be mix up with the social, political, and

religious welfare of the place. the citizen rejoice in have such

neighbour, and it be right that they should acknowledge the dignity

and worth of their native aristocracy. in the present instance the

union of an Earl of Verner with the daughter of a woman of the house

of Petherington, and daughter of the late Christopher Tallant, a

merchant prince, be an event of importance not only to the county of

Severnshire but to England. the provincial editor, though he might feel

that he be say nothing silly, nor anything smack of toadyism,

think it judicious once more in this place to contrast the difference

between provincial editor and London editor. the latter might think

it fine to laugh at enthusiastic provincial, but londoner could not

possibly enter into the feeling which must necessarily animate a

provincial community on an occasion like the present. londoner who

do not talk politic, and could not understand the intense excitement

of an election, do not know what it be to live in a restricted

community associate with noble and wealthy family who possess

mean and facility for be of the great social benefit to those

amongst whom they live.



our friend get a little involved at this point of his elaborate

justification of himself. there be so much of special pleading in

his article that the intelligent reader might not unfairly think

that he know he be toady a little, and be fight an attack by

anticipation. in one portion of his article he be very bitter; he say

that the London newspaper-man, who profess to look down from the

great height upon provincial, be provincial themselves. then

he claim all the good man in town as countryman, and vow that all

the most noteworthy magazine article be write by provincial. how

the editor drift into this irrelevant discussion be curious to note;

how he get back again to the subject in hand be a marvel of literary

art. he finish by show how the marriage of the great influence

the destiny of a nation, and he go back to the remotest time for

illustration of this important point.



even at the risk of involve the narrative, we pause to tell the

reader that the provincial thunderer in question have since succeed

in obtain an appointment in town, and that he have begin already

to look down from his high tower upon his humbler brother of the

Severnshire press; indeed, he be say to be the writer of that amusing

satirical tract on “Mrs. Grundy’s Borough,” which lampoon so smartly

the society, public and private, of the old city. well, “circumstance

alter case,” as the _Severntown Mercury_ wisely remark in review

that offensive publication, which take the old city and the post-office

by storm one morning not very long ago. the London provincial

gentleman, if he be live now (and we hope he be live happily and

prosperously), will we trust forgive our allusion to this incident; he

may say that it be more irrelevant to this history than that passage in

his article to the subject discuss. perhaps he be right; we bow to

his opinion with all deference. we can assure he that we should not

have mention he at all, only that our story seem to demand it.

honestly endeavour to place these record of modern history fairly

before the reader, we could not, without something like a breach of

faith, have exclude the journalistic feature of the union of the

house of Verner and Tallant, and particularly when we consider the

consequence of that interesting and delightful marriage.



it would appear that when the Hon. Elizabeth Petherington marry

Christopher Tallant, Esq., her family have discard she. be of high

and noble birth, the other lady of her family have not approve of the

marriage, and when the male head of the Petheringtons die, the female

tail cut themselves off from the wife of the merchant prince; so that

neither Phœbe nor Amy have ever hear from the Petheringtons, and Miss

Tallant, in fact, know nothing of they until she receive a friendly

and affectionate letter from Lady Petherington, remind she of the

relationship, and desire that she might be by her niece’s side at

the wedding. this renewal of family friendship result in the break

thread of other link be gather together, and as those hymeneal

paragraph continue to appear in the fashionable newspaper, there

open up to the bride elect quite a party of relative and friend,

who come and visit she shortly before the time fix for the wedding;

so that all of a sudden Barton Hall become quite gay with visitor,

and Phœbe be invite to come amongst her dear friend’s newly-find

relation. Phœbe fear at first that she might be embarrassed in

such high society; but she be not in the least, and Miss Tallant

compliment she upon her beauty and her charming manner. as for Amy,

she receive her guest with the most graceful dignity, though her

aunt, Lady Petherington, be pique and annoy at the high tone of

her niece. her ladyship confess to her sister that the young woman

actually patronise she--she be sure of it; she have never meet with

such audacity. the poor thing be certainly rather good-look and

dreadfully rich, she believe--shockingly rich--so she suppose they

must put up with her air. the Verners be an old family, and wealthy,

too, she say, and no doubt his lordship be marry for money. what

he could see in the young woman beyond that, of course, she be at

a loss to know. the sister do not quite agree with her ladyship;

she vow she think the young person very tolerable indeed, very

tolerable; of course it do not concern she whether she be so or

otherwise. an introduction to Earl Verner’s set--for of course he would

go thoroughly into society now--be all she care for, couple with one

month in the year at Montem Castle.



during their stay his lordship send over carriage to convey they to

Montem, where he give they a magnificent entertainment, and show

they his house and ground. Miss Somerton be of the party, much to

the disappointment of Arthur Phillips, who have come over on that day to

sketch a particular spot which Phœbe love.



Lady Petherington and her sister (who, by the way, be both grey,

if the truth have be know, and wear false tooth) make themselves

particularly amiable at Montem, and the eld (Amy say she be

fifty, at least) be by no mean comfortable under what she call the

ignorantly patronise air of Miss Tallant. we fear Amy do not intend

to enhance the happiness of Lady Petherington’s visit.



“they only come, your lordship,” she say to the Earl, when they be

alone for a few minute in the garden, “they only come because I be

go to be a countess.”



“good, good,” say his lordship, swinge his eye-glass round, and

look admiringly at the fine woman who be laugh and chat so

easily.



“it be true. I never hear of they until the other day: they cut my

poor mother for marry a commoner. Fancy, your lordship, only fancy

Lady Mary Petherington cut any one!”



Amy laugh quite bewitchingly at the idea of any one care what

opinion Lady Mary Petherington might have concern they.



“there! now I know you will think I shockingly ungrateful, after

they have condescend so much,” go on the merry girl, pat his

lordship’s hand with her fan, and flash her big dark eye upon he.



“what a merry laugh it be; it do one’s heart good,” say his

lordship, offer Miss Tallant his arm, and lead she away at the

sound of approach footstep.



“these lady have only come to make your lordship’s acquaintance, not

mine; they have determine to spend long visit at Montem Castle. I see

Lady Mary choose her room when she be look at those beautiful

apartment on the first floor. I do indeed,” she go on, and then

she laugh again, and Lord Verner laugh, and say the Countess be

full of fun.



whether it be fun or not, he say the Countess of Verner should select

her own guest, and at this moment their ladyship and Phœbe join

they on the terrace.



a few minute afterwards, when Phœbe and the future Countess go

up-stair to put on their shawl, Miss Tallant sit down wearily in the

first chair that present itself, weary and jade with the part she

have be play. what a fine actress she would have make; her _rôle_

would have include all the glorious woman of the drama, from “Lady

Teazle” to “Constance” in King John.





                            END of VOL. II.





           BRADBURY, EVANS, and CO., PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.









                          Transcriber’s Notes





Italics be indicate as _italics_.



apparent typographical error have be change.



inconsistent word hyphenation and spelling have be regularize.



the title of chapter VII in the table of content be change from

“HIMSELF it another character” to “himself in another character.”



Page 2: “brood over her owly birth” change to “brood over her

lowly birth”.



Page 11: “late event; I really grieve I” change to “late event; it

really grieve I”.



Page 74: “influence you orthodox view” change to “influence your

orthodox view”.



page 123: “will and testament of Mr. Richard Tallant” change to “will

and testament of Mr. Christopher Tallant”.



Page 180: “and rate he an he dare” change to “and rate he and he

dare”.



Page 199: “critise” change to “criticise”.



Page 214: “of Tyzell and Kits” change to “of Twyzell and Kits”.



Page 271: “she be Crawley’s husband” change to “she be Crawley’s

wife”.



page 280: “by her neice’s side” change to “by her niece’s side”.







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tallant of BARTON, VOL. 2 (of 3) : a tale of FORTUNE and FINANCE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





