The project Gutenberg eBook of Sink or swim?

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: sink or swim?

        a novel; vol. 2/3



author: Mrs. Houstoun



Release date: December 31, 2023 [ebook #72561]



language: English



original publication: London: Tinsley Brothers, 1868



credit: Sonya Schermann, Chuck Greif and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***











                             sink or swim?



                               a novel.





                           by the AUTHOR of



                        “recommended to mercy,”



                                 ETC.





                           in three VOLUMES.



                               VOL. II.





                                LONDON:



              TINSLEY brother, 18 CATHERINE ST. STRAND.



                                 1868.



      [_the right of translation and reproduction be reserve._]









                                LONDON:

            ROBSON and SON, GREAT NORTHERN PRINTING WORKS,

                          PANCRAS ROAD, N.W.









                         content of VOL. II.





CHAP.                                                               PAGE



I. what do HONOR know?                                                1



II. the colonel lay a PLOT                                           16



III. unstable as water                                                23



IV. the HALF-REBUKE                                                   41



V. “that be HONOR’S mother?”                                         57



VI. the colonel get his quietus                                      69



VII. be HONOR glad or sorry?                                         80



VIII. JOHN WISHES the PAST UNDONE                                     88



IX. HONOR find a new RELATION                                        94



X. a GRANDMOTHER’S LOVE                                              115



XI. HONOR shows a liking for the “BELL”                              122



XII. “THERE’S good, after ALL, in HER”                               130



xiii. LADY MILL have BUSINESS ON HAND                                 139



XIV. HONOR feel like a “LADY”                                       151



XV. COLONEL NORCOTT feel PATERNAL                                   169



XVI. JOHN DECIDES against himself                                    178



XVII. HUMBLE LOVE                                                    193



xviii. disappointment                                                213



XIX. LE PREMIER PAS                                                  219



XX. SILENT SORROW                                                    231



XXI. HONOR DECEIVES HERSELF                                          238



XXII. the turning of the head                                        262



XXIII. the rector commit HIMSELF                                    274



XXIV. FAST DOWNHILL                                                  281









SINK or swim?









CHAPTER I.



what do HONOR know?





“I have nothing to do with it! by the God that make I! by the--”



“o sir, pray don’t talk in that way. I never say--I--I never

think--no, no; thing would have be different, must have be

different, if I have.” and the flush on Mrs. Bainbridge’s pale cheek

(she be a sickly-look woman) grow deeply still, through the violence

of her protest.



“she die very quiet, poor dear,” the woman continue sadly, while the

Colonel stand passively near she, bite with an embarrassed air the

silver knob of the cane that he have flourish so debonnairily such a

very short time before. “she ben’t much put about, thank God; and it

be a lonesome place, you know. even the priest, Father Donovan, he as

you may remember use to have station twice a-year in the village,

don’t come to anoint poor Winny when she be die. you see, they send

for he so often when there’s no occasion; and--”



“but, tell I,” say Norcott impatiently, “do this girl, John

Beacham’s wife, know anything about her parentage? do the old people,

your grandfather and grandmother, keep the child at Moyfeckan after poor

Winny’s death? I don’t understand it all. be there any money to support

she--the girl, I mean? and where have she be live all these year?”



“where have she be live?” retort the woman, speak for the first

time in a very decide Irish accent, for she be excited, and in anger

the old familiar brogue crop out unchecked. “be you ask I that?

and be you think that my father’s daughter’s child would be want

charity to bring she up?”



“no; not that. I know you be not poor people. Old Phil Moriarty be a

‘snug man evermore;’” he quote, with an abortive attempt to be

facetious; “but, you see, I don’t know but what he--”



“might have turn his granddaughter out of door, and leave she to

starve, poor girl, because of your sin! be that what’s in your mind,

sir? faix, you should have think of that before you take--but that’s

neither here nor there. my grandfather, respectable as he’d always kep

himself, be not the man to turn his back on his own kith and kin, let

’em be never so unfortunate. it’s not the way of our country-people, and

it be not his. say he, ‘that grand jintleman be a schoundrel’--I beg

your pardon, sir, I only repeat his words--‘and he’s bring throuble on

as good a gurl as ever trod the ground; but it ’ull come home to he,’

say he--‘it ’ull come home to he one of these day;’ and with that

he’d groan, as he sit in the hearth, like a possess man.”



again Colonel Norcott, who be grow very impatient, be about to

interrupt she with a question, but she stop he peremptorily.



“Afther my poor sister get a trifle over the effect of the medicine,

and when the baby show as if it would live, which it don’t at the

first, for they have both be very near gone, my grandfather send for

’torney Fagin, and bid he make his will. it ben’t much he have to

leave, leastway to a gentleman it wouldn’t seem much. there be the

lease of the farm, which be value, I think, at sixty pound, and there

be the furniture to be auction, and his stock. well, altogether it

come, as far as the two could kalkerlate, to a couple of hunder pound;

and that grandfather take and leave altogether--God know I don’t grudge

it to she, and she, poor dear, without a character, and a young child at

her breast--to Winny. there ben’t much besides in the will, for I see

it myself; but there be _something_--something for you, sir.” and she

look up at he with a curious sidelong glance, which strike the

Colonel as not particularly pleasant--“yes; the name of Colonel Norcott,

the airmy gentleman, as my grandfather call you, sir, be in the will;

and he leave you, write in large letter--I remember he would have it

so--his curse.”



Norcott endeavour to conceal his annoyance by a laugh. “the vindictive

old beggar,” he say, “and he use to be such a jolly old boy, and an

uncommon good twist at the whisky-bottle! so the young lady be an

heiress after all, and leave off bog-trotting, I suppose, pretty soon?

come now, Mrs. B., you use to be a good-natured soul yourself in those

day, and I really want to know something about my old friend in those

outlandish part. in the first place, how do the ho-tel business

thrive? and--about Bainbridge; it’s so long ago since I see he

alive--never half alive enough, though, for such a fine woman as

you--that its almost risky asking after he.”



Mrs. Bainbridge sigh. she be, as the Colonel remark, a very

good-natured woman, one sign and evidence of which good-nature be, in

_his_ opinion, take compliment in good part, and not object now

and then to a little harmless flirtation. in the day when the

free-and-easy Colonel (a squadron of whose regiment have be despatch

to those “outlandish part,” to do battle if necessary at a contest

election) use to frequent the “good inn’s good parlour” in the large

western town of Ballyderry, Mrs. Bainbridge, whose husband be an

attorney (law and liquor be not unfrequently in the ould counthry

dispense by the same individual), would listen with flattering smile

to the pleasant blarney of the Saxon and the stranger. “ah now,

Colonel!” and “shure you’re such a gentleman to talk,” be the full

extent of reproof which Mrs. Bainbridge’s wifely sense of decorum urge

her tongue to utter; and yet she be really a good woman, faithful,

honest, and not in any degree forward or immodest. she be simply a

little vain, and fond of flattering word. so agreeable too have the

gallant Colonel contrive to make himself, that it need all the

unmitigated “schoundrelism” of which old Phil Moriarty have justly

accuse he, to open the then laughter-love Mrs. Bainbridge’s eye to

the true character of her unprincipled favourite.



but although her eye have be thus effectually open, and albeit her

anger against the destroyer of her sister’s life and character partook

even of the character of rancour, so deep be it, and so endurable, yet

nevertheless the worthy woman could not resist the tempting offer of

repeat to a fresh listener the epitomise history of her widowhood,

and the migration from her native land which follow on her “good

man’s” decease.



“you see, sir, he be little well than a weight upon a woman’s hand,

be poor Tom. he never enjoy his health for a day since he marry.

something in’ard, the doctor say; but it’s my belief they don’t know

much about it. he be a long while lie; and though, if I be to die

to-morrow, I could say with truth that I never _begridge_ he neither

the time nor the throuble, nor yet the money he cost I; yet I couldn’t

but feel he be a sore handful; and he waste to skin and bone! such

work as we have to turn he in his bed at last, you’d never believe.”



“I daresay it _be_ a bore,” remark Norcott, whose weariness at these

detail be almost past endurance, but who feel, nevertheless,

imperatively call upon to express a proper sympathy on the occasion.

“People have well die when they be in that sort of state.”



“well, and sure that’s true, sir,” rejoin Mrs. Bainbridge plaintively;

“and die he do, poor fellow, like a lamb too, at last! winny, poor

girl, have kep up till then, do what she could, which ben’t much, for

she be never strong, for all the lovely colour that be in her cheek;

but when Tom die she just fade away as well. he be always kind to she

be Tom, and she’d a grateful heart, the crathur. Little Honor (we

call she Honor after grandmother) be scarcely two month old then;

but grandmother be a rare one to bring up a child by hand, and when

Winny be take, the child go to live altogether with the old people,

till they die, that be to say; and after that--she be a pretty little

gurl of seven year old then, and I’d be lady’s-maid to my Lady

Kilkenny for six year and more--I put she to an english school, and have

she teach the pianner and poetry, and the branch, think as she’d

make she live as a governess in a genteel family; and so indeed she

do, for she be two year, to a month a’most, teach the little one

at Clay Farm, and earn she twenty pound a year, and they make as

much of she all the time as if she have be a child of their own. it’s

little I’ve see of the child, poor thing--I think it be well not;

girl will be ask question, and what be I to say to she if she do?

well let she think she be an orphan; so, even when I have be in the

country with ‘the family,’ I haven’t let she know; for I couldn’t have

have such a young person as that in the housekeeper’s room at Sir

Richard’s. so there it was--”



“yes--and there it be--at that farm-house, I mean--that John Beacham

fall in love with her pretty face and marry she. I see it all now, and

she be--let I see--not much over eighteen, eh?”



“I should think you ought to know as much of that as I do,” say Mrs.

Bainbridge, bridle. “it’s nineteen year come September since you use

to meet poor Winny of an evening in Lord Kilkenny’s demesne--and more

shame for you to be desave an honest girl that way. I declare you’re

not worthy, that you ain’t, to be the father of such a sweet gurl as

that, no, nor of such a pretty gurl, neither, for I don’t see that she

favour you at all, while she’s as like her blessed mother as two pea

in a pod.”



“like! I should think she be! why, it’s the same face! the same hair

and eye, and the same--”



“ah! that’s just it!” break in the widow passionately; “and it’s because

I catch Colonel Fred Norcott look in the _same_ way at those pretty

blue eye and that beautiful hair, as he use to do at the poor girl’s

that’s dead and go, I think it time to speak.”



“but I don’t know,” say the Colonel, redden this time with

legitimate shame and anger. “how be I possibly to know that--”



“no, no, in course you couldn’t; I allow that. and now, having be

force, as it be--which I don’t want to--to say all this, all I have

to ask be that you’ll just hold your tongue about the matter. I’ve

always kep a good deal out of her way, poor little thing, because I

don’t want to be question either by she or by anyone else; she have

hear I’m her aunt, and that’s pretty well all. while as for

John--though to be sure, Honor’s pretty enough, God bless she! to make a

man bear anything for her sake--yet it’s my opinion he’s just the sort

not to be well pleased when he find out that his wife ben’t an honest

woman’s daughter. as for the old lady, I wouldn’t be in Honor’s shoe

(from all I hear) for a good deal, if the truth come out in her

hearing.”



the Colonel be silent for a few minute, and while unconsciously

cut with his cane the tall fragrant blossom of the “meadow sweet”

that grow beside the path, he think with his usual astuteness and

rapidity on the reason for and against his follow the widow’s

advice. on the whole--and he come to the conclusion far more quickly

than would have be the case with nine out of ten of his sex who have

chance to be similarly situate--on the whole, he decide that it

would probably _pay_ well to (_judiciously_, of course) allow his

relationship to Honor to transpire. she be wonderfully pretty, and--but

we need not follow this man through the network of reasoning, or rather

through the tortuous underground plotting of his subtle mind. for all

that he come of gentle blood, and have be rear under the roof of an

“honourable” father, Frederick Norcott be, or rather have become, one of

“the creep thing innumerable” which, among “both the small and great

beast” of mortality, do everywhere abound. he have live too long upon

his “wit” not to keep those weapon sharp, and to the last degree

serviceable; a man he be, thoroughly confident in the inexhaustibleness

of his own mental resource; for he have too often during the course of

his _oiseau sur la branche_ existence have to trust exclusively to those

purveying talent of his, not to appreciate those useful gift at their

full value. he owe they a deep debt of gratitude for the good service

they have do he in the mixed society of the New World, where he have

be so fortunate as to hit the fancy of the “nice person” now raise to

the state and dignity of--as she herself term it--Mrs. _Colonel_

Norcott, and who, though her grandfather have lay the foundation of his

large fortune in a not over creditable manner, be possess of as many

hundred per annum as would enable Fred to begin the world afresh.



“then you feel quite certain--as certain as you can be of anything--that

this little girl know nothing, guess nothing, about her birth? you

see I be oblige, a little for my own sake, though of course I should be

careful for _her_, to be particular. perhaps you may not have hear--we

poor devil, you see, in the colony may marry and be divorce, may die

and rise again, without anyone at home know anything about it; so

very likely you may not have hear the astounding fact that I have

take,” and he laugh rather foolishly, “to myself a wife?”



Mrs. Bainbridge be oblige to plead guilty to the amount of colonial

ignorance imply by this last suggestion. she do not, however, express

any surprise that the Colonel at his time of life (a “household form” of

word, under which the Colonel wince) should have decide to get

married. she could understand, too, that for peace, as well as decorum’s

sake, that gentleman’s pro-nuptial peccadillo have well remain in the

background. no exposure, no punishment inflict on the destroyer of her

sister’s reputation, no mortification incur by the man who have first

betray and then leave her young sister to die, could bring the unhappy

girl back to her lost life--no repentance, supposing, which be among

the most improbable of human event, that Col. Norcott should exhibit

sign of penitence, could make amend for the guilt and misery of the

past. there be a time when Bridget Bainbridge, goad by the memory of

her sister’s wrong, would have strive hard for vengeance on the head

of the seducer; but many a day have pass since Winnifred Moriarty have

expiate her folly with her life. for more than eighteen year all

that be mortal of the pretty irish girl--the “heather-bell of

Ballingarry”--had be moulder beneath a black and rot cross in

the overcrowded burial-place of her native parish. warm-hearted Mrs.

Bainbridge have shed some very bitter tear when she look she last on

that dreary spot, and invoke, we grieve to say, the vengeance of Him

who be as mighty to punish as to save upon the head of the absent

profligate; but Time, as I be about to say, have produce its normal and

blessed effect of soften the angry feeling, and make the rough

place in human memory smooth. it be not often, I think, except in

tale of fiction, that a wrong be treasure up through year upon year,

in spite of change and absence, gather intensity from the

fermentation of the add heap. in real life, the principle of let

bygone be bygone be usually find more convenient to carry out than

the more corsican one of “nursing one’s wrath to keep it warm.” that

same wrath be apt to become a dangerous element to the individual in

whose breast it be nurture. there be enemy, besides, whose

comparatively elevated position endow they with a certain immunity from

punishment--from punishment, that be to say, at the hand of the less

one whom they have offend. it be some such immunity as this that

Colonel Norcott enjoy in his final arrangement--if arrangement they

could be call--with Mrs. Bainbridge. in addition to the natural

subserviency common to all class of the animal man, it be hardly to be

suppose that the excellent Bridget should have be for so many year

housekeeper in a “good family” without entertain a certain amount of

that respect for gentlefolk _per se_, which be so decidedly indicative

of her class. with all her strong natural indignation, all her innate,

as well as authorise conviction that the man stand there before she

be a villain from top to toe, she yet could not divest he in her mind

of the false _prestige_ with which mere quality be often unhappily

surround. Colonel Norcott--a county gentleman--insolent, airy, and

well-breed, be still, wicked as he be, to this respectable woman a

personage; and be such, she give he to understand that, as far as

his connection with Mrs. John Beacham be concern, her tongue be

seal.



the Colonel express his satisfaction at this result of their

conference. there be no good, that _he_ could see, in rake up the

ashe of the past, and it would be both wrong and cruel to distress

Honor with the knowledge of _her mother’s fault_. of course _he_ be

very much annoyed at what have take place, and if he have find that

Honor have be in different circumstance--be in want of pecuniary

assistance, in short--he would of course have do what he could to

provide for she.



“and I hope that you and I will always be good friend, Mrs.

Bainbridge,” he wind up by say; “I’m always to be find. the Bell at

Gawthorpe, or Bleak’s Club-house in the haymarket, be sure place to

direct to if you should want to drop I a line.” he hold out his hand

(take credit to himself the while for his condescension) to Winny

Moriarty’s sister as he speak, but for the second time within an hour

the offer civility be reject by humbler, though purer, hand than

his. in spite of the _apparent_ forgetfulness into which a natural love

of gossip have lead she, Mrs. Bainbridge be not to be surprise into the

condoning of her sister’s wrong. “the Colonel” have a very pleasant way

with he, but that do not set matter right as regard Winny; and now

that she have say her say, and prevent mischief in the event of

Colonel Norcott “try on” his old game with Honor, Mrs. Bainbridge

be glad to make her curtsey and depart.



she have no intention of make herself know as a relation to the

Beachams. as she have say to the Colonel, she have no wish to be

question regard her niece’s parentage. Honor have never see she

since she herself be a little child, and need never know that she have

spend an hour or two with the upper servant from Sir Richard

Pemberton’s place at Danescourt. as far as Mrs. Bainbridge be

concern, she deem that only shame could accrue to herself and her

family from any mention of what have occur in those old, old day at

distant Moyfecken. Honor be happily married, and so it appear be the

man who seem to entertain so small a share of parental feeling

regard his child. the interview with that unscrupulous gentleman have

not be a pleasant one, but it be over now, and Mrs. Bainbridge see no

cause to regret that she have inform Colonel Norcott of the near tie

of blood which bind he to the pretty wife of respectable, popular John

Beacham.









CHAPTER II.



the colonel lay a PLOT.





Musing on this unexpected discovery, Colonel Norcott saunter slowly

onwards under the spread lime-tree, now in their full gush of

sweetness, to that portion of the Park where the scene which be the

only one of interest to he in that day’s programme of sport be to be

enact.



on a broad portion of level road, about three-quarter of a mile in

length, and border on either side by a grassy ride, it have be

announce that a trotting-match between the respective horse of two

sporting farmer would take place. the match have be make at the Bell

Inn at Gawthorpe, one social evening after market-day be over; and Lord

Guernsey, who be a liberal promoter of all legitimate “sport,” have

kindly consent that it should come off on one of the gala-day in

Danescourt Park. there be nothing particularly remarkable about the two

animal, on whose respective merit, nevertheless, a good deal of money

(for such an obscure occasion as the present) have be risk on either

side. Colonel Fred--who be an _habitué_ at the Bell, “hang out,” as

he term it, at that highly-respectable hostelry whenever either filial

solicitude or the world-know Gawthorpe race bring he to

Sandyshire--take a very decide part in the affair, back his high

opinion of Farmer Scroop’s rat-tail brown cob for more money than he

could well afford to lose. this be the case, and experience on

sporting matter--to say nothing of a natural tendency to

mistrustfulness--having combine to put he on the _qui-vive_, the

Colonel have his eye well open to ascertain that all be on the square,

and that the race, humble though it might be consider, be not go

to be “sell.”



but for the expect “come off” of this sporting event, it be more

than probable that Fred Norcott would not have honour the sport that

day with his presence. he have no taste for innocent amusement--the

hospitable and kindly owner of Danescourt, be very far, and well he

know it, from look upon he with friendly eye. since the day when

his family be “county people,” the day when old Mr. Norcott be a

magistrate, a subscriber to the hound, a man have authority, in

short, with tenant under he, society in general have grow to take a

very different view of the Norcotts whilom of Lingfield. with humble

Mrs. Baker, as representative in Sandyshire of the family honour and

“respectability,” and with loaf Fred Norcott, lie very decidedly

under one of those social cloud which nothing but the sunshine of

wealth and prosperity can pierce through and cast aside, it be scarcely

surprising that that gentleman’s associate should stand on a rung of

the social ladder low than that on which his forefather have find

themselves. daily, hourly even, this fact be bring home, in not the

pleasantest manner in the world, to the notice of the quondam admire

and popular London man, who have return, as he have hope, whitewash

and renovate by his temporary absence, and by his marriage with a woman

who, he have take great pain to make generally know, be a colonial

heiress on the large scale. very much disgusted be Fred, when he

find that certain never thoroughly clear-up accusation be still

stand in array against he; and it be decidedly under protest that

he take the low room to which he find himself reduce. in the

“sporting world,” that world whose limit as regard “respectability”

be so ill define, Fred Norcott be still allow admittance. he have

commit no flagrant act of dishonesty--above all, his payment of

“debt of honour” have be both prompt and undisputed; though in what

way, or from what fund, those debt be pay, his _confrère_ never

care to inquire. as Fred be a good fellow so long as he pay his way,

and possess a little spare cash in his pocket, he might be see hand

and glove with certain person of good standing, bet-man so call,

amateur of racing matter, who neither under nor above the rose make

race a _profession_, and who, fall in accidentally at sporting

meeting with the Colonel, accept his acquaintance as a matter of

course, and thus, to a certain extent, link he with the more

high-principle and exclusive portion of the community.



the stumbling upon the surprising truth, as regard his connection with

John Beacham’s beautiful wife, have set Colonel Norcott’s busy brain

a-work in good earnest. of _feel_, whether parental or remorseful,

he could literally be accuse of _none_ on the occasion; but there

might--it be an important opening--be something to be do in

consequence of this tardy revelation; and Fred be too much in the habit

of turn odd and end to account, not to perceive at once that he

must not exactly go to sleep on the knowledge that he be father-in-law

to the large horse-breeder in the United Kingdom.



he have arrive at this decision (not a hair’s-breadth beyond; for if

Colonel Fred be not give to do “all thing decently,” he yet take time

to do they prudently and “in order”) when on emerge from the

comparatively private lime-walk, he come suddenly face to face upon

Arthur Vavasour.



“my dear fellow, I be never more surprised!” be his opening greeting.

“why, you tell I three day ago that there be not the slight chance

of your be here.”



“quite true,” Arthur say a little coldly; for he do not exactly

encourage familiarity from the middle-aged _roué_. “quite true; but a

thousand thing happen to make one change one’s mind. the pemberton, to

begin with, give a holiday to their servant, having decide, after

find what a fuss be make about this stupid business, to come

themselves. I couldn’t stay in an empty house, and--”



“and there’s a pretty face, eh? that would bring you, I suspect, a good

deal far than from the pemberton’ here to look at it. I say, old

fellow, I hear you’re devilish spoony, and, by Jove! I’m not surprised.

that little wife of John Beacham’s be a glorious girl. one wonder

where such a creature be pick up. so deuce thoroughbred-look, and

all that kind of thing. I have be try to find out something about

she;” and link his arm confidentially in that of his young friend, he

draw he on in the direction of the course.



Glancing furtively at the young untutored countenance by his side, the

man experience in all the turn and twist, the vagary and the

madness of the master passion, read in Arthur Vavasour’s face that the

time have come for he when



    “that draught of sorcery which bring

     Phantoms of fair forbid thing,”



have be freely drunk, and when all around seem dark and lifeless that

have not its root and be in the one fair woman that he love.



the time, however, have not yet come when he could desire to confide in

mortal man or woman the soft secret of his passion. a very young man,

whose love be _very_ fresh and real, care little to discuss with

another the delicate question of



    “whether his love love he or no--

     whether his love love he.”



the mere sentiment of his adoration be sufficient for he when devotion

alone, without any admixture of vanity, stir the bright flame within.

so Arthur Vavasour turn a deaf ear to the Colonel’s libertine

allusion. to he there seem profanation of his purely fair divinity

in thus chaffingly allude to her delicate loveliness. neither Colonel

Norcott’s age nor his character, to say nothing of the little real

intimacy exist between he and Arthur, could justify, he feel, the

former in claim the privilege of a confidant; and this be so,

Honor’s devoted admirer, without much preamble or excuse, change the

conversation abruptly to one that happen to be sufficiently

interesting to both; for so long as Rough Diamond be first favourite

for the Derby, neither Colonel Frederick Norcott nor the heir-apparent

of Gillingham could be trouble by any lack of a subject for

conversation.









CHAPTER III.



unstable as water.





Time be speed away in the fair ground of Danescourt; the

trotting-match have be trot, and the rat-tail horse have win the

race. Colonel Norcott be triumphant; and the _déjeuner à la fourchette_

have put everyone--man, woman, and child--more or less, into still

high spirit than before. as yet, Honor, not at all, as we know, to

her surprise, have see nothing of Arthur Vavasour. the latter have give

tolerably truthful reason for his change of purpose. “circumstance

over which” he believe that “he have no control” be accountable for

his appearance at Danescourt that day; but that he have greatly rejoice

in silence over those same adverse circumstance be a corollary with

which he have not find it necessary to garnish his statement. and yet

the same reason for his absence, which have before appear to he such

wise and prudent one, be in as full force _now_ as they have be

when Arthur Vavasour decide in his own mind that he would be insane to

place himself at the same time within sight and reach both of his

_fiancée_ and the woman whom absence have only render still more dear

to he.



“I will not go near she, I will only watch she from a distance; my

beautiful Honor! my sweet fairy rise! and it shall be the last time, the

very last! in a short time--ah, how very short!--the die will be cast;

my fate will be seal, and I shall be hundred of mile away, with only

the memory of my darling to link I with the past.”



some such thought as these--selfish, self-pity, wicked

thought--be pass through Arthur Vavasour’s mind when Colonel

Norcott meet he on the course, and lightly talk to he of his love.

and since that moment,--while join group of acquaintance, uttering

unmeane love-speech into the ear of his betrothed, or endeavour

to assume an interest which he feel not in the fate of Farmer Scroop’s

rat-tail trotter--he never for many moment together lose mental sight

of Honor Beacham, never cease to remember that at any turn of the road,

under any spread tree--where smile and merriment, and the ringing

sound of youthful voice, and the pretty colouring of woman’s dress

give life and animation, he might chance to see his lovely Honor, and

there perchance betray, by an unguarded word or look, to other eye than

Norcott’s the secret of his heart.



but if Arthur Vavasour think a good deal during those swiftly pass

hour of Honor Beacham, that rather _insouciante_ young woman do not (a

fact which, have he know it, would not have greatly improve the temper

of her admirer) trouble her pretty little head much about he. that she

should not so have do (albeit Mr. Vavasour stand foremost in her mind

as the finished type of all that be handsome, agreeable, and

accomplish) be very easily to be account for. the scene to Honor be

so deliciously new, and so untiringly interesting. never, during that

short life of her, have she witness anything so gay, so grand, or so

fascinating. in the dress of the lady alone she could have feast

her unaccustomed eye for hour; and when to these be add the charm

of their contagious laughter, and the latent enjoyment of know

herself to be both observe and admire, can we wonder that Honor should

scarcely have find time to greatly regret the absence of her friend?



once, indeed, she think of he; think of he too very sadly, as of

one who be far away, and whom it might be very long, year perhaps,

before she meet again. it be the sound of the trumpet and trombone,

the brazen serpent and the wail cornet, that touch the minor

chord of melancholy in her impulsive breast. the band have be (with the

regiment to which it belong) to the russian war, and the perfume of

glory, for those simple sandyshire people, hung--though many a year have

pass since their return from “foreign parts”--about those military

musician still. the air they play be that sad, yet stir parting

one, that plaintive _partant pour la Syrie_, which have so often fall

upon love heart as the knell of bury hope, the echo of farewell

between young love heart doom never to meet this side the grave for

ever. Honor listen in dreamy silence to “the lengthen sweetness long

draw out” of the suggestive note, and then, in spite of surround

merriment and the shout of boisterous mirth, the tear rise to her long

lash, and but for very shame she could have turn aside to weep.



but it be only for a moment that the fancy of the impressionable irish

girl fly back to, and rest mournfully on, those farewell scene still

fresh in the memory of the young. the present be neither the occasion,

nor be she in the mood, to be sorrowful. although there be no

delightfully agreeable gentleman to look his admiration, and to elevate

she by his ever-welcome sympathy to what that foolish Honor have begin to

think her rightful place in the social scale, yet life, and especially

life at Danescourt that day, contain for she a good deal that be

pleasant and enjoyable. and then, if the thought do cross her mind that

it would be very nice for Mr. Vavasour to be there, there come with that

think the recollection that, even suppose he to be among the goodly

company assemble more as looker-on than as participator in the sport

provide, would it be likely that with Miss Duberly in the ground,

ready to claim her lover’s undivided attention, _he_ should have either

leisure or inclination to waste time upon his humbler friend? the answer

give by common sense to this query, though humbling, be very good for

Honor, induce she to rest satisfied with the companionship of her

friend the Clays--the kind, hospitable, unsophisticated Clays--who be

always in the seventh heaven of delight at see she; albeit the

necessary farm business, and the four mile between the two house,

render the meeting with “darling Honor” not so frequent as they be

desirable. John Beacham be always glad to welcome the clay; and even

in that noisy crowd (Lady Guernsey’s _humble_ quest be feel much

more at home since the inner man have be refresh by creature

comforts)--even in that noisy crowd, he be quite satisfied of his

little wife’s safety and enjoyment, when his neighbour’s well-bring-up

child--include “big Affy,” the eld bear, a steady lad of

fifteen, who be already begin to be a great help on the farm--be

surround his merry, happy-look wife, while she, “God bless she!”

John sometimes say with a half-sigh, look “a precious deal too young

for he, the darling! play there with the young one, like the child

she almost be.”



on the present occasion, Honor, see her husband walk away with his

friend Jack Winthrop (their two head lay together in eager

conversation on some subject, probably equine, that demand the

undivided attention of both), allow herself to be beguile (after

see her mother-in-law safely settle in a shady corner with her

faithful adherent Widow thwayte by her side) to a portion of the

ground which she have not yet visit, but which, accord to

description, be a perfect paradise of delight. in a shady dell, form

an area of about three hundred yard in diameter, a little quiet

recreation have be, at the request of Lady Guernsey’s child,

prepare for the especial enjoyment of the small fry--_respectable_

small fry, _sous-entendu_--who have be bid to the sport that day.

there, on the short well-keep turf, be the miniature croquet-ground

where the little clay, with Honor Beacham as mistress of the revel,

and a few other child, the belonging of some of the more important

tenantry, be make the most of their holiday, and shout gleefully

to one another in their uproarious play.



such a “good time,” as the Yankees say, they have of it! Honor, the

happy of the happy, look, as she stand there with her

croquet-mallet in her hand, and stamp her small foot in playful

petulance at the stupidity of her partner (the pickle Tommy of her

governess-day), the impersonification of bright youth and unreflecte

joy.



“now, Tommy, how could you, you stupid fellow! why, that be _my_ ball;

you have no business to knock _that_ away. now, mind what you be about,

like a good mite, and you shall have some _goodie-goody_ when the game

be over.”



how pretty and animate she look, while thus--act on past

experience of his character--excite the recreant Tommy to rational

behaviour by a bribe! that young gentleman seem very far from amenable

to reason. a merry, dark-eye, gipsy-look boy he be, bent upon

tyrannous rule, while Honor, laugh at his trick, be, with her two

little gloved hand upon his shoulder, hold he back with playful

determination that the other little one, as this judicious umpire say,

might have a chance. she be for the moment entirely absorb in the

childish game. Tommy, though an especial favourite, be, Honor

laughingly declare, “so naughty;” and then her womanly love of

protect the weak have be call into play by the piteous appeal of a

blue-eyed girl of six, who tearfully claim her championship against

the encroachment of that wicked Tom.



it be at that moment, and when the fun be grow more fast and

furious than the respective mother of those unconventional guest would

have think permissible, that a small group of spectator suddenly

appear upon the scene. it consist of Sophy Duberly, Horace Vavasour,

and two of Lady Guernsey’s young daughter, who have volunteer the to

they delightful task of introduce Miss Duberly to where the tenant’

child be, at a humble distance, ape their superior at the

fashionable game which the young aristocrat believe in as a

_spécialité_ of their own.



“it’s such fun to see they,” say Lady Margaret; “they haven’t an idea

how to play! Julia and I have be watch they without their know

it, and they _be_ so stupid!”



this noble maiden, who be ten year of age, possess a turn for

satire (which quality her mamma prudently suppress. “it do not do,

you know, to encourage clever child to make remark”); and it be

gratify, as we all know, to find anyone perform anything bad

than we be capable of execute it ourselves, the little Lady Margaret

be well-pleased to act as show-woman of the plebeian sport, as they

be conduct that day. the approach of the party, walk slowly along

the greensward, be not notice by the croquet-player (so exuberant be

the laughter that, not exactly, it be to be fear, under “sweet control

of gracefulness,” ring from their soul) till it be too late to look

conventionally demure, be not notice, in short, till Lady Margaret and

her convoy be almost in the midst of Honor’s not very promising

scholar. she be the first to perceive they, and after a hurried

glance, one of the bright sudden blush that be the most engaging of

its attraction spread over her beautiful face.



Sophy Duberly, like all those who see Honor for the first time, be

strike, nay almost startle, by her loveliness. she long to ask Horace

Vavasour the name of that peerless creature, but she be for the moment

oblige to restrain her curiosity; for they be almost within earshot

of the woman whom Horace know so well by sight, know too as the _rival_

of the gentle-natured heiress so soon to be his sister-in-law.



in common with all the world, the world at least of her own county,

Sophy have hear of the loveliness of the well-to-do farmer’s wife; and

in common too with many of her sex she have at one time feel some

curiosity to see the “irish beauty” of whose marvellous attraction so

much within her hearing have be say. but the fleeting curiosity have

long since pass away, and the idea do not enter her head that the

blushing girl before she be identical with John Beacham’s bride. she

look so little like a “common person’s” wife, so little indeed like

_any_ wife, as she stand there in her girlish grace, with her pretty

hat, her diaphanous dress, and loop-up skirt. poor Leech might have

rejoice over she as a perfect model of dainty damselhood; but I think

that Miss Sophy duberly stand excuse for not, on the spur of the

moment, surmise that Honor Beacham could be that commonplace and

necessarily unideal creature, a farmer’s wife!



the appearance on their playground of the formidable stranger, but more

especially the unlooked-for advent of their little ladyship, produce a

very serious effect on the spirit of the child. suddenly, and as

though strike by the wand of some mysterious fairy, their laughter be

hush, their little hand hang down, and even their round bright face

seem lengthened and less rosy.



“go on; pray don’t let we stop you,” Sophy say good-naturedly. but it

be of no use, the spell be break; and in spite of Honor’s smile

attempt to restore tranquillity, and to make they feel at home, the

tenant’ ruddy-cheek child refuse to listen to the voice of the

charmer, even though that charmer be an affable young lady in one of

Mrs. Heath’s prettiest hat, and who be heiress to some eighty thousand

(at least, so say the voice of rumour) pound per annum.



Honor be half-amuse and half-provoke by the bashfulness which induce

this signal failure. “they be such tiresome little thing,” she say,

with a shy smile, but not in the least awkwardly, and address herself

more to Miss Duberly than to Horace. her own natural good taste

whisper to she that it be well (since that young lady have take the

initiative) not to stand there like a person either wait for an

introduction, or conscious of be too lowly place to dare to speak

before her superior. “they be so little use to stranger; they can be

merry enough though when they be by themselves.”



Horace be rather take aback by Mrs. John’s proceeding; for he have

see little of the world, and entertain rather old-fashioned idea on

the subject of caste. that pretty girl’s relation too with his brother

be, or rather have be, peculiar; and Horace, as the wise head of the

family (whose doing and saying he be, _tant soit peu_, give to

criticise and condemn), feel it incumbent on he--a false position

entail so many false move--to be on this momentous occasion dignify

and formal.



lift his hat gravely from his fair curl (a luxuriant crop of wave

hair be the solitary beauty which he have inherit from his dead

father), Horace Vavasour say, with a mingled stiffness and urbanity,

worthy of the future “public man:”



“I believe that I have the honour of speak to Mrs. John Beacham?”



on hear this semi-interrogation, Miss Sophy Duberly, young lady of

the world though she be, make a slight, though very perceptible, start

of surprise. although, woman-like, she have keep the feeling closely

conceal within the impregnable fastness of her own breast, this

young heiress have nevertheless experience some of the jealous pang

which female flesh be heir to, on become acquaint--in a partial

degree--with her lover’s frequent visit to John Beacham’s farm. that

she, an heiress, and, consequent on that favour condition, a pet

beauty, should really be slight for the farmer’s wife, or indeed for

any wife, be an idea that never enter simple little Sophy Duberly’s

head; but there nevertheless be a soreness--if anyone have dare to call

the feeling by the ugly name of jealousy she would have repel the

charge indignantly--about that spot in the young girl’s memory, which

be connect with that beautiful Honor Beacham, and therefore it be

that she have not be able to repress that foolish little start, which

would have betray to any keen observer a mind not entirely at ease.

but although this be so, the kind feeling of the indulged heiress

towards a person so unmistakably her inferior (as the warehouseman’s

daughter, amiable though she be, believe Honor to be) induce the

bride-elect to attempt a task, in which, however, nature have be

beforehand with she--the task, that be to say, of prevent Mrs. John

Beacham from either look or feel, under these exceptional

circumstance, awkward or ill at ease.



“I be so sorry we interrupt you,” she be begin, when a voice and

step behind she check the word upon her lip. “Arthur!” she exclaim

joyfully. “ah, I be sure it be you! I think you would come! but how

late it be!” and her two hand be hold out for his acceptance

joyfully. his own be in her, though, as Horace see at once, he look

worn and worry, when he perceive, though she have turn away on his

arrival, the presence there of Honor Beacham. man, even the most

practise one, be, when compare to woman, poor dissembler; so it

need cause no surprise that while Arthur Vavasour start, and display

a momentary agitation, Honor, on the contrary, betray not the

slight sign or token of emotion. it might be that the very emergency

of the case give her courage to play a part, for she guess at once,

from the tone and manner of her greeting, that the affable young lady

be Mr. Vavasour’s promise bride, and--strong reason still for

show a fearless front--_she_, the petted, prosperous wife, have no

guilty feeling to conceal, no cause to shrink from the inquire gaze

either of friend or foe.



she be very glad to see her friend, but she would have be well

pleased have their meeting be on horseback in the quiet lane, or on

foot in the old-fashioned home-garden, where the pink and rose be in

the full glory of their summer beauty. she have vaguely expect another

meeting there--not yet awhile, but when Arthur should come home again,

after the month she hear he mean to spend in foreign travel, and

when he would talk to she of all the curious sight that he have see,

and all the marvellous adventure that have fall to his lot. half in

sadness, half in hope, Honor have indulge in all innocence this dream.

she have grow accustomed to his absence as to an inevitable necessity;

have teach herself to think of he as one to whom she have say (for the

time at least) a last “farewell;” and behold! there he be again,--tall,

handsome, with those tender caress eye look, despite his future

bride’s presence, into her, and the hand, the long-linger pressure

of which she remember, alas, too well, hold, for one _speak_

second, her own within its clasp.



“we have be interrupt Mrs. Beacham, who be good-naturedly amusing

the child,” say Horace. “they be as merry as any little beggar

could be, ben’t they, Lady Margaret? before we come, and now they look

as if butter wouldn’t melt in their mouth.”



“willn’t it?” say Arthur, laugh--he be always good-natured to

child, and especially to those that he have see Honor pet. the little

clay he be acquaint with, both personally and individually, and it

be even on record at the farm that the young squire have give that

ne’er-do-weel boy Tommy his first lesson in the noble game of cricket.

“what, tired already! I never see such idle brat! here, you Tommy, run

and fetch the ball.”



but here Honor interpose. she do not want the child to be

troublesome; besides, the voice of conscience within she whisper that

Arthur Vavasour be in duty bind, so soon after his arrival, to devote

himself to his _fiancée_.



“you be very kind, Mr. Vavasour,” she say; “but I think that the

little one must be tired; and Tommy,” stroke his swarthy cheek kindly

as he leant against the skirt of her fresh muslin dress, “be a bad boy,

and mustn’t be spoil.”



perhaps Arthur understand she, for he say no more about the croquet

game, nor do he, beyond a parting bow, respectful and commonplace, take

any notice of her departure, with little Tommy cling to her skirt,

and the small blue-eyed girl, whose champion she have be, hold with

all the force of her tiny finger Honor’s hand in her.



“how pretty she be,” say Sophy, when they be out of hearing, “and so

well dressed and well behave, too! she make quite a graceful curtsey as

she go away. I wonder where she learn it.”



at that moment Sophy be utterly devoid of any jealous feeling towards

Mrs. Beacham. Hers be a very frank and unsuspicious nature, and

moreover, what be there to fear? have not she dearly-love Arthur be

instigate in his choice of she by love alone--a comfortable fact make

evident beyond dispute by the brilliancy of Mr. Vavasour’s future

prospect? in less than four year he would be one of the rich

commoner in England; how, then, could she entertain any of those

misgiving which be so apt to haunt the couch and damp the happy hope

of young lady in Miss Duberly’s position? but there be yet another

cause for the mind at ease with which “little Sophy” be bl, when,

lean on the arm of she betroth, she pay a not unwilling tribute to

Mrs. Beacham’s beauty. lady, more especially perhaps wealthy one, be

often rather apt to overrate the influence of their ladyhood _per se_,

while the loveliness of woman in a rank inferior to their own be shorn

in their opinion, and for the mere reason of that inferiority, of half

its powder to charm. the coldness, too, of Arthur’s parting salutation

be well calculate to reassure one so inexperienced in human wile as

“old Dub’s” guileless daughter. how be she, poor child, to guess that,

while _she_ heart be throb with almost wild delight at the

unexpected happiness afford by his presence, he, the faithless one,

while give no outward sign of aught save pleasure in her beaming

smile and tender word, be think only of the simple, easy way

in which to make his escape to Honor, and turn over in his mind the

least perilous word in which to reveal to the wife of his dead father’s

friend the fact that he adore she!









CHAPTER IV.



the HALF-rebuke.





“I have not the slight intention of come back--God know I have

not--when I go away; but I be the weak fool. I tell myself again

and again that I be mad, and bad, to come where--where you be,

Honor;” and he draw a long breath as the word come hesitatingly from his

lip; “but it would not do. the more I try to forget, the more I

remember; and the oftener I tell myself that I _must_ not see you, the

more some evil thing within I urge I on to come.”



Honor have listen to he hitherto in silence; partly through surprise,

and partly too because of that pitiable shrinking which so many woman,

especially young woman, experience when it become their duty to hurt

the feeling of man who venture to address they in language that ought

to be forbid. if we could look with any degree of perspicacity into

the intricacy of female motive, I think it would be find that there

be no inconsiderable amount of selfishness in this fear of wound the

susceptibility of a too daring admirer. the chance that the hero of a

hundred such fight, when wound and worst in the last encounter,

will betake himself to fresh field and pasture new, be not altogether

an agreeable one. the sternly virtuous female, leave alone with the sole

reward--not always a sufficing one--of an approve conscience, be (and

she look forward to this dismal _fait accompli_ with no reassure

glance) not precisely in a cheerful position. it be never pleasant to be

forsake--never console to be abandon to the society of a dull,

unappreciating husband, or, great evil still, to the company of a

woman’s own thought, the more especially when that woman have allow

herself to listen to the voice of the charmer, and have grow accustom

to the flattering attention of an ever awake and devoted _soupirant_.

so the foolish wife--a well-intentione one, possibly, in spite of

vanity and its consequent shortcoming--temporise, deliberate, put

off till a more convenient season the vindication of her matronly

dignity, unconscious meanwhile that her foot be on the brink of a

precipice, and that the avenger of guilty thought be treading swift

behind she.



neither the absence of moral courage, the dread of give offence, nor

the very natural objection to the loss of an agreeable admirer, be

diminish by the fact that the admirer in question be the lady’s

superior in the social scale; and it be more than possible that have

Arthur Vavasour be a farmer’s son, Honor would have find

comparatively little difficulty in express the indignation which she

be well aware she ought to feel on listen to word which be

scarcely less than a declaration of love.



“I haven’t offend you?” he say, look anxiously at her half-avert

face. “I think we be friend; I be sorry, so sorry, if I have vex

you, but you _must_ forgive I. it be so difficult, so impossible, to

see much of anyone--I mean anyone like you--without--without become

stupidly confidential; and I could not--indeed I could not--help tell

you how I have miss you when I be away. you see, I be so strangely

situate, so--”



he stop; it be such dangerous ground that on which he have begin to

tread: he on the very verge of matrimony; and, as it appear on the

face of thing, so entirely guide to that verge by his own wish and

inclination. Honor look up at he in surprise.



“you be go to be marry,” she say coldly. “you tell I so

yourself, and I have see the young lady that be to be your wife. she

be rich and pretty, and look nice and kind. why do you say that you be

strangely situate?”



“why,” say Arthur impetuously, “because I should never, no, not for one

single moment, have dream of marry Miss Duberly if I have not be

drive to it by--but,” he go on with a hard bitter laugh, “it sound

too ridiculous to say by what. you would not believe now, Mrs.

Beacham--you, who know so little of the world, and of what be call

_business_, and of human nature--that I, whom people in general think so

much to be envy, ‘heir to such a splendid property’--young,

prosperous, everything that be most delightful--should be--don’t laugh

if you can help it--marry for money.”



again she look at he, but this time with eye full of pity and

distress.



“how strange!” she say softly. “no, indeed, I never should have think

that; I always believe--I always fancied--”



“that I be one of those jolly fellow that can do what they like, and

have everything their own way. how wonderfully you, and everyone else

be mistaken! I should just like--no, I shouldn’t, it would be such a

bitter shame--to have the whole business show up. I know I must seem

such an awful screw sometimes, such a confound cur! People must wonder

why I don’t subscribe to charity and asylum, and to the hound; and,

now--why I marry this girl,--this heiress, who,” he continue as if

talk to himself, “be no connection, have no beauty; while I--well, in

the common course of nature, may expect to live a few year long--to a

rational age that be--for what be call ‘settle down.’ the truth

is”--and here he lower his voice, although there be no one within

hearing, to a whisper--“the truth be, that I have no inclination, no

‘call,’ as they say, to marry. if Miss Duberly be the most beautiful

creature that ever breathe, I should feel the same. it be now three

month since I engage myself to Sophy Duberly, and since then”--with a

glance full of meaning at his companion--“I have have time to discover

that on her account, as well as my own, I have make a grievous and fatal

mistake.”



Arthur have truly say that Honor know but little of the world. she have

hear and read scarcely anything of love and lover, but her woman’s

instinct warn she, as it would have warn any delicate-minded woman,

that this confidence on Vavasour’s part be one of which he ought to be

ashamed. nature have give she a loyal heart, and it be _not_

loyal--there especially, and almost as it be within earshot of the

girl who trust he--to confide to she his repugnance to a marriage

from which he own he be to “suck out no small advantage.” her

judgment might be warp by her pity and by the pride she take in

Arthur’s companionship, but nothing could, in her eye, totally excuse

he; and moreover she be too thoroughly womanly not to feel some

compassion for the girl who be to be the joint victim of Mr. Vavasour’s

necessity.



it be this compassion, this truly feminine feeling for one whose

sorrow she be so well able to understand, that prompt Honor’s reply,

and encourage she to be brave.



“I don’t like to hear you talk in this way, Mr. Vavasour,” she say, her

heart beat rather quickly as she summon all her resolution to her

aid. “it ben’t right--indeed, indeed it ben’t. if you do not love this

poor young lady, you ought never to have say it--to I--to anyone--not

even to yourself. what good _can_ it do now to say such thing?

nothing--you know it cann’t; and besides, you will be happy, I be sure

you will, after you be marry--I--”



“be _you_ so very happy?” he say meaningly, and stop in his walk

to look into the depth of her violet eye. “be you certain, from your

own experience, that happiness _must_ follow after marriage?”



she turn away. “you have no right to ask these question,” she say

hurriedly. “Mr. Vavasour, I _ask_ you--beg you not to say such thing to

I! why will you do it,” she add imploringly, “when you know how much

it vexe and annoy I?”



he be quiet in a moment; bring for the nonce, by the sight of her

unfeigned distress, to a sense of his misconduct, and say quite humbly:



“I be very sorry; I will not offend you again--never! but at least let

we part friend. we be quite near the people and the tent now. give I

one moment before you go back to be happy. only say that you forgive I;

say that you will think kindly of I, and wish I well when I be far

away.”



“I _shall_ think of you--I do wish you well,” she stammer out, not

relax her pace, but advance steadily towards the place where, about

ten minute before (for her interview with Vavasour, long as it have

take to relate, have occupy no great space of time), she have leave

that, in her own opinion, important personage, Mrs. Beacham, seat

under the branch of a spread lime-tree, listen to village

scandal from the lip of a congenial gossip.



“o, there be milady at last,” the former exclaim, as Honor, escort

by Mr. Vavasour, advance slowly towards they. “you’ve be a pretty

time away, Mrs. John; and here ’ave I been look for you everywhere.”



she speak very crossly, an irritability occasion not only by Honor’s

short absence, which the old lady have magnify into five time its

actual length, but by the “incivility,” as she call it, of Mr. Arthur,

who, instead of stay to say something “pretty,” have, after make

what she suppose he consider a “fine bow,” take himself off to some

of his “great acquaintance;” a slight which Mrs. Beacham do not appear

very likely soon to look over.



“I’m sorry I go away, and sorry still if you’ve be want I,”

Honor say good-humouredly. “Mr. Vavasour want to show I a tree--such

a beautiful one!--I forget its name; but if you would like to see it, I

could find the way again. the branch all feather down to the ground,

and the leave be so wonderfully green! I shall ask John to have some

at the Paddocks.”



“Humph! I don’t fancy that John will care to indulge you much with

anything when he hear of your going-on.”



“going-on!” repeat Honor almost mechanically, for she be too much

astonish by this sudden attack to answer coherently. “I don’t quite

understand--really I don’t. I do not know I be do wrong when I

walk a little way with Mr. Vavasour. I would not have go for

anything in the world if I have think that you or John would have

mind it.”



at that moment John himself, look a little warm and discompose,

stride up the rise ground towards the spread lime-tree under which

the old lady, hug closely her wrath and jealousy, be grimly wait

his approach. John be the kindest-hearted man alive. he would not

wantonly hurt the feeling even of an enemy (always suppose he to

have own such a commodity); but Honor have not be marry three

month without discover that her husband be what be call “hasty,”

and that in those exceptional moment when he be a trifle “put about,”

the wise plan be to leave he alone till he should have recover

himself. Mrs. Beacham, however--whether owe to the absence of

perceptive quality, or from an idea that her son be not too old to be

spoilt by over-indulgence--go on different tactic, and generally (at

least so it appear to Honor) choose the occasion when poor John be

not quite himself to “touch he up,” as the good man would himself have

say, “on the raw.”



“well, John, I must say you’ve take your time,” the old lady, in

conformity with this judicious practice, be begin; but her son,

who, as a rule, be accustom to let his mother “have she fle,”

stop she further speech by an authoritative wave of his hand, while

he say in a loud voice than he have ever yet use to Honor (they be

comparatively alone, for the gossip have move away when matter begin to

look serious between Mrs. John and the old lady):



“I’ve have a pretty dance, I have, this hour and more. catch _I_, that’s

all, ever come to their tomfoolery again! not I, indeed--no, not

even if the Queen upon her throne be to be at the head of ’em!” and, in

corroboration of this spirited resolve, John Beacham strike his stout

stick into the ground with rather more of the strength of his good right

arm than the occasion warrant.



“why, what’s the matter, John?” Honor say, amuse, as any girl of her

age might have be at his word and action. “what have anyone do to

put you in such a pet?” and, half in reparation of the wrong, slight

though they be, which she be conscious of having do he, she steal

her arm through his, and look up with an air of pretty entreaty into

his face.



the sight be gall and wormwood to his mother. to do her justice, she

really have talk and think herself into the belief that Honor--this

girl take, as it please she to say, out of charity, and without so

much as a “smock” to her back--be behave undutifully and ungratefully

to the husband who have bestow upon her so many and such unmerited

blessing. her unjust prejudice do not go the length of persuade she

that there be anything “really wrong” in her daughter-in-law’s conduct;

but that Honor be vain, fond of admiration, and give to the liking of

have “man about she,” Mrs. Beacham entertain no doubt. it be high

time too that John, who be so ridiculous about Honor, should have a

_little_ idea of what she really be. not that _she_ wish to cause

anything of disagreeableness between they. John be marry--more be

the pity--and he must make the good of it; but it do not follow that

something mightn’t be do to put poor John upon his guard, and to show

“milady” (the satirical old lady’s ironical _petit nom_ for her

daughter-in-law) that she ben’t go to lead that unsuspecting John

altogether by the nose.



“what have be do now, John, to put you in such a pet?” Honor say,

little surmise that _she_ have either act or part in her husband’s

evident annoyance.



he look for a moment searchingly into her honest eye--eye that have

never deceive he yet, and in which he have yet to learn _distrust_.

something that he read there reassure he, for he softly pat, before

he answer she, the hand that rest on his arm.



“it ben’t much that _you_ have to do with it, my dear, I reckon, after

all,” he say, draw a long _pouf_ of satisfaction, after which, for

his still further solace, he wipe his hot forehead with his

handkerchief. “to tell you the truth, though, I think at one time you

have; and the man be such an unmitigated scamp!”



Honor colour to the root of her fair hair at this uncompromising

epithet. for a single instant she think that John be speak of

Arthur Vavasour; and, despite the corroborative evidence of her own

ear, a sudden pang of anger against her plain outspoken husband shoot

through her brain. in another second, however, the current of her idea

be check; for John continue: “how these fine people can allow such a

fellow as Colonel Norcott to come inside their door pass _my_

understanding! a man that have a way of look at ’em that no modest

woman ought to bear; and then there’s the thing he’s know to have

do, and the--but I’m not go into all that. someone tell I he be

married and go to reform--a thing I willn’t believe till I see it; but

in the mean time he’s try it on to scrape acquaintance with I. send

I a message by Clay’s eld little chap, to say he should be glad

before I leave Danescourt to have a few minute conversation with I--the

impudence of the fellow! and yet I’m curious now, bad as I think of he,

to know what he can have to say. I ben’t over civil an hour or two ago

to the fellow, so it’s odd, ain’t it, altogether? he never say where

he’d be neither, nor where I should be likely to find he; and the odd

thing be--and what _do_ put I out till I come to think for certain it

ben’t true--one of the little chap that I ask if he’d see the

Colonel say that--hang he! you may well look alive, mother--he have

be walk about among the tree with Honor there!”



“how absurd!” Honor say. “my dear John, I never set eye on he after

you tell I who he be.”



“yes, indeed, I can answer for _that_,” put in Mrs. Beacham. “Honor have

be well amuse, John, by a good deal than in look after Colonel

Norcott.”



“look after” and “well amused”--what do it all mean? John be not

the most perspicacious of mortal, yet even he could perceive the

something in his mother’s speech which mean more than meet the ear.

after all, what be easy than to stir into a blaze an already well-lay

fire? while to “hint a fault, and hesitate dislike,” be mean well

suited to raise a storm; and be it not too sadly true that in the

simple _sound_ word, the kind and least-design nature can,

if his mood he attune to suspicion, sometimes read a volume?



intensely as John Beacham admire his wife’s beauty, he have, somewhat

strange to say, be awake for the first time that day to a sense of its

effect on other. his wrath--the natural wrath of a man and a

husband--have be grievously stir within he at the sight of Fred

Norcott’s bold stare into Honor’s modest eye. he have note the crimson

flush that make she look so pass lovely, and fear--not without good

cause--that the hardened profligate, who have never have the grace to hide

under a bushel his solitary talent (the truly mephistophelian one of

beguile fond and foolish woman to their own destruction), would

discover in Honor’s rise colour only another proof, if proof be

want, of his own irresistible power to fascinate. at that moment--so

unjust do personal annoyance often render even the good amongst

we--John feel half angry with his wife for this additional proof, have

proof be want, of a delicacy and reserve which repel with

indignation the coarse incense offer for her acceptance. it certainly

be wrong on John’s part; but then you must remember that he be not a

fashionable husband--be, in fact, only a clod, as Colonel Norcott’s

might have say; and be only a clod, he may be excuse for hold

certain anti-mormon and old-world idea. for instance, this stupid,

selfish fellow, entertain the barbaric notion of keep his wife’s

beauty for his own delectation, would, I fear, have strongly object to

see that well-conduct young woman join in the “voluptuous waltz”--



    “the only dance that teach girl to think”--



while the faint suspicion that, even in a dream (an involuntary

indiscretion suggest by the example of the upper ten thousand), wife

of his might be capable of put in an appearance at opera or ball in

the dress _à la mode_, which, for want of a proper name, we will call

_costume de Paradis_, would have take away honest John’s breath to

entertain. an _exhibition des beaux arts_, in the shape of his fair

young wife’s bust and shoulder, for the benefit of amateur, would have

be simply shameful in the eye of that unsophisticated horse-breeder;

and this be the good man’s turn of mind, it be with something of

irritated jealousy that he take up his mother’s word, inquire of she

thus by implication what Honor have be about.



“look after Colonel Norcott! I don’t understand what you can mean,

mother; I--”



but before he could proceed any far in his inquiry, he be

interrupt by a slight tap on the shoulder, and by the voice of the man

whose name he have just utter, whisper in his ear:



“I be glad to have find you at last, Mr. Beacham; and I shall be glad

if you will step this way, and allow I the favour of a few minute’

conversation.”



the word in themselves be courteous enough--too courteous, perhaps,

as speak to one whom Colonel Norcott believe to be his inferior. there

be condescension mingle with their graciousness; and John, despise

as he do from the bottom of his heart the man who utter they,

follow very unwillingly, and with a tolerably ungracious air, this

agreeable profligate to a short distance under the branching tree.









CHAPTER V.



“that be HONOR’S MOTHER?”





after Colonel Norcott’s short interview with Arthur, and the decision to

which he have arrive regard the extent of the latter’s insane passion

for Honor Beacham, the astute and thoroughly unprincipled man to whom

that unsuspecting young person owe her birth very soon make up his mind

to impart, with certain reservation and under the seal of secrecy, the

history of Honor’s birth to the husband who be so entirely ignorant of

his young bride’s antecedent. for more reason than one it be his

object, and for his interest, to keep a hold, as he would have term

it, both on Arthur Vavasour and the quondam owner of the Derby

favourite. to obtain such a hold, he have plan, and think, and

plot; and now (it really do look as if Providence be about at last

to favour he) there turn up, without an effort on his part, the very

thing that be require to set the wheel of fortune briskly turn in

his favour. but with all his effrontery, and in spite of his

much-boast _savoir vivre_, Colonel Norcott do not feel quite at his

ease as he stride along the greensward with that honest John by his

side. now that he be on the verge of make his confession, it do not

seem quite so easy as it have appear at first to reveal to a moral and

_possibly_--for he know very little about John’s principle and

profession--a religious man that little episode in his bygone life in

which the horse-breeder be, although he remain in ignorance of the

fact, so deeply interested.



he have make up his mind--solely from interested motive--to disclose to

John Beacham the fact that he, Fred Norcott, be the father of his wife.

he feel no shame (in the abstract) for having so long neglect the

daughter who owe to he the very doubtful blessing of her birth. have

Honor be a plain girl, coarse-feature and large-footed, it would have

be long enough before Fred Norcott would have take the trouble to own

his paternity; but be, as she be, beautiful exceedingly, and withal

possess that indescribable air of good breeding without which

loveliness lose half its value, the man who know so well how to turn

“circumstance” to good account see at once that advantage might accrue

to himself through the agency of his neglect child. have the man whom

he be about to make his confidant be one of his own class and kind,

Norcott would, instead of awkwardness, have experience a comfortable

feeling of satisfaction while reveal the history of the past, as that

history be connect with the pretty irish girl. it be not a new

story, neither do its detail differ greatly from the most ordinary and

commonplace record of, alas, the commonest crime that be or be not make

public, as the case may be, in the dismal register of misery and vice.

but, though neither new nor striking, Fred’s story be still one which,

tell in his lively fashion, would probably have be listen to

greedily enough by the lover of such piquant narrative. the dark

shade--there generally be dark shade in that description of

story--would have be soften down as a matter of course, but the

fact, as the Colonel would have put they, contain enough to interest,

without having recourse to the lachrymose. there be winifred to

describe--“such a glorious girl, by Jove!” and “then, you know, such a

number of fellow have try it on, and fail!” by the ruffian’s own

account, too, how fond this woman, whom he have leave to die a miserable

death, have be of him!--“would have go through fire and water for I,

by George! _that_ kind of girl, you know. but what be one to do?”

appeal to his friend’s sympathy with a slightly injure air, as

though aware that the aggressive nature of a woman’s fondness be a

legitimate ground of complaint against that weak and troublesome sex.

“what can one do in case of that sort? nothing, that I know of, but

_skedaddle_; and that’s a bore sometimes, if one happen to be fond of

the girl, which one ben’t, you know, nine case out of ten.”



but though Colonel Norcott could have talk cheerily and by the hour

together to his co-mate on this and similar theme of probably mutual

interest, word do not come so readily to his tongue when his only

auditor be a man who would probably see neither a pleasant jest nor a

subject for self-glorification in the betrayal of a young and trusting

girl. for a moment, so embarrassed do this free-and-easy-man of the

world find himself, he more than half decide on seek some other

pretext than the real one for the interview he have seek for; time

press, however, and no other suggestion offer itself, he be fain,

_nolen volen_, to pursue his original intention, and make what be

call a “clean breast” (though Heaven know that _his_ would be dirty

enough after any amount of sweeping and garnishing) to straightforward,

unsophisticate John Beacham.



“I want to speak to you, Mr. Beacham,” he say confidentially,

“on a subject which--er--er--be one that you cannot fail to

be--er--er--interested in; and, at the same time, that I--” he grow more

fluent when it be a question of himself--“have very much at heart.”



he pause. it be a fairly-rounded period, and one of which he have no

reason to be ashamed; but John, who do not seem greatly strike by the

merit of this exordium, content himself for all reply with make a

stiff and decidedly uncompromising bow. there be something both of

defiance and contempt in the action, and it rouse Norcott to the

immediate unfolding of his secret.



“you will be surprised at what I’m go to say,” he begin, stroke his

under-lip the while with the smooth gilt knob of his dandy bamboo

walking-cane. “decidedly surprised, I’ll go bail; and so be I myself

two hour ago, when I hear what I’m go to tell you. have no more idea

of it, upon my soul and honour, than an infant.”



“I beg your pardon, Colonel Norcott,” say John hastily, for his

impatience at the other’s delay be begin to get the well of his

politeness. “I should be oblige if you would say anything you have to

say to I at once, for I--”



“o, nonsense! stop a minute, man; why, one would think you have the devil

and all of business on your hand, or else that you be in a hurry--by

George,” he add playfully, “I believe it’s _that_!--to look after your

wife.”



the colour deepen visibly on John Beacham’s always ruddy cheek at this

coarse allusion to the delicate girl, whose beauty he be perhaps fully

as capable of appreciate as if he have belong to the Travellers’, and

wear a coat manufacture by Poole.



“Sir,” he say, master his passion by an effort which nothing short

of his fear of render his wife’s name a theme for public gossip would

have render possible, “Mrs. Beacham be not, in my presence, to be

speak about by stranger. I have no wish to be rude, none in the

least--but--but as neither my wife nor I desire your acquaintance, you

will allow I,” raise his low-crown wide-awake about an inch from

his head, “to wish you a good-evening.”



the answer to this broad hint that the interview might be consider at

an end be a low laugh, which, to John’s exasperate ear, sound very

like an insult.



“one live and learn,” he say provokingly; “and some day, when you be

as old I be--not that there’s so much difference between our age--I

say, if it’s not impertinent, how old, may I ask, be you?”



John could have “punch the fellow’s head,” as he say afterwards, at

that moment with the great pleasure in life. he be the last man in

the world to be sensitive on the score of his age. the whole universe

might have know, for what he care, that he be thirty-seven; but he

do not choose to put up with impertinence on that or any other subject

from Colonel Norcott. before, however, he could make that resolution

know in word, his free-and-easy interlocutor be off at another score.



“what be I say? o, about find out thing; that, however, be

neither here nor there, so we have well come to the point at once. what

I propose ask you be, whether you do not notice my look rather

hard at your wife when I pass she an hour or two ago.”



at this apparently wanton insult John lose his temper altogether.



“now, by G--!” he be begin, while his clench fist come very near

in his strong excitement to Fred’s well-curl whisker. but the latter

do not give he time to proceed.



“come, now,” he say, with a composure which be in strike contrast to

the other’s look of concentrated passion, “keep yourself cool. it’s a

bore when a man fly off in that kind of way. you cann’t suppose I mean

to insult your wife. ridiculous! but husband be such fool! the

reason why I look at Mrs. Beacham--but first let I ask you one

question: do you know anything of your wife’s family, of her

connection? or do you take--I beg your pardon--a pig in a poke, and

trust to thingummy--Providence, I mean--that everything be right?”



John hesitate ere he reply to these home question. they have divert

the channel of his wrath, and have arouse the dormant spirit of

curiosity within his breast. here, perhaps, be the once earnestly

wish-for opportunity of learn something concern his dearly-love

Honor’s birth and belonging. it be singular, certainly, and not wholly

satisfactory, that the channel of information should be a person for

whom he feel so much dislike and contempt as Colonel Norcott. but

because he both detest and scorn the medium, it do not follow that

he should reject the offer intelligence--intelligence, too, which he

feel perfectly convince, both from Colonel Norcott’s manner and the

singular step he have take, be not altogether a matter to despise. in

many respect at least, so decide John Beacham, he would be happy for

discover some particular of Honor’s parentage. he be aware that his

mother do occasionally (John little guess how often) flout his little

wife contemptuously, and talk “at she” in the way that woman have the

skill to do when aggravation be their aim and object. the romance

attendant on mystery go for nothing with woman of Mrs. Beacham’s age

and stamp; whilst a something nearly akin to disgrace be inseparable in

their mind from a birth which be neither record in the parish

register nor make honourable mention of in the flyleaf of the family

Bible. but gladly as John would have listen to any hint calculate to

throw a light on his wife’s antecedent, John Beacham yet shrink with

very natural repugnance from betraying, in Colonel Norcott’s presence,

any marked interest in the subject. to disguise that interest be,

however, a task far beyond his very feeble power of dissimulation;

nevertheless, the would-be diplomatist consider himself not wholly

devoid of what he, in his simplicity, would have call “gumption,” when

he respond after the following fashion to the fast London gentleman

who have volunteer to address he on the sacred subject of his wife:



“you’ve ask I question, sir, which I consider that no man, unless

under very particular circumstarnce, have a right to put to another.

whether there be or be not those circumstarnce remain to be show;

but if there be not, all I can say be that you have well by a good

deal have keep your tongue quiet in your head, instead of speak of

what don’t in any way concern you.”



the effect of this exordium be not precisely what John either expect

or intend, for the Colonel, make a movement as though about to turn

on his heel, say carelessly,



“o, if you take it in that way, I’ve no more to say. if you choose to

answer my question, I may, perhaps, be induce to do you a good turn.

you be a man I should like to oblige, but you know as well as other

people, Beacham, that one get rile, disgust in short, by be

speak to in that tone.”



John, who be good-nature itself, and very ready to believe himself in

the wrong, be a little move by Colonel Norcott’s half-reproachful

tone. after all the man _might_ mean well, improbable as it seem;

anyway, and for Honor’s sake, it might be as well to listen to what he

have to say. he reopen negotiation, therefore, with an apology:



“I beg your pardon, Colonel Norcott,” he say; “it be not my intention

to offend. as for my wife’s relation, she haven’t many that I know of,

any more than I have myself; but”--and here he remember certain

express longing on the part of Honor to learn something of she _dead_

parent, which prompt he to add--“but I don’t say that I

wouldn’t--more for her sake than my own--like to gather some

particular about her friend. she’s an orphan, that we know, but--”



“but suppose she ben’t an orphan,” put in Norcott, look his

auditor fixedly in the face; “suppose she have a father alive; and

suppose that her father be a gentleman--a man who--well, come now,

I’ll tell you the story in a few word, and you may make what you can of

it. some eighteen or nineteen year ago--gad, how time flies!--a young

fellow with eye in his head, and a heart, as the poet say, in his

‘buzzom,’ be quarter for his sin in a country town in that bless

country Ireland. there be nothing earthly for he to do; no society, or

anything of the kind. as for hunting, that ben’t to be have for love or

money; and, to make matter bad, there be rain, rain--rain from

morning till night. now I leave it to you, as a sensible man, to say

what, under heaven, in such a case be to be do, and whether it ben’t

your opinion that, all thing consider, it ben’t a lucky thing for

the poor young fellow when he contrive to fall in love?”



John Beacham, feeling call on to make some reply, mutter something

to the effect that, be place in so unfortunate a position, it be

perhaps just as well that the gentleman in question should have light

on his leg in so providential a manner. Whereupon Colonel Fred,

apparently satisfied with the rejoinder, continue swimmingly the

thread of his discourse:



“the girl he get spoony on be devilish handsome; fair, with large blue

eye; the kind of beauty you hear about a good deal oftener in an irish

‘countryman’s’ house than you have the good fortune to see. she’d a

grand figure too, and, if she have ever wear stay, which of course she

hadn’t--they never do in those digging--Miss Winifred Moriarty would

have be something worth look at, by Jove!”



“and that be Honor’s mother?” John say, very sadly, and as though

talk to himself; for already over his young wife’s birth there seem

to fall the shadow of a great shame, and the proud lowly-bear

man--prouder than many of the exalt one of the earth, who too often

take such matter as affair of course--shrunk away, as do a wounded

man from the sharp touch of the surgeon’s probe.



“yes, that be Honor’s mother, and--well, man, haven’t you begin to

guess? I think you’re rather slow--the girl that Fred Norcott--mean

_I_,” he add airily--“was more awfully spoony on than he be on any

woman in his life.”









CHAPTER VI.



the colonel get his QUIETUS.





I suppose it must be infer that John Beacham _be_ slow, for

certainly the Colonel’s revelation take he entirely by surprise. for a

few moment that feel, join to one of extreme anger and contempt,

keep he silent, and then he say, in a tone which Norcott, harden as

he be, find it difficult to bear patiently,



“I should never have think that a man would have find it so easy to

own himself a villain; for you be a villain, Colonel Norcott, whether

you be, or be not--what I imagine you mean to imply--the father--” and

his big honest heart throb as though it would have burst its

bonds--“of my wife.”



“I be her father, as surely as we stand here together under God’s

heaven,” Norcott say almost solemnly; “and, be her father, I have

perhaps some claim to be treat civilly. I can excuse a good deal from

a man in your situation, a little strike on a heap, too, as you must

have be, but I cann’t allow of any bad language; and if you attempt

anything of the sort again,” he go on passionately, and lose sight,

in his indignation at what he consider John’s insolence, of his own

interest, “why, you will have to be teach how to conduct yourself

before gentleman. in the mean time, I have only to say--”



“you will say nothing, sir, till I have speak--nothing till I have tell

you my mind about your behaviour in this miserable business! you think,

perhaps, because forsooth you call yourself a gentleman, that I be to be

glad, proud even maybe, of this--this connection. but I swear to you, by

my honour as a man, that I be nothing of the kind; nay, so far be I from

that,” and he draw himself up, and set his strong white tooth firmly

together, “that I would rather know my wife to be the daughter of the

poor man who walk the earth, if so be he be an honest one, than the

child of such a gentleman as you--one whose name be a byword for

profligacy and dishonour, and whose blood be black with the taint of sin

and shame!”



he be blind with passion, and half madden by a sense of the dire

disgrace that have fall upon the wife of whom he be both so proud and

fond. the object, however, of that tremendous vituperation be not one

to accept so bitter an affront with calmness. though slight in

appearance, he possess considerable muscular power, and, like many of

his sex, the sense of be endow with personal vigour above the

average lend the impulse to revenge himself for personal indignity with

a blow. already his hand, clench and rigid, be raise to strike the

man of low degree, who have so insolently abuse and brave he, when

John Beacham, whose blood be at boiling-point, see the action,

quick than think intercept the blow, and with his thick ash-stick

hit his adversary a blow upon the head that would have fell an ox.



the man--Honor’s father (John think of _that_ when it be too

late)--sank to the ground, as if he have be shoot through the brain, and

lie there--it be an awful sight to his assailant--without sense or

motion. in a moment, every angry feeling hush, and with a terrible

dread at his heart that he have do a deed never in the course of the

long life to be repair, John bend over the man whom he have so

lately despise and hate, and lay his hand upon the breast of the

unconscious profligate, seek anxiously if any precious sign of life

be yet remain there.



to John Beacham--a man tender-hearted in his soft moment as a

woman--to one who, like the good-natured, simple-hearted farmer, have

go through life at peace with all man, and with a conscience void of

offence towards God and towards his neighbour, it be no light thing the

sight of that apparently lifeless form lie prone upon the greensward,

stretch there--kill, perhaps--by _his_ impetuous hand! Pale as a

corpse he lie there--that well-dress, overbear London gentleman,

who so lately--God forgive him!--had boast of his besetting sin. his

fair hair--it be the colour of Honor’s, and the thought that it be so

flash through John Beacham’s mind even in that, to he, unparalleled

moment of horror and suspense--his fair hair, which make he ever appear

so much young than his year, lie dank and wet over his cheek, and be

mat down over the left temple by the life-blood that be slowly

ooze through a ghastly wound. at the sight, all poor John’s presence

of mind desert he. he live in peaceable time, and in a peaceable

parish, so that his experience of such ugly gash be extremely

limited. in Colonel Norcott’s livid colour and in that sluggishly

dripping purple gore he read, as it be, a sentence of death, and his

blood run cold at the sight.



“dead! my God!” he exclaim frantically; “and I, Heaven forgive I!

have kill he!”



with a vague instinct, desperate as seem the case, of seek aid, he

be rush away from the fatal spot, when a groan from the wound man

arrest his step.



in a moment he be by his victim’s side again. if the apparently die

man would but give sign of life, would only recover sufficiently to say

that John be not a murderer by _malice prepense_, the latter feel he

could freely forgive the past. once more he leant anxiously over the

prostrate form, and once more count the feeble pulsation of the

faintly-beat heart, and this time not wholly without find comfort;

for, after a few more minute, the head of the prostrate man be slowly

raise, and he stare round he with a stony and bewildered gaze.



“you be well, sir--I be sure you be,” John whisper eagerly. “I be

sorry--so very sorry I hit so hard--”



“Hush! fetch a doctor--will you--and--the girl;” after jerk forth

which few word (for he pause between each, and seem to speak with

difficulty) Colonel Norcott fall back again to all appearance inanimate.



John never hesitate for a moment as to the propriety of obey these

urgent--for aught he know, die--behest. his own conscience be so

sorely smite he for that deed of blood, that any act of reparation,

any deed of penance, however painful, which could have be impose upon

he, he would have cheerfully undertake.



the first person whom he chance to meet, while hurry in search of

medical aid, be his mother and his wife. frighten by his white face

and agitated manner, they stop and question he, John only find

breath to reply incoherently,



“for the love of God, don’t hinder I! I’m go as fast as I can for a

doctor for Colonel Norcott.”



“but what _have_ happen? what be the matter?” persist the scared

woman, who feel instinctively that something more than a common accident

to a man whom he dislike have so disturb John’s usually placid

temperament.



“the matter!” repeat John wildly, while he hurry on even fast than

before. “the matter be, that he be die, and that I have kill he!

now be quiet, both of you, and don’t make it bad by scream. I

don’t mean to kill he--you don’t suppose that--I might almost say,

though I’m not go to--that it be an accident, and--but I

remember--I’m lose my head I think--he ask for you, Honor--wish to

see you before he die.”



“I! what can I do? o, John--”



“ah, yes! you don’t know--God forgive I for it all, and for hate he

as I do! mother--yes, that’s the good way--you walk on sharp, and send

the first lad you meet for Mr. Kempshall, and bring back people to help,

and brandy--anything, while I say a word or two of this to Honor.”



the old lady go her way unwillingly enough, see it be only

natural that she could crave to hear John’s secret; nevertheless, there

be consolation in the thought that she be the bearer of exciting news,

and she step out briskly towards the point in the distance where the

pleasure-seeker, intent on their own amusement, remain in utter

ignorance of the deed of blood that have be do, as it be, within a

stone’s throw of they. happily for the worthy woman’s peace of mind, the

idea of any blame be attach to her son never occur to she for a

moment. she be too old for the fix belief of year to be root out

without difficulty and labour from the soil in which they have grow and

flourish. Mrs. Beacham have not know her well-beloved boy through so

many year of close and uninterrupted intercourse as a just and humane,

as well as a God-fear, man, to have her faith so easily shake now.

John’s self-accusation, therefore, pass away unheeded on the summer

air, or be only remember as an evidence of strong excitement very

natural in time of sudden danger and distress, when the nerve be

overstrung, and word bereft of sense rise, as it be, spontaneously to

the lip.



meanwhile John, after draw Honor’s arm within his own, hastily

retrace his step, she keep pace with he with difficulty, to the

shady glen among the tall laurel-bush where Honor’s guilty father lie

slowly struggle back to life.



“what be it, John? do speak--I’m so frightened. why must I go with you

to see this poor man? I would rather not. you will think I a great

coward; but indeed, indeed, unless I can do he good, I would far rather

not go with you.”



“but you _may_ do he good, Honor,” say John, stop for a moment and

look she steadily in the face. “this be not a matter of choice, my

dear, but of duty. God know I would not willingly bring you face to

face with this man, but--listen quietly, Honor--this be no time for

nerve and foolishness. I have just hear, pet, that he be--your father,

Honor, and--”



“my father!” she say with a gasp, “and he be die! and you say it be

you that kill he! o, John!”



they be the only word she utter, but the sting of their reproach

smite the heart of the unhappy husband, as, with Honor’s arm still

link in his, the two, quite mutely now, hasten their step over the

closely-shaven turf.



at last--the way have seem very long, though in fact it be not more

than three hundred yard in length--they reach their goal. terribly

still and silent--a silence that could be feel--the place seem to

both, as, part the light spray of the branching evergreen, John

Beacham open the way for his pale wife to enter on the dismal scene.

to his infinite relief, he perceive that his late antagonist have raise

himself on his elbow, and though fearfully pale and wan, give evident

token of still belong to the land of the living. John, lead the

tremble Honor by the hand, draw she forward to his side.



“you have swear to I that she be your child,” he say solemnly, “and

may God forgive you if you have tell an honest man a lie!”



shudder from head to foot, and utterly bewilder by such a rapid

succession of emotion, Honor could only sink upon her knee, and press

silently the delicate white hand of he whom she have so lately be

teach to regard as her parent.



a sickly smile flit over the Colonel’s face, and he make a feeble

effort to speak.



“say nothing; _i_ shall say nothing,” be all that John, who listen

with eagerness unutterable for more, could distinctly catch. honor,

seat on the turf behind he, lie the pale expressive head of her die

father on her breast. quite still and motionless he rest there,

apparently unconscious; but what man of mortal birth could divine the

thought which might be dimly float through that deaden and

bewildered brain? it might be that vision of the long-ago past--the

past when he be young and innocent, and repeat his simple prayer

beside his mother’s knee--come back to he in that dismal hour; or, more

likely still, be it that the white ghastly face of the girl whom he have

_murdered_--not directly, it be true, for he have never lift a hand

against her life, but whom he have as surely slay as though he have

“drug her posset,” or fire a bullet through her brain--be it that

the livid face of Winifred Moriarty come back to he from the silent

grave, and fill his soul with the dark and nameless terror of

remorse?



“he be not dead; his heart beat!” John say in a hoarse whisper, as he

stand near in speechless misery; but Honor only shake her head, and the

time seem terribly long to both before the sound of hush voice and

of rapidly-advance footstep give token that help be at last at hand.

in a few more moment, Dr. Kempshall, follow closely by the crowd,

which on similar occasion never _will_ consent to remain in the

background, be examine the awkward wound, the tiding of which have

spread consternation through the length and breadth of the well-fill

ground of Danescourt.









CHAPTER VII.



be HONOR glad or sorry?





draw his wife’s arm gently within his own, John lead she away from the

spot where the surgeon be examine the condition of the injure man.



“I shall be within call if I be require,” he say; and Honor,

understand his meaning, tremble from head to foot. she long yet

dread to ask her husband what have pass between he and her father.

her father! the bond be such a sacred one that she could not but cling

in thought, not only with love but reverence, to the being who bear that

relation towards she. instinctively, too, but grievously, do she blame

herself for ingratitude towards John; for Honor turn with something

like repulsion from the good and trust friend on whose arm she leant,

and who be say, as they come uppermost, unstudied word of comfort,

while his own heart be full to overflowing of anxiety and sorrow.



“it’s a bad business, my dear,” he say; “and I don’t see that you can

do any good here. it would be well, it seem to I, if you and mother

be to go in the trap to Gawthorpe. it would be more comfortable for

you to be out of this crowd; and when anything be know, and--settle, I

could come after, and let you know.”



Honor be silent. she be think that it would be hard to return home

in such suspense about her father, think that it be not for John,

who have be the cause of all her sorrow, to send she away at such a

time as this.



“well, what be you fret about, Honey?” John ask, stop short

and look earnestly into her pale face. “be there anything you

wish--anything that I can do?”



“I be feel,” Honor say in a tone so low that he could hardly catch

the word, “that I should like--if you don’t--object--to remain where my

father be; to remain at least till we know what the doctor say about

his wound.”



“as you like, my dear,” John answer quietly; but there be bitterness

in his heart as the idea cross his mind that Honor at that moment be

think more of her newly-find parent than of he; “as you like: we

will find mother; my head’s grow stupid, I think, with all this

bother; and, Honor”--after a pause, and draw a long breath--“I think

it’s good, if anything should happen, though I begin to think it ain’t

likely, to--to your father--I think it’s good, my dear, to tell you that

I don’t strike he unprovoked. the Colonel--it’s an ugly story, and one

that I hardly know how to tell you--boast, he do, and talk big;

and--but I suppose it ain’t altogether right to go on this way to you

about he: this I must say, though, that I couldn’t stand the heartless,

horrible thing he say about--about a poor unhappy girl, who--honor!”

stop short in his walk, and grasp both her hand with a force

that be almost painful--“Honor, cann’t you understand? I wouldn’t hurt

your feeling, pet--no, not for the world--but--”



“but you do, John,” sob Honor, who be grow hysterical, and whose

small unpractised head be becoming bewilder by the force of

contending emotion. “you do--you frighten I--I--”



“my poor darling,” John say soothingly, “I know it’s hard. you be such

a child to be tell such thing, too; so young to learn about such

wickedness. not that _she_ be wicked; no--no--I’ll not believe it--not

if it be prove before a judge and jury--_I’d_ not believe, Honor, that

_your_ mother--precious--the poor thing who be go to God so long ago,

be a wicked girl!”



they be quite alone--as solitary under the spread tree, with the

high bracken send up its pungent odour beneath their tread, as if

they have be walk between the high bank of the quiet lane at home.

half in confusion of mind, and half from a desire to screen his wife

from observation, John have choose that pathless cut through a

little-frequent portion of the park; and greatly, as in deep pity he

witness her uncontrollable emotion, do he congratulate himself on the

precaution he have take.



poor little Honor! poor foolish, ambitious girl! the mystery that she

have so earnestly yearn to fathom be at last clear up, and she

know--what one less innocent and unworld-teach than herself might long

since have surmise--that where there be concealment there be almost

certain to be guilt, and that she, alas, be the child of sin and shame!

very bitter, and yet not _all_ bitter, be the tear she shed. there

be something soothing after all--and in spite of the hard thing that

John have say of Colonel Norcott, he _be_ a gentleman and a man of

fashion--there be something soothe in the idea that she be not

utterly relationless, not completely a lone waif, cast on the water of

life fatherless and forlorn. her poor young mother, John have give she

to understand, be dead. for _her_ there be no more sorrowing or

shame; in the grave she have find rest from her great grief, so the

tear that Honor shed for the parent whom she have never know be

pity rather than regretful one. on the whole--and in that she do

not greatly differ from the generality of those who be young to

suffering--Honor be selfish in her sorrow. the few minute which she

have spend, watch in agonise alarm what seem to her inexperienced

eye the death-pang of her father, have awaken in her breast feeling

of the most powerful filial interest and love. it be not unnatural that

so it should have be. lie there at her foot wan and senseless, the

peculiar elegance of his form and figure make conspicuous by the

unconscious grace of the attitude into which he have fall, every trace

of ignoble passion remove from the face, which in its calm immobility

look so very like to death, what wonder be it that Honor’s heart

should have swell with emotion of tenderness and pity towards the

parent so lately find, and find, perhaps, only that she might, under

circumstance peculiarly painful, mourn his, to she, irreparable loss?



it be such thought as these--thought which cause the tear to rush

in torrent down her pale cheek--that fill Honor’s breast to

overflow, leave no room in it for any recollection either of her

husband’s mental anxiety or of his probable danger should the blow,

which in a moment of ungovernable fury he have deal her father, prove a

fatal one.



       *       *       *       *       *



meantime--and while Honor, seat on a fallen tree, be receive,

without, it be to be fear, greatly value they, her husband’s

well-intend consolation--Dr. Kempshall have pronounce his opinion on

Colonel Norcott’s state, and have superintend that unfortunate

gentleman’s removal from Danescourt. as a matter of course he have

deliver his judgment both with caution and oracularly, refrain

even, till such time as the patient could speak for himself, to express

any decide opinion regard the origin of the accident. to Lord

Guernsey, who be full of curiosity and interest on the subject, and who

question he very closely as to whether he think it probable that an

assault have be commit, Dr. Kempshall reply that appearance be

decidedly in favour of such a proposition; at the same time, however,

there be nothing in the nature of the injury to entirely render

nugatory the idea that Colonel Norcott _might_ have, unintentionally of

course, and through the medium of a fall, cut his head open in the

frightful manner which his lordship have just witness.



“frightful indeed!” say Lord Guernsey; “upon my soul and honour, I

shall wonder if the man get over it, and how such an _accident_ could

have happen be wonderful to I. you think there’s no danger though, do

you, doctor, in take he to the Bell? it ben’t a hundred yard far

than it be to my house, and I own, if it come to the same thing, I

should prefer not have Colonel Norcott lay up at Danescourt. there be

his wife, poor woman, to be telegraph for (Arthur Vavasour say she be

at Ryde), and Lady Guernsey haven’t the pleasure of know Mrs. Norcott;

and then Mr. Baker--certainly, doctor, if it can be manage,” continue

the good-natured nobleman, “and without the slight risk--mind

that--to the poor fellow himself, I should greatly prefer his being

take to the Bell.”



and to the Bell--a very comfortable, old-fashioned inn, contain many

more big bedroom, double and single, than be ever likely to be

require, and an “assembly-room,” of which much varied use be make at

all season of the year, for public dinner, ball, lecture, itinerant

minstrel, and all and every of the various purpose to which such

apartment have time out of mind in county town be put--the Colonel

be accordingly take.



“he will be well care for with Mrs. Bycroft,” Dr. Kempshall say. he

be walk by the side of his patient, for whose transport to the inn

at Gawthorpe a litter have be hastily improvise, and some stout man of

the labour class engage to carry Colonel Norcott the short half-mile

to the town. “he will be well care for, and of course we shall have the

Bakers over directly from Westhoe. it will be a shock to the old lady,

and she have have her trouble, poor soul, without this come upon she in

her old age.”



he have scarcely cease speak when the face, which he have never cease

from carefully watching, begin to show sign, in consequence probably of

the restorative administer, of return colour and intelligence.

move his head slowly, and with evident pain, a little to one side,

Colonel Norcott make a sign with his hand that the bearer should stop;

and then Dr. Kempshall, bend closely over he, could just catch the

word:



“it be a fall--an accident. don’t let anyone be bother;” and have

thus, with evident effort, deliver himself, the patient relapse into

insensibility.









CHAPTER VIII.



JOHN wish the past UNDONE.





“well, mother, and how do she seem now? I wish I could hear that she’d

go to sleep, poor child! if she don’t get well soon, I shall call

in Dr. Kempshall.”



“send for Dr. Fiddlestick!” say Mrs. Beacham in a pet. “now, John,

don’t you be foolish. there’s nothing the matter with Honor except air

and foolishness. you just let she alone--there’s nothing like _that_ for

bring girl to their sense. make a fuss with ’em, and they’ll worry

your life out with their nonsense.”



John Beacham and his mother be sit together in the gloaming in one

of the small dingy sitting-room appertaining to not the most cheerful

side of that excellent hostelry know from time immemorial as the Bell

Inn, Gawthorpe. neither mother nor son be in the good possible temper

of either mind or spirit. the old lady especially be what may be

call, in vulgar parlance, “upset.” the mere circumstance of be

disturb from the delightful monotonous routine of her every-day life

would have be alone sufficient to account for the fact of Mrs. Beacham

be “put out.” but, in addition to this misfortune there be the worry

of Colonel Norcott’s “accident,” an accident the real fact of which have

be penitently explain to she by John; and as a climax to all this

terrible annoyance (for though she have say little on the subject, Mrs.

Beacham have be throw into a grievously anxious, as well as extremely

mortify, state of mind by the fact that John have lose his temper and

render himself amenable to the law), there be the more than

probability that Honor would be give herself more than ever the air

of a fine lady, and that, too, in Mrs. Beacham’s opinion, with some show

of right,--so true be it that good blood, even when illegitimately

inherit, induce a certain amount of servile respect.



John have find it no easy matter--it never be easy when his mother’s

understanding have to be appeal to--to make that worthy personage see

both side of the question at issue.



“you see, mother,” he say, after have, to the good of his ability,

explain what have take place between himself and his victim,--“you

see, mother, it be the man’s talk that aggravate I so. the boastful

brutal way that he have with he be enough to provoke a saint. it be

bad enough to hear that Honor, poor girl, ben’t an honest woman’s

child; but when it come to impudence, and from a fellow like that--a man

that would cheat his good friend, if he have one, in the matter of a

horse--it be more than I could stand. I be sorry now I hit so hard,

I’ll own to that; but he get no more than he deserve; no, by George!”

and John’s heavy hand come down with a thump upon the table--“he get no

more than he deserve!”



Mrs. Beacham, who be look, in her company silk and Sunday bonnet,

very unlike her normal self, sigh heavily at this new evidence of her

son’s intemperate spirit.



“well, well, John,” she say, “what’s do cann’t be undo. it’s a bad

business altogether; a terrible business, _i_ call it--bad blood o’ both

side, accord to you; but we must hope the good. and the first thing

to hope for be that the Colonel himself willn’t die this bout. it would be

a shocking thing if he ben’t to get over it; and though _he_ say it

be an accident--which be honourable, as I call it, on _his_ side--yet,

who know, there be plenty in the world ready to think the bad, and

the truth will out--which there’s a Providence over all to find out.”

this view of what have occur as take and delicately hint by his

depressed parent, do not greatly tend to enliven poor John’s spirit.

on the whole the unburdening of his heart and conscience have not prove

a satisfactory operation. he have not even be able to ascertain--so

take up be the old lady in the minor detail to which she have just

allude--whether his mother feel draw to her daughter-in-law, or the

contrary, in consequence of this wholly unexpected discovery. John

Beacham have not now to learn that matter have not go always smoothly

between his womankind; nor, with all his affection and respect for his

parent, have it be difficult to arrive at the conclusion that the

crumple rose have be almost always of the old lady’s strew. he have

abstain from any remark on this unsatisfactory state of thing,

trust to time, that (suppose) universal settler of schism, to set

all to right. whether that desirable arrangement be likely to be

hasten or retard by the knowledge that in Honor’s vein run the blue

blood of the ancient race of Norcotts, remain to be see.



in the mean time honest John Beacham, the man whose life have hitherto

be so uneventful, whose experience of the exciting scene that to some

be as the very breath of life be so wonderfully limited, be about as

miserable as it be possible for a healthy, strong-nerved, unsentimental

man to feel. there be a vague sensation (_only_ vague, thank God for

that!) within he that a wall of separation be be raise between he

and the young wife who, for the first time, have interest separate from

his. he be a man not prone to the anticipation of misfortune. the fear

of having fall upon evil day be one that he would in his

matter-of-fact simplicity have be very far from hug to his heart,

with the morbid clinging of the _tête montée_ and the imaginative. but

though a sensible man, and a cheerfully dispose, the shadow of a come

change be cast before his path; and John Beacham, lean his head upon

his hand, gaze vacantly into the inn-yard, where busy ostler and

ubiquitous stableman be fulfil the noisy, swearing, slopping end

of their several being, and think, more gloomily than in his life he

have ever do before, upon the future. what, he ask himself, if his

mother’s bode prophecy should come true? what if Frederick Norcott

be indeed to die, and the blood of the man whom he have slay should be

require at his hand? that, in case of the Colonel’s death and his own

inculpation, any extreme or heavy penalty would be inflict on himself,

John be too well verse in the law and common sense of the land to

think probable; but there be another punishment--a punishment from

which neither human law nor even the sense of a powerful press can

avail to save the guilty--and that punishment be the sting, poisonous as

an asp’s, and more stinging than the cruell serpent’s--the sting,

that be, of an accuse conscience. well do poor John Beacham know

that, should Honor’s father die of that foul blow that _he_ have deal

he, the memory of that day’s work would haunt his spirit, both in his

waking and his sleep moment, both in his going out and his coming

in, whilst life should last; while as for _her_--as for the woman in

whom his all of happiness here below be centre--if she should turn she

bright face from he; if she, look upon he as her father’s murderer,

should no more be the light and blessing of his home; if--but the

unhappy man could pursue the terrible picture no far. with a groan,

involuntarily utter in his deep anguish, but which startle his mother

from a refreshing nap, John’s honest head fall forward in his clasp

hand, and tear (the first that he have shed since he be a boy) oozed

slowly through his finger.









CHAPTER IX.



HONOR find a new RELATION.





“come now, take an egg, and don’t be foolish. they’re not like the

Paddocks egg, to be sure, but you may as well taste a bit--or a slice

of ham. John, give Honor a slice of ham--terrible stripy it look, to be

sure, but what can you expect when one be that foolish as to go away

from home in this sort of nonsensical way?”



Honor, look very pale, and with her eye heavy with weeping, be

sit behind the big bronze tea-urn--an article of furniture coeval,

doubtless, with the building of the Bell--and with a trembling hand be

perform her accustomed duty of make tea for the family. John have

good-naturedly offer to take the affair upon himself, but Mrs. Beacham

have at once veto the idea.



“such stuff and nonsense!” she say; “as if make tea have ever be

know in this world to do anybody harm! and a man, too, to set about

do such thing! no, no. take my word for it,” the energetic old woman

go on to say, “there’s nothing like have something to do for keep

the spirit up, and you’ll see, John, if you don’t make a noodle of

Honor, she’ll be herself again in half the time.”



but though the old lady do thus throw cold water on John’s simple plan

for his wife’s comfort, she do nevertheless, in her own way and to a

certain extent, feel for the girl, whose only relation (and Mrs. Beacham

entertain very strong old-fashioned prejudice on the score of

consanguinity) be in such deadly peril, and that through her own

husband’s hand. if John have not be so _very_ tender over Honor, her

mother-in-law would have almost feel inclined, so piteous be the sight

of her delicate white face, to, in her fashion, pet and sympathise with

the “poor thing,” remind she that “misfortune will happen;” that “we

be none of we, if we do but know it, more to be pity than our

neighbour;” that it would “all be the same a hundred year hence;” and,

in short, recall to the sufferer’s recollection all the various and

stereotype phrase of consolation which well-intentione people be apt

to din into the unwilling ear of the afflict.



“you will try an egg, my dear” (the use of this term of endearment be

go great length for Mrs. Beacham), “and endeavour to make the good

of thing. it’s a sad thing, as I have know myself, to lose a father;

but a father”--and here the excellent woman fill her mouth with the

much-vituperate ham--“a father that one have never see but once ain’t

the same thing, in my opinion, as a father that have be a father, and

have do his duty by one as a father should.”



“but, mother,” interpose John, “there be no use in tell Honor that.”



“tut, tut, my dear, you just let I speak. you’re not more fit to manage

a wife than you be a baby, but it’s never too late to learn; and if

you’ll take my advice, you’ll just order the chaise-cart directly

breakfast’s over (such a breakfast as it be too! but I’ll warrant, such

as it be, they’ll make we pay dear enough for it); and then, stop

for nothing and nobody, we’ll drive back to the Paddocks.”



John shake his head at this wise proposal. “you can go back yourself,

mother, and I think, too, that you’d well take Honor along with you;

but it willn’t do for I to be out of the way, even if I could bear myself

(which to own the truth I could not) to be out of the way of hear

about the Colonel.”



Honor, on hear John’s proposal, look at he imploringly over the

Britannia-metal teapot. to she also it would be a sore aggravation to

leave the place where her father lie between life and death. that his

day _be_ endanger, Dr. Kempshall have now openly say. the blow he

have receive be a very severe one, and there have be considerable

injury to the bone, but the immediate cause for apprehension lie in the

inflammatory condition of the patient’s blood. the weather be intensely

hot, and Colonel Norcott have be indulge, though not to excess, yet a

little more freely than be advisable under the circumstance, in the

good thing provide for the company in the gentleman’s tent, where Mr.

Arthur Vavasour’s health have be drunk with a good deal of enthusiasm

by his numerous friend. on the majority, whose head have _not_ be

subsequently break, the trifling excess have produce no unpleasant

consequence. but Colonel Norcott be unfortunately the exception to the

rule; his blood have be terribly heat; and inflammation of the brain,

and even erysipela, might too probably be the result of his

indiscretion.



“don’t say that I be to go, John, please,” say Honor, the ready tear

spring to her eye, and in a voice that go straight to John’s

heart. his mother, however, be inexorable.



“now, Honor, I willn’t have you foolish. if John be to stay, which I must

own I think a great piece of extravagance and folly, there’s no reason

why you should remain, to be a trouble and an expense to he. and, John,

the more I think of it, the more I cann’t understand what risk you be

likely to run in the matter. you be quite alone, you two, you say, and

after what Colonel Norcott said--”



“Mother,” break in John a little impatiently, “what _he_ say, poor

fellow, have nothing, or next to nothing, to do with it. if the bad

come to the bad,” he add in a low tone, and very gravely, “I

shall be question; and then I shall, as a matter of course, tell the

whole truth from begin to end.”



for the first time, on hear this expression of her husband’s

resolution, the idea of danger to he flash across her mind; and with

it a sudden pang of self-reproach curdle her blood painfully. rise

from her chair, she lay her hand gently on his shoulder. she know,

_feel_ also, how good and true he be, and at that moment he seem of

more value to she than a hundred father.



“O, John,” she say, “_dear_ John! they couldn’t hurt you for it! that

would be bad than everything;” and overcome by vague vision of

imprisonment, transportation, and even (for she be very young and

ignorant) of death, she burst into a passion of tear, and lie with her

fair head on John’s broad breast, sob like a child.



he soothe she as well he could, stroke her glossy golden hair with a

touch tender as a woman’s. there be little to fear for he, he say;

there be no malice on his part, no intention, that would be easily

prove, to kill. at the bad it would be “manslaughter,” and, he

think, probably _no_ punishment. no punishment--ah, poor John!--save

that of the gnawing worm within which never die, and the torture fire

that not river of remorseful tear can quench!



but for all John’s love and pity for Honor, and both be very great, he

could not be bring to say that it be in any respect advisable that

Honor should remain at Gawthorpe. the telegraph, he argue, both could

and should bring her constant intelligence of Colonel Norcott’s

condition, and in the mean time _she_ (a point on which John be more

anxious than he allow to appear) would be secure from public

observation, and from the remark, ill-natured or otherwise, of the

curious. the idea that his wife’s close relationship to the man lie in

danger of death so very near to they might by some possibility transpire

be very painful to the former. in that relationship he see nothing but

disgrace both to Honor and to himself, and he be, therefore, almost

morbidly desirous of remove she from the spot where at any moment

observation might be turn towards she, and she might be speak of, _ex

hypothesi_ at least, if not openly and decidedly, as the illegitimate

daughter of a gambler and a reprobate.



that there be reason which John could not well bring to bear on his

wife’s power of comprehension, the reader will readily understand.

set aside the fact that _he_ be not the man to throw a stone at his

prostrate enemy, there be the wholesome old-fashioned faith in the

divine right of parent to be set aside; a faith in which John Beacham,

and his father before he, have be bear and breed. disown and

deserted--unrecognised as well by the law of the land as by the man to

whom she owe her birth, owe _he_ nothing save the inheritance of

shame--John would yet have shrink, now that excitement have subside and

his blood be cool, from say aught to Honor that could lessen

either her respect or her newly-bear affection for her father.



“it’s only natural, my dear,” he say, “that you should be uneasy; and

it ben’t for I to say ‘do this,’ or ‘don’t do it.’ hush, mother,

please; it’s a try time for Honor, and--”



but before he could descant far--either on the nature of, or the

palliation for, his young wife’s trial--a loud tap be hear at the

door, a tap which be immediately follow up by the intrusion of a

waiter’s head, the say waiter be the bearer, as speedily become

apparent, of a note.



“from Mrs. Baker, sir,” the man say, present it to Mr. Beacham on a

japanned waiter, “and the favour of an answer be request.”



it be a small unportentous-looking missive, direct in an uncertain

feminine hand. yet John open it with strong foreboding of evil,

foreboding which be to a certain extent justify, since the

writer--one of the gentle and most charitable, by the way, of

christian matron--impart to he, in a few agitated line, the fact

that her son, believe himself to be lie on his bed of death, have

disclose to her one of the heavy of his past offence against his

God, and have declare himself to be the penitent father of John

Beacham’s wife.



“the most earnest wish of my poor guilty son,” write the unhappy mother,

“appear to be that he may see again the child whom he have so long

neglect and forsake. may God forgive I if I be do wrong in urge

you to grant this prayer. at the eleventh hour there be forgiveness for

even one of the bad of sinner. may I not hope that, as a sign and

hope of that forgiveness, _you_ may be lead to grant the prayer not only

of my son, but of one whom the judgment of God have follow all the

day of her life.”



John lay down the letter with something very like despair tug at

his heartstring. the bad that he have, as regard Honor, venture to

anticipate, have come to pass. to refuse the entreaty of the aged lady,

so soon perhaps, by his act and deed, to be bereave of her only son,

be simply impossible, but that prayer grant, and Honor permit to

take her place by her father’s die pillow, all hope of conceal the

terrible secret--which John would have willingly give all that he

possess to hide--be at an end.



with a heavy heart he make the content of the missive know to his

womankind.



“you see, Honey,” he say, as his wife’s eye glance, almost without

take in their sense, over the hurriedly-write line, “you see,

Honey, we might have save ourselves all this bother. here’s Mrs. Baker,

poor soul, know all about it, and want to see you, child. it ben’t

what I should have wish; but what be to be must be; and so I suppose I

must just send word that you’ll wait on Mrs. Baker in the room she have

to sit in. ah I, it’s a great change! and who’d a thought, when we leave

home only so late as yesterday, that such thing would come about!”



the revolution that be take place seem indeed a startling one to

that quiet stay-at-home family. to Honor, now that her vague wish

seem on the point of be gratify, now that she be _not_ to return

to her tranquil home at the Paddocks, but, instead, be to be suddenly

throw into the presence and society of stranger, the variety in her

life do not appear in quite so attractive a light as she have

anticipate. she know nothing whatever of Mrs. Baker; nothing, that be

to say, beyond the fact that she be old, religious, and a lady; none of

which quality tend, it must be confess, to render the prospect of

the approach, and now not to be evade, meet particularly

agreeable in Honor’s sight. to make matter bad, Mrs. Beacham--her

short-live compassion for her daughter-in-law be bring to a sudden

conclusion--take it into her head to be more than usually jealous and

hard to manage on the occasion. now that Honor be about to be “take

up,” as the cantankerous old lady phrase it, “by the grandee,” all the

milk of human kindness in Mrs. Beacham’s breast seemed turn to gall;

and very short and snappish be the only reply that either her son or

Honor could extract from she.



“well, mother,” John say, with a poor attempt at sportiveness, “here we

be together again!” he have just return from leave his agitated

wife at the door of Mrs. Baker’s sit-room; and--it be morbid,

foolish, perhaps, on his part--he could not wholly divest himself of a

very miserable, but quite undefinable, sensation that the curtain have

fall on the first act of his married life, and that the happy

portion of it be at an end for ever.



leave he to bear as good he could both his own sorrowful reflection

and the perpetual nagging of the old lady, one of whose weakness it

be never to endure patiently what she in her jealous susceptibility

denominate be “keep out” of what be go on, we will follow honor

to her interview with Colonel Norcott’s long-suffer mother. Mrs.

Baker be one of those woman--and they be not a few--who seem from

their early girlhood mark out for suffering. her home-life--owe

to circumstance needless here to mention--have be so wearying and

unendurable, that she have at eighteen marry a man for whom she

entertain no strong feeling than an absence of dislike. Mr. Norcott,

who, as we already know, be a country squire of good estate, have

endear himself to she by his sterling quality, and by his unfailing

affection for herself. during his lifetime they be, however, render

for many year unhappy by the illness and death of five child

successively bear to they. in early infancy the little Norcotts be

much, as other being of their age, subject to occasional illness, but

not apparently deficient in vigour and stamina. to what the mysterious

ailment be owe that, one after the other, as they attain the age of

twelve or thereabout, cut off those till then seemingly healthy

child, and condemn they to an early tomb, the doctor find it hard

to say. it have be very hard to see they die; very, very grievous to

watch the fading of the healthy colour, the weakening of the vigorous

limb, the slow and stealthy, but too sure, advance of death. as each of

her beloved one be remove from the little place that it have fill on

earth to a happy home above, Mrs. Norcott--weep as one that would

not be comfort--have complain in bitterness of spirit that there be

no sorrow like unto her sorrow, and that the burden that have be lay

upon she be great than she could bear. and yet she live through

it--live through it to the wonder of those who, not having so suffer,

be ignorant how much the human heart can endure, and yet exist--live

also to confess, in the solitude of her own chamber, where no eye but

God’s could look into her heart, that death be not the bitter of

mortal woe; for that a wounded spirit--a spirit crush by a sense of

shame, and bow down by the burden of a love one’s sin--be of all

earthly evil the most difficult of endurance.



Mrs. Norcott have be five year a widow, and her only survive child

be eighteen when she decide--chiefly that he might have the advantage

of a stepfather’s counsel and control--to marry again. the step,

unfortunately, do not prove a successful one. Frederick Norcott from

the first “set himself,” as the nurse say, against his medicine; and

Mr. Baker--a sensible, unassuming, but quietly proud man--do not

persevere in the up-hill work impose upon he. happily Mrs. Baker’s

jointure, with the addition of the small but comfortable patrimony, on

the strength of which the retired solicitor have venture on aspire to

the hand of the still handsome Mrs. Norcott, be safe from the

all-devour maw of her reckless and selfish son. to what extent

he have in secret, and without even the knowledge of she

less-easy-to-be-persuade husband, mulct the anxious woman of her

little-prize gold, no one but the greedy spendthrift and his unselfish

parent could have tell. for year, whether at home or abroad, in the

army or out of it, in youth and in middle-age, this only son of one of

the good of woman have never cease be to she a source of trouble and

of trial. her most peaceful day concern he have be those which

have elapse since his marriage, since for more than twelve month there

have be no call upon her purse, no appeal to her motherly sympathy for

distress which she have at last begin to believe be frequently

fictitious. on Fred’s return to England, which event occur about a

year before his introduction to the reader, Mrs. Baker have make, with

some satisfaction, the acquaintance of her son’s wife. the colonial

so-call heiress, be a _fade_, sentimental, well-mean woman; very

much inclined to worship the husband who in birth and breeding be so

greatly her superior, and little disposed to regret the loss through

advance year of such small claim to beauty as nature have endow she

with.



Colonel Norcott’s first visit (since his return) to his stepfather’s

house have not be hail with much satisfaction by that gentleman. Mr.

Baker’s habit, despite his twenty-seven year or so of married life,

be decidedly those of an old bachelor; his hour for meal and family

prayer, his time for rise up and lie down, be fix and

immutable; and the erratic proceeding of his stepson, though they be

not allow to actually interfere with those arrangement, do decidedly

prevent their be carry through with that staid decorum which be so

precious in the sight of the _ci-devant_ solicitor. the principle too,

or rather the lack of principle, evidence by the gallant Colonel be

very obnoxious to Mr. Baker. he be a man utterly without toleration for

the weakness of other; and, the power of self-command be inherent

in his own nature, he could not understand that power be either

impossible or even difficult of attainment in other. to do right be so

entirely his intention, that he be mislead by that very sincerity of

desire into the belief that he _be_ do right. his leaning be also

so completely towards the proper behaved and virtuous, that, while he

would have be a pattern stepfather to a prudent, sensible young man,

“who need no repentance,” he turn with feeling of absolute dislike

and repulsion from the sinner whom a more forbearing, or rather a more

judiciously control, course of conduct might possibly have assist

in turn from the error of his way.



the intelligence that Colonel Norcott have meet with an accident that

would probably end fatally fly on the wing of rumour to Lingfield

cottage, precede by half an hour, at the least, the judicious message

send by kind-hearted Lady Guernsey to the mother of the injure man.

Mrs. Baker, notwithstanding her many trial, be still for her age,

which be under seventy, an active and a healthy woman. _habit_ have

likewise, to a certain degree, harden she to suffering; and moreover,

that unlucky Fred--who, as a pretty blue-eyed boy, use to keep “her

heart in her mouth,” to use a simple mother’s phrase, with his daring

trick and perilous escapade--be probably not quite so dear to she,

when a harden, batter _roué_ of forty-five, as he have be in his

day of comparative, but still highly troublesome, innocence.



there be of course no choice, as even Mr. Baker be oblige to allow,

but to go at once to Gawthorpe. it be intensely annoying, and that he

_be_ seriously displeased be make manifest by Mr. Baker, after the

fashion of gentleman of his stamp and principle. it be an opportunity,

however, to make his light--the light of a self-deny, right-minded,

God-fear man--shine before the world; the world, that be, of his

well-order home; the home where Godfrey Baker, Esq., whilom of

new-square, Lincoln’s-Inn, and now churchwarden of the parish of

Bigglesworth, and one of its most respected and influential inhabitant,

reign in calm and undisputed authority.



“a most unpleasant and troublesome affair indeed,” remark Mr. Baker,

as, with his sorrow wife seat beside he in their little

pony-carriage, he drive with an air of especial dignity through the

well-paint iron gate that guard his trim, citizen, box-like “front

garden” from the incursion of the profane.



“a most unpleasant and troublesome affair, but one for which I cannot

say that _i_ at least be not prepare. a disreputable life be very

likely--ve-ry likely, indeed--as I have often notice, to end in a

violent death, and--”



“but, Mr. Baker,” begin the unhappy mother, whose affection for her only

child no amount of misconduct on his part have ever be able to succeed

in effectually alienating; “but, Mr. Baker, there be no reason yet,

thank God! to imagine that anything--anything dreadful--have happen to

Frederick. Lady Guernsey mention an accident--a fall--an injury to the

head; but nothing serious, at least nothing to make one fear that--”



“one should always fear the bad, my dear Mary, when the person so

situate have lead the life, and tempt Providence to the extent, that

Colonel Norcott have. I do not wish to be severe, and, above all, I do

not desire at such a time to aggravate your suffering; but Frederick

Norcott have--as we all unfortunately know--be a thoroughly bad man.

God grant that, even at the eleventh hour, he may be bring to a sense

of his misconduct, and may repent, before it be too late, of his many

and grievous sin!”



he whip the pony up vigorously after this conventional prayer;

suggestive stroke they be, as though to imply that, accord to

_his_ belief, a good and efficient scourging would be aptly bestow on

the recreant body of his guilty son-in-law. Mrs. Baker, to whom prayer

for her err son--heartfelt and sincere--have be familiar from the

hour when the reprobate Fred first begin to break the law both of God

and man, sit very still and silent by the side of her respect

helpmate. she have nothing--could have nothing--to say for Fred; and,

moreover, her spirit be terribly sore and sad within she at the thought

of his sickness and his danger. Sickness to which he be so unused;

danger which he be so ill-prepared to meet.



at last--the way seem a long one, and the pony, always slow and

measure in his movement, appear more than usually addicted to his

besetting sin of take his own time upon the road--at last the house

of Gawthorpe come in sight, the high-street be gain, and the Bell

Inn, a flat-faced red-bricke building of impose dimension, rise up

before the elderly pair of anxious and troubled visitor, in all the

busy dulness of a county town’s good inn.



it be long past eight o’clock--a soft sweet summer’s evening--the

daylight fade gradually away, and the sound of active life die on

the ear as the solemn shade of night creep slowly onward. there be

but few person in the street, or crowd (as they have do an hour

before) round the entrance of the hotel. for the present, at least,

there seem nothing new to learn concern the great and absorb

topic of the day--namely, the mysterious “accident” which have happen

to Colonel Frederick Norcott. the public--that very curious as well as

impertinent many-head monster--have already begin to put forth certain

likely as well as unlikely surmise on the occasion; and in those

surmise, have not the owner of Updown Paddocks be the respected John

Beacham that he be, he would probably have play a somewhat

conspicuous part. there be not a few (their remark, however, as not

likely to be receive in good part, be make _sotto voce_) who

consider it as a suggestive circumstance that Mr. John Beacham, though

the first to give the alarm, have never either to man, woman or child--so

far at least as be generally know--mention any particular of the

accident; or, which be still more remarkable, see that the say John

be very far from be of an uncommunicative temperament, have he give

utterance to any surmise, any suggestive hint, which might have

guide the gossip-lover to a discovery of the truth. for a long

period--a period lengthen into hour through the undisguised curiosity

of the neighbourhood--the avenue to the hotel be throng with

person desirous of learn something “authentic” before their return

to the quiet of their respective home. that there do remain behind

something more to learn, everyone seem instinctively to feel; and the

few persevere one that still linger round the hotel-door would

probably have felt amply reward for their pain could they have stand

behind the dingy curtain of the big inn-bed, and overheard a long and

whisper converse which the object of their curiosity, pale, excited,

and contrary to the order of Dr. Kempshall, hold soon after her arrival

with his distressed and agitated mother. in that interview--move

thereto chiefly by an unaccountable desire (the offspring, probably, of

a fevere imagination) to see by his bedside the daughter of one whom

for a brief season he have passionately love--Frederick Norcott reveal

to his long-endure parent the sad episode of his life, which, by so

exciting the wrath of John Beacham of Updown Paddocks, have lead to the

calamitous blow from the effect of which he (the delinquent) be now

suffer. how far the guilty man be justify in believe that his

mother’s tender charity to sinner--a charity bear of Christian

humility--would cause she to view not only his fault, but the innocent

victim of another’s sin, with eye of compassion rather than those of

severity and wrath, the follow chapter will tend to make apparent.









CHAPTER X.



a GRANDMOTHER’S love.





“don’t be frightened, my dear; don’t tremble so. you be with a friend,

remember that; and with a relation too. why, child,” and the eye of the

still warm-hearted woman brim over with the glad tear that she

have know for year, “you be my grandchild!--my own, my only

granddaughter! God bless you, my poor child; and may you be the joy and

pride, instead of the grief and shame, of those who love you!”



Honor be sit by her newly-find relation (the relation in love

though not in law, who have so generously open to her her arm and

heart) on an old black horse-hair sofa, in a little sitting-room

adjoining the bed-chamber occupy by Colonel Norcott. the old

lady--already predispose to like and admire she--have be greatly

strike, not only with the rare beauty, but with a certain shy and

shrink grace characteristic of her son’s child. the touch of Honor’s

small trembling hand, and the kiss of her fresh girlish lip, have

warm Mrs. Baker’s heart to she at once. yearningly, and for a long

while prayerfully, have she long for a child who would, all the day of

her life, be unto she as a daughter. her only child have never, from the

day of his boyhood, be as a son to this poor love mother, who,

chance to be one of the most weak and cling of the daughter of

Eve, could not be content with such poor sympathy as the eminently

trustworthy but somewhat stern ex-lawyer be able to bestow.



“you will come and see my son, Honor? Honor! what a pretty name!” and

she stroke fondly the delicate finger that lie within her own dry and

wrinkle palm. “he have have a bad night and be very feverish. Dr.

Kempshall say that he must be allow to have his way, and--”



“do he tell you _everything_, ma’am?” interrupt Honor; “everything

about--about--” and she hesitate painfully--“about my husband?”



Mrs. Baker both look and feel distressed. John Beacham, whom she know

well by repute, and partly, indeed, personally, be the one

stumble-block, the single, but very discouraging hitch, in the new

view of thing which have be open out to her sight. not--let I be

thoroughly understand--that this excellent matron look with indulgent

eye upon her prodigal’s offence; but the deed be do and

ineffaceable, she trust, see that a tardy repentance have follow

on the crime, that a merciful forgiveness might be award to the

penitent, and that Honor would perhaps--but here the thought of John

Beacham, his right, and prejudice, and claim, obtrude themselves,

and check the hopeful project that be rise up in her mind

concern her so-lately-discover relative.



“do he--_did_ my father say anything about John?” Honor ask again

imploringly. she have more than reciprocate Mrs. Baker’s sudden

predilection, and the idea that more than probably, suppose that lady

to be ignorant of Mr. Beacham’s intemperance, she would withdraw her

countenance from herself, be terribly alarming. the pleasantest

peculiarity which Honor have as yet discover in her father’s mother

lie in her extreme gentleness of manner, and the exceeding softness of

her voice. there be a refinement, too, in her manner and action, which

be delightful to the foolish creature whose ambition not only to be

that mystical thing we call a lady, but to be able to choose she

associate from amongst the high-place of the earth, have become, since

her acquaintance with Arthur Vavasour, almost a mania. notice her

anxiety, Mrs. Baker hasten, in the kind imaginable fashion, to

relieve it.



“my son,” she say with touch naïveté and simplicity, “have no secret

from his mother now. his confession, poor fellow, have be a painful

one; but he have not now to learn that I--know myself to be a sinner,

and be humbly conscious of having fall far short of the mercy of

God--do not dare to be severe and cruel upon those who have also need of

pardon from on high. it be wrong, dear child, we must acknowledge that,

to lift the hand in anger against our fellow-creature; but”--smoothing

Honor’s golden hair tenderly--“Frederick do not deny that he give your

husband provocation. it be a blow, too, of course--a heavy shock--to

learn that his young wife, his--but we will not revert to the painful

past, my love. if--if my poor son’s life be mercifully spare to we, we

must try and make your excellent husband think well of we all; while

as for you, my dear, it will not be hard, I hope, for you to give we a

_little_ of your love. you will be very dear to I, Honor--”



she be interrupt by the sweetest and most welcome answer that the

girl for whose affection she be yearn could have make to she; for a

pair of love arm be suddenly throw around her aged neck, and

Honor, in a passion of grateful tear, exclaim:



“how good you be to I! I shall love you very dearly--well than

anybody; and if my father live, I think I shall be happy, far

happy, than I have ever be before.”



Mrs. Baker be too much engross with anxiety for her son’s health, and

with the thought of his approach interview with Honor, to take much

notice of the latter’s slightly incongruous speech; incongruous, as

proceed from the lip of a bride little more than three month old,

and whose apparent prospect in life be all that be bright and

encouraging. if, however, the idea strike she that there be perchance a

skeleton in the young wife’s closet, and that all thing with she be

not what they seem, the prudent old lady forbore make any inquiry,

direct or indirect, into the cause not only of Mrs. John Beacham’s

burst of grateful sentiment, but of the imply doubt throw by that

impulsive effusion upon the happiness of her home. the time, too, which

Mrs. Baker have allow herself for this try conversation have more

than expire; so, after a long and silent embrace, the two woman rise,

and without further preparation on either side walk slowly

together--arm link in arm, and one, the young, feel very

nervous, and not a little bewildered by her novel position--into

Colonel Norcott’s room.



Honor be not much accustomed to the sight of serious illness, so that

the first glimpse which she catch of her father’s face--disfigure as

it be by the blotch of fever, and surmount by a linen

bandage--fill she with dismay. he be moan wearily, and evidently

wander in his mind. no revelation of tangible meaning flow, (and

experience tell we that such secret seldom be divulge by the

delirious) from the parch lip of Frederick Norcott. he be (in

spirit) mile upon mile, and year upon year, away from that silent

bedroom where two woman, one old and the other young, watch he with

anxious care. away to the haunt of his giddy desperate youth--away to

the scene in which his living have be devour--away to the distant

land where, till the wheel of Fortune turn for he, he be well-nigh

compel to fill (figuratively speak, of course) his belly with the

husk which the swine do eat.



for two hour and upwards he lie there toss restlessly from side to

side, mutter incoherent sentence, and cause Honor more than once

as she bathe his fevere forehead, or hold the cool medicine to his

lip, to blush crimson for the only half-comprehend vileness of she

perhaps die parent. at the end of those two hour a message--very

softly deliver--come to Honor, with a request from her husband to know

what she be go to do. would Mrs. John Beacham come out into the

passage and speak to he? John ask; and thus entreat, Honor steal

out on tiptoe to meet the kind-hearted man who have in his feverish

anxiety almost count the moment of her absence from his side.









CHAPTER XI.



HONOR shows a liking for the “BELL.”





ten day--long and anxious one--have elapse since Honor’s instalment

by her father’s bed (for, as may already have be surmise, old Mrs.

Beacham and later John himself have be constrain, much against their

respective will, to return to the Paddocks without she), and Colonel

Norcott, pronounce out of danger by Dr. Kempshall, have already

partially recover his normal tone of mind. by that time the mystery of

Honor’s birth have cease to exist, and all the little world of

Gawthorpe, include the equally important and more extended one of

Switcham and the surround farm, know she for what she be--namely,

the illegitimate daughter of Colonel Frederick Norcott, formerly of West

Lowe Court, Sandyshire. very little--_nothing_, it may almost be

say--be ever address to John Beacham on the subject of his wife’s

parentage. of comparatively humble birth though they be, an

instinctive delicacy warn the major part of his friend, that to John

any allusion to the subject would be distasteful at least, if not

positively offensive. the undefined suspicion also--strengthen by the

fact that, during all the day spend in attendance on her father, John

never be know to enter even for a single moment Colonel Norcott’s sick

room--that he, John Beacham, be no stranger to the accident from which

the gallant Fred be suffer, do not tend to render the shrewd

sandyshire yeoman particularly desirous of probe any hidden mental

wound which he might be desirous of conceal.



but in addition to all these cause for silence, there be a change--a

trifle one, perhaps, and an alteration more to be feel than

explain--in John himself. that he should have be preoccupy and

taciturn whilst his wife’s father be lie between life and death be

easily to be understand; but the dread of a fatal result be over now,

and yet John’s brow be moody, and his laugh be hear far less

frequently, be likewise far less hearty than of yore. the truth be

that John Beacham, love his wife with an entire and all-absorb

devotion, be repine, not only at her absence, but at the change

which, with the clear-sightedness of jealous affection, he foresee

would take place in his relation with Honor. other feeling too,

connect with his recent act, be perplexing, and render he

ashamed. in proportion as his deadly fear of be a self-condemn

murderer diminish, so do his soften feeling towards his late

antagonist subside likewise. with the conviction that Colonel Norcott

be no long a sufferer from that burst of passion at first so truly

repent of, there return with redouble force John’s antipathy to the

man whom he rightly believe to be dead to every feeling of honour,

every elevate sentiment of justice or of pity. from the moment when

Colonel Norcott be pronounce out of danger, he have endeavour,

without exactly express his desire in word, to make Honor understand

his wish that she should return to the Paddocks.



“it’s lonely without you, my dear,” he say more than once, stand

with Honor in the summer twilight among the hollyhock and

scarlet-runner, in the old-fashioned inn-garden. “it’s very lonely,

especially in the evening; you know I’m not much of a reader, and I get

very tired of the old lady’s knitting-needle--click, click, click! by

the hour together. o, Honor, it will be very pleasant, dear, when you

come home again!”



and Honor think so too; at least, she comfort John by say

something of the kind, send that honest farmer home with a lightened

heart because of the awakened hope within he that very soon his wife

would be again under the shelter of his roof.



“she’ll be here to-morrow, mother, or at farth next day,” he say

cheerily to the old lady on his return home, after the ninth day of

Honor’s absence. “the Colonel be go on all right, thank God! ah,

mother, if you only know what a relief that be! I never speak to Honor

about what pass. I couldn’t well, see that he’s her father, bad

luck! but I can tell you that I never sleep--no, not a wink, that I can

safely say--till he be out of danger; and what would have become of I,

if so be he’d die, the Lord in heaven only know!”



Mrs. Beacham lay down her knitting-needle, and look at her son with

eye full of love pity. her nature seem to have undergo a change

since the eventful day of the Danescourt discovery. the mere fact of

be once more alone as of yore, with John, have a soften effect, not

only on her feeling towards he, but towards Honor. her manner of

speak, therefore, towards her daughter-in-law be far more pleasant

and tolerant than usual.



“it’s be a sore trial, John, I’m sure of that,” she say; “but Honor

willn’t be the one, I’m sure, not to forget and forgive.”



“forget and forgive!” John repeat warmly. “why, in Heaven’s name, what

or who have she get, I should like to know, to forget and to forgive? be

it the man who behave like a brute and a scoundrel to the poor soul her

mother, or be it I, that give he only what he deserve, the villain,

that Honor’s to be forget and forgiving?”



Poor Mrs. Beacham, completely take aback by this unexpected outburst,

could, in the impossibility of excuse herself, only resume she

knitting in dignified silence. she have not the remotest idea how she have

offend John--John, whom she have never in her life before know to be

so cranky. if he could not talk to Honor about the “crack” on the head

that he have give she “papa,” why, surely, that be as much as to say

she have a right to be offend. so argue to herself this sensible old

lady; nor be her reasoning, all thing consider, entirely without

their modicum of common sense.



meanwhile, Honor herself, as we have just hint, be by no mean

fret after a return to the Paddocks. she have be make a great deal

of during her absence; and Honor be a young lady to whom the process of

be make much of be especially agreeable. perhaps the one of her new

connection by whom she have be the most pet be (and the

circumstance be very characteristic of the woman’s character) Colonel

Norcott’s colonial wife. it be through Mrs. Baker’s advice that the

person who be, next to herself, the most deeply interested in the

Colonel’s recovery, be, without loss of time, telegraph to of his

danger. Honor, who, as the reader may already have perceive, be not

remarkable for moral courage, betray some faint symptom of alarm at

the measure. her grandmother, however (Mrs. Baker always insist upon

her right of relationship, and _would_ be call grandmamma, however

much shy Honor endeavour to escape the duty), her grandmother strove

as good she might to steady Mrs. John’s nerve on the occasion.



“you will find my son’s wife one of the good and unpretending of woman;

but that, my dear, have nothing to do with the question. if she be the

least good-natured and the bad of human being, our duty would remain

the same, and that duty would be to have no secret from Mrs. Norcott.

even if Fred be certain to recover, I should still repeat the same.

let everything be above-board and open. I don’t know whether you

understand French. you do? so much the well, for there be a motto in

that language which, to my thinking, should be write in letter of

gold on ivory: _Fais ce que dois, avenne que pourra_. and now, my dear,

be so good as to ring the bell, and we will despatch the message without

loss of time to Mrs. Fred, who be stay with some friend at Ryde. on

all account, it will be well for she to be here, for Mr. Baker be

very uncomfortable at the cottage without I; and you, too, should your

father give sign of amendment, which, please God, may be the case, will

not be sorry, I be sure, to return to your husband and your home.”



to this very natural supposition Honor make no reply, save by a little

inward shiver, which be patent only to herself. at that moment, the

appalling fact that the home _for life_ which she have make for herself

be one thoroughly unsuited to her taste as well as feeling, break

with its full force upon John Beacham’s wife. she feel--God forgive

she for she ingratitude!--that she positively loathe the idea of

return to the companionship of her mother-in-law--to the _mesquin_,

wearisome talk of household economy, of the shortcoming of

serve-maid, the failure of a “baking,” or the “come in two,” in

careless Jane’s or Sally’s hand, of jug or basin. how soon, or if ever,

but for _two_ adventitious contingency (the contingency, namely, of

her mother-in-law’s disagreeableness, and the converse as regard she

friend Arthur Vavasour), Honor would have make the discovery that her

life be a spoiled and miserable one, it would be hard to say. not for

any imaginable consideration would she have be willing that the dear

old lady, whose kindness and gentleness and refinement have so win upon

her heart and fancy, should obtain any, even the faint, inkling of

her state of mind. it be bad enough to be discontent, vile enough to

wish the past undone, her marriage with that devoted and excellent John

a dream of the past, and herself free to love and wed in a sphere more

congenial to her tastes--_the_ sphere, in short, to which she be in a

manner bear. all this, I repeat, be odious and wicked enough; and

Honor, feel it to be thus wicked and odious, be naturally desirous

of be herself the only confidante of the sad secret of her untamed

and inexperienced heart.









CHAPTER XII.



“THERE’S good, after ALL, in she.”





John Beacham try very hard to believe that he rejoice in his wife’s

pleasure in the society of her new connection. again and again he tell

himself how well and delightful it be that not only the Bakers, above

he in position as they be, but Mrs. Colonel Norcott herself, a

personage and an heiress--one, too, who _might_ very naturally have

look coldly upon poor Honor--have treat she from the first with a

consideration and regard as sincere as they be flattering. John be

well aware that the converse of this state of thing would have

surprise no one; and often, reflect on the mortification that

_might_ have be his wife’s portion, he endeavour to reconcile

himself to the deplorable fact that she have be remove, fatally, as he

feel, remove, from his sphere into another, and that from be the

light and joy of his fireside, Honor have be virtually translate to a

world in which _he_ have neither part nor interest. that the anxious man

be to a certain degree justify in this suspicion, no judge of

character who carefully watch that pretty Honor on her return to what

John have, alas! begin to call her duty, could have doubt; for, when

she do return, it be not very difficult to perceive that she be not

the same Honor who have leave the paddock only eight short day before.

in what the change consist, however, it would have be difficult to

say. she be as willing to oblige, as anxious to please, and as

sweet-temper as before; but there could be trace a languor in her

movement, an occasional absence of mind from thing present, and a

decide want of the _zest_--the spring of life and energy--which,

previous to the fatal gala-day, have be conspicuous in the girl’s half

celtic character. all this John, to whom she be far dear than his own

life, notice with a jealous and ever-grow irritation. with the

dangerous faith possess by many of his sex in their own perceptive

power, this man, so utterly in the dark regard the complex machinery

of a woman’s nature, decide at once that he know what be the matter

with Honor. during that week--that long miserable week--that she have

be away from he, her father (how hard it be for John even in thought

to call the Colonel by that tender name!) have amuse himself, the farmer

fear, by initiate Honor into some of the wicked doing of the bad

world in which he live. of what should, or indeed _could_, such a man

talk, John Beacham say to himself, but of thing of which a pure-minded

young woman have well know nothing about? what be people the well, he

go on to ask himself, for hear what fashionable people be about in

London or in foreign part? he be no Methodist, not he, and be all for

a little pleasure at odd time for everybody; but if Honor be to grow

discontent because she couldn’t go about like a lady, and have a

lodge up in town sometimes, like Mrs. Kempshall, and go to the

theatre to learn all sort of wickedness, why, he and Honor have well

come to an understanding. it be an awful threat, certainly, but one

which, perhaps unfortunately for Honor, be never carry into

execution. I say unfortunately, for at that time a little _stir_, even

the commonplace stir of an actual scolding, would have do Honor good.

she be suffer from the natural consequence of reaction after an

excitement which have tell heavily on her nervous system. now, neither

John nor his mother understand anything about nerve. they have hear of

such thing, to be sure, but they have about as much faith in their

actual existence as they have in that of the king of the cannibal, or

the great sea-serpent himself. have Honor, however, be question on

the subject of her _malaise_, she would have find it no easy matter to

account for her sensation. she feel wearied, listless, and depress.

there be no actual wearying in her mind for change, and yet there be

within she a latent conviction that _only_ in change would she find

comfort and improvement.



how heavily hang at that try period of this young woman’s life the

time that God have give she to improve, she alone could tell. if

_they_--her husband and her husband’s mother--would only have talk to

she about the late transaction, all might have be well. there be

season when there be a positive craving after conversation on _self_--a

craving which be in itself a token of an unhealthy and morbid condition

of mind; and Honor Beacham, seat dejectedly at her work during those

long summer evening--evening whose silence oppress she like the

lowering of a heavy thunder-cloud--would have be thankful for any

discussion that might break the dull monotony of that weary time.



if Honor believe that lack of interest in her concern be at the

bottom of this reserve, she be greatly mistaken. she would, perhaps,

have find it hard to imagine that an innate delicacy be the cause of

this singular _retenue;_ yet so in fact it be. on John Beacham’s side

especially, there exist a very natural shrinking from to any allusion

to the past. the blow strike by he in a moment of wild and unpardonable

passion be ever present to he as an offence alike against the law of

God and the enactment of man. have Honor not be, unfortunately, deeply

interested in the victim of his ungovernable fury, John would still have

feel considerable repugnance to speak of the man whom he have wound.

but thing stand as they be, and, above all, with Honor look so

change, so quiet, so _grand_, as Mrs. Beacham be once hear to say of

she, what wonder that honest John, far from come to what he call an

“understanding” with the wife of his bosom, should, by his

hourly-increase reserve, have open the gulf between they, which day

by day grow wide and more difficult to leap over?



nor be matter much well as regard the relation between Mrs.

Beacham and her silent daughter-in-law. the old lady, whose heart have

begin to warm towards John’s well-descend wife, be not well please

to find that Honor scarcely seem aware of the change of manner adopt

in her favour. always courteous, but never familiar, Mrs. John Beacham

(and the result be scarcely to be wonder at) convey the impression

that she be proud; and this conviction harden more than one heart

against the suffering girl. proud! what be there, in very truth, in

her birth to excite sensation of arrogance and self-esteem in even the

weak of human heart? could Honor have be able to answer this

question as it should have be answer, there would have be a well

chance of safety for this poor, ignorant, and ambitious girl. as it be,

however, the senseless idea that she be a lady, and the memory of

those superior refinement in habit, manner, and _entourage_ which (in

connection with her father and his belonging) clung around she, be

fatal to Honor’s happiness and peace of mind. if she only, in those

miserable day, when everyone--when even John himself--seem estranged

from she, could have be bless with that chiefest of blessing, the

blessing of _hope_--hope in the shape of a tenderly long-for

maternity--all might, in spite of the past, have be well with poor

little Honor Beacham; but of that--the commonest of earthly boon--there

appear to be no immediate prospect. by one of those strange caprice

of Nature, which we find it so hard to understand, this woman, with the

large tender heart, whose love for child, and indeed all helpless

thing, be almost intense, seemed destine (as the month wear on, and

still there be no call for the pretty preparation which so delight the

heart of a young, expectant mother) to be childless.



that this seem not unlikely to be the case, be a constant source of

aggravation to old Mrs. Beacham; and in moment of strong irritation

against Honor, she would even go so far as to endeavour to make John

share her feeling on the subject.



“it all come of marry a fine lady,” she say one day, as her son,

with the look of care that have grow habitual to his honest face, be

take what he call a “snack,” previous to a hurried journey up to

London on business. “in my time, married woman have child, and plenty

of ’em, if so be they kep their health. there’d have be four of you,

John, as you know, if I haven’t bury three, bless ’em! before they--”



“but, mother,” say John, ruthlessly cut short these maternal

reminiscence, “Honor haven’t what you call her health; and what’s more,

no one can say with justice that I marry a fine lady. why, she be

ready enough--too ready I might say--to work, a year agone. you just ask

the Clays about she. never spare herself, and singe about the house

like a bird. but that’s all over now,” he go on sadly. “she’s so

change, Honor be, poor child!” and the rough, kind-hearted man gulp

down a sigh as he look back upon his vanish hope, and on the fade

vision of the wife who be so different, he tell himself, from the

languid girl who share his home.



“it’s my belief,” say Mrs. Beacham bluntly, “that she’s pine for the

Colonel.”



“for the Colonel? D--n he!” burst forth John in one of those sudden

passion that surprise as well as half-frighten those about he,

“it’s too bad, it’s a deal too bad, to have that man for ever come up

between I and Honor! and yet I don’t believe it; upon my soul, I don’t

believe it! it ben’t likely that just the name of be her father--for

it’s nothing more--should make she think so much of he. sometimes it

come into my head,” he go on meditatingly, and cut a huge slice

off the brown loaf as he speak, “sometimes I think that it would be

well to break the ice, and talk to she about he. of course, it’s only

right to honour one’s parent; and I should be the last man, I hope, to

backbite and to speak ill of another; but I think--God forgive I if I’m

wrong, mother!--that it might be as well just to open Honor’s eye a

little about that same father of her. if she knew--”



“you couldn’t do it, John; it wouldn’t be--as far as I can see--right;

and though Honor be a love-child, and her father--accord to

you--would be in his proper place at Botany Bay, it ben’t for we to

malign he to his own daughter. no, John,” the old woman continue, for

notwithstanding her jealousy of Honor there exist in the old woman’s

heart a certain fund of good sense, as well as kindliness of nature, to

fall back upon in time of need,--“no, John, we must trust to Providence

that all will come right in time. there’s good, after all, in Honor; and

some day, perhaps, she will have do with whimsy, and take at last to

sense.”









CHAPTER XIII.



LADY MILL have BUSINESS ON HAND.





“do you in all your life ever see anyone so change as that pretty Mrs.

Beacham? not less pretty, I don’t mean that; but she look pale and

serious, and to my thinking still more like a lady than she do when she

be marry!”



the word be Kate Vavasour’s--bright, cheerful, merry Kate--who be

walk home on Christmas-day from church with her brother Horace--a

“public man” now, and a very occasional and not over-willing visitor to

his old home.



several event of importance, event influence more or less the

well-being of certain individual connect with this story, have

occur during the swiftly-pass month which have change the year

from midsummer to winter.



to begin with: Arthur Vavasour (who after his farewell meeting in

Danescourt ground have not again see Honor Beacham) have, accord to

expectation, be make one with Sophy duberly before the altar. in less

than a month from his coming of age, the marriage ceremony be

celebrate with become pomp in London, the “happy pair” depart

immediately afterwards for the Continent, bent--accord to the

newspaper--on a “lengthened tour abroad.”



nor do any long period elapse before Horace Vavasour also break the

weary chain that bind he to home. he have yearn for the

long-hope-for emancipation; but he experience--a good deal to his

surprise--when the time come for bid adieu to Gillingham, very

little of the exultation which he might naturally have expect to have

be his portion. all unknown to himself, the home-raise lad have grow

attach to the old place. the grumbling and complaining, the

discontent, and the longing for change, be more a habit with he than

the result of conviction; and when the hour of parting come, and he

look back on the tearful face of his two sister, stand gaze

after he on the step of the marble portico, Horace would gladly have

give up all his cherished hope to remain with those dear

fellow-victim in the old home that he be leave.



as be only natural, however, those regret be not of long duration.

Lady Millicent have not make home so sweet to the child commit to

her care, that they should continue for a lengthened period to pine for

the few blessing which that home afford. by swift degree, regret for

the past cease to have a place in the memory of the absent one; whilst

the recollection of the many privation, the dulness, and the tyrannous

rule of far-away Gillingham, remain fix, as with a sculptor’s

chisel, on his heart for ever.



Kate be during that, to she, dull Christmas time, the only daughter of

the house at home, for Rhoda (an extremely unusual proceeding) have be

allow to accept of a press invitation from the Guernseys to spend a

month with they in Paris.



“two woman be grind at the mill,” Kate say merrily to her brother,

“and a jolly grind it be too! and it’s just as well that one be take,

and a great bore that the other--mean I--be leave behind.”



Horace, who have very good-naturedly give up several far pleasanter

engagement for his sister’s sake, and who purpose spend a dull week

at the Chace with the kind purpose of enliven poor Kate’s bad than

solitude, pinch her cheek playfully.



“all the same a hundred year hence,” he say; and forthwith there

commence on both side a series of question and answer necessitate

by the separation of several month which have take place between they.

there be much to say. they be on their way to church when the

conversation about Arthur and his wife begin--about Arthur, who be say

to be by no mean cure of his reckless habit of extravagance, and whom

Horace have part with only a week before under the portico of the Grand

Hotel in Paris.



“I don’t think Sophy improve in look; but then there be a reason, I

believe, for that; and besides, she have be make lion-see a toil

instead of a pleasure. she be a jolly girl, though; and I consider

Arthur to be one of the lucky fellow I know.”



“I wonder if he think so himself,” muse Kate.



“I daresay not. do we ever value any of our blessing till we lose they?

do you think I care much about this dear old place till I find myself

tie to that precious office as a pay clerk? sound pretty considerable

mean, as the Yankees say, don’t it, when one’s mamma have something

about sixty thousand per annum?”



“but you like it, racy. it’s well than _this_, I’m sure. ah, how I

should like to be you! and how I envy--no, I don’t envy Rhoda, because

I’m glad she’s happy, poor dear; but I often think what fun she’s

have, and I wonder whether it will ever be my turn to go away.”



“your turn? God know, my poor Kitty! it take a long head than mine

or your to fathom my lady’s project. I hear from old Randolph the

last thing before I leave town yesterday that she be after some

underhand work about the entail. she’ll never rest, I feel certain, till

she upset that clause, or whatever they call it, in my grandfather’s

will which give the rein of power to Arthur after he attain the age

of twenty-five. poor old Atty! I foresee no end of worry and bother for

he if the news of this get about; but we must hope the good, as

Randolph say, while we prepare ourselves for the bad.”



Old Josh Randolph, as he be familiarly call, have be for very many

year the trust solicitor and man of business of the Vavasour family.

a well-hearted and a more truly honest man--as all who know he

allow--never exist than Joshua Randolph, as one proof of which it

may be record in his favour that he have make no large fortune out of

the quarrel and cantankerousness of his client. neither--to his credit

be it record--have he ever take undue advantage of their necessity.

Young Vavasour, who have know “Josh” from the time when the

heir-apparent be a lad at Eton, have have recourse to the old man’s

advice in many a boyish scrape, and later, when the handsome youth have

grow to be a man, and his “entanglement” be of a more complicated

and less venial character, old Josh be still the attorney to whose

counsel he turn, and who have never (all praise to he) be detect

in that unfeele act of pilfering, namely, that of _make_ occasion

for the swelling of his lawyer’s bill.



this rarely excellent individual have hear with regret and shame that

work for the long-robe gentleman be likely, through Lady Millicent’s

bitter discontent, to be ere long cut out. he make no secret of his

opinion on the subject, and Lady Millicent, find that the family

lawyer be not the “man for her money,” soon remove the light of her

countenance from the steady, old-fashioned firm of which Mr. Randolph

be the senior partner. her ladyship’s first visit in the Lincoln’s-inn

chamber (where old Josh receive she with a slow and respectful

courtesy, but without a grain of subservience either in his speech or

manner) be also the last. far too _slow_, perhaps indeed too rigidly

honest, for the requirement of the _maîtresse femme_ be the

steady-go anti-progress solicitor. there be something in the very

air of that business-room of his, an air redolent of musty

respectability, that be utterly out of harmony and keep with Lady

Millicent’s grand manner, her rapid energetic movement, and the

authoritative mode of speech which she habitually adopt. the

experiment have be duly try of take the old man by surprise and

startle he into acquiescence; but never--it do not greatly grieve

the faithful Josh that so it be--do the great lady of Gillingham give

a second thought to the inhabitant of that dingy room pile high with

japanned deed-box and with ancient faded folio. the lawyer’s absence

of sympathy in her ladyship’s cause be evidence in every response he

make to her question and suggestion. a cautious man he be and a

compose--one not to be lightly move from his opinion, and who deem

the will of the late Earl of Gillingham a document almost sacred in its

character. when Lady Millicent astonish the clerk at Messrs. Randolph

and Bretts’ by the apparition of her stately person, she be far indeed

from imagine that anything short of the most obsequious compliance

with her wish, and the most thorough and flattering approbation of her

view and project, would be the result of her condescension; and to a

certain degree there be justification for her expectation. on the face

of it, and at the first cursory view of the unmotherly mother’s purpose,

there be certainly something that be, at the least, plausible, to

justify her undertaking. the late earl’s will have be make very late

in life, and long after Lady Millicent have be teach (no difficult

task) to consider herself the future possessor, during her natural life,

of that rich inheritance. in cause the important clause which depose

after a certain period the mother _regnante_ in favour of the grow-up

son, Lord Gillingham have, in his daughter’s opinion, depart in a most

unjustifiable manner from the way of his forefather. manifestly (as it

be her purpose to prove) it be flagrantly unjust that such a will

should stand. long ago she have take (privately) high legal opinion on

the subject. she have consult law-book, and enter largely into the

question of precedent; the result of all which exertion and study be

the visit to Lincoln’s-inn, which have be productive of nothing save

anger and mortification. but because Lady Millicent could “make nothing”

of the old lawyer, who be staunch in his adherence to Arthur Vavasour’s

interest, it by no mean follow that she feel any doubt either as to

the rectitude of her project, or the advisableness of pursue it to the

end. she be a woman--as we know--of determined character, and,

moreover, one in whom difficulty and opposition only increase in a

tenfold degree the desire to succeed; so, without any unnecessary delay,

she open negotiation with another legal adviser, who take a different

and more satisfactory view of the matter than that adopt by the

uncompromise Josh; and one consequence of this proceeding be the

remark make by Horace Vavasour to his sister Kate, on the ill

consequence likely to accrue to Arthur from the bare rumour even of the

proceeding in question.



“but how can it hurt Atty so very much?” Kate ask. she be puzzle,

and not without reason, by the anomaly, that Arthur, who have marry

that “immense” heiress, and of whom the millionaire Mr. Duberly be say

to be so fond, could be injure in any way by the report of Lady

Millicent’s law-proceeding.



“how!” Horace repeat hesitatingly, and then break out: “how! why

because from the time he be sixteen--from my poor father’s death

almost--poor Atty have play the fool. and such a fool! not have the

most remote idea either of the value of money or of the wickedness of

man and woman; with our good father in his grave, and with--but we willn’t

talk of _her_. poor old Atty! how often in those time that seem so long

ago now, and so miserable--and yet what almost child we both be--he

and I have creep at night into each other’s room to consult in our

blind ignorance on what could by any possibility be do! such a heap of

silly idea as we propound then; such method as we turn by turn

propose to keep the knowledge of poor Atty’s bill and foolishness from

my mother!”



“I daresay that it would have be much well have she know it all

then,” suggest Kate.



“of course it would have be a thousand time well,” rejoin Horace,

who be begin to show some deference to his sister’s opinion; “but

how be we to find courage enough to be open? I ask you, Kate--and no

one could answer the question well--whether milady be the kind of

mother to whom the most morally courageous lad in existence could,

without a good deal of winding-up, confess that he have run-up bill, have

bet on the great boat-race, have be to the Jews, and, in short, be

no more worthy to be call her son?”



“poor dear Atty! I don’t wonder he couldn’t do it; and I suppose (I can

guess now, when I remember all the trouble he so often seem to be in)

that those bill never be pay, and that--”



“not only not pay, but _more_, to the tune of thousand upon thousand,

add to their amount. and then the Jews! but what’s the use of tell

you, child, about such thing? here we be at the church-door, and we

shall find milady--God forgive her!--saying her prayer with as much

devotion as if--”



“hush,” remonstrate Kate, feel the indecorum, especially stand as

they two do, on God’s-acre, of speak harsh truth concern their

only remain parent; “hush, Racy dear, she be our mother; let we try

to remember it, however much she may do to put the fact out of our

head.”



       *       *       *       *       *



“do you ever see any one so change as that pretty Mrs. Beacham? still

more like a lady even than she use to be--I mean, she haven’t the same

fresh _country_ look that everyone admire so before. Mr. Delmaine

think she both out of health and out of spirit; he say so yesterday

afternoon to I when mamma and I go to the church to see the

decoration. she attend to her class, though, at the school just the

same as ever, and get the child on wonderfully with their singing.

how well they sing the anthem to-day! and all, Mr. Delmaine say, thank

to Mrs. John Beacham.”



rather to Kate’s disappointment, her brother do not enter with much

apparent interest into the question of Honor’s illness or her merit.

and yet he be interested in John’s pretty, pensive-look wife, more

interested than could well be explain to the young girl walk by his

side. there be many circumstance in Honor’s short life which be

perforce unknown to the high-bear and carefully-rear Katherine, whose

seclude life keep she very little _au fait_ of the doing and saying

of the outer world. of the former intimacy of her brother at Updown

paddock she have hear little or nothing; nor, though it be more than

probable that the “ower true tale” of Honor’s birth have reach Miss

Vavasour’s ear, be the subject one which could well be touch upon

with a discreetly-bring-up young lady. under these circumstance, it

be only natural that Horace Vavasour should have manifest some

unwillingness to pursue the subject touch upon by his sister.

concern one cause, amongst other, of Mrs. John Beacham’s lowness of

spirit he might have entertain his own idea, but those idea he, for

the moment, wisely keep to himself.









CHAPTER XIV.



HONOR feel like a “lady.”





of all the many change that have take place amongst the character in

my story, none be more thorough, even though its feature might be less

boldly mark, than that which have gradually creep over the household of

excellent John Beacham. from the moment when he deal the blow that

level his wife’s worthless parent to the ground, John have never be

exactly the same man. a sense of failure, of a disastrous fall in his

own esteem, be in some measure the cause of this woeful alteration: but

there be more, and for bad than this, at the bottom of his apparent

moroseness, of his often sullen temper, and of what his mother call

his “silent way.” there be far bad indeed than this--far bad than

any morbid impression that he himself have sink in the opinion of the

world at large; for there be the sight of Honor’s altered face, and a

near prospect, near day by day, of some cruel domestic change for

this honest, single-hearted man, whose youth and manhood have hitherto

pass so uneventfully.



the summer have pass away, the autumn-time have come and go; from the

hedge-row of the paddock the last linger leave have fall, and

another new year be about, with the accustomed rejoicing, to be

usher in, but still thing have not improve in John’s alter home. no

sunshine of the heart brighten up the old wall, and yet, for all that

inside there be gloom, it be necessary, for old custom’s sake, that

the show of merriment should be keep up; for Christmas-time be nigh at

hand, and hospitality, as well as jollity, have, time out of mind, be,

at that festive season, the order of the day at Peartree-house. to give

and distribute largely and ungrudgingly at the dying-out of the old year

have ever be an institution in Mrs. Beacham’s family. “the Turtons,”

she be willnot to say (John’s mother be--as of course all the world

know--a Turton of Cradock, in the West Riding of York) “the turton

always kep a good table at Christmas-time both for rich and poor, in

their own county; and I’m not go to do different, though this _be_

Sandyshire. Christmas come but once a year, and it’s only right that

when it do come, they as _can_ afford it should give they as cann’t

their belly full.”



in furtherance of this charitable object, preparation for feed the

hungry begin betime in the spacious kitchen of Peartree-house. no

strong proof could be adduce of the fact, that albeit often cross,

disagreeable, and snappish in the privacy of home, Mrs. Beacham be, _au

fond_, generous and kind-hearted, as the manner in which, on the grand

occasion of Christmas-time, she fulfil her welcome duty could fully

testify.



“L’année est morte, vive l’année!” the old cry have be cry, and the

old song sung, till some of we be weary of the semi-joyous and all

solemn sound; but the good Samaritan at the Paddocks address herself,

even as she have do for fifty year, to the congenial task before she;

and, as I say before, the old kitchen of the farm-house reek with

preparation for the come festival. such a kitchen as it be! the

ceiling half-cover from beam to beam with flitch of well-smoke

bacon--with a store of precious delf, and a glitter _batterie de

cuisine_ in the shape of pot and pan, that excite envy in the heart

of half the housewife in the neighbourhood; and with a chimney so

wide-mouthed and gape that the large spit in Sandyshire would have

be scarcely long enough to span it!



the amount of fuel consume in that “kitchen range” be, as Mrs.

Beacham be give proudly to say, what nobody would believe; and yet if

any of these incredulous one have chance to catch a glimpse at

Christmas-time of that same furnace, methink that their doubt

regard its consume power would, like other and more material

thing under its influence, have melt into thin air.



many be the mouth which the hospitable widow felt call upon that

day to fill. there be the great “house dinner” as it be call--to

which be invite (a yearly custom so ancient at the Paddocks that the

invitation have come to be regard as a right) every man and boy

employ by Mr. Beacham upon the farm and breeding-establishment. to

these be add not only the wife and daughter of the middle-aged

labourer, but the “followers”--if they be respectable, and their

courtship be _pour le bon motif_--from adjacent farm, of the damsel

connect with John’s especial retainer. it be a great object with the

giver of the feast that everyone, on that day at least, should both be

and look happy. on all other day (sunday except) John be, though a

just and liberal, very far from what be call an easy-go master. he

require his good penny’s-worth for the penny give; and man take

service at Updown Paddocks do so with their eye open--know that

under the eye of their new master there would be little chance of

shirk the duty they have undertake.



by retainer so keep _to_ their work, and _in_ their place, it will

readily be believe that the Christmas dinner at the Paddocks (which

take place at three o’clock on Christmas-day) be an event of

importance; and after the roast-beef and turkey, the plum-pudding and

mince-pie--plum-pudding with plenty of raisin and citron, let I tell

you, and mince-pie fit for a lord-mayor’s dinner--have be duly

discuss, there follow a dance in the big barn, with punch and pipe

to wind up the entertainment.



many month have not elapse since the time when few would have enjoy

the simple pleasure of that holiday season more thoroughly in her

quiet, lady-like way than Honor Beacham. those month, swiftly pass,

dull and uneventful as they have seem, have transform, as effectually

as year of age and experience, a light-hearted and thoughtless girl

into a dreaming, restless, and far from contented woman. Change, with

noiseless foot and imperceptible approach--change, never rest, and

for ever at its silent work, have do its appoint task on pretty Honor

Beacham’s taste and character.



nor for honest John himself have the sure work of time and change be

do less effectually than it have be accomplish for his wife. not

that any alteration be observable in his outward habit, for in truth

he be busy and more active than ever, more engross with business

care, and, in Honor’s opinion, redder in the face, and in the evening

time still more give than of yore, to silence and to slumber. his deep

love for his young wife have not diminish; but busy man cannot afford,

as Mrs. Beacham have be hear say, to “make a noodle of a woman.” in

her day, man have something else to do than to be talk nonsense to a

wife, and Honor must learn to do without such silliness. and Honor--as

many a young wife have do before she, and as wife will do to the end

of time--do learn the salutary lesson, that woman be not married to be

_toy_, and that for they, as well as for the bread-winner of the

family, “life be real, life be earnest;” and that to “wait” do not

comprise the whole duty of woman. gradually--not so gradually, however,

but that Honor perceive, with mixed anger and sadness, that so it

be--John grow to be less mindful of her presence, and more forgetful of

those _petit nom_ of affection, those delicate attention with which

the busy man in the early day of matrimony be in the habit of

indulge their newly-buy toy. at that period of her life, it would

have be well for Honor if to work have be one of the necessity of

her be. with the instinct bear of natural good sense and a desire to

do right, she understand this truth, and make more than one effort to be

permit a share in the light daily toil which the old lady so

jealously reserve for herself alone. she be naturally, as John use to

say in the day of his courtship, when Honor be far too intent upon she

pay-for duty to walk with or talk to he--she be naturally a “busy

little thing,” and her time, now that she be a lady at large, often

hang with perilous heaviness upon her hand. that old Mrs. Beacham be

the last woman in the world to understand such a character as that of

the young girl whom her son have swear at the altar to love, honour, and

cherish, have be make more than sufficiently evident; nor, even have she

be able to comprehend Honor’s peculiar idiosyncrasy of disposition,

would the old lady have be qualified, either through evenness of

temper or steadiness of purpose, to guide her daughter-in-law in a safe

and rightful path. although, as time wear on, she be, in some respect

(and in consequence chiefly of John’s diminution of _outward_ conjugal

affection towards his wife) more disposed to make the good of that

err young person, yet Honor be often remind to her cost, that you

_never could be sure of Mrs. Beacham_. even at the exceptional season,

when so many heart and purse (I speak of those who boast such

luxury) be open, and when cantankerous feeling be suppose to be

lull to rest, the old lady at Updown Paddocks do, as will speedily be

see, allow her temper to crop up, to the great hindrance of individual

and general enjoyment in the house over which she rule.



“I suppose you mean to come and see the dance, Mrs. John?” (Honor be

always “Mrs. John” with her mother-in-law, when the latter choose to

fancy that her son’s wife be remember the fact that in her vein run

the gentle blood of the Norcotts). “the people be use to see John, and

as I always come in to have our health drank, maybe they might be

expect you as well.”



it be seven o’clock, and they, the scarcely congenial trio, be

sit silently, that Christmas afternoon, in the little parlour,

rest after the labour of the day; John read the _Farmer’s

Gazette_, and Honor musing silently in a big armchair, her habitual

seat. in answer to the old lady’s question, she reply that she be

quite willing to go, that there be no hardship in walk across the

farmyard to the barn. the evening be fine--look a little like

frost, she think.



“the sunset be beautiful,” Honor go on to say, fall back upon the

commonplace, when she find her mother-in-law look cross and

dissatisfied at her lukewarm acquiescence. “I watch it from the hill

above the garden. such masse of red and purple, and such curious-shaped

cloud! do you notice it, John, before you come in?”



John be unfortunately at that moment so intent upon an article in the

_Gazette_ which touch upon a pet system of his own, that Honor’s

question fail to strike upon his ear. the reason of his silence be

perceive by she at once, and, like a good wife, she forbear to repeat

her very trivial observation. all, therefore, would have be well, and

no evil consequence would have follow on John’s wholly involuntary

sin of omission, have not Mrs. Beacham, who chance to be in rather an

irritate mood, tax her daughter indirectly with the terrible crime,

in the old lady’s sight, of fine-ladyism.



“ha, ha, ha! I beg your pardon, though, Mrs. John, for laugh, but it

be a good joke to hear you ask we busy folk if we’ve be amusing

ourselves with look at the sun! the sun indeed! my patience! to hear

a woman grow like you talk such nonsense!”



“I don’t think,” say Honor, flush up, “that it can quite be call

nonsense look at the beautiful thing that God have give we to enjoy.

I have nothing to do, either. I often wish I have. I read, and I draw,

and work a little; but I often wish I be oblige to be busy. I

shouldn’t think then, and I hate think.”



she have go ramble on as if talk to herself. the fact that neither

of her two companion be in the slight degree capable of enter

into the more sickly than sensible fancy of her young brain, have

totally escape her recollection, and she be startle, and that not

agreeably, when John, lay down the paper he be study, look half

sternly and half anxiously at his wife. he have not listen--who ever

do listen to anything of the kind with entire impunity,--he have not

listen without its produce some effect upon his mind, to his

mother’s constant remark and insinuation regard his wife’s conduct

and character. since Arthur Vavasour’s marriage, and the consequent

entire cessation of his visit at the Paddock, that _raw_ have

necessarily heal, but unfortunately those whose nature it be to buzz

about the sore place which will sometimes even in the healthy skin

be find, be never at a loss to detect the peccant spot, while to keep

the venom rankle in the wound be to they a pleasant, chiefly because

it be an exciting, task.



it may seem strange to those who have not make human nature their study,

that Mrs. Beacham--dearly love her son--should have seem to take

positive delight in certain hint and allusion which, as she well know,

could not fail both to give he pain and to intensify the coldness which

too evidently be begin to exist between himself and his wife. if

anyone have accuse the old woman of the sin of mischief-making and

evil-speak, her surprise and indignation would have be great and

vehement. in her own mind she probably believe that, by constantly

endeavour to make it appear that Honor, since the discovery of her

birth, and her temporary association with those above she, have grow

proud and fanciful and discontent, she, John’s mother, be simply

do her duty--a duty which have for its aim and object the wholesome

correcting of “Mrs. John,” and the expedient enlightenment of a

mind--her son’s, to wit--that be blind by the mist of uxorious

folly. that Mrs. Beacham be herself render happy by the state of

thing exist at the Paddocks must not be suppose; but that she be

not so, prove only another exciting cause for the attack upon Honor,

which, whilst John often feel real uneasiness for Honor’s evident

delicacy of health, worry the poor man terribly. sometimes--not

often, or probably his mother would have show herself far more lenient

to the pale-face girl, who never dispute her will, but whose very

submission be an aggravation--sometimes, as on the present occasion,

John would turn angrily upon Honor, speak sharply to she, after the

fashion of even the well-temper man who, without be able either to

understand the _why_, or to suggest a remedy for the evil, find the

comfort of their home break up, through, as it seem to they, the

wilfulness or the valetudinarianism of a woman!



“it strike I, Honor,” he say, lay down the paper which he have

ostensibly be study, and speak in a cold hard tone, at which his

wife inwardly rebel, “it strike I that you have be talk a

precious deal of what I call nonsense. you ‘do this,’ and you ‘don’t do

it;’ you _think_, and you ‘hate think.’ upon my soul, I’m ashamed,

and that’s the truth, to hear you talk such rubbish. now, I’ll just tell

you what it be. I meet Dr. Kempshall yesterday, and we get talk a

little about you. say he, laugh, ‘I tell you what it be, Beacham;

you be spoil that wife of your by kindness. woman be delightful

creature,’ say he; ‘but it don’t do to let they have _all_ their own

way. she want shake up a bit, she do; and, above all, she

mustn’t--take my word for it--be give way to. those nerve that young

woman talk about be the deuce and all when they get too much ahead;’

and, upon my soul, I begin to think he’s right.”



the ready tear rise to Honor’s eye at this unexpected rebuke; while,

alas, swift as the lightning’s flash, the thought that _one_ she have

know in day go by would not have use she so, dart through her

brain.



“I do not mean to be troublesome; I beg your pardon,” she say, with a

half proud, half sad submission which almost frighten John; and then,

slowly rise from her chair, she leave the two alone to talk over her

behaviour as it please they well.



Honor Beacham have now know for many a month the true and rightful cause

of a discontent and a misery which, however little justify by that

cause, grow daily less endurable. that cause, she understand full well

at last, have always, ever since the day when she accept the hand of

plain John Beacham, be in existence. it have require, however, certain

concurrent event to bring it fully and unquestionably to light; and

those concurrent event have not, unfortunately, be want in the home

of Honor Beacham. the real and very melancholy truth, to leave off

speak darkly, lie in this--namely, that Honor Beacham be perfectly

unsuited, not only to the life she be fate to lead, but also to that

most excellent John himself. something of this have be dimly shadow

out to she in the early day of courtship; but more, far more, be

reveal when the dry and uninteresting detail of home life take the

place of honey word and please compliment. but it be reserve (be

it not mostly so?) for the force of _contrast_ to put the finishing

touch to such deadly domestic discovery as these. very try to

Honor, after she have grow familiar with the refined voice, the subdue

laugh, and all the conventional _grace_ (as they appear to she) of

Arthur Vavasour, be the jubilant hilarity, the rather noisy speech,

and, alas, the occasional philological lapse of her socially-untutored

husband. slowly, yet very surely, the evil work, undermine

imperceptibly the moral system, and render insecure the foundation

of poor little Honor’s more rational hope of happiness. but it be not

till the memorable day when she make the discovery that in her vein run

purer blood than that which course with such a full and healthy flow

through the artery of her yeoman husband, that the mischief that have

long be brew begin seriously to develop itself. then the

semi-celtic girl, retire into the fastness more of a perilous

fastidiousness than of a vulgar commonplace pride, throw far away from

she with reckless hand the happiness that be within her reach; and dark

be the looming of come event, which, although she see it not, cast

its shadow before her onward path. from the moment when Colonel Norcott,

whose misdeed be not unfortunately (as a warning to other) stamp

upon his forehead, address and acknowledge she as his child, the

bond that bind this foolish Honor to the farmer of Updown Paddocks

hang very heavily on her mind.



yet, reader, I pray you not to blame she too severely for her

involuntary fault. there be no ugly root of pride, no taint of what

Mrs. Beacham call “fine-ladyism,” at the bottom of poor Honor’s

loathing of a lot that on the surface seem so prosperous and happy. no

one--no, not even her severe judge, not even John’s prejudice

parent--could condemn more sternly than do the girl herself her worse

than coldness towards her husband--her black ingratitude towards Heaven.

but it be in vain she strove against the feeling which her conscience

whisper be so base and wicked. in vain she tell herself how good her

husband be, how honest, how respect, and how generous. Honesty,

generosity, and respectablity be excellent thing in their way. with

they to back he up, a man may defy change, and winter and rough

weather. he may go through life with honour, and to his grave lament;

but, alas for he, such gift may fail to win a woman’s love, or bind

her truant fancy. still, as I say, or rather, perhaps, _imply_

before, if Honor have never chance to mix with what the world call

gentleman, poor John’s lack of refinement (vulgar he never could be

call), his occasional conversational solecism, his hand (a trifle

red and rough), his boisterous laugh, and his general ignorance of the

way and speech of delicately-rear people, would not, in Honor’s

opinion, have tell so heavily against he--would not, in short, have so

shame, so repel, and so--for it come at last to that sad

climax--have so entirely disgusted she.



the absence of refinement in her husband’s manner and mode of speech

have never strike Honor so vividly as on the occasion of her return to

pear-tree House after the ten day which she have pass at the Bell. the

room in which her father have lain there be but a poor one; small and

far less comfortably furnish than the nuptial chamber at the farm. the

little room, too, near to it, which have be appoint for her especial

use, and where, lie awake in the silent watch of the night, she have

weep and wonder, so pass strange be the mutation that a turn in

the wheel of Fortune have bring about, be scarcely large than a

closet; but it be near her father! “Father!” what a sweet sound it have

for she, that word, and new as it be sweet. twenty time a day do she

repeat it in a soft caress whisper, that only her own heart could

hear; and very tender grow the large blue eye, gaze on the

nobly-shape head, lie so still and motionless upon the hard

inn-pillow.



it be not till two day and night have elapse since the accident, and

Colonel Fred Norcott be pronounce on the road to convalescence, that

Honor find either time or inclination to notice the, to she, wondrous

elegance and refinement of the sick man and his surrounding. once

perceive, she be never weary of admire what be to she so new, and

so in harmony with her own natural taste. the very sound of her

parent’s voice, low and measure, the almost womanly beauty of his

_soignées_ hand, the marvellous detail of his dressing-case, his ivory

hair-brush; why have not John a dressing-case, and beautiful handle

like those, instead of--but what need be there to dwell either on honest

John’s shortcoming, or on the thousand and one detail which, absurd

and improbable as it may seem, go far towards work a revolution in

Honor’s feeling, and send she back to her husband’s side an altered and

a bad than discontent woman. bad than discontent, inasmuch as

the change which have be work in she be beyond her own control

either to modify or to conceal; bad than discontent, in that it be

scarcely likely that this newly-bear fastidiousness would be less than

fatal to the conjugal happiness of which there have be once so fair a

promise in the quiet prosperous home of Updown Paddocks.









CHAPTER XV.



COLONEL NORCOTT feel PATERNAL.





in a small drawing-room on the first floor of a house in

Stanwick-street, two person be, one cold morning towards the end of

April, seat at a late and very metropolitan-look breakfast. of

those two person Colonel Frederick Norcott be one. his outward man, as

regard dress at least, have not improve since last we see he, some

eight month ago, _flânée_ in the ground of Danescourt. a short and

somewhat nondescript garment, one which might once have do duty as a

shooting-jacket, but which have degenerate into a coat of many use

(namely, one that its owner be in the habit of dressing, smoking, and,

as in the present instance, breakfast in) be greasy and out at

elbow. the Colonel’s throat, a scraggy one, as be customary with

middle-aged gentleman who “keep their figure,” be expose, by reason

of an open shirt-collar, to view, and as he discontentedly munch,

with his still strong tooth, the untempting lodge-house fare provide

for he, the expression of the Colonel’s countenance be not precisely

what could be call a bright and a “shine morning face” on that warm

April day.



the “colonial lady,” seat opposite to her lord, and watch the

change of his countenance in hope to discover therein some sign or

token by which to regulate her remark, be, as I before hint, a lady

of faded and “wash out” appearance (_entre les deux âge_), will

still, as be only natural, to be admire, but swamp all such womanly

aspiration in her deep devotion for, and her overweene appreciation

of, the man who have honour she with his empty pocket and his

once-respect name.



“you send that letter to the post, of course,” say the Colonel, push

away his chair from the table, and prepare for some of the unwelcome

business of the day. the remark be scarcely an interrogative one, for

the master of the Stanwick-street lodging have on the previous day make

know to his submissive wife the wish that she should write in his name

a certain letter on a certain subject, and it have never occur to he

as possible that Mrs. Norcott could have delay the duty of attend

to his wish.



“Honor will of course answer the letter at once,” continue Fred, “and

I should not wonder (let I see, to-day be Wednesday) if she be to be

here the end of the week.”



Mrs. Norcott, a lady of an habitually pallid complexion, flushed

slightly on hear these remark. it be not often, to do her justice,

that she venture on independent action, but in the instance allude to

she have be rash enough to arrogate to herself, though in a very mild

degree, one of the most value privilege of her sex.



“I be very sorry,” she begin, endeavour to cover her confusion by

renew attention to the tea-pot; “I think that you hardly mean it.

you speak in a hurry, and as Mr. Vavasour be here, I could not well ask

you whether I _be_ to write or not.”



Colonel Norcott rise from his chair impatiently.



“what a confound nuisance!” he exclaim, plant himself

autocratically upon the rug, with his back towards the empty fire-grate.

“another day lose, and Vavasour, who--” he stop short, not in

confusion; Fred be not the man to be easily what be call

flabbergast, but there be limit, and very strongly mark one too,

to his confidential intercourse with Mrs. N., and these he probably feel

that he have be on the point of overstepping.



“you ought to have know,” he go on peevishly, “that it be of

consequence to I--that I be anxious, in short, to have Honor here, and

what the d--l make you think for yourself in the matter be more than I

can guess. come now, out with it,” he continue, grow momentarily

more irritated, and in proportion as the poor colonial heiress seem

disposed to silence, work himself up to a determination that she

should give a reason for the fear that be in she; “out with it! I

suppose you have some excuse for not do as I wish, and that excuse

I be stand on this rug to hear.”



thus apostrophise, the unlucky woman have no choice but to obey, which

she prepare to do in evident trepidation and discomposure.



“now, Frederick,” she begin, put a large bony hand to her brow, “you

really might have a little mercy on my poor ’ead” (as if, _par

parenthèse_, any man ever have much pity on a plain wife with big

finger, who drop her h’s and bore he with her ailment); “I’ve get

the most dreadful ’eadache, and your voice this morning do go through

it so! about Mrs. Beacham I really thought--”



“go on, will you?” growl the Colonel.



“well, I really think, now I do indeed, that it would never do. in

the first place, though I don’t see much of her ’usband, it be plain

enough to I that he’s not the kind of man to let his wife go gad

off to London; and even if he do, why, Frederick, how in the name of

goodness be we to make her comfortable here? unless you give up your

bedroom--”



“o, hang that!” from Colonel Fred.



“well, but unless you do, there’s no place for she to sleep in but the

attic next to mine. I would let she have mine,” continue the

good-natured woman, “but that’s small and wretche enough; however,

there’s no use, I’m certain, in talk of it, for Mr. Beacham would as

soon see she go up in a balloon as set off by herself to London.”



apparently, the Colonel be a little take aback by the force of his

wife’s argument, for he pause a while before he reply, and then

say, almost hesitatingly:



“the only thing would be to say that I be ill. Honor would come directly

then. that blockhead of a horse-breaker have scruple of conscience about

that disgusting crack over the skull he give I, and would never refuse

his wife leave to come, if he have the most remote idea that I be still

suffer from the effect of the blow.”



there could scarcely be a strong proof of the melancholy fact that

poor Bessie be not now for the first time cognisant of her husband’s

trick and dodge than the little surprise she evince at Colonel

Fred’s spirited suggestion. she listen at first in silence, think

over in her mind the pro and con regard the chance of successfully

carry out his plan: while not for a moment do it occur to she to

raise an objection on high moral ground to the trap which be about to

be set for the unwary. the class of wife of which Mrs. Norcott be the

type be, as a rule, a cowardly class; and, moreover, they be woman

who, take _perhaps_ too lowly an estimate of themselves, and

_certainly_ too high a one of their partner, be ready to buy the rare

smile, and equally rare meed of approbation which fall to their lot,

by a mean and truculent subserviency, which in reality gain for they

neither affection nor esteem. as be usual, however, with person who be

destitute of moral courage, Mrs. Norcott would have gladly compromise

with her conscience, and change the whole lie for a half one.



“if it have only be last week,” she say musingly, “when you have that

bad cold upon your chest, it might have be do quite easily.”



“easily! of course it could, and so I suppose it can now. come, let we

have the table clear. Gad, how dirty the lodge-house drab be before

the small hour come round again! I say, polly,” to the parlour-maid,

who enter in answer to the summon of the bell, and whom, be

rather good-look, he take the trouble to lecture--“I say, Polly, what

be soap a pound, and hair-brush? what do you think you be give such

pretty hair for, if it be never to be oil? if I be you--”



but here poor patient Bessie interpose, not angrily; she carry she

blind idolatry of her profligate husband to the extent of wish he to

be pleased--_coute qui coute_; but the owner of the house, a person of

strict principle, have speak seriously to she about the Colonel’s free

manner with her maiden, so, to avoid a great annoyance to her big,

spoiled, selfish tyrant, the self-sacrifice Bessie suggest that

Polly have well be allow to “take away” in peace. the operation,

however, be over, the Colonel return to the charge, namely, the

letter to his daughter, which he have so much at heart. as regard

Honor’s probable discomfort in the attic which, in Stanwick-street, she

would be condemn to occupy, he have an argument all ready for his use.

Honor be passionately fond of riding, and, as Arthur Vavasour have tell

he, could ride both boldly and gracefully. now, the parsimony which be

conspicuous in the tyburnian lodging do not pervade--and, indeed, might

be say to be in some measure the consequence of extravagance in--other

branch of Colonel Norcott’s expenditure. he keep two horses--_screws_

in reality, though produce a good effect in the eye of the

uninitiated--on the remnant of poor Bessie’s overrated fortune. on one

of these horse it be his purpose, should he be so fortunate as to

obtain Mr. Beacham’s consent to his wife’s visit, to mount the beautiful

girl (for _girl_ in appearance and manner Honor still be) in the Park,

and among the crowd whom her unprincipled father nothing doubt would

do due homage to her loveliness.



“it be all nonsense about she be uncomfortable,” he say decidedly.

“what do a fine, handsome, healthy girl care about discomfort? Honor

will like to see a little of life: why, she have never--you would hardly

believe in such absurdity--see a play or an opera in her life! and she

be deuce fond of music, and sing, Vavasour say, like--like anything.

so now sit down, there’s a good soul, and write the letter. you must

make I out devilish seedy, and all that kind of thing. see how well you

can do it, now;” and he pat her broad, bony shoulder with a

fascinating semblance of affection that Bessie, even under still less

auspicious circumstance, would have find it impossible to withstand.

she be about, under that delightful compulsion, to commit a very

unworthy act, but “the _man_ beguile” she; and Mrs. Frederick Norcott,

not for the first time, lay aside for the Colonel’s sake her lingering

scruple, and do as she be bid.









CHAPTER XVI.



JOHN DECIDES against HIMSELF.





if anything, John and his wife be--as the pleasant spring-time come on

apace--happy in their _ménage_ than have be the case some month

before. it be not in Honor’s nature to dwell long either upon real or

imaginary grievance, and moreover John have be so wonderfully, so more

than ever, kind and good. he have seem--quite silently, and with more

tact than could have be expect of he--both to understand, and to

set himself to remedy, the cause for Honor’s silly discontent. to Mrs.

Beacham’s vexation--for she could bear less than ever that Honor should

be spoil--new book find their way, for its young mistress’s

delectation, to the farm; the last and prettiest opera-music be sure to

make its appearance there almost before Honor could have read of its

reception by the critic, and--still strong proof of John’s unwearied

affection--he have take by almost imperceptible degree to amend his

_dress_, and to an extreme watchfulness lest he should offend she with

his tongue.



at that period of their joint matrimonial life, there seem to be a

renew prospect of happiness for one of the good and truest-hearted of

man with the sweet young wife on whose love he have set his heart. there

be no idle and _désœuvré_ young gentleman now at hand to whisper

compliment in the prettiest of ear; no handsome, high-breed _roué_ to

place himself in juxtaposition with a husband’s more homely feature and

less finished manner. but _proh dolor_! the thorn in the side be ever

there; grievously and daily pinch the household shoe; for Mrs.

Beacham’s temper, her love of power, and her jealousy of John, rather

increase than diminish, thus almost neutralise the good effect of

time, and of the real and inborn excellence of the two heart which she

seem fate to torment.



the winter have be an unusually severe one. the frost that be foretell

by Honor on Christmas-day--the day when, plead a headache, she

escape the compliment of be wish health and happiness by her

husband’s retainer--prove a severe and lasting one. for week, without

a change or check, the north wind blow over the frost-bind earth.

heavily on leaf and branch hang a pall of snow, wearily plod the

foot of man whose daily toil be an unneeded thing; fuel grow scarcer

day by day, and all nature, whether animate or inanimate, that be not

rich, suffer.



during all the month that have elapse since Colonel Norcott take his

departure from the Bell, Honor have hear but little of her father. he

and his wife have spend both the autumn and the winter abroad--where,

Honor have not hear; for Mrs. Baker, whom she see as frequently as the

considerable distance between their respective home (to say nothing of

crotchety Mr. Baker) permit, be never very communicative on the

subject of her son’s whereabouts.



for a time Honor have lament in secret over what she wrongfully

believe to be her father’s forgetfulness of her existence. she have

think of, and hope so much of happiness from her new tie, that when

all that have occur during that summer fortnight seem likely to pass

away as a dream that be forget, she sorrow over it in exceed

heaviness of heart. nor have the Colonel’s attempt to astonish the weak

mind of his daughter, by open out to her view some of the wonder of

the, to she, unknown world, be without their effect in unhinging that

mind, and unfit it for a while for the everyday duty of her simple

and uneventful life. Honest John be not far wrong when he decide that

the “scoundrelly colonel” be beguile the hour of sickness by

describe to Honor something of the world of which she know so little;

but while surmise this, the worthy yeoman be quite incapable of

fathom the real motive of a deed that seem so simple. how be he

to imagine it possible that this man, who have voluntarily confess to

he (John) the heartless crime of which he have be guilty, should have

do so solely with the design of reap from his daughter’s beauty a

harvest of advantage to himself? and yet, improbable as well as

repulsive as this must appear, it be no other than the truth. there

exist perhaps no accurately-define plan in this model parent’s brain

for the gathering to himself individual advantage from the judicious

display of Honor’s loveliness; but it be none the less true that he have

hear, and recollect with satisfaction, certain hint, corroborate by

the evidence of his own sense, of Arthur Vavasour’s passionate

admiration for John Beacham’s wife. that he be in some distant way

connect with the prodigal heir of Gillingham--connect, that is,

through the sale and purchase of John Beacham’s promising yearling, the

reader may perhaps remember; how and to what purpose that connection

be afterwards improve, remain to be make apparent.



       *       *       *       *       *



the period to which I have bring my story, be, as have already be

show, the middle of the month of April. Honor have be nearly a year a

wife, and the season, after the long and severe winter, seem likely to

be a genial one.



on Wednesday morning, the Wednesday of which mention be make in the

precede chapter, a letter (no very common occurrence) have arrive for

Mrs. John Beacham by the morning’s post. it be a large and somewhat

portentous-look missive, direct in a hand unknown at the Paddocks,

and when Honor come down to breakfast she find it lie ostentatiously

upon her plate; while the old lady, eye it askance, be wait, with

as much patience as she could summon to her aid, the moment of

disclosure.



Honor take up her letter, and, as be the frequent habit of people whose

correspondence be scanty, and with whom time be _not_ money, she

examine its exterior with a prolonged and minute investigation. the

postmark be London, and the handwriting, at least so Honor conjecture,

be a woman’s. she have no idea, not the very slight, from whom the

big, and yet unbill-like, epistle come; and it be probably that very

ignorance which make her loth, in that presence at least, to open the

envelope and set conjecture at rest.



but though reluctant, open it she be well aware she _must_. the moral

pressure of two pair of eye--for John, I regret to say, do not prove

himself on this occasion to be deficient in the so-call feminine vice

of curiosity--be upon she; and therefore with a hand that tremble a

little (for Mrs. John’s nerve be, as I have before hint, none of

the strong) she proceed to open the despatch.



the first word that it contain which catch her eye be the

signature, “Elizabeth Norcott,” in large letter at the bottom of the

page; and the sight be not calculate to make she read with great

composure the follow line:



     “MY DEAR MRS. BEACHAM,--I write these few hurried line in your

     father’s name, and at his request; for he be, I regret to say, very

     far from well, and utterly unable to write himself. a severe cold,

     which the doctor fear have settle on his lung, be your dear

     father’s ailment; and it be one that make he very low, poor

     fellow, indeed. it would be a great pleasure to he, and indeed to

     I as well, if you could make it convenient to pay we a short visit

     just now. of course, if your good husband object, we can say no

     more; though I must say that _I_ think Mr. Beacham owe your poor

     father some compensation for all he go through last year. I have

     engage a very nice bedroom, clean, though small, for you, on the

     third floor; for I feel sure that unless detain by some of the

     trouble that marry woman have to go through, we shall have the

     pleasure of see you without delay in Stanwick-street. if you

     will write I the train you intend come by, I will be at the

     terminus to meet you; and I beg to remain, dear Mrs. Beacham,



                           “your sincerely,



                               “ELIZABETH NORCOTT.



“you see I have hear everything from the Colonel. we both think it

right for married people to be confidential.”



       *       *       *       *       *



Honor’s first thought, as she finish the hasty perusal of this

singular epistle, be one of joy. Joy that at last, and after so long a

time of weary waiting, relation with her own “family” (poor, foolish

Honor!) be renew; and the hope hold out that something might

come--something agreeable to herself--of the _dénouement_ from which she

have for a time hope so much.



with a deep blush, for she be quite conscious of the necessity that

exist of conceal this unwifely feeling, Honor push the letter

across the breakfast-table to her husband.



“from Mrs. Norcott,” she say, do she good to seem occupy with her

tea-making. “and she say my father be ill. O, John,” she continue,

set down the teapot, and speak almost _malgré elle_, for she have

purpose choose her opportunity better,--“O, John, mayn’t I go to

London? Mrs. Norcott ask I very kindly, you see, and--”



“yes, I see,” John say hurriedly; “and you’ll be very glad to say yes;

anything for a change! so like the woman!” and he jerk his head

pettishly; a sign of annoyance which Honor have learn to thoroughly

comprehend.



“I shouldn’t ask to go,” she say, “if my father be well;” and as she

speak the sound of tear be audible in her low voice.



“he never trouble himself much about you as long as he be well,”

growl John. “some people be ready enough to take anything that’s

offer to they, it seem to I.”



he speak crossly perhaps, for he feel sore on this especial point. he

be so well convinced that the Colonel do not really feel one particle

of parental love for Honor; while in his own breast, in spite of seem

harshness and of momentary fit of anger, there be such an

inexhaustible well of undying tenderness, of conjugal and yet purely

unselfish devotion. can we wonder, therefore, that he be

susceptible--jealous even--when it become in the most remote degree a

question between _his_ claim and those of Honor’s father on her love

and duty? can we wonder that he turn with instinctive repulsion from

the idea of her exchange, even for a day, the protection of his roof

for that of Colonel Norcott?



Honor remain silent after John’s last remark. not that she feel in the

slight degree dispose thereby to abandon the hope which Mrs.

Norcott’s letter have hold out. she know John far too well not to be

certain that a very little coax, or even the shedding of a single

tear, would be sufficient to gain for she all that she require. she have

only to lay she little hand upon John’s stout arm, and look pleadingly

with her large blue eye into his good kindly face, and the

all-important matter would be at once satisfactorily dispose of. but in

the mean while, and pende a fitting opportunity for the use of her

secret weapon, she keep silent even from the good word with which she

intend to bring her husband over to her will.



to John Beacham, however, in his present mood of mind, his wife’s

taciturnity be both perplexing and vexatious. feel well assure

that the question of the journey to London be not by any mean

dispose of, he would have greatly prefer a present settlement of the

difficulty, to the state of suspense which he fear would be, for some

hour at least, his portion; it be therefore rather a relief than

otherwise to he when Mrs. Beacham--who, to do her justice, seldom keep

her finger long out of the domestic pie--volunteer her opinion on the

subject under discussion.



“in course, John, you know your own affair good,” she say, “and I make

it a rule, and always have do, which those that know I well can

certify to, not to interfere in other people’s business. but if you’ll

excuse I,” and the old lady smooth her black-silk apron with an air

of dignified humility, “if you’ll excuse I, I should venture to advise

that Mrs. John may be allow to go and see her father. I may be right

and I may be wrong; but if he haven’t his health, poor gentleman, he’s to

be pity; and they that have should give way a little, and meet he

half-way, instead of stand out, which ben’t, in my opinion--but then

I’m an old-fashioned body--altogether right. he’s Mrs. John’s father,

you know, be the Colonel, though it ben’t often the poor gentleman get

speak of in _this_ house; and blood’s thick than water, and--”



John interrupt this harangue with a gesture of impatience. “there,

there, mother, that’ll do,” he say pettishly; “no need to hammer away

so long on one subject. if the man that’s be a brute to Honor, and to

her mother before she, be to have it all his own way, why let he;

and--”



how this worthy man, who with all his warmth and kindliness of heart

have, as we know, a quick temper of his own, might have wind up the

sentence have not his word be arrest by a sudden recollection of the

respect due to his womankind, be well leave to the imagination. with such

a disposition and nature as this right-minded man possess, even the

most trivial of offence--offence, too, of which only his own

conscience be the silent witness--be almost certain to be follow by

the desire for expiation. no soon, therefore, have the wish that

condign punishment might follow on the Colonel’s misdeed be

suppress, than he say in a gentler tone to Honor:



“if you think your father have any claim upon you, my dear, why then you

have well write and say to Mrs. Norcott that she may expect you up in

London. as mother say, sick people have to be give way to. I don’t

know much about bad health myself, thank God; but--no, don’t thank

I--settle it your own way, and if you’re pleased I’m please;” and

having so say, John go his way to his daily business on the farm.



have any friend of stalwart hearty John Beacham’s, who have know the

farmer one short year before, chance, after that period of absence, to

come suddenly upon he as he take his solitary way across the

home-paddock, that friend could have scarcely fail to notice the

change that have take place, not only in John’s countenance, but in his

walk and manner. the care inseparable from married life have fall, and

that with no feather-weight, upon the man whose step be once so brisk

and buoyant, and his smile, so frank and genial, be the index of a mind

at peace with himself and in good humour with the world. he whistle as

he go, not from the absence of, but from a plethora of anxious

thought; for John, though he have yield to his wife’s entreaty, and to

his mother’s counsel (counsel which he little suspect be give

with the latent object of lessen Honor’s home influence), in the

matter of the propose journey, be yet very far from be satisfy

with the result of the morning’s deliberation. strive as he would--and

John be a man who read his Bible, and endeavour as much as in he lie

to do his duty towards his neighbour--strive as he would, he have never

yet succeed in feeling, in the most fractional degree, in charity with

Colonel Frederick Norcott. a bad and baneful man he believe the father

of his precious Honor to be; and believe this, John view--with

perhaps excusable dread--the prospect of his wife’s temporary

domestication in the Colonel’s family. what but harm, he think, could

by any possibility come of this companionship with all that be vile,

unprincipled, and false? that Honor could return to he the pure-minded

woman he now know she to be, John believe to be impossible; and

therefore it be that, whistle as he go, the heart of the man be

heavy within he. he have not proceed beyond the length of two field,

when he fall in with one of his most trust man, employ in carefully

lead up and down a sandy lane one of the most valuable of the

thoroughbred sire. a grand animal he be, large of bone and muscle, and

simply perfect in his magnificent proportion. over the well-round

hip, the mottled skin shone and glisten in the sun’s ray, and there

be both love and gratitude in the animal’s open fearless eye as he

rub his velvet nose against his master’s outstretche hand, and

neigh his answer to John’s morning greeting.



Bill Snelling look on approvingly, and at the conclusion of the

ceremony, after pass his finger, as be the custom of his kind, over

his mouth, he say respectfully, but in a tone which convey a good

deal of latent meaning--“Maybe you’ve see the morning paper, sir,

to-day? there’s summat they tell I in the _advertiser_ about Rough

Diamond. a screw loose there, or somethink. there’s never no be up to

they fellow; but it would be d--d bad luck--beg your pardon,

sir--so it would, if anything go wrong with the Derby favourite. if

ever I see a colt likely to win the stake, it’s that ere two-year-old,

and--”



but we need not follow the irate Bill either in his enthusiastic

encomium on the favourite, or his unqualified abuse of the rascality

practise by all patron, whether gentle or simple (?), of the turf.

that there be to be find, however, “_one_ righteous man” in that

modern Gomorrah, none know well than the sapient Bill. he have not

live, man and boy, for more than fifteen year in “master’s stable,”

without having make the discovery that the “governor” be one in a

thousand. at the paddock there be no trick practise. rich horsey

youth, blind by their fondly fancy equine knowledge, be never

within the precinct of John’s well-order establishment beguile to

their undoing. latent unsoundness be _there_ never conceal, nor

incipient vice guard as a secret. all be fair and above-board, as all

the world (the know one with a certain alloy of contempt) be

willing to acknowledge, in the breeding-stud of trustworthy John

Beacham. Trustworthy! o, if it be indeed true that justice be so little

temper with mercy, that for every idle and involuntary thought, as

well as for every evil deed, we be to be hold alike accountable; if to

covet be as punishable as to steal; if to look with eye of _convoitise_

at our neighbour’s giddy wife be tantamount to the breaking of the

seventh commandment; and if to hate our brother be to be a murderer, why

then I greatly fear that err John Beacham sin on that bright April

morning one of the sin that be “to death.” for, when he turn away

after his short dialogue with communicative Bill Snelling, there be an

add amount of hatred in his heart towards the owner of the Derby

favourite. proud as he be of his “stock,” have any other man than the

Colonel be the possessor of Rough Diamond, he would have rejoice in

his probable success; but, matter stand as they do, the honest man

could almost have find it in his heart to _pray_ that the Winner of the

Great Race that year should be any horse rather than the one which

Arthur Vavasour purchase some ten month previously of himself, and

which that young gentleman soon afterwards, under peculiar

circumstance, and without profit, dispose of to Colonel Frederick

Norcott, formerly of the 26th Dragoons, and now of 14 Stanwick-street,

London.









CHAPTER XVII.



HUMBLE LOVE.





when bluster March be over, and the dead season of the year have be

for rich, as well as poor, get through, the widow of the lamented Cecil

Vavasour commence--for the first time since his death--make

preparation for a three-month’ sojourn in London, or, as the

newspaper express it, “Lady Millicent Vavasour, her family and suite,

be about, during the ensue season, to occupy the mansion in

Bolton-square, to her ladyship belong.”



in the course of the six year that Lady Millicent have pass in a

seclusion which she have not attempt to render otherwise than irksome

to her daughter, the above-name mansion have be let--as each

revolve season come round--to the high bidder. it be not a very

dignified proceeding, and her child (her son especially) have chafe

both inwardly and outwardly against what _they_ consider their

mother’s “dirty economy,” in thus make money out of the family brick

and mortar. the tide of public opinion in London, as well as in the

country, set strongly against the wealthy, parsimonious widow, whose

accumulate rich benefit so few of the person whom common sense, as

well as the law of nature and of precedent, point out as amongst

those destine to reap advantage from the seed scatter by Lady

Millicent’s hand; while, as regard her ladyship’s son, it be a

melancholy fact, that for lack of a home, humanly speak, those young

gentleman have in their nonage go a good deal, as the saying be, “to

the bad.”



during the two year follow on Cecil Vavasour’s death, and while the

_achievement_ commemorative of that melancholy event still hung

suspend between the second-floor front window of the a “noble town

mansion,” it be only right and proper that in the widow’s house there

should be no “receptions”--no sound of merriment, no glancing of merry

twinkle foot, within the silent, solid wall of Lady Millicent’s

deserted house. but when the year of mourning be at an end, and the

“time for set on of meat” have come--there arise by degree a spirit

of discontent against the widow millionaire. on account of her

child--this be the way that they, the aggrieved one, put it--it be

wrong, unmotherly on Lady Millicent’s part to hide the light of her

countenance from the world. there be certain duty incumbent--as

nobody would venture to deny--upon the rich, and the chief and foremost

of those duty be the exercise of a genial hospitality. the good of

trade too, both as regard the expenditure of Lady Millicent’s family,

in London and in the country, be not a matter to be lightly regard.

the west-end shop-keeper have a right, honest tradesman that they be,

to expect that a sixth part at least of Lady Millicent’s income--an

income of say 60,000_l._ per annum--should find its way to their

pocket. to say nothing of example--so speak the public voice--why, what

a sin and a shame it be for a lady possess of such countless

thousand, and that don’t know how either to use or abuse they, to be

set in high place, only to bring disgrace upon her order, and to

encourage other, who might be of similar mind, in the degrading vice of

avarice.



there be one reason which, in my humble opinion, be far too seldom

plead in excuse for the glare fault (glare because of the high

place of the delinquent) of the great and powerful one of the earth;

and that reason be, that the say great and powerful one find so few

who be willing to speak to they of their fault, and reason with they

on their shortcoming. if it be hard--and hard we be tell it be--for

the rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven, surely one reason for

that difficulty may be find in the comparative isolation of those who

be clothe in purple and fine linen, and who fare sumptuously every

day. the “divinity that doth hedge a king” be not only not without its

thorn, but be very instrumental in shut majesty off from the

wholesome sympathy of life; and not alone from sympathy, but from

counsel, from reproof, and in some measure from the inestimable benefit

of example. that same “hedge,” too, be a dangerous deadener of _sound_.

it be seldom that those possess of rank and rich hear either the

truth or falsehood that be report and spread abroad concern

themselves. as Kate once pertly remark to her brother Horace, “who

_could_ venture to lecture Lady Millicent upon her fault?” poor little

ill-use, thoughtless, quick-witted Kate! there be the making of a

good and useful woman in her busy brain and ardent temperament; but,

under her mother’s injudicious training the little head became fill

with foolish fancy, the impulse of the warm young heart seem likely

to lead its owner into something very nearly approach to scrape;

and, in short, from the rich raw material of poor Katie’s mind there

spring the plentiful growth of weed which half civilisation invariably

draw up from the soil.



entirely absorb by her own immediate plan--plan which have occupy

her busy mind from the day when the content of Lord Gillingham’s will

startle she into the consciousness that she must do something for

herself, or a decent and obscure dowagerhood would be her only

portion--absorb, I repeat, with her own care, to the extent of

trouble herself but little with the well-being even of her child,

Lady Millicent, till the day when her plan be ripe for commencement,

and the hour have strike when law-proceeding, with the object of set

aside her father’s will, could be enter upon, have never deem it

incumbent on she to allow her daughter more than a pass glimpse at

London and its pleasure. for this seeming neglect she have her answer

ready, when Lady Guernsey, or old Sir Richard Pemberton, two of the few

amongst her acquaintance who ever venture to put in a word for the

young people at the Castle, suggest that a little change be good for

everyone, and that both Rhoda and Kate would be probably advantage by a

moderate amount of amusement, as well as by well master than be

procurable either at Leigh or Gawthorpe.



“young lady in these day,” Lady Millicent would say, “learn quite

soon enough, without their parent put themselves out of the way to

teach they the lesson, that the country be a bore, and that without

perpetual excitement life hang terribly heavy on their hand. for _my_

part--people may think I selfish if they like, but I honestly confess

that the come out of my girl be a ceremony which, for their sake as

well as my own, I shall be glad to put off to the late possible

period.”



“but in the mean time,” say their outspoken champion, “how be you

prepare they, my dear Lady Millicent, for the part they be to play? I

be afraid that poor dear Rhoda--(I may talk without scruple of _her_,

because, as you know, I admire she so much, and have such a real

affection for her)--I be sadly afraid that Rhoda, with all her beauty,

will be what my boy call _nowhere_. she have not an idea, poor child,

no, not the very slight, _de se faire valoir_. girl with less than

half her good look would make their way twice as well from the mere

fact that Rhoda be simply good and shy and unaffected, and know no more

than my toy-terrier do how to make the most of herself.”



that there be much truth at the bottom of Lady Guernsey’s remark, no

one know well than the mother of the gentle girl who, both by nature

and education, be so ill-qualified to fight, through the arduous

campaign of a London season, the fierce battle of life. if Lady

Millicent could be say to feel interest in, and affection for, any

human be save herself, that human being be her unselfish, yielding,

and not over-brilliant eld daughter. it would have be hard indeed

for anyone live habitually with Rhoda Vavasour not to appreciate the

gentleness of her disposition, and not to admire the unassuming

rectitude of purpose which be one of her most striking characteristic;

and yet, partly perhaps (at least so say that far-see horace)

because she seem so good, no one, not even--with the exception of Lady

Millicent--those of her own household, take so kindly to steady, quiet

Rhoda, as they do to giddy-pat Kate--Kate, whom her brother

pronounce to be unfortunately plain, but who be one of the “jolly”

girl that you could ever hope to meet with, and who be withal as

wilful, and as little incline to do right on principle, as the less

popular Rhoda be know to be the reverse.



“I wonder, and I always shall, what have make mamma make up her mighty

mind to spend the season in London,” Kate remark one morning early in

March to her eld sister, as the two be take the daily

constitutional, of which they be both in different degree and

fashion weary, through the shrubbery of Gillingham;

“everyone--horace among the number--make so sure that this year would

pass like all the rest, and that we should stick for ever at horrid old

Gillingham.”



“don’t call it horrid, Kate; I be sure that I shall never like any place

one half so well; and when we have to leave it--”



“I for one should be ready to jump out of my very skin for joy,” cry

Kate, dance forward with a kind of sidelong motion, not remarkable for

gracefulness, but very suggestive of the state of mind to be expect

from this young lady on the occasion of the final bidding adieu to the

beautiful home of her childhood. “to think,” Kate say, sober down

after her momentary ebullition of feeling, “to think that

_never_--never, I mean, as a matter of rule--should we be walk here,

in this same walk, between those stupid, odious tree again! o, Rhoda

dear, how _can_ you take everything so quietly? I do believe that if you

be to be tell that our go to London be over, and that we be to

stay here for the rest of our life, you would be quite content. so

long as the school go on, and you could listen to Mr. Wallingford’s

stupid sermon, you would never break your heart about anything.”



Rhoda make no reply to this thoughtless speech. constitutionally shy

(the only one of her family who have inherit her father’s life-long

infirmity), this eld daughter of a wealthy house be little give to

the outpouring of her inner feeling. confidante she have none, and so

entirely undemonstrative be she of what be pass within her heart,

that even her own sister have never surmise what be the _one_ chief

cause of Rhoda Vavasour’s chronic state of contentment at dull and

uneventful Gillingham.



Kate--the restless and the ambitious “Kitty,” whom her brother plague

and pet, and who be look on as a kind of reckless “free lance” by

her unsympathise mamma--have from her early girlhood entertain

very exalted idea of her eld sister’s beauty. there be not a tinge

of womanly jealousy, not a fractional atom of the alloy of envy in Kate

Vavasour’s nature. she know herself to be almost what the world call

plain; but she have good eye, a fine _élancé_ figure, and the something

about she which--who can say why or wherefore?--often attract more than

beauty, be that beauty ever so exalted and refine. of _that_ class of

female attractiveness be the το καλον--the delicate charm which one man

at least who know she discover in the fair face of Rhoda Vavasour.



George Wallingford, the incumbent of the small and not very remunerative

living of Switcham, be a scholar and a gentleman; a man possess of no

exalted intellect, no world-know name either for erudition or for race.

not even amongst the untitled wealthy--the millionocracy of this busy

universe of our--be the obscure rector of Switcham acknowledge as a

unit, since it be from be one of the hard of hardworke curate

in the dirty and wickedest of manufacture city, that George

Wallingford have be translate to what in his eye be comparatively

heaven--namely, to the spiritual superintendence of an orderly rural

population.



as a matter of course, Lady Millicent “take notice” of the clergyman of

the parish. three time a year, or thereabout, Mr. Wallingford be

invite to dine at the Castle, in addition to which act of

condescension, the young rector--whom Lady Millicent pronounce to be

“very well behave,” “really quite a respectable person”--was graciously

permit to pay his _devoirs_ from time to time at the great house, on

which occasion “milady” would lay down the law in parish matter after

a fashion which--although he bear the trial with outward patience--could

scarcely fail to rouse what be leave in George Wallingford of the old,

and unregenerate man, into a somewhat unholy state of irritation.



the fact that Lady Millicent Vavasour, “civil” though she invariably

be, consider he in the light of an inferior many time remove, be

patent as the light of Gospel truth to the Rector of Switcham. that he

do not love the lady patroness of the living he hold the well for the

discovery be simply adduce a proof, if proof be need, that he be

human. _L’amour ne se commande pas_, say the proverb; and the good of

man--this excellent clerical gentleman include--can do no more than

refrain from hate the individual who wound their _self_-love by

treat they with hauteur and condescension.



as will readily be believe, the female inhabitant of Switcham and its

neighbourhood very soon after Mr. Wallingford’s installation commence

their sex’s normal practice, namely, that of find a wife for a

bachelor incumbent. though the rectory of Switcham be very far remove

from be one of the plum of church patronage, yet there be

contingent advantage attach to it, to say nothing of the living being

hold, as in the present instance, by a tolerably good-look young man

a year or two under thirty, which cause more than one _demoiselle à

mari_ to gaze with eye of interest on the mild-look clergyman in

his single-breast waistcoat and neatly-trim whisker, the while the

say damsel picture to herself the lonely man eat his solitary

steak; or (climax of melancholy conjuration!) brew--in the pretty

drawing-room of the parsonage--his bachelor tea!



some year elapse (for, as the poet hath it, “hope spring responsive

in the _female_ breast”) before the spinsterhood of Mr. Wallingford’s

flock come to the unpleasing conclusion that the young rector be the

_rara avis_ among bird of his feather, a non-marrying clergyman. even

after the good man’s heart have speak, for speak it do, when its owner

have be some five year at Switcham, and when Rhoda Vavasour,

emancipate from governess control, be of an age to be introduce to

the guest who, few and far between, be invite to partake of Lady

Millicent’s grudgingly dispense hospitality--even, as I be about to

say, after George Wallingford’s seemingly obdurate heart have melt

under the influence of Miss Vavasour’s shy smile and pale delicate

prettiness,--the little world in which he live know nothing of his

heart’s weakness. as how indeed should it? to no one--no not even to the

friend that have ever stick close to he than a brother, to the school

and college fellow whom hitherto he have trust with every secret of his

life, not even to the congenial spirit dwelling like himself in a pure

bachelor’s body, not to the silent, caustic, woman-despise James

Truscott, fellow of his college, and the most ungainly in appearance of

create man, do George Wallingford confess the wondrous truth that he

be in love with that bright particular star, Miss Rhoda Vavasour.



he might just as well--and it need no stern mentor to remind he of

the fact--have set his affection upon an empress. never even by a

glance (at least not to his own knowledge) have he hint to the object

of his senseless passion, that with a dreary and a hopeless, and yet

with an all-engross love he watch and dream of, sigh and pray

for she. it be intensely foolish and unmanly, the more foolish and

unmanly inasmuch as the great lady of Gillingham never allow the

comparatively lowly bear rector to forget his place. if kindly-nature,

charitable George Wallingford do in his heart believe the well-sound

axiom that “’tis only noble to be good,” the flattering unction be not

lay so soothingly to his soul as to enable he to act, as regard

pretty Rhoda Vavasour, on the cheering conviction. it may be in the

abstract perfectly true that



    “kind heart be more than coronet,

     and simple faith than Norman blood;”



but judging of thing (the only really reliable test) on their

marketable value, we shall, I greatly fear, be oblige to own that,

individually consider, the coronet, and the blue blood have in this

wicked world the good of it.



but carefully under lock and key as the reverend George keep his secret,

there be one who discover its existence, and who, having so

discover it, be ever, with true feminine inquisitiveness, peer

behind the veil of the good man’s heart for further and more

satisfactory information. Rhoda Vavasour’s first sensation, when the

fact (in some subtle and inexplainable manner) of Mr. Wallingford’s

hopeless passion become apparent to she, be one of actual fear. in an

instant there rise up before she a vision of Lady Millicent’s stern and

astonished face, a face in which none of her child have ever trace a

sign of tenderness, or the faint line of sympathy or pity. it be to

that very hardness, to the repellant influence feel by timid shrink

Rhoda whenever her thought turn to or her eye rest on her mother’s

unloving countenance, that might mainly be attribute the

encouragement--for she do in her silent, gentle way encourage the young

clergyman to hope--which Rhoda give to the Rector of Switcham. but there

be yet another, and perhaps an equally powerful, reason for the

“underhand deceit,” the “grovel taste,” as Lady Millicent would

have, and indeed do in later day describe they, that be display at

that period of her life by her daughter. Nature have endow poor Rhoda

with a susceptible heart, and a strong propensity to cling. in default

of any other object on which to fix her affection, and of some more

suitable prop round which to twine, it be only in the common order of

thing that to the sole stay within her reach, the tendril

(heartstring be perhaps the most appropriate word) of Rhoda’s inner

woman should have wind themselves round the engaging young parson, to

whose exhortation, deliver in a voice singularly pleasing, she meekly

listen, and who enjoy in Lady Millicent’s pet schoolroom, and

sometimes by the bedside of the sick, golden opportunity of _look_,

at least, unutterable thing. there could scarcely be a strong proof

of _retenue_, both on the part of the rector and that of the young lady,

than the actuality that Kate, who be usually so ready at discover

love-affair, never once suspect the truth as regard her sister. not

even the grand phenomenon, the mighty puzzle of Rhoda’s contentment at

Gillingham, have suffice to warn the rather precocious maiden that

quiet, pretty Rhoda--Rhoda, who look, as the old saying go, “as if

butter would not melt in she mouth”--was in love with, and meekly

ambitious to marry the obscure young man at whom Lady Millicent, while

she deign to patronise he, decidedly turn up her aristocratic nose.



the reason for Rhoda’s silence when Kate allude to the rector--a

silence which, have Miss Kitty be in an investigate mood, that

quick-witted damsel would speedily have speculate on the cause--must be

now fully apparent to the reader. for a moment the shy girl think and

fear that her secret be discover, and that, in shrink

mortification, she would be compel to endure the wondering,

kindly-mean questioning of her young sister. the next word,

however, speak by the loquacious Kitty dissipate her alarm; and

feel intensely grateful for the reprieve, Rhoda listen with

sympathise ear to the chatter girl’s remark and surmise.



“I be afraid that what Horace say be right,” continue Kate, “and that

it be this odious law-business which we have hear hint at so long

that take mamma to London. one good thing be, that she cannot mean to

keep we quite as much out of fun and amusement as she do here. haven’t

you notice how she have gradually be give up the righteous dodge?

for age--as we all know--ball be desperately wicked, and opera a

positive abomination. it be only in the country that, accord to

mamma, there be any chance of be save; whereas I hear Horace say

only the other day, that people could inflame themselves quite as much

with idol under green tree as in the excitement of a London season. I

hear he say, too--”



“o Katie,” Rhoda break out, “don’t, pray don’t, repeat the thing--I

mean that kind of thing--that Horace say! I cannot bear the remark he

make about mamma; and I think that if you be not to encourage he, he

would leave they off. and besides, I don’t know how it be, but I always

feel guilty when I see mamma after we have be abuse she.”



she speak very seriously, for little as Lady Millicent have either

deserve the filial love or encourage the confidence of her child,

it nevertheless jar against the girl’s sense of what be right and

fitting when she hear the other talk, as they be willnot to do, _à cœur

ouvert_, of her mother’s small hypocrisy and underground plan.



Kate laugh merrily. “_we_ abuse she! I like that! fancy _you_ say

what you think about milady! no, no; the time for that ben’t come yet.

but wait till you’re try, that’s all. it take long to provoke you

than it do to irritate either of we. and then, if mamma be fond of

anyone in the world, she be of you; I suppose because you be so very

meek, always ready to let she think she be in the right, let she do what

she will. but about this muslin, Rhoda. Hammond say there certainly be

not enough for both; so I suppose, as it will not do for Miss Vavasour

to look skimp before the eye of London, you have well take the

whole. ah I!” stretch herself rather wearily as she stand before the

cheval glass, and then let her arm fall with a sigh too deep-draw

to have emanate from so young a breast; “ah I! how I wish I have a

mother--a mother, I mean, like Lady Guernsey or Lady Pemberton, or

even--don’t be shock, you aristocratic thing!--even like Mrs. Clay. I

want a motherly mother--one who would love and pet, and bore people

about I--one that I could tell thing to, and that would listen, and

not look as if she think one a fool. and besides--though that sound

horrid, I daresay--I should be glad of a mother who would care whether I

look nice, and who would give you, now that you be ‘come out,’

enough of an allowance for you to dress as well as other girl. sixty

pound a-year! why, Lina de Lacy have that when she be fifteen, and

mamma be twice as rich as Lady Guernsey. I wonder how you _will_ manage!

run in debt, I suppose, like Arthur. poor Atty! but it will be bad

for you than for he, if you be force by money difficulty to marry

someone that you don’t love, and--”



“I shall never do that,” Rhoda say, but in a voice so low that Kate

could scarcely catch the word.



“so you think now; but, as I say before, wait till you be try. and

there be another thing, darling--you will have to marry for my sake.

only think, Rho dear, how happy we should be together! you with a nice

home of your own, with no one to object to your order the carriage

when you please, with no cross look if you be a minute too late for

prayer, with--”



Rhoda interrupt she by a laugh. “you might exchange bad for bad,”

she say sapiently. “all husband be not like Lord Guernsey, and I

suspect that very few home be so happy as Sophy’s be. I daresay, if

we could look into the inside of many people’s house, we should see

plenty of girl a good deal more to be pity than we be. and, Katie

dear, whether that be so or not, one thing be certain, namely, that it

be wrong--wicked even, I think--to be discontent, and to abuse mamma.

whatever she do or say, _we_ have no right to sit in judgment on, or

to find fault with. don’t be put out with I for preach, dear Katie.

I know I be not half so clever as you be; but--”



“but you be fifty time as good!” cry Kate; “and I believe in my

heart that because you be so good and so patient, mamma do love you a

little bit; while as for the rest of we--but what be the use of thinking

about it?”--dashing a tear impetuously from her eye as she ask

herself the painful question. “think over it willn’t give one affection

or kindness or sympathy; so I for one shall try to do without what

would--at least so I fancy--make one content anywhere and everywhere.”



the simple philosophy of the girl of seventeen, though in some respect

rational enough, be, however, base upon very erroneous principle. the

example of she more highly-value sister might have demonstrate to she

that “patience do its perfect work,” and that the most selfish of

mortal, and those least to be affect by the claim of kindred and the

universal prejudice of consanguinity, can yet be influence, both as

regard their conduct and their sensibility, by the deference which

real goodness never fail to obtain for those who, know what be

right, do, as the poet add, “always practise what they know.”









CHAPTER XVIII.



DISAPPOINTMENT.





the first sight of no. 23 Bolton-square prove rather _disenchantant_ to

the two young lady, who for the last five week have talk and think

of but little else than the come glory of the season. as they

approach the sight and _scent_ of London, a dense fog, as it

appear to the novice, but which be, in fact, simply an easterly wind

laden with dull yellow smoke, shroud as with a veil every distant

object on which they look.



“this never can be London; and London, too, in the month of May,”

think Kate, as she look out from the window of the railway-carriage

on an atmosphere thick with discoloured smoke, through the mist of

which the summit of sundry tower and steeple, together with the

outline of some near building, be dimly visible.



London in the month of May! and as Miss Katharine Vavasour realise the

melancholy fact, it require all the counterbalance comfort to be

find in the recollection that Rhoda be at last “come out,” to make

amend to she for the lost country pleasure to which distance now lend

a hitherto undiscovered charm. but if the time-wear, smoke-stain wall

of the family mansion strike the imagination of Lady Millicent’s young

daughter as gloomy and uninviting, what could be say of the interior,

where the wear and tear of year be everywhere visible? in the spacious

suite of drawing-room, the furniture of which have not be renew for

more year than Lady Millicent have ever care to count, and where,

“dingy yellow” vie with “dirty red,” everywhere display token that

the letting of the town mansion of the Vavasours have be very

promiscuously carry on, poor Rhoda (for Kate be too overjoyed at the

change to take any lasting notice of the surrounding) stand in mute

dismay. the last tenant have be an American--a wealthy

New-Yorkian--who, follow the “common and unclean” habit peculiar to

his country, have not improve either the outward appearance or the

intrinsic value, in a delicate female point of view, of the carpet.

probably Mr. John B. Foy, or whatever might have be the gentleman’s

multifold cognoman, would have scorn the meanness of let his house

in the Fifth Avenue, or in University-square, to any Britisher or other

foreigner desirous to witness the humour of “York City;” but, having

pay a good many almighty dollar to an individual (a “female,” as the

say New-Yorker might possibly have designate the superb Lady

Millicent), he very naturally conclude that, view the matter

commercially, he have a right to abuse as well as to use, in aristocratic

Bolton-square, the privilege of his sex and country.



“do you ever see anything so dirty, so shabby, so fade?” Rhoda

remark to her brother Horace, the first moment after their arrival

when she find herself alone with he. “Mamma could have have no idea of

how bad it be. just look at the paint and the curtain! if they be

but clean! but really, these be too horrid!”



“wait till you make acquaintance with some of the other great house

that fine lady give their ball and drum in!” Horace say. “it ben’t

everyone who find money for everything; and you will amuse yourself

just as well in a room where the paint be dingy and the hanging

old-fashioned, as you have any chance of do in place that be keep

in apple-pie order. in my opinion, and as far as I can judge, it’s

rather _chique_ to be shabby in this kind of way, as well as in some

other that I could mention.”



“but, Horace,” say Kate, who have join her brother and sister, as

they stand, the one philosophising and the other listening

disconsolately, in the midst of the much-reprobate family

furniture,--“but, Horace, tell I about Arthur. we be to call this

afternoon on dear Sophy. Mamma seem terribly afraid of be

over-civil; and it seem a little bit unbrotherly of Atty not to have

come last night to see we, so many month as it be since he and Sophy

marry. but I suppose it’s out of sight out of mind with they.” and

Kate, laughter-love Kate, heave a little sigh as she quote the

well-wear proverb.



“Nonsense, it’s nothing of the kind; but woman be so awfully fond of

jump at conclusion. Arthur would have be here fast enough, if he

have hope that any good could come of his put himself in Lady Mill’s

way; but it wouldn’t, and that be a truth, poor fellow, that he have not

get at this time of day to learn.”



“but, Horace dear, _do_ tell I what it be all about! I should have

think that marry Sophy duberly would have put everything to right.

the old man seem so very fond of Atty, and Sophy, too. I should have

imagine that all would have go smoothly with poor Arthur when once he

be one of they--once he be Sophy’s husband; and a baby come besides,

which Mr. Duberly be so anxious for. really, Horace, I be puzzle, and

that be the truth. you always talk as if something dreadful be hang

over Arthur’s head, and--”



“do I? then I be a fool for not be able to keep my own and other

people’s counsel. but,” lower his voice, although Rhoda, who know

herself to be less trust by her brother than his young sister Kate,

have discreetly walk away,--“there be no use in talk about it. have

you seen--”



“but, Horace, there _may_ be use in talk about it,” interpose his

sister. “we might do something, if we be able to put our head

together, to get Arthur out of his trouble. union be strength, they say;

and though the bundle of stick be a pretty tough one--”



“and will therefore take time to break,” put in Horace sadly, “which be

precisely the reason why there be no use try to do it; for time be

everything to Atty. if you know old Duberly as well as I do, Kate, you

would say the same.”



“but what have Mr. Duberly to do with it?” ask Kate.



“everything. if anything should happen, which ben’t the least likely, to

old Dub, all would be smooth as velvet for Arthur; but as it is--”



“as it be! o, do go on, Horace; how provoke you be!”



“well, as it be--but here come milady. I say, Katie, not a word! but I

needn’t repeat that to you, for, consider you be of the feebler sex,

you be one of the most reliable young person with whom I happen to be

acquaint.”









CHAPTER XIX.



LE PREMIER PAS.





the preparation for Honor’s departure go on rapidly at pear-tree

House. her wardrobe, for her station in life, be a tolerably extensive

one; but besides that her stay in London be expect to be short, there

be this simplify fact as regard the packing of Mrs. John Beacham’s

thing--namely, that she possess no evening dress. handsome silk

gown (_gownd_, Mrs. Beacham call they) she own in plenty; but they

be make high, as become a decent female to wear they, and would have

be pronounce ridiculously _rococo_ in a London drawing room, where

the female figure divine be display _à toute outrance_, and where

nearly as much (anatomically speak) may be learn of that

_chef-d’œuvre_ of Nature’s workmanship as may be pick up in the

dissect-room or in the most _décolleté_ statuary display in Europe.



Honor watch and superintend, and indeed aid, in the packing up of

her belonging like a woman in a dream. it seem so strange, now the

time be draw near for she to depart, that she be actually go

away from John. there be such a sense of protection in his

presence--the sense of trust which all woman feel, and love to feel, in

the support of a good and brave man--that Honor begin to be very

miserable at the thought of bid good-bye to her husband. even after

they have leave the house, she would have give much, as she sit by his

side in the trap, to have be able to say to he that she be sorry to

leave the Paddocks. have she see a token of softness on his countenance,

she would have open out her heart to her true friend. but there be no

such sign. stolidly, and with his eye never turn for a single moment

on the sweet face beside he, John drive along the well-know road. he

little dream of the soften thought, the half-form wish, that

be well up in Honor’s heart. he only know that by her own wish she

be about to leave he, about to leave his protection for that of the

father who be so utterly unworthy of the trust. ah, could he then but

have look into the vain foolish heart which yet, with all its vanity

and folly, contain in it some element of good, how change might have

be poor Honor’s lot, and what a chance of future peace and safety, if

not of the ecstatic happiness of which simple woman dream, might have

be her!



but it be not to be! not to be, because the wife be shy and silly, and

the husband prejudice and proud. not to be, because fate or Providence

have order otherwise. not to be? the word be terribly suggestive, and

hard indeed it seem to believe, that while a poor weak woman be

deliberate, it be a know fact to he who ruleth the heart and

searcheth out the spirit, that she will be lose.



John have decide not to part with his wife till he see she safe under

her father’s roof. at the Leigh station, where in less time than be

usually employ in the _trajet_, the pair duly arrive, Will Snelling

be in wait to drive back the horse and trap to the Paddocks.



“walk he up and down a bit, will,” John say, as his faithful henchman

gently stroke the old gray’s quarter, which give manifest token of

hardish driving. “I fancy we be late; clock at the house too fast,

I suppose. there, take that trunk, my man,” to a porter who seem to

have nothing more interesting to do than to suck a dirty straw while he

stare at the heaving flank of John’s thoroughbred steed. “take that

trunk, and look alive. the up-train’s late to-day, ben’t it?” he seem

determined not to trust himself with Honor. like most man, especially

those of a thoroughly manly stamp, he hate scene, and the sight of a

woman in even the small amount of grief or distress be especially

annoying to he. of what avail, besides, would it be to talk to Honor

now on the only subject which contain interest for he? the die be

cast. she be about to do the thing which he have think and talk

himself into believe that he most hate upon earth. his wife be to

undergo the contamination of Norcott’s society; to mix with his

associate; to listen to the conversation of man of his stamp and

strain; and to return to he--ah, _that_ be the rub! _there_ be where

the shoe pinch most! how would honor return to he, and to the dull

country life which alone he have to offer she? would she be less of a

fine lady, as his mother (and John have begin to think, with some degree

of truth) have so often call she within the last few well-remember

month? would she smile upon he more, talk more, be more interested in

her home, and--think poor John Beacham, with a sigh, as the train

rush onward at express speed to London, would she shrink less from his

touch--the touch of one who love she, for all his lack of refinement,

his red hand, and his country-make coat, with a love which be not for

an hour only, not for the brief space of a summer holiday, but for all

the year that should be allot to he upon the earth?



“pleasant day for the end of April,” John remark; “an east wind that

cut through you like a knife. Pin your shawl, Honor; you’d well;” and

he draw up the railway-carriage window with an impatient jerk.



if they have but be alone, those two, if there have not be seat

opposite to they a garrulous old woman and her maid, Honor might have

say she say; John might have soften at the sight of her swollen

eyelid, and all might have be well, or at least well, between they.

the fellow-traveller, however, prove an effectual barrier to any such

beneficial result. she do not come under the head of a strong-minded

female, but be, on the contrary, one of the numerous unprotected

traveller who divide their interest between their sherry-flask and the

anticipation of an immediate and dreadful railway accident.



“I suppose there willn’t be any signal, sir,” she say, address John

nervously, for, as they near London, the smoke float on the

breezeless air bear a striking and disagreeable resemblance to a

November fog. “the railway people be so terribly careless. I declare,

there’s no punishment too bad for they. we might all be rob and

murder, and not one among ’em would trouble his head about the

matter.”



in this way the old lady, after the fashion of her kind, maunder on,

while near and more near to the head-quarter of dirt and smoke and

crime the traveller rush.



Honor sit mute, and with a sad and troubled countenance, by her

husband’s side. she dread and yet long for the moment when she would

be free from the miserable restraint, the almost unendurable combat

within she, which be induce by his presence. once alone--once safe in

the cab which be to convey she far from he and from the association

connect with the painful past--she would breathe, she think, more

freely, and would be well able to prepare herself for the interview

with her father and her father’s wife which be now so very near at

hand. Honor now know (none could have know well) that she have not

do, in the spirit as well as to the letter, her duty to her husband.

in thought she have stray from he; in her daily life she have not care

to study his wish; and above all--but that be happily, long ago now,

and over--she have allow the image of another man to stand between she

and the husband who so love and trust she. to confess all this would

have be more than Honor would have find moral strength and courage

for, so she come to a compromise, after the fashion of the cowardly,

with her conscience, and make an inward resolve that on her return, at a

convenient season she would--not exactly make a clean breast of it to

John, but that she would show he by her conduct, ay by her word if

necessary, that she repent of her past proceeding, and intend, as

much as in her lay, to make ample amend for it in the time to come.



she be rouse from the train of thought into which these resolution

have lead she by the sudden stopping of the train, the throwing open of

door, and the inquiry for ticket. the midday be very chill and

sunless, and a striking contrast to the bright May morning--twelve

month, minus a day, before--when the village child strew fresh

rose in her path, and the jocund sun shine out so brightly on her

bridal!



John too have be, she recollect, a very different John in those day.

the companion of that vividly-remember wedding journey would not, she

feel, have bustle she out so brusquely on the platform, and would have

handle her small belonging with a far gentler hand. life, however, be

compound amongst its countless atom-like event of so many contrast,

and so many memory of contrast, that comparison of the present be

often as unsatisfactory as they be odious.



    “Non c’è maggior stupidità

     Che di recordarsi del tempo passato,”



when the current of our life be run roughly over scatter stone,

and when we need our good wisdom, patience, and tact, to carry we safely

through a perilous crisis.



by an insignificant, but at the same time a somewhat singular,

coincidence, the family from the Castle chance to be in the same train,

and in a carriage immediately behind that in which our traveller from

Peartree-house have place themselves. the fact of their near

neighbourhood be patent to John: he be, however, in no mood to listen

hat in hand, and with the old-fashioned show of respect--a remnant of

the not wholly extinct feudal system which have descend to he from his

grandsire--whilst Lady Millicent condescendingly act the part of

suzerain lady for his benefit. hope to evade altogether the notice of

the mighty dame, John, after the fashion mutely object to by his wife,

hustle that young person in rather unseemly haste from the carriage.



“be quick,” he say, as he hurry she away to a cab. “don’t look that

way; her ladyship be there, with the young lady, and I have no time

for stop if I be to go back by the next train.”



there be not a grain (as I be sure must be by this time apparent to the

reader) of that very common weakness popularly know as flunkyism in

John Beacham’s honest, unaspire nature. his wife, who be not, in

ordinary case, a mean judge of character, might have feel well

satisfied, could she have often chance to be present during John’s

familiar interview with man of rank and note, that subserviency be

foreign to his nature, and that he be equally at his ease with the peer

as with the peasant. it be only with the female sex--when that sex

happen to be represent by an arrogant fine lady--that John Beacham,

feel completely out of his element, seem awkward and constrain;

so awkward and constrain that Honor, dispose to see everything _en

noir_ as regard her husband’s manner, rashly decide he to be

vulgarly in awe of the haughty grandeur of her friend Arthur’s mother.

that honest John would at any time have willingly go a mile or two out

of his way to avoid a chance meeting with the great lady of Gillingham,

be undoubtedly true. want of habit--for fine lady of any stamp come

very little in his way--be quite sufficient to account for this

peculiarity; but the moral cowardice betray by this shrink from a

subjection to Lady Millicent’s queenly air and condescending

graciousness have often be a source of mortification to Honor. since

the memorable epoch of the Danescourt fête the foolish girl have think

herself into the irrational belief that she might aspire to visit on

term of equality the upper ten thousand of the county. before the most

unfortunate discovery which have so fully develop the germ of ambition

lie latent in her breast, Honor have more than once feel inclined to

resent Lady Millicent’s supercilious notice--her over-civil inquiry,

when church be over, after Mrs. Beacham’s health; and, bad than all,

the occasional patronising call at the Paddocks, when any heavy-on-hand

visitor among the rare guest at the Castle chance to express a wish

for an introduction to Mr. John Beacham’s far-fame breeding stud. but

if such have be Mrs. John’s feeling when stir thereto partly by Mr.

Vavasour’s head-turn attention, and partly by the entirely vague but

pleasingly deluding surmise that she be a “lady” bear, how much more

be she inclined to chafe against Lady Millicent’s offensive

condescension when the to her blissful truth be no long doubtful, and

when Honor know herself to be the daughter of a well-bear gentleman, and

the great-granddaughter (it be wonderful how soon she make herself

acquaint with the family pedigree) of a baronet!



very few word pass between John Beacham and his wife as they be

rattle along the busy thoroughfare lead from the Waterloo station

to quiet Stanwick-street. a station cab be never a favourable locality

for dialogue, and the fare on the present occasion appear well

pleased to be silent than to talk. Jingle, jingle go the wheel, and

clatter, clatter, the ill-fit window-frame, whilst every jerking,

jolt moment bring they near to what would be alike a pain and a

relief to both--separation!



at last--the time have seem both long and short--the cab, leave the

northern precinct of the Park, turn into the dull, respectable little

street where Honor be to find a temporary home.



“no. 14!” John shout, with his head out of the window, and in another

moment they pull up before the Colonel’s door.



the last adieux be make--as such final farewell usually be--very

hurriedly, and in a decidedly unsatisfactory fashion. it have be

Honor’s settle purpose to give utterance to some kind word ere they

part--to say something--what, she know not--that would be regretful

and conciliatory; something that would make her own heart light when

_he_ should be far away. but parting, hasty parting especially, be

something like death-bed repentance. there be hurry and flurry, there

be alarm and confusion, there be the consciousness of have so much to

do, and so short a time in which to do it. at that moment, when poor

John press his wife’s delicate finger with a hand moist with heat and

emotion, the presence of the parlour-maid, and the duty of see to

Honor’s various belonging, check any love word that might have

be hover on his tongue, and almost before the object of his anxious

solicitude have respond to his final “God bless you!” the vehicle, with

John inside, have drive off, and Honor be leave alone.









CHAPTER XX.



SILENT SORROW.





a good deal to her surprise, as well as not a little to her relief,

Honor be inform by the parlour-maid--who strike she, even at a

cursory glance, to be rather pert and forward--that neither Colonel

Norcott nor his wife be at home. Mrs. Norcott be “go for a walk,”

Miss Lydia say (she be only polly to the gentleman lodger). Mrs.

Beacham have not be expect by such an early train, and she (Lydia)

_knowed_--at least, so she have hear the Colonel say--that _he_ be

oblige to go out on business.



greatly reassure by this information on the score of her father’s

health, Honor, who do not feel much inclined to encourage the young

person’s familiarity by question she on the subject, enter the

drawing-room, and seat herself on the comfortless-look little

sofa, cover with cheap highly glaze chintz, and stuff with some

material very antagonistic to repose, betook herself to

not-over-cheerful reflection. for the first few minute,

grief--positive and unmistakeable, at be separate from her

husband--fill not only Honor’s heart, but the blue eye that look

vacantly through the confusing mist at the cheap toy and worthless

ornament with which Mrs. Norcott’s work-table be crowd. only a few

short hour before, how Honor would have ridicule the supposition that

her first act under her father’s roof would be--to cry! in the distance,

the come change have seem to she a roseate opening between two part

cloud. to escape, though only for a season, from Mrs. Beacham’s

despotic rule--to leave behind she the monotony and the dulness, the

daily routine of uninteresting duty, and the hourly reminding that

her married life have be a blunder--have all in their turn be subject

of rejoice to Honor. but above all, far and away above all, there be

the near prospect that the dream of her life would be at last realise,

and that she would take her rightful place amongst the lady of the

land!



it be just possible that her introduction to that delusion-expelling

front drawing-room in Stanwick-street, be not without its effect in

cause a reaction in this aspire young woman’s mind. widely

different, certainly, from anything that she have previously imagine,

be that small, cheaply-furnish chamber! the faded carpet, in the

centre of which be spread a brown-holland abomination, call--I have

reason to believe--a crumb-cloth; frail paint chair, whose appearance

alone be a wholesome warning to the unwary, that a seat _à la_ Turk

upon the floor would be safe than trust to their frail support; and

above all, the cottage piano, with its once rise-colour silk front

discolour by time and exposure to the black and fly of a London

lodging-house, form a _tout ensemble_ widely different from any which

Honor’s discursive imagination have hitherto call up.



for the moment the unpleasant reality produce on her mind a sobering

effect, and with the natural lessening of her former desire to pay a

lengthen visit in Stanwick-street, there come an increase of regret

that she have allow her husband to part from she in coldness and

estrangement. it be partly--_partly_, indeed! why it be more than

half--John’s fault that there be disunion between they; his fault and

his mother’s; for who _could_--Honor ask herself, as she have do a

hundred time before--who _could_, unless she be an angel bear and

breed, put up with the daily aggravation of Mrs. Beacham’s temper?



the young wife’s heart, as she sit alone upon the hard sofa, ponder,

amongst other thing, on the unreliableness of the father who have, to

all appearance, inveigle she to his house on false pretence, soften

greatly towards her straightforward and true-hearted husband; and could

she have know he well, could she have look into the manly honest

breast, and read in it all that there be of pain, remorse, and wound

pride, she must--the woman within her being, though vain and foolish,

not ignobly constitute--have humble herself before his well, high

nature, and, own she many fault, she would have meekly pray for

leave to share his sorrow, as she have once gladly share his joy. such

a diminishing, however, of John Beacham’s vexation it would not have

be easy in this case to have allow himself. the injury that he have

inflict on Colonel Norcott have, as we be already aware, ever since

its perpetration, hang very heavily on his mind; and vile as he justly

judge the victim of his ungovernable passion to be, he be none the

less the father of his wife; and the conviction that he be bind to

make all the reparation in his power for the offence that he have

commit do not tend to make John Beacham’s life a happy one.



of all thing calculate to injure the temper and depress the cheerful

spirit on which the comfort of daily life depend, there be nothing

more certain to produce this deplorable result than the retention within

the breast of a deep-seated and a painful secret. John Beacham be not

the kind of man to talk even to his wife of the inner feeling which he

be not sufficiently of a physiologist to understand. his life be one

of action--a simple, above-board existence; and till that fatal blow (a

blow fatal, that is, to his own peace) be strike, there have be no

hide spot, no closet within closed door, the chance opening of which

cause the man’s heart within he to beat with quicken pulse, or keep

he sleepless through the watch of the night. but now, alas! there do

exist for his misfortune, in his hidden life, a secret--a secret the

preservation of which be not precisely necessary to his reputation, and

certainly not expedient for his safety; and yet John Beacham (_why_, for

he be no casuist, he could not have explain) would not, for six at

least of the good yearling gain bone and muscle in his paddock,

have have it know in Sandyshire that it be by a blow from _his_

right-arm that Colonel Norcott have be so nearly send to his last dread

account; and this act of concealment--concealment, too, carry on for

month--be revolt to his inborn sense of honour, and jar against

every habit of his previous life.



how far these, perhaps morbid, feeling react on those which he be

begin to entertain for his young wife, it would be hard to say; that

they render he outwardly cold, and even irritable towards the woman

whom he love with such a devoted and unselfish love, be unfortunately

but too true. man of John Beacham’s stamp be poor dissembler. he be

ill at ease, provoke both with himself and she, and in some way or

other need must that the discontent cause by this weight of care

crop out, and that Honor, ignorant of the cause of his _maussaderie_,

attribute it to any other than the right one. very frigid indeed and

stern he often seem, when a word or a smile from she might have

dispel the gather cloud--might, perhaps, have cause he to

forget the mortifying truth that it be _she_ father who share his

mortifying secret--her father, who, though base and unprincipled, be,

compare to he, a high-bear gentleman, and whose well-breed air,

together with the potent charm of manner (a charm which, without

comprehending, John be still capable of appreciate) have descend

with add grace to his neglect child.



I have dwell perhaps too long, and return with perhaps too much

pertinacity to the cause of an estrangement which may appear to some

(who be not in the habit of consider the vast power of apparently

trifling cause) as, under the circumstance, to be unnatural, if not

indeed impossible. but I have wish in some decree to extenuate the

fault and mistake of my poor heroine. I have do so from a conviction

that in judge other we not only see but often suspect little of the

latent cause of the sin which seem to we, and which in truth be, so

flagrant and so disastrous. blessed be he who seeth into the darkest

place of the heart of his fail creature, and who, be himself

perfect, can yet find pardon and mercy for those whom err man

forgiveth not!









CHAPTER XXI.



honor DECEIVES HERSELF.





Honor Beacham be, as I think have be pretty clearly show, a very

woman in her fault and folly--her quick impulse--her yearn for

love and admiration--her small ambition--and her dainty phantasy.

“fine by degree, and delicately weak”--like Pope’s inferior man--this

semi-celtic woman be evidently no philosopher at all; and, leave to her

own guidance, the chance be terribly in favour of she come--to use

the not inexpressive nineteenth-century slang--“to grief.”



how long those exquisite blue eye of hers would have betray token of

sorrow, have they not be quickly dry by a double-knock at the door of

no. 14, must ever remain a problem. to be see with red eyelid be an

act of _lèse_ loveliness, which Honor would never, could she avoid it,

have be guilty of commit. her little coquettish veil, too, be

ready at hand to hide any trace of past emotion that might have be

visible on her countenance; so that Mrs. Norcott, who enter the room

trippingly, and with the attempt at juvenile grace peculiar to that

colonial lady of forty-two, see no reason to suppose that her country

guest be otherwise than cheerfully and contentedly dispose.



Mrs. Norcott, in her London walking-dress, be not a person to be pass

by without attract due notice and comment. attire in light delicate

muslin, of a pattern and make well befit a demoiselle in her

teen, the fair Elizabeth probably imagine that she look the

character to which she evidently aspire--namely, a youthful matron in

the pride and glory of early wifehood. a sash, tie behind _à l’enfant_,

and a small hat of the specie know as _turban_, serve, doubtless, in

her opinion, to complete the illusion.



“how long _have_ you be here?” she exclaim, come forward with a

rush, and embrace poor Honor with the impulsiveness popularly know as

gush. “you’ll be glad to hear that the Colonel be well--really

quite another person than when I write to you. but sit down, do. we

don’t expect you just yet. the train must be change, I think, or the

Bradshaw, or something. but how’s your good husband? _so_ kind of he to

let you come!” and Mrs. Norcott, having establish her guest by she

side upon the slippery sofa, press, in token of matronly sympathy,

the little hand which she still retain within her own. “I be afraid,”

she go on to say, “that you’ll think the Colonel look ill. when I

write to you on Monday he be terribly low, poor fellow; quite

depressed, you may say, about himself. man be such coward, you know,

when there be anything the matter with they. brave as a lion the Colonel

be before the enemy, at least so I’ve hear--but on a sick-bed as

troublesome, and more so, I may say, than a child.”



“you must have have a try time of it, I be sure,” Honor say

sympathisingly. “I be not much of a nurse, I be afraid, but I will do my

well; and as for sit up at night, I be sure, though I don’t look

very strong, I should not mind, it in the least; that be, I mean--”

colour with a recollection of Mrs. Beacham’s jealous guarding over

her rights--“if you and my father would like I to be with he.”



Mrs. Norcott laugh--a little foolishly Honor think.



“why, happily for all party unconcerned,” she say, “the bad be over

now, and no more nursing require for one while. as I tell you just now,

Honor--I must call you ‘honor,’ you know--the Colonel be well--quite

himself, indeed, I may say. have go out for the first time to-day

since his illness. I expect he back every moment. ah! there he be; I

know his way of shut the hall-door by this time. he never knock,

the Colonel don’t. gentleman always will have their latch-key, you

know,” she add playfully (a joke, by the way, which be lose upon the

young wife, who have so much in the modern Gomorrah to learn and to

unlearn); “and the Colonel, I suspect--there be secret in all

family--have be a bit of a rake; and--ah, Colonel,” interrupt

herself as the object of her complimentary remark throw open the door

_en maître_, and stride towards the sofa; “ah, Colonel, here you be!

and here’s Honor come--look so well; and--”



he do not allow she to proceed, for, put she obtrude figure with

scant ceremony aside, he kiss his daughter (who have rise to greet

he) with rather more than necessary warmth. the fervent salute,

administer on both cheek, bring the ever-ready crimson flush to

Honor’s lovely face. it be a blush that owe its be not to the

demonstrativeness of the paternal embrace, but to the unexpected

presence of one whose advent have never fail in day go by to call up

that often false tell-tale witness. close behind Colonel Norcott

follow Arthur Vavasour, the man whose image still linger in Honor

Beacham’s memory--the agreeable, handsome profligate, who appear in no

way change since in the ground of Danescourt, she, nearly ten month

before, have bid he a not easily forget and rather emotional

farewell.



they shake hand, and at the touch of _his_, Honor’s colour deepen,

and she bow her head in very conscious shame that so it be. there be

no outward evidence of internal emotion so apt to mislead, and that

dangerously, as the simple and beautiful, yet alas too rare, effort of

nature which be call a _blush_. it be very intelligible that so it

must be. man who, like Arthur Vavasour, live only (as they estimate

living) in the light of woman’s smile--man who dearly delight in

discover proof of their own power to please--will always see in a

pretty woman’s heighten colour a tribute to their sure fascination.

Instinct--the instinct of self-preservation, bestow for the protection

of the weak--warn Honor, as it have warn other woman before she, of

the existence of this very popular delusion; and the premonition do not

tend to moderate the carnation-hue that Arthur Vavasour gaze at with

even more than the passionate admiration of the day go by. nor be

his manner to she--the manner that she have always feel to be so

win--in any fashion alter; and when he speak, his voice be as

soft, and his word as full of gentle meaning.



“I hear you be expect, Mrs. Beacham,” he say, and the slow

linger pressure of his hand, send, as he intend that it should, a

thrill through Honor’s delicate frame. “how long it be since we have

meet!”



“very long,” Honor contrive to say; and then address her father, she

say something that be not very coherent about her pleasure in see

he so much recover from his recent illness.



“well, yes, I be well,” he say carelessly. “it ben’t much besides a

cold; but woman be so easily frightened: Mrs. Norcott think I be

go to die, I believe, when she write, and be glad enough when your

husband--by the bye, what an uncommon good fellow he must be!--allowed

you to come and nurse I. _nurse_ I? you will laugh at that. I don’t

look much like an invalid, do I?”



“no, indeed!” Honor say, with the pretty laugh, “restrain by

gracefulness,” and yet which be so thoroughly hibernian in its

character; “I don’t think, any more than John do, that you’d be up and

about.”



“I daresay not; but I really be most uncommonly seedy for a week or

so--ask Mrs. N. if I ben’t; fever at night, and all that kind of

thing.”



“Fever? I believe you!” respond his wife, who have be keep up a

not very well-sustain conversation with Arthur Vavasour; but who, like

a true wife, be ready to endorse any and everything that fall from her

husband’s lip. “you haven’t an idea how ill the Colonel have be. I

declare, the day I write to you, Honor--I’m go to call her Honor,

Colonel, from this out--I be that frightened, I don’t know which way

to turn. say I, surely his friend ought to know--and then I think of

you; say I--”



but Colonel Norcott cut short all further reminiscence by a laugh.



“it’s one of my rule,” he say, “and you ought to know it by this

time--never to go back to anything that’s disagreeable. live and let

live’s my motto, and forget and forgive be another--and what’s more, I

practise what I preach, eh, Honor? no dwelling upon old grievance with

I. I don’t say that I’m exactly saint enough to turn my second cheek to

the smiter; and what’s more, I don’t ask your excellent husband--who’s

get a fist like a sledge-hammer--to knock I down a second time; but I

don’t bear malice all the same--not a grain of it; and I shouldn’t

mind--upon my word I shouldn’t--shake hand with he to-morrow.” at

this conciliatory speech Mrs. Norcott laugh heartily; Honor, on the

contrary, look very grave. there be something in her father’s word

that jar terribly against her sense of what be delicate and

become. she have not be happy, lately with her husband--he have be

cold and hard, and have not seem to understand or value she; his want

of outward refinement too have often offend her taste; but for all

that, she both respect his character, and have teach herself to see

nothing degrade in his position. when, therefore, she hear the

Colonel speak in this slightly supercilious tone of the absent John,

Honor feel rather indignant at the liberty take. it be a very

different affair, allow herself and permit other to be

disrespectful to the man to whom she owe so much; so this girl-wife,

whose heart be still in the right place, listen with a countenance

from which the smile be momentarily banish, to the Colonel’s

half-sneer mention of her husband’s name.



she be glad--for she felt call upon to say something--when Arthur

Vavasour, by ask a question connect with the Paddocks, relieve she

from the embarrassment of respond to her father’s flippant sally.



“you will ride, of course, Mrs. Beacham, while you be in town,” he

say; “you will enjoy it so much, and Lady Meg would be so immensely

admire. I don’t think I ever see so many fine horse, or such a number

of pretty woman, as there be in the Park to-day; but Lady Meg” (he have

the grace not to say her mistress too) “would whip ’em all to nothing,

as the Yankees say.”



again the betraying blush rise to Honor’s cheek, as she explain to

Arthur that there be no chance of she join the equestrian in the

row. she have neither horse nor habit, she say, in London; and besides,

John have only allow she to come up on the plea of nurse her father;

and now that he be quite well again, why--she suppose she have only to

go home again.



“Nonsense! home again!” the Colonel say in his pleasant, cheerful way;

“as if such thing be to be allow! now we’ve get you here, young

lady,” and he pat his daughter’s cheek affectionately, “here we mean

to keep you. and if this John of yours say a word, why we’ll have he

up too, and give he a taste of London life, which he’ll be the well

of.--But I say, Arthur, where be you go to, old fellow? to dine

_tête-à-tête_ with the missis, eh? we’re so far from civilised life in

these confound digging, that I suppose it wouldn’t pay taking

pot-luck in this shanty of our; otherwise, you’re as welcome to what

we’ve get as flower in May.”



“thank you, I should like nothing well,” Arthur say, his eye, which

be fix admiringly on Honor, give ample corroboration of his word;

“but there’s a great spread--an awful bore it will be--at old Duberly’s;

and then we have to go to something at Lady Guernsey’s--a drum, I

believe, they call it--a sort of affair where you get stew to rag,

and press like beef-à-la-mode, or some horrid thing of that kind,

afterwards.” of course they all laugh as they say good-bye to he.

Honor be especially cheerful on the occasion. especially cheerful,

because her heart be at the moment sink so heavily within she.

sink from an undefined and yet miserable sense that all she see and

hear be wrong. wrong on Colonel Norcott’s side, inasmuch as not only

he, but his wife, have, as be almost clear even to Honor’s unsuspicious

mind, be in league together to deceive she--wrong on her own because

it be patent to herself that the deception excited in her mind neither

anger nor regret.



but feel, as she do, both depressed and frighten at her novel

position, Honor summon one of her bright smile to her lip as she

hand lie for a moment within Arthur’s. Colonel Norcott follow he to

the head of the staircase, and after a short whisper conversation,

return to the drawing-room. he look harassed and annoyed; and, now

that the force smile and pleasant look have leave his face, Honor could

plainly see the mark that age and care have leave there.



“Gad, it’s late,” he say, look at his watch; and then Mrs. Norcott,

in obedience to a private signal from her husband, ask Honor if she

would not like to see her room.



“it’s a good way up,” she say, as they mount the steep narrow stair

peculiar to the upper flight of modern-build house of the calibre of

No. 14 Stanwick-street. “the Colonel, of course, do not attempt it;

but for young leg like yours and mine it’s a mere nothing.”



Honor, as she toil after this active middle-aged lady, say something

civil and commonplace about London house be necessarily different

from those in the country. she be very desirous not to seem hard to

please and troublesomely fastidious, but the style of architecture

prevalent in Sandyshire not be of the kind to qualify for alpine

climbing, she be thoroughly out of breath and exhausted on her arrival

at the journey’s end,--an end which, judge from appearance, be

calculate to give rather a poor idea of the mean possess by the

gallant Colonel and his _soi-disant_ heiress wife.



the little attic which Honor be instruct to call her room be

tolerably clean; for, as I say before, the house be one of recent

construction, and the various defilement incidental to a course of

habitation by a succession of fourth-story lodger have not as yet

render the guest-chamber of No. 14 utterly unendurable. but although

even Honor--fresh as she be from God’s bless country, from farm-house

cleanliness, and from the traditional scent of lavender and

rose--could not have justly call that small upper chamber dirty, it

be nevertheless anything but invite to the eye. the roof be slope

and low; the furniture mean and shabby; there be no wardrobe, and the

chest of drawer, as Honor see at a glance, would scarcely hold even the

limited supply of garment which she have bring with she to

Stanwick-street.



“it _be_ small, as you see,” remark Mrs. Colonel Norcott

deprecatingly; “but I hope you’ll be comfortable. House-rent be

uncommonly dear in London in the season--and the Colonel like to have

everything comfortable--and so much expense come on, you know.”



she speak the last word in a kind of confidential whisper, throw a

degree of playful significance over the imply suggestion. Honor, who

do not know, but who feel that there be a _dessus les carte_, could

only look with a slightly puzzled air at her mysterious hostess;

whereupon that lady, with what be intend for a pretty air of

confusion, say:



“another time, when we know each other well, be both matron--there

need be no secret between we. ah, I see, there be hot water--the girl

of the house be generally so careless--you will come down when you be

ready. the Colonel be particular about his hour: so don’t be long,

there’s a dear. the Colonel always go to his club after dinner, and

you wouldn’t like to keep he wait. can I do anything for you? no.

well, then, I will leave you to beautify;” and so say, Mrs. Norcott

betook herself to her own, namely, the adjoining and equally

unprepossesse-look sleep chamber.



Honor sit down on the edge of her narrow iron bedstead, and feel for the

moment like one daze. all that during the last hour have occur be so

widely different from her previous imagining. where be the sick-room,

the waste invalid, the atmosphere of physic-bottle and of gloom?

instead, have she not be receive with chaff and cheerfulness? be not

her father in apparently perfect health? and already, simultaneously

almost with her arrival, have not a visitor appear, an intimacy with

whom her conscience warn she have well be avoid, and regard

whom, as she be well aware, her mother-in-law have already throw out

hint as uncalled for as they be offensive? and then, closely

follow on these mental communing, there come the more searching

question of, “what would John think of all this mean deceit? would he

not, in his indignation at the trick, instantaneously require she

return?” Instantaneously? yes! Honor feel well assure of that; John

Beacham be the last man in the world to suffer patiently such a

deception as have be practise upon he. he hate--of that too his wife

be well aware--the man who have deceive he, with as much of rancorous

feeling as he be capable of entertaining; and therefore any far

sojourn on her part under her father’s roof would, be John to become

cognisant of the truth, have be indignantly protest against. but, on

the other hand, Honor herself, though aware that she have be lure

under a false presence to Stanwick-street, be by no mean dispose to

disclose this fact to one so deeply interested as be John in all that

so nearly concerned her safety and well-being. she be conscious, on the

contrary, of a very decide inclination to remain, for the present at

least, where she be. of course this inclination--the mere passing of

the desire through her heart, to say nothing of the yielding to it--be

wrong, selfish, and unwifely to the most unpardonable extent. honor,

too, be well aware that she be guilty in not drive from she, at the

very first onslaught, the tempter who assail she. there be little

excuse, save in the weakness of our most imperfect human nature, for the

taking of this first dearly-buy step in wrong. it cost but little

trouble put that wrong foot foremost. she have but to be passive,

nothing could be easy, and the affair, one might almost say, right

itself. but facile as it all have seem, and scarcely out of the common

order of thing, the time come when that poor weak woman would have

give all of life that remain to she, could she have, by so do,

annul the decision of a moment, and thus avert all the terrible

consequence that follow thereupon.



she would not write--so Honor, with very little hesitation, decide--to

inform John Beacham that her father be well in health, and that she

long stay in London be uncalled for. it be wonderful, whilst act

thus, how many specious argument she make use of to persuade herself

that she be less guilty than she seem. no one could imagine--so she

tell herself (sit before the small paint mirror, with her fair

hair hang loosely about her neck and shoulders)--no one could by any

possibility imagine that she _could_ be there for her own pleasure.

such a wretched room as they have give she! Room, indeed! would anyone

in his or her sense at Peartree-house have call that closet of a

place by such an inappropriate name? and then her father, though his

bodily health be acknowledge to be satisfactory, yet betray, in

Honor’s opinion, evident symptom of a mind ill at ease at least, if not

disease. his pecuniary affair, too, strike his inexperienced daughter

as be in no flourishing condition. the smallness and _mesquinerie_ of

the house (a part of which only be occupy by her relation); the

absence of a man-servant--for Honor have pick up a good deal of the

knowledge of “life” from the page of three-volume novel; to say

nothing of the dress, cheap though showy, of her hostess, betray to

honor the fact that either money be far less plentiful in her father’s

than her husband’s home, or that penuriousness be a vice indulge in to

a large extent among her newly-find connection.



“if my father be rich and prosperous,” she say to herself--and, to do

her only justice, this ingenious though unconscious sophist firmly

believe in the honesty of her excuses--“if my father be rich and

prosperous, I should act differently, and write at once to tell John he

be well. I should mind in that case less, I think, the making he have

a still bad opinion of my poor father than I know he have at present.

if I could hope that John would make excuse for they, I should know

well what to do; but he would be simply furious. I know that he would

never have let I come, if he have not believe that my father be

suffer from the effect of that horrid blow; and perhaps, after all,

he _be;_ and besides, if he do make the bad of his illness for the

purpose of have I with he, where be the mighty harm? it only show

that my poor father love I,” add Honor, sadly, to the wilful tender

little heart, which be, alas, so likely to be lead astray by its own

warm womanly impulse.



it be with such false reasoning as these, that Honor persuade herself

to keep the real state of thing a secret, _pro tem._ at least, from her

husband. he would never, she decide--even if he live to the age of

Methuselah--understand her feeling, or see thing (even if she write to

he about her father) as she see they; and so, after sigh a little

over her husband’s small amount of solicitude and comprehension

regard the trifle thing that so much make or mar the happiness of

a young and childless woman, Honor enter on her course of deception.

she be interrupt in her cogitation--cogitation which so materially

affect the future happiness of one who, albeit he wear his heart, as

the saying be, on his sleeve, Honor have prove herself to be so little

capable of comprehending--by a hasty knock from the “girl of the

house”--the “young person,” whose back hair be thrust into a greasy

net, and whose upper woman be clothe in a red Garibaldi that have

evidently see service, which warn the visitor from the country that

by indulge herself in reflection, she be do the wrong thing at the

wrong time. dinner be “on table,” as the parlour-maid (to whom Colonel

Fred be in the habit of say civil thing) with no great show of

respect inform she; and Honor, in some trepidation--for she do not

feel exactly at home in her father’s house--hastily put the finishing

touch to her simple toilette, and hurriedly, two step at a time, in

very unmatronly fashion, descend the many flight of stair to the

drawing-room. Colonel Norcott be stand on the hearthrug with his

back to the fireless grate, when his daughter enter with an apology on

her lip, and a pretty deprecate smile light up her face. Mrs.

Norcott have already take her seat at the round table, which have be

clear for dinner, and be gaze with large anxious eye, anticipative

of evil, on the pewter dish-cover, not one of the bright specimen of

its kind, that grace the simple board.



“I be so sorry,” Honor be begin; “I have my trunk to unpack; and my

hair be so tumbled that I be oblige to undo it, and--”



“and you couldn’t have be quick if you’d do it for a bet,” say

the Colonel good humouredly. “so now for the miserable meal we call

dinner. you’ll wish yourself back at the farm-house, I suspect, when you

taste the nastiness that Mrs. Thingummy treat we with. you get rather

different grub at home--eh, Miss Honor?”



his daughter laugh lightly as she take her place beside he. it amuse

she greatly to be call “Miss Honor,” just as if she be a girl. and

then he look at, and speak so kindly to she that she be already

begin to feel at home in the Stanwick-street lodging. with the

large-boned, youthfully-dress matron, dispense with an air that be

intend to be genteel, the ill-dress, London-flavour whiting from

the scantily-fill dish before she, Honor do not expect to feel much

kindre sympathy. Mrs. Norcott be, however, to judge from external

appearance at least, good-natured, and _facile à vivre_. if she have

ever enjoy the prestige of be that often self-reliant and arrogant

character clepe an heiress (a fact of the truth of which Honor begin to

doubt), there have as yet crop out no sign either of a love of

domination or a purse-proud spirit. a harmless vanity, join to a

blind worship for the Colonel, have hitherto strike Honor as the most

distinguish feature in the australian lady’s idiosyncrasy.



“if you can eat that stuff it’s more than I can,” say the master of the

house, push away his plate with disgust. “you see, my dear child,

what it be to have a father who haven’t one shilling to rub against

another. I--”



“now, Colonel, I be surprised to hear you talk in this way,” put in his

wife. “there be a precious good many shilling in three hundred pound

a-year, or I be a good deal more out in my arithmetic than I think I be.

the idea of talk in this way before your daughter! why, she’ll think

she’s come among beggar, to hear the way you’re go on.”



Fred laugh sardonically. “not much need to talk about it, I think.

those horrible whiting fry in black grease render all far

explanation on the subject nugatory. I don’t suppose that any

affectation of superfluity be likely to deceive Mrs. Beacham; and, in my

opinion, it be always well to be plain-speak. you’ve get a poor devil

of a father, my dear child, who find it hard enough, I can assure you,

to make both end meet. of course you will be uncomfortable here, I

expect _that_; but I do flatter myself that you willn’t throw I over,

Honor, because I’m a poor man. I’ve trust in woman all my life, and

never have cause to repent it yet; so here’s your health, my dear, and

may you enjoy health and wealth and happiness long after your poor old

father have be lay under the sod.”



he have take advantage of Lydia’s momentary absence to utter this

pathetic speech, and as the red Garibaldi be not there to mar by force

of contrast the Colonel’s paternal platitude, he get through his toast

swimmingly. in another moment, and before Honor’s hand, which have be

lovingly extend to meet her father’s, could be withdraw, the

parlour-maid, in whose roguish black eye the “first-floor front” be

certainly no hero, have bounce back into the room, bear before her a

large speciman of that economical and succulent dish know to

housekeeper as a juicy leg of mutton. nothing overcome at the sight of

this delicacy, Mrs. Norcott press a slice, cut with the gravy in, on

Honor’s acceptance.



“what, not a mouthful? dear I now, how sorry I be! be there nothing we

could tempt you with? it’s because the mutton’s raw, perhaps, that your

stomach turn a little at it. Lydia, can you get nothing from the larder

for Mrs. John Beacham? that knuckle of ham, now--”



Miss Lydia grin broadly. “you’ll never see that there mouthful of ’be

again, ’m,” she say pertly, and after the fashion of one accustom to

speak her mind. “the Kunnle he eat _that_ for his breakfast this morning

afore he go out;” and having so say, she go on briskly with the

important duty of her call.



to Honor, accustom as she be to “the land flow with milk and

honey” of the old farm-house at Updown Paddocks, the state of the

Stanwick-street larder appear a most deplorable affair indeed. as for

her father--her high-breed, distinguished-looking father, with his

delicate aristocratic hand, his dainty golden sleeve-button, and, in

her opinion, his warm paternal heart--she could hardly refrain from

tear as she look upon his futile effort to eat the nauseous food

that be set before he. she have not be rear, as we know, in the

school of over-refinement, and to do violence to her own feeling in

order to spare the self-love of another be one of the consequence on

an advanced state of civilisation which have not, as yet, make itself

feel in the somewhat _arrière_ parish of Switcham. to feign an appetite

if she have it not be not therefore amongst the small deception which

Mrs. Beacham felt call upon to practise, and for that reason the poor

girl rise dinnerless, or, as she would in her ignorance have call it,

supperless, from that untempting board. no soon have the energetic

Lydia retire, close the door upon all (save its unwelcome perfume)

that remain of that highly-unsatisfactory repast, than Colonel

Norcott, take his hat from a side table, announce his intention of

go out.



“only for an hour or so--just to smoke a cigar in the open,” he say

carelessly. “you’ll be in bed though, Honor, I suppose, before I come

back? beauty-sleep, eh? we mustn’t lose those country rose soon than

we can help, or we shall have John look we up with that stout stick

of his. Gad, how quick he strike, and how it tingle! I can feel it

now;” pass his hand playfully over his forehead. “took one so

deucedly by surprise, you know. hadn’t an idea, of course, that he be

go to do anything of the kind. nothing but a light cane in my hand,

talk quietly about old time, when, without a word, down come the

sledge-hammer, and, by Jove! I _be_ floor.”



“he be very sorry afterwards, indeed he be,” Honor say pleadingly. “I

have hear he say so often. he hardly know what he do. if he have not

be sorry, he would never have let I leave the Paddocks to-day.”



“wouldn’t he?” chuck she under the chin. “look sharp after his

pretty wife, eh? but as to be sorry, I can believe as much of that

as I like. if he have be, he would have answer a letter that I write

to he some time ago about Rough Diamond; but as he don’t,” and a very

vindictive expression flit across his bearded face, “I know what to

think, and, what be more, shall probably act upon the conviction I have

come to.”



Honor could only _look_ her surprise at this wholly unexpected outburst.

before, however, she could utter a syllable in extenuation of her

husband’s sin against politeness, Colonel Norcott have take his

departure, leave she to spend the hour till welcome bedtime come in

listen to the uncongenial gossip of the woman whose society be by

himself so evidently unprized. Honor’s first experience of genteel life

in London be certainly neither an amusing nor an instructive one.









CHAPTER XXII.



the turning of the head.





“how pretty Rhoda be look! Arthur, I be sure, in spite of what you

say, that she _will_ make a sensation in London. her feature be so

regular, and her complexion, though she _be_ pale, be so wonderfully

clear and pure. besides she look so good, so--”



“she have well look _bad_,” growl old Mr. Duberly, in response to his

daughter’s sisterly remark on the personal recommendation of the

_debutante_ from Sandyshire. “she have far well look as wicked as the

evil one himself if she want to nobble the young Lunnon gent. a gell

who ‘look good’ have no more chance of what you call get on there

than my Soph,” and he wink at his daughter facetiously, “would have

have, if she haven’t happen to have a few thousand pound in her pocket,

poor gell! there’s that Lady Fy, as they call she, with her dead eye

and paint hair; I wonder where _she_ would be if look good be the

order of the day, and if whalebone don’t make the woman, and--”



“and want of it the _stick_,” laugh Arthur. “but you be quite right,

sir, and Sophy be make a great mistake about Rhoda; she willn’t have a

chance in London. the ugly girl go, if she be only chaffy and

get herself up well, would cut she out at once, knock she into

smithereen, if she set about have a try with poor Rhoda. and then the

_entourage_, the home, I mean”--explaining the foreign word for the

benefit of his father-in-law, who understand about as much of the french

language as he do of that of the twelve tribes--“the home in which my

unfortunate sister live be the last one in the world to tempt a man to

commit matrimony in their behalf. in my opinion there be nothing like a

jolly, genial mamma--the kind of mamma exactly that milady be _not_--for

get girl well marry. by the bye, Sophy, my child--now don’t

agitate yourself, or we may have to send prematurely for Mrs. Gamp--Lady

Mill intend do you the honour of call here, and--”



“O, Arthur, don’t say so! how horrid! I would so much rather go _there_.

it be so much nice to be able to go away when one have have enough--when

one have nothing more to say, I mean, and--and I know I shall hate it

so.”



Old Dub, who form a component part, and a greatly value one by his

daughter, of Arthur Vavasour’s family, have leave the room the moment that

the conversation turn, which it often do, on Lady Millicent and her

shortcoming. the good old man, conscious of harbouring (a very

unwelcome guest) in his inner man a decidedly unchristian dislike to the

lady in question, abstained, as far as lie in his power, from the

gratification--for such it undoubtedly be--of hear she abuse and

ridicule. his sense of honour, too, which be singularly keen, revolt

from any secret attack, any stab in the dark, any--even the most well

deserve--accusation, when the individual so accuse be, from

absence or ignorance, deprive not only of the opportunity of

self-justification, but of bring _en evidence_ the “other side of the

question.”



“you’ll be so good, Master Arthur,” he have once remark, and that in

his most decide manner, to his thoughtless son-in-law, “as not to say

anything in my presence about your mother which you wouldn’t say before

her face. I don’t pretend to much like for milady, nor do I suppose

there’s much love lose between we. she think I an old snob (ben’t that

your new word for fogeyism?) and I--well, it don’t much matter what _I_

think. I’m an old fellow, and an old-fashioned fellow, and in _my_

time--don’t laugh, you rogue--young man and woman honour their

father and mother in a way they don’t seem to do nowadays. you may say

that the parent don’t always deserve to be respect; but that’s

neither here nor there, and God A’mighty say nothing about that,” add

the old man reverently, “when he give the two table of the law to

Moses. one of these day, my boy,” and he lay his hand kindly upon

Arthur’s shoulder, “you’ll be glad if your own son have be bring up

in my way of thinking. in the mean time, remember that it’s a bargain

between we that you be to be mum in my presence about my Lady Mill.”



but we must return to Mrs. Arthur Vavasour, and to she anything but

joyful anticipation as regard the expect visit of her uncongenial

mother-in-law.



“O Arthur, what shall I do? I could bear anything well than a formal

call from Lady Millicent. what be I to say to she? she have such a

dreadfully cold way of look into and at one. she show so plainly

that she despise papa and I. I don’t mind it so much for myself, for

of course I know that you might have marry anybody; but it do vex I

when she behave so about poor papa. I know he feel it, though he say

nothing. papa be so odd, dear old man, about some thing; he be so

chivalrous, so innately courtly, like the old knight. don’t laugh,

Arthur; I know he do not look much like they, with his round face and

dear bald head; but I think, I do indeed, that they, when they fight

for their lady, must have feel something like my poor father. he

place woman so high. I can remember how courteous and tender--though I

daresay Lady Millicent think he vulgar--he always be to poor mamma.

he have a horror of fast girl; they be the only creature in the shape

of woman that I ever hear he severe upon; but he would love Rhoda

dearly. o Arthur, how nice it would be if we could see a good deal of

she! but of course Lady Millicent would never allow that; she would

think her daughter would be contaminate by live with such vulgarian

as papa and I.”



Arthur during this plaintive speech have be stand with his back to

the speaker, tap impatiently on the plate-glass window-pane, have

a view upon the now tolerably crowded park, for it be five o’clock, and

Mr. Duberly’s grand town mansion be one of the fine in

Hyde-park-gardens. he turn round hastily at the cessation of his

wife’s voice, and say a little impatiently:



“how silly you be, dear, to vex yourself in this way! because my mother

happen to be a vulgar fine lady--and believe I, Sophy pet, that no

genuine lady (the kind of lady that your friend the knight

worship), be ever rude--because my mother happen not to know how to

behave herself, it behove you to give she a lesson.”



“give she a lesson! I!” exclaim Sophy, in amazement.



“yes, _you_! why not? only be your own dear, merry, unaffected self,

only show that you, tremendous heiress that you be (and which I never

can get you to remember), be not to be put down and tyrannise over and

browbeaten, and, believe I, Lady Millicent, like all bully, will draw

in her horn, and treat you with the respect that be your due.”



“I don’t want respect,” sigh Sophy; “all I long for be affection. I

should so like your mother to love I, Arthur. just now, too,” and she

blush prettily, “I feel more than ever remind that I have no mother

of my own.”



“and no great loss, either, if all mother be like the only one that I

have any experience of,” say Arthur lightly, while endeavour to

divert his wife’s thought into a more lively channel. “but, Sophy

darling, if it bore you too much, you sha’n’t see milady. there be no

positive necessity for it. I can easily say that Williams have order

you to be quiet, and” (as he settle the cushion behind her shoulder,

for Sophy be delicate, and both like and require attention) “if you

like it, I will stay and protect you, read to you, do what you like,

dear, as your cold be to keep you at home this disagreeable day.”



but to this sacrifice, for sacrifice she well know it be, on her

husband’s part, Sophy would not listen. he be the very good, the

kind, and the dear, so, with grateful tear and smile, she tell

he, of create being. the idea of his give up his ride for she! who

but himself would have dream of such an act of self-devotion? as

regard Lady Millicent’s visit, too, it be so very thoughtful, so nice

of he to let she off. but Sophy could be self-sacrifice as well as

he; so, though she feel weak and languid, she assure her hero that

there be no necessity for either care or quiet, that she feel quite

equal to the threaten visitation, and intend on that very day,

provide that Lady Mill keep her promise of call, to practise

Arthur’s lesson on behaviour.



a bright happy smile light up her face as Arthur, kiss her forehead

lightly, say a few farewell word. nor do the look of placid

contentment fade away even after the music of his foot upon the stair

have cease to echo in her ear; for the young wife be wonderfully

happy--as happy, perhaps, as it be ever give to mortal woman here below

to feel. assured of her husband’s affection, and adore he with all

the force of her warm young heart; with not a wish ungratified, and

endow with health and spirit to enjoy the good gift that be with

such a lavish hand bestow upon she; blest with a kind father’s doting

tenderness, and dream as she lie on her luxuriant couch of the “prime

of bliss” in a few week to be accord to her prayer, who can wonder

that Arthur Vavasour’s wife be one of the happy of her sex?



and he, the man who be so seldom absent from her thought, the husband,

to obey whose slight wish be feel by the unselfish Sophy to be a

bless privilege which all must envy she, do he, as he stride forth

hastily, for he have an appointment and be late, feel no remorseful pang

for wander thought, and dream on joy forbid? I fear that to

this query I must answer in the negative. it be not in the early

stage of our cherished sin that the avenge demon of unavaile

regret rise up before we, and embitter joy that else be sweet. sin,

the very wickedness that be destine to be our ruin and shame, assume

at the beginning such very fair and false proportion. in early sunlight

the shadow be so short, the path before so bright, the glare so

dazzle and the day so long. it be when the shadow lengthen, and the

night approach, when the sin which in the distance look so unlike

crime stand reveal a hideous skeleton, bereft of all its false

adornment, in our walk by day and in our couch by night, that we look

back to the past with misery and vain remorse, ask ourselves the

bitter, futile question whether the gain be worthy of the cost, while

like wither leave in the sad autumn time,



    “the hope of our youth fall thick in the blast,

     and the day be dark and dreary.”



Arthur Vavasour, although he might not be exactly in that blissful

condition which have be describe as have “nothing on one’s mind,”

be nevertheless quite sufficiently light-hearted as he wend his way

that spring afternoon in the direction of Stanwick-street, to make all

thing around and about he seem wonderfully bright and hopeful. the

“tropic time of youth,” the possession of life’s choicest gift--health,

wealth, and beauty--be enough in themselves to account for the “gleam

elysian” that light up this young man’s path while, tread as though

it be air the tyburnian pavement, he wend his way to the presence of

his peerless Honor. His!--for already he have begin to arrogate to

himself the monopoly of his neighbour’s wife. the monopoly, that be to

say, of her time, her thought, her _like_. already there could, it

be to be fear, be little doubt of the melancholy fact, that the

affection and fidelity of his own wife would, in comparison with that of

honest John’s, have be but little prize. of the one he be assure,

while over the other hang just enough of the delightful veil weave of

hope and imagination to lend enchantment to the prospect which his own

unrestrained passion, aid by the machination of one of the vilest of

human being, hold up before he.



to the motive as well as to the plotting of Honor’s unprincipled

father, the infatuated young man resolutely close his eye. he could

scarcely fail to see that Colonel Norcott be ready to promote and

encourage his intimacy with John Beacham’s wife, and under any other

circumstance Arthur would have turn aside with disgust and horror

from conduct so vile and so unprincipled. but we be very apt (and

Vavasour be no exception to the rule) to condone the sin by which we

hope to profit; and there be besides other reason, although I must

not anticipate, which would assist in account to the reader for the

readiness with which the young heir of Gillingham fall into the plan

and project of the almost universally “hold cheap” sporting-man.



on this occasion, the occasion of his ostensible visit to the master of

the house, he find, as he expect, Honor Beacham alone. that _she_ be

agitate by his appearance both her word and the pretty confusion which

she be far too untutored to disguise, betray; and that Arthur,

forgetful of his young wife at home--forgetful of old tie of

friendship, and utterly careless of consequence as regard the

guileless wife whose peace he be undermine--make the good of the

pass hour allow he by the prudential arrangement of the

unprincipled Fred, who that know anything of the bad side of human

nature can doubt?



before Arthur Vavasour take his leave he have thoroughly succeed in

awakening in Honor Beacham’s ambitious and pleasure-love breast a keen

desire to partake of such gaiety and amusement as he might be able to

procure for she. on the following morning a riding-habit, borrow from

the wardrobe of the unsuspicious Sophy, be to be alter (if necessary)

for Mrs. Beacham’s use; a box at the Opera be to be place at her

disposal, and everything worth either see or do be to be see and

do by the pretty recluse of Updown Paddocks. Honor know that it be

all wrong; but her head be begin to be turn, and that night as

she lay it on her pillow she almost go the length of congratulate

herself that she have keep the unsophisticated John in the dark regard

her father’s health. she have every chance of catch a glimpse of the

ineffable delight of London in the season, as those delight be

imagine in her foolish dream, and colour by the man whose word have

from the first moment of her acquaintance with he possess such a

strange and unfortunate influence over her still childish mind.









CHAPTER XXIII.



the RECTOR COMMITS HIMSELF.





Arthur be not far wrong when he aver that his sister Rhoda be the

last girl in the world to make a successful _début_ in London society.

Shyness--be entirely uncomprehende and believe in--be too often

there mistake for stupidity, or, at good, for a disinclination to be

pleased and to be “jolly.” look beneath the surface be too long a

process for the superficial observer of the present day; summary

condemnation take little time, and lynch-law, in the shape of something

very like ostracism, be speedily pronounce. so Rhoda Vavasour--whose

mother have be guilty of that terrible social blunder, namely, the

non-keep up of her connection--find herself, although rather pretty

and decidedly “nice,” quite throw away in the west-end world. under

these circumstance, and feel--gentle though she be, and

humble-minded--a little mortified and _délaissée_, Rhoda’s heart

naturally turn again towards the man who, be but a country rector,

look up to, love, and appreciate she. for she--almost partnerless,

and leave, whether at ball, opera, or party, a good deal to her own

resource and reflection--the memory of George Wallingford, together

with her pleasant country duty and avocation, be as a gleam of

summer sunshine, a green oasis in the people desert of her uncongenial

life. when, before her departure from Gillingham, the rector, meet

she by chance as she be leave the door of a poor dependent on her

kindness, stop his horse, and by a few meaning word, and look more

suggestive still, convey to she the knowledge that neither time nor

absence would erase her image from his heart, he of course commit

this disloyal act with eye wide open to its impropriety. he know, ay

well than do Arthur Vavasour, that he be, in thus secretly tamper

with a young girl’s affection, commit a sin against his neighbour.

that sin might not, view abstractedly, be so heinous as that which

Rhoda’s brother be, with equal audacity, commit; but in reality the

one man’s guilt be little inferior to the other; both yield to such

temptation as be within their reach, and the consequence in either case

be the punishment that have be so deservedly incurred.



Lady Millicent, whose motive for pass the season in London could

scarcely be call motherly one, trouble herself little about she

eld daughter’s pallid cheek and languid movement.



“Rhoda be always _pasty_,” be her answer to Lady Guernsey, when that

kind friend endeavour to draw her attention to the small amount of

interest take by the _débutante_ in the amusement that be offer to

she; “Rhoda never have more colour than a boil fowl. and in London I

don’t see how she be to get rosy; unless, indeed,” correct herself

a little spitefully, “she be to employ the same trick that other

girl do; and _that_, I need not tell you, be not in Rhoda’s line.”



“I cannot help fancy,” Lady Guernsey say after a pause, during which

she be wonder a little nervously how her hint would be taken,--“I

cannot help fancy that Rhoda may have take a fancy, may have see

someone who--”



Lady Millicent draw herself up indignantly. “I should have imagine,”

she say, “that you have see enough of Rhoda, enough too of my mode of

bring up, to render such a surmise--ahem--impossible. my daughter have

never leave my roof but once; and that, my dear Lady Guernsey, be when

you kindly invite she to Gawthorpe. I should be distressed to think

that while with you, and under Lord Guernsey’s protection, she should

have meet with anyone who, I mean--pray allow I to proceed--anyone who

have clandestinely gain her affection, and thus put a bar--for I could

not tolerate anything underhand--to my receive he as a son-in-law.”



Lady Guernsey could not restrain a smile at this indignant outburst

against one who be in point of fact a myth. prepare to rise from the

sofa, on which the two chaperone have take refuge from the crowd and

heat of a “delightful” ball, she say courteously:



“you must forgive I for my guess, and believe that nothing but our deep

interest in dear Rhoda could have call it forth. as to she having see

anyone in the shape of a lover at Gawthorpe, that, I can assure you, be

out of the question. anything more dull than we be last Christmas, you

would hardly believe. the death of poor Guernsey’s sister make gaiety

out of the question; but the child, all thing consider, seem to

enjoy themselves; and I be only grieve to see your girl look so dull

and alter.”



she put out her hand to her country neighbour as she speak, and Lady

Millicent, whose thought have already wander away to law-court,

will-case, and appeal, return her goodnight with apparent

cordiality.



meanwhile--for absence, as be universally acknowledge, be apt to

increase _les grande passion_, while it have a directly contrary effect

upon minor one--meanwhile the rector of Switcham, in that pretty but

dull study of his, sit ruminating, sometimes by the hour together, on

the perfection of Rhoda Vavasour; on their mutual attachment (for

George Wallingford feel as assure of the young girl’s love as if she

have tell he the sweet truth in word), and on the madden possibility

that in London, in the midst of the gay and exciting scene of which he

have hear and read so much, some man less faint of heart or more

attractive than himself, might step between he and his love, and thus

deprive he of all that make life dear and valuable. the idea that such

_might_, by some terrible contingency, be the case, be, as I have just

say, very distract to the rector; so distract, that his usually

well-balance mind totter a little on its throne, and the judgment

and resolve--so calm habitually, and prudent--of sensible George

Wallingford, give token of the emotion that be go on within his

breast.



that it would be an act little short of insanity to request of Lady

Millicent Vavasour the hand of her daughter in marriage, Rhoda’s

clerical lover would, no later than three day before, have be quite

willing to acknowledge; but, whether it be true that _quo Deus vult

perdere prius dementat_, or that the _man_ as well as “the woman who

deliberate be lose,” it be needless to inquire, the fact remain the

same--namely, that poor George Wallingford, believe his position could

not be bad, and might by some strange freak of Fortune be better by

his desperate act, arrive at the somewhat rash resolution of propose

himself to Lady Millicent Vavasour as the future husband of her

daughter.



the determination be no soon arrive at than it be act upon. alone

with his own thought, his own fear, and the hope which the last

tender smile which he have see on Rhoda’s quivering lip have raise

within his heart, the unfortunate young rector, unable to endure

suspense, rush madly to his fate. alas for he, poor fellow!--where

be at that crisis of his life the outspoken, sensible, hard-head

college friend, who with a strong grip--painful, perhaps, but

salutary--would have pluck he from the edge of the abyss, and with a

“don’t make a fool of yourself, old fellow!” would have give wholesome

counsel, and have stave off much of the unhappiness soon to be

record?



the letter on which--as he touchingly explain to the _sympathise_

Lady Millicent--the happiness of his future life depend be write

just four day after the departure of the Castle family for London.

under what circumstance it be receive, how Lady Millicent behave on

its perusal, and the consequence result from its perpetration, will

form subject-matter for another chapter.









CHAPTER XXIV.



FAST DOWNHILL.





Honor’s first letter to her husband--which she despatch the day but

one after she leave the Paddocks--be not write without a considerable

amount of thought and caution. it be not in this young creature’s

nature to be false. on the contrary, deceit hang like a chain of lead

upon her mind--a chain that be heavy and galling, and which, save when

she be divert from the pain it cause she by the excitement of

dissipation, of Arthur Vavasour’s society, and, alas, by the admiration

of which this true daughter of Eve well know herself to be the object,

Honor’s consciousness of her own disloyalty cause she to feel very

thoroughly unhappy and remorseful. her letter to John--the first which

she have ever address to he--cause she even while she write it to

blush for shame. in it--while she carefully avoid, or rather

ingeniously glossed over, the subject of her father’s illness--any acute

observer might have perceive that she be in no hurry to return to

Sandyshire. she have find the Colonel well, she write; but he be

look ill, and complain a good deal of his head. (this, in Honor’s

defence, I may remark, be no invention on her part.) altogether, she

feel she be a comfort to her father. he be in very different

circumstance from what she (Honor) have imagine he to be. really quite

poor, she almost think. they have no house, only a small lodging, and

they live very poorly--so poorly that Honor be quite sure John would

not like it at all; while as for mother she would not be able to exist

on the kind of food that be serve up in Stanwick-street. as regard

herself, she be--though she could bear it very well for a

time--extremely uncomfortable. a little attic at the very top of the

house!--an attic with a sloping roof, and no closet to hang her dress

in, and--but there be no occasion to follow Mrs. John in she fill up

of this her first letter with diatribe against her own discomfort, and

with comparison (flatter, as she hope, to the old lady’s pride)

between the wretchedness of the furniture and the poverty-stricken

nature of the food in Stanwick-street, and the luxury and comfort

which she, the writer, have enjoy at home. she wind up her letter (a

missive in which she have carefully abstain from any allusion to the

amusement, both present and to come, which be in readiness for her

delectation) with a hope that her father’s health would continue to

improve; in which case, in a fortnight or ten day, perhaps, Colonel

Norcott would let she talk of return to the Paddocks. both he and his

wife show she so much kindness and affection that, however much she

would like to be at home again, she could not think just at present of

speak about her return.



this be the sum and substance of Honor’s letter to her husband, and now

that it have be very frankly lay before the reader, I greatly fear

that his opinion of my poor heroine will not be much raise thereby.

little enough have I to say in her excuse. she be very human, very

womanly; with the seed of corruption in her vein, the child of a weak

mother and a wicked father, her infant innocence unshielde by a prayer,

the silent nursery work, the holy secret duty which be a mother’s

province, and her only to perform, perforce leave undone--how can we

wonder then that this child of nature, abandon to the care of

hireling, and so early transplant to a soil in many respect

uncongenial, should prove herself to be no well than hundred upon

hundred of her sex and age, who, give up reality for thing hope

for, find to their cost that their foolish discontent have prove their

deadly bane!



“well, John, and what be the letter about? she seem to have write

plenty, any way; but I suppose you willn’t care to tell _I_ what all that

heap of writing be about;” and Mrs. Beacham, who, as be usual with she

at letter-delivery time, be busily employ in the housewifely and

popular task of concoct strong tea from a not over liberal allowance

of the herb, endeavour to look as if she be not in the slight

degree interested in the query to which she have just give voice.



John, who have just finish his letter, and be proceed to read it a

second time, in order to render himself thoroughly master of its

somewhat puzzle content, push the delicate and young-lady-like

look epistle across the table with rather an impatient gesture.



“I don’t know that you’ll be able to make much more of a hand of it than

I can,” he say gruffly, for his heart feel terribly sore, and with man

of John Beacham’s stamp emotion do not manifest itself in an

especially tender fashion. “the man haven’t much the matter with he, as

far as I can understand; never have, I daresay,” he add under his

breath, but his mother catch the word, and treasure they in her mind

for future use.



“it ain’t much good,” she say quietly, “give I the letter now. I

couldn’t read a word of such fiddle writing as that without my spec.

after breakfast, my dear, I’ll see what _I_ can make of it. so the

Colonel’s all right again, be he? well, well, I never think, for one,

that there be much cause for fear; but Honor, she be so wild to go,

there be no use try to stop she. I declare to goodness--I never say

so before, John, for what be the use? it would only have worritte

you--but I declare to goodness, she be like as if she don’t know

whether her head or her heel be uppermost, when she be pack up.

Glad of a change, I suppose, like all young people. it’s only nat’ral

she should get tired--such a young thing as she be--of the paddock--not

nineteen yet; and you--though you don’t look it, that I must say--nearly

old enough to be her father. as for I,” rise leisurely from her

chair, for her morning task be over, and the “spec,” need for the

perusal of her daughter-in-law’s letter, be to be search for on the

adjacent work-table,--“as for I, in course your wife’s glad enough to

get out of _my_ sight and hearing. an old body like I, do what she

will, be sure to find herself in the way; and I _have_ find myself in

the way, I don’t deny it, John, though it ain’t a pleasant thing to say,

least of all to you, my dear.” and Mrs. Beacham, after this pleasant

exordium, don her tortoiseshell spectacle, and commence what seem

likely to prove no easy task, namely, the deciphering of Honor’s flow

but not over-legible caligraphy.



to describe John’s feeling during the long-draw-out operation would be

impossible. already deeply hurt and wound by the mere pass thought

(for his nature be too excellent for the spontaneous breeding therein

of harsh suspicion or dark surmise of evil) that he might have be

the dupe of Colonel Norcott’s (not his wife’s--_that_ conjecture be

reserve for Mrs. Beacham’s less indulgent breast to harbour) underhand

design, his mother’s preamble--_surgit amari aliquid_--together with

her run comment on poor Honor’s rather confused and disconnected

letter, try both his feeling and his temper severely.



“well, mother,” he say at last, his patience give way as much under

his own troubled thought as his mother’s covert hint and very

unpleasant guess; “well, mother, if you talk till doomsday you willn’t

make thing different from what they be. it’s as plain to I as it be

to you that Honor want to stay in London with her father. God know

that I’d be glad enough to think it ben’t so; but it be, and there’s an

end of it.”



“but, John, surely you’re not go to let Honor have her way? you’re

never go to allow--”



“Mother,” break in John impetuously--so impetuously that Mrs. Beacham’s

heart be harden thereby more than ever against the absent cause of

her son’s very novel act of disrespect; “mother, I repeat what I say

before, that there’s no earthly use either in abuse Honor or in

talk of what cann’t be help. as for send for she, or write for

she, or anything of the kind, that I’m not go to do--not yet awhile,

that be. as you say just now, it’s only natural that the poor young

thing should like a change. we’re old people, as you say, mother,” he

add with a very sad smile, “compare to she, and I begin to think you

be right a year and more ago, when you say that Honor be too young a

wife for I. there’s a good many more gray hair in my head, mother,

than should be own by my little girl’s husband. and then there’s her

father, d----n he!” and John’s big fist come so heavily down upon the

table that his mother almost tremble for the safety of her cup and

saucer; “I know he to be as great a villain as ever step in

shoe-leather; but, as I’ve often say before, he be _she_ father; and

be that he’s about the only relation that she’s get, it’s only

natural, I suppose, that she should hold to he. ah I! that be a

black day for all of we when he stir I up to give he the bad blow

that floor he. but for that, I should be a different man, mother,

from what I be this day. if I’d say it at the first, if I haven’t be a

party to the fellow’s lie, I should stand on the old ground, mother, and

that be well ground than what’s under my foot to-day; but I hope, so

I do, that the secret--Honor’s secret--would be keep. I little think

that the fellow have a purpose all the while in what he do; I little

think that Honor--but I be a fool, a downright idiot, to go on in this

way! I couldn’t be bad if I be a lad of twenty, with nothing to think

of in life but girl and their foolishness!” and John, who during the

utterance of these self-condemn sentence have be pace with

hurried and heavy footstep to and fro in the room, suddenly take

himself off to his out-of-door business, let--contrary to his willnot,

for he be rarely deficient in respect to his mother--the door of the

little parlour close with a bang behind his retreating footstep.





END of VOL. II.





Robson and Son, Printers, Pancras Road, N.W.





typographical error correct by the etext transcriber:



from governness=> from governess {pg 204}



front drawing-roon=> front drawing-room {pg 232}



scanttily-filled=> scantily-fill {pg 256}



for the persual of=> for the perusal of {pg 285}













*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





