The project Gutenberg eBook of Sink or swim?

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: sink or swim?

        a novel; vol. 1/3



author: Mrs. Houstoun



Release date: December 31, 2023 [ebook #72560]



language: English



original publication: London: Tinsley Brothers, 1868



credit: Sonya Schermann, Chuck Greif and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***











                             sink or swim?









                             SINK or swim?



                               a novel.





                           by the AUTHOR of



                        “recommended to mercy,”



                                 ETC.





                           in three VOLUMES.



                                VOL. I.





                                LONDON:

              TINSLEY brother, 18 CATHERINE ST. STRAND.

                                 1868.



      [_the right of translation and reproduction be reserve._]









                                LONDON:

            ROBSON and SON, GREAT NORTHERN PRINTING WORKS,

                          PANCRAS ROAD, N.W.









                             SINK or swim?









CHAPTER I.



what they say in the village.





“if I haven’t hear it from Mrs. Clay herself, I never would have

believe it! to think that John Beacham, who’s a sensible man as man go,

should be marry an Irishwoman! if Honor Blake be English-bear now,

one wouldn’t blame he so much; but to choose a girl that come of

people who, as everyone know, you cann’t trust far than you can see

they, be what I call a sin and a shame.”



the speaker be a woman of low stature, elderly, and sharp of voice and

feature. she be seat at a round old-fashioned mahogany table, on

which a teapot of the material know as Britannia metal steam with a

pleasant warmth, while the odour of butter toast, “hot and hot,”

fill the little room in which she and a choose chum and gossip have

meet together to talk over the domestic affair of their friend and

neighbour.



the name and title of the first-mention lady be Mrs. Thwaytes, and

she, be at the present time a widow, and highly respect, keep a

small general shop in an old-fashioned village, to which I shall give

the name of Switcham. this village, situate near the grand and most

imposing of England’s river, could be reach by express train in

something a little under an hour and a half from London. it be,

consider this proximity, rather a behindhand village. Progress have

not hitherto make any gigantic stride in the old-world-look place,

where not a single house be less than a century old, and where the aged

inhabitant of the quiet spot have not as yet cease to speak of

crinoline as an abomination, and the absence (on young woman’s head) of

that decent article call a cap as a sign and symbol of a lost and

abandon soul.



the guest of the widow Thwaytes be qualified in many way to be that

highly-respect personage’s confidential friend and favourite gossip. a

widow indeed she be, forlorn and desolate by her own account, but

comfortable withal in outward circumstance, and possess of a portly

person, and a complexion indicative of good cheer and inward content.

Mrs. Tamfrey, for that be the relict’s name, have be leave (like the

congenial friend above name) with an only daughter to solace she

decline year; and, after duly cast that young woman upon her own

resource as a domestic servant, she--the widow of the deceased Mr.

Tamfrey, a journeyman carpenter in a comfortable way of business--have

enter upon the attractive career of a monthly nurse. in this lucrative

profession she have meet with marked and flattering success. endow with

a low voice, a caressing manner, and a universal fund of anecdote, as

well as considerable power of invention, “Mrs. Tam,” as she be

habitually call, make her way very successfully among the matron,

young and middle-aged, of the district; and over a cup of a “woman’s

good restorer, balmy tea,” the widow Tamfrey be very generally allow

to be--during the pause between her professional engagement--very

excellent company.



the room in which these well-suit friend have meet for the purpose (not

openly avow, but nevertheless existent) to which I before allude be

a snug but not very spacious apartment run parallel with, and have

easy access to, the shop. Miss Thwaytes, the widow’s only daughter, and

a young person verge on forty, be occupy in the said shop--wait

upon customer and keep up the credit of the establishment by civil

speech and oft-repeat remark on the beauty of the weather and other

such _banal_ topic of conversation. a wonderfully useful person in she

way be Esther Thwaytes; a thorough woman of business, keen-eye,

calculate, and with only the very small of soft spot in the

woman’s heart beat under her maidenly bosom. but there be yet

another purpose besides that of business utility to which Miss Esther

Thwaytes be daily put. with she the aged mother, who possess but that

one ewe lamb, be always indulge in, not sweet converse, gentle

reader--not the interchange of soul with soul, nor the pleasant

fellowship of congenial trencherwoman--but the inexhaustible enjoyment,

the indescribable satisfaction of what we have hear describe in five

single letter as “word.” they be both--the daughter of forty and the

parent of sixty-five--essentially “nagger.” the daily food of

_snip-snap_, the eternal picking of bone, be as necessary to they as

the air they breathe. deprive of wholesome excitement, the life of

these two woman would have be horribly flat and uninteresting; a _vis

inertiæ_, despite the busy shop, the cheer tea-drinking, and the

friendly intercourse with that unfailing gossip Mrs. Tamfrey, the

monthly nurse of Switcham.



that exemplary village functionary be pour out her third _dish_ of

tea when, with a wheezy sigh, she commence a reply to her friend’s

comment on the approach marriage.



“as sure as I sit here, Jane Thwaytes,” she say oratorically, “if John

Beacham marry that irish gurl he’ll come to trouble. there’s that

about Miss Blake as speak a vollum. it ben’t that she’s, so to speak,

aither bold or forrard; I couldn’t say that of she--no, not if I be to

be put upon my Bible oath; but what I _do_ say be, that she’s get a look

with her eye that I would have whip _my_ daughter out of before she

be twelve year old, or I would have know the reason why.”



“it’s singular now, ain’t it,” suggest Mrs. Thwaytes, “that one cann’t

learn more about who she be, and where she come from? a nussery

governess too ben’t much to boast of neither, and I don’t wonder as the

old lady be a bit put out. the Beachams have aller hold their head

high, and John’s mother haven’t be behindhand with ’em. she’s not the

woman, I’m think, to like be mother-in-law to a gurl who may, for

anything that’s know, be a gentleman’s love-child. and, pretty as she

be--I must say that for she--and like a lady too, Miss Blake have to

dress the child, and hem the pincloth, and all that sort of thing at

Clay’s farm.”



“all that sort of thing! I should think so, and a precious deal more to

that. why from the first moment that Mrs. Clay be take in labour--and

that’s be twice in the two year that Miss Blake’s be at the

farm--the most of the head-work fall upon Honor. there be this to be

think of, and that to be do--the child to be kep from noise, and

the master from be put out because the baking be spoil.

everything, morning, noon, and night--and I use to think it be a bit

too much for such a mere girl as she be--fall upon the nussery

governess.”



“and that’s true, I believe, or the Clays, one and all, wouldn’t make so

much of she as they do; and the old lady ought to think of that, proud

as she be, for she’ll be a rare help, will Honor, at the Paddocks. a

good headpiece of her own, and not above make herself useful; and add

to that that John’s get on for forty, and be particular in his

way--so he be. he mean honourable, do Mr. Beacham, and stand high

with rich and poor, and what’s more, he can take his wife to as good a

home as any in the country.”



“well, maybe, for his wife if it be a poor one,” say Mrs. Tamfrey,

who know something of the world and of human nature. “when a young gurl

that’s be use to work marrie a man that can keep she without it, ten

to one that she get into mischief. I don’t say, if she git a family

about she, which it’s a’most certain she will,” continue Mrs. Tam,

speak, as be only natural, in the interest of her profession, “that

Mrs. John Beacham willn’t settle down; but she’s but a giddy thing at

present, always laugh--I declare it’s the prettiest thing to hear

she, and make one laugh, too, for company; but if she _don’t_ have a

family--and John Beacham’s nearly old enough to be her father--and if

the young man get about she, why”--and Mrs. Tam, deeming, probably, that

she have say enough to enlighten the feminine mind of her auditor, wound

up her prognostication with a very suggestive sigh.



“I hope not. it would be a sad thing, indeed, if mischief come of this

grand marriage of her. I _should_ be sorry for John Beacham if it be

to,” mumble the widow Thwaytes, whose mouth be full than be

altogether become of well-salt butter toast. “I should be sorry as

sorry could be for John if trouble be to come upon he that way. ah

well! if the Squire have only live! such a gentleman as he be for

advise and keep thing straight! there ben’t a day nor yet an hour

that the parish don’t feel the want of he. if Squire Vavasour have

be spare, thing would have go on, as we’ve all on we say a

hundred time, in quite another guess sort of fashion. there would have

be more live at the Castle then, and a precious sight more money

spend in the parish. the Castle then would have be a proper house for

young people to live in, and be marry out of; and now what be it? as

Mrs. Shepherd say--and she ought to know that’s be housekeeper these

twenty year at the great house--there’s as much skinflinting there as

if milady haven’t as many pound as she have thousand. ‘I declare,’ say

she to I, which it will be a week to-morrow, the day I be take tea

with she up at the Castle,--‘I declare,’ say she, ‘it’s a sin and a

shame how little’s be spend this five year at Gillingham Castle. the

Chace itself and the game and all have be let to go to rack and ruin.

next to no labourer employ, no party give where there use to be

a’most open house kep, and such a home make for the young gentleman as

it’s no wonder they should run a little wild when they be let out

like.’”



“there’ll be a change now, I’m think,” suggest Mrs. Tamfrey after a

pause; “the young lady be get on, you know, and Mr. Arthur come

of age next year will make something of a stir, in course.”



the widow shake her head with a dreary air of superior wisdom. “from

what Mrs. Shepherd tell me”--and the word be say in one of those

ominous whisper that be intend to imply even more of knowledge than

be expressed--“from what Mrs. Shepherd say, there’s no coming of age

yet awhile for the air aperient of Gillingham. there’s something out of

the common, it appear, though what it be Mrs. Shepherd couldn’t speak

to exactly, in the last entail. anyway, milady--which seem odd, don’t

it? she having be the heiress--hasn’t get, after a certain day--that’s

pos--anything to do with the estate and property. it’s that, folk

say--they as know something about the matter--as put she out so. and

it’s to be, some say, when Mr. Arthur be five-and-twenty that his mamma

will have to walk out of her own house like a private person, after all

the money and land that she be bear to.”



“let milady alone,” put in Mrs. Tam decidedly; “she’ll be rich enough,

if all’s true, whatever happen. there’s a pretty long purse a-filling

somewhere, I’ll be bind. it’s little besides her name that she give to

all they mad-house and county ’ospittle that there’s such a talk

about. no, no; Milady Millicent ben’t one to be short of cash, whoever

else go to the wall--but,” interrupt herself, “my gracious! Jane

Thwaytes, if there ain’t two party a-wait in the shop, and no one

in life to serve they but Esther!”



startle by this appeal to her love of gain and order, the widow, after

a hurried wipe of her lip with the corner of her apron, bustle into

the adjoining shop with a sharp rebuke already on her tongue. it be a

tidy and very prosperous establishment that of which Esther Thwaytes be

the prop and mainstay. in it you could obtain all that the heart of a

reasonable woman of simple taste and habit ought to desire. on one

side, the counter be strew with cheap ribbon, snowy cap-front,

artificial flower more gaudy than artistic, with occasionally a

tempt novelty in the shape of the last new thing in bonnet. the

other side of the widow’s flourish “store” contain good that be

more useful than ornamental. tea, coffee, tobacco, and snuff, together

with other article of home and colonial produce, be procurable at

“the” shop in the main street of Switcham. as a matter of course, the

widow, enjoy the benefit of a monopoly, drive a thriving trade; and,

equally as a matter of course, incessant be her jeremiad on the

disjointedness of the time, the dearness of provision, the iniquity of

subordinate, and the general decadence of all thing since the day

which she be pleased to call “her time.” and yet, at scarcely any hour

of the day from the early hour of opening be the little shop devoid of

customer; while towards the witching time of evening, and that more

especially on a Saturday night (for the widow be no advocate for early

closing), her house be one, it may be say, of “call”--a regular

rendezvous for the busy and the idle, for the sweetheart and the

gossip, of the village where the much-respect widow have be bear and

breed.









CHAPTER II.



the antecedent of MILADY.





the Lady Millicent Vavasour, whose proceeding be thus so freely

comment upon by her inferior, be the only child of the rich and

potent Earl of Gillingham. that nobleman, who survive the Countess, his

wife, but little more than a year, bequeath at his decease, with

restriction and a good deal _à contre cœur_, all that he possess, in

land, mine, personalty, and otherwise, to his only child, the Lady

Millicent aforesaid and in the last chapter duly comment upon.



the income produce by the above-mention property--of all of which

the heiress come into undisputed possession at the age of

twenty-three--amount at a moderate computation to thirty thousand

pound per annum. the Lady Millicent Vavasour therefore take her stand

on the platform of public estimation with the _prestige_ of be one of

the rich heiress in England.



as might naturally be expect, the eye of the world and eke the

monster’s tongue have from her early womanhood a good deal to look and

say on the subject of the Lady Millicent’s future disposition in

marriage. that she would--like the Maiden Queen of mighty memory, or the

banker’s heiress of nineteenth-century renown--be content to enjoy she

power _alone_, no one appear for a single moment to imagine. there

exist, always have exist, and probably always will exist, a large

proportion of the bold sex of whom it be aver, and safely too, that

they be not “marry man;” but whoever in his or her experience--and I

say it without prejudice--have hear of a “non-marrying woman”? such a

being, if it be discover to exist, would be an anomaly, a _lusus

naturæ_, a freak, so to speak, of the mighty mother who have do all

thing not only wondrously, but “decently and in order.”



but if there be a class of female likely to “go in,” as the saying be,

for celibacy, that class be the _genus_ heiress. there be cause too

numerous to mention that may account for this establish fact: the

watchfulness alike of friend and foe; a natural as well as a

cultivate suspicion that “_man_ be not (always) what they seem;” the

difficulty attendant on an _embarras de choix_; and last, but by no

mean least in importance, the fear of be reduce to a second-rate

power,--may all be cite as good and sufficient reason for the delay

which so frequently occur in the “go off” of an heiress. as regard

the Lady Millicent Vavasour, the rich _partie par excellence_ of this

story, the last-mention cause be, far and away beyond the rest, the

one to which might be attribute the important fact that she have reach

the age of twenty-four while still a single woman.



there be much to be say in excuse for the almost proverbial arrogance

and love of power which mark the woman who be bear to greatness. she be

so often teach--if not indeed by word, at least by the deference of

those around she, by the inevitable yielding to her will, and by the

_kotooe_ of dependent--that she be, in her way, a Queen, that it

would be rather surprising if any humbler idea of her own position

should find entrance into her mind. a great deal have be advance and

write on the importance of public school as tend to the discovery

of that imaginary line know as a young gentleman’s “level;” but whether

this hope-for good be ever attain, and if attain whether it be

worth the high price often pay for its possession, must remain an open

question; the distressing truth however cannot, I fear, be dispute,

that the “level” of a young lady possess of forty thousand pound per

annum be never likely to be find, save and except in rare case of

matrimonial felicity--in those exceptional case, I mean, where there be

no struggle for power, where the salic law as exemplify in the

nineteenth-century wife be virtually set aside, and where (but this be a

_sine quâ non_) the husband be in every way worthy of this heroic act of

voluntary self-abnegation.



that the Lady Millicent Vavasour be very far from be the model woman

whose price be far above ruby will very speedily be see. she be a

cold and unattractive child, and she grow up to be in many respect a

cold and unattractive woman; but that she be so must in a great measure

be attribute to the peculiarity of she “bring up,” and, strange to

say, to the regretable fact that she be not bear to be a man. the Earl

and Countess of Gillingham be both what I must be permit to

describe as “family-mad.” that the Vavasours be the most ancient, the

noble, and most exalted of all the race of man upon earth, this

elderly and highly respectable couple religiously believe. previously

to her union with the last male of this ancient family, the Lady

Caroline M‘Intyre (the respected mother of Lord Gillingham’s heiress)

have entertain a foolish prepossession in favour of the old Scottish

blood which run in her own blue vein; but the engrafting of her

northern race in the still nobler stock of the Vavasours of Gillingham

be sufficient to inoculate she with every prejudice entertain by

Richard, eleventh earl of that most princely house.



they be not--bar this one folly--either a particularly silly or an

especially objectionable pair. they be a little grand and distant to

those who _might_ be so daring as to claim equality with themselves, but

to their clearly-mark inferior and to the actual _poor_ they be

kind, generous, and “pleasant.”



perhaps the person who suffer the most from the “madness” which may be

say to be inherent in the Vavasour blood be their only child--the Lady

Millicent, whose career will form one of the subject of these page. to

she, without intend to be otherwise than affectionate and kind, the

behaviour of both father and mother be invariably cold and distant. she

be never forgive for the “sin” of her birth--never pardon, poor

unconscious child, for the guilt of be a girl! as the last male

descendant of the Vavasours, Lord Gillingham would willingly have give

ten year at least of his vast rent-roll, for a son in whose person the

grand old title might be perpetuate; and the Countess his wife fully

share in what she deem his very natural discontent. to bear without

murmur this crumpled rose-leaf on their luxurious couch be not in

the nature of either; so instead of make the good of the only child

with which Providence have bless they, they do precisely the contrary;

and the little Lady Millicent, deprive of the caress and the

soften influence of a gentle mother’s love, grow up as I have

describe she to be--cold, arrogant, and unamiable.



the young lady herself be fully capable of appreciate the wrong that

have be do, not only to her family but to society at large, by the

deplorable accident of her birth. as one of the rich heiress in

England, and as the bearer of a name so noble and so honour, she be

of course a “personage;” and as one of the uppermost (that could not be

deny) of the upper ten thousand she would take her place, and an

exalt place too, among the great one of the land; but--there be the

rub!--_there_ “pinch the shoe,” and “gall the withers”--she be not

and would not be, in the course of nature, a peeress! power--the power

that wealth would give--be her, but precedence--that honour so dearly

value by her sex--be sadly and, unless it be obtain by marriage,

for ever want.



when, after her parent’ decease, which occur soon after she have

complete her twenty-third year, the orphan heiress ponder

regretfully upon these thing, the idea of purchase with she value

thousand one of the high of England’s title could scarcely fail to

occur to one whose love of rank--the well-imbibe prejudice of a dull

and unsympathised-with childhood--be only outdo by her passionate

attachment to power. well do the Lady Millicent know--for her girlhood

have not all be spend in the seclusion of Gillingham, and at London

ball and rout and dinner-party she have learn something of the

level of gold--well do the heiress know that, be she willing to

barter her rent-roll for rank, the negotiation would have be only too

easily effect. but, all thing consider, this young woman be not so

willing. any superiority enjoy by a husband, any benefit confer

upon she through he, would--so singularly be she constitute--have

be as gall and wormwood to her taste. she be overweeningly proud,

besides, even as her parent have be before she, of the name she bear;

and, singular as it may at first seem, it be to that very pride in, and

attachment to the name of Vavasour that the tardy marriage of this proud

and impracticable lady be owe.



late in the summer of the year follow on her accession to wealth and

power, the Lady Millicent set forth in great state on a continental

tour. as companion on the way she have choose Lord and Lady Merioneth: a

good simple-minded pair, ready and able to be amuse, and withal

tolerably slow to comprehend (from the circumstance of their own entire

want of foolish family pride) the beset sin of their young

companion.



the delicate health of Lady Millicent Vavasour be, to the surprise of

the world in general, the allege motive for her spend the winter

abroad. it have be suddenly discover that the lung of the heiress

be delicate; and although her breadth of chest and generally healthy

appearance tend to correct the assertion, public interest--no unusual

occurrence when the _malade imaginaire_, or otherwise, happen to be a

millionaire--be immediately enlist in “poor dear” Lady Millicent’s

behalf. “so young!” “so gifted!” “so attractive!” it would, indeed, be

hard (and a “liberty” be _imply_, if not actually speak) if death

should venture to approach within hailing-distance the august person of

the Lady of Gillingham. happily, however, as it soon become manifest,

there be no immediate danger that the wealth of the heiress would be

turn into some obscure and probably (to the public) uninteresting

channel. long before the money-scatter English party have reach

Florence the Lady Millicent have throw off every appearance of

invalidness, and be ready for any amusement suitable to her exalted

position which chance might throw in her way. and ready, too, for

something more than amusement--ready to be soften into as much love as

her nature be capable of feeling, by one worthy of the good affection

of a far worthy woman than be the Lady Millicent Vavasour. cecil

Vavasour be a cousin, many time remove, of that autocratic lady--the

descendant of a junior branch of the noble family whose name he bear;

and, moreover, in _his_ branch of the family there exist the title of

baron--a title which there be every probability would eventually be

bear by this poor and comparatively obscure relation. comparatively

obscure, for in a world of his own--a world that be not that of the

Lady Millicent Vavasour--the intellectual but retire Cecil be know

and honour. she for that reason, among other too insignificant to

mention, have never till on the occasion of this her first continental

trip chance to fall in with her kinsman; and when at last she do make

his acquaintance, the effect of even a first meeting be mark and

decisive. not that there be much in Cecil Vavasour’s outward man

calculate to touch a woman’s fancy or to win her heart. he be some

year past thirty, and in person neither handsome nor the reverse; but

there be a something undefinably attractive even in the reserve of

manner, that speak of latent power, and of an intelligence above that of

ordinary and unreflecte mortal. he be tall, too, and of a stately

presence; one of those man, in short, to whom, both physically and

mentally, a woman, be she ever so highly place in her own estimation,

would hardly have refuse to pay the tribute of tacitly acknowledge to

her own self that he be her master. Cecil’s father, a practical though

not exactly a discern man, have intend his only son for the Bar; but

circumstance, to say nothing of the young man’s own individual taste,

decide against the realisation of the old gentleman’s plan. a short

sojourn in Italy, whither he have go to protect and comfort an invalid

sister, whose day when she leave the shore of England be already

well-nigh number, have complete the dislike to his profession which

before have be little more than a surmise distaste. Cecilia Vavasour

die a tranquil death in the soft climate of Tuscany; and her brother,

throw law study to the wind, and leave _blackstone_ to grow dusty

on its shelf, remain to make the good of his three hundred a year in

the sunny land that he have learn so soon to love.



Cecil Vavasour have be three year in Italy--a busy idler, devoted,

almost to idolatry, to the beautiful that have survive the touch of

Time; as well as to the memory, the association, and the soft sadness

that cle around the decaying ruin of the past. he have rove from

place to place, mix little in society, but yet not actually shun

communion with his fellow, when Lady Millicent arrive at Florence. it

would have be impossible, even have he feel the wish (which he do not)

to avoid his cousin, for the quondam barrister not to become intimate

with the heiress of Gillingham. at first he be very shy--as shy as a

proud poor man be almost certain to be under the peculiar circumstance

in which he be place. compare to the cousin, who call he Cecil,

and treat he from the first with marked kindness and consideration,

he might well be term an impecunious relation. have Lady Millicent’s

conduct towards he be different--have she behave to he with anything

approach to her usual rigid arrogance--his poverty would have

trouble Cecil Vavasour but little. it be his young kinswoman’s

gentleness, her unwonted amiability, her actual deference towards

himself, that, while it render he ill at ease in her society, both

puzzle and touch he. he little guess, while gradually fall

under the spell of a woman who in youth be not destitute of personal

attraction, and who could be agreeable when she choose, what be the

true mainspring of her conduct regard he. he could form no idea of

the hidden demon of Pride lurk beneath that still exterior. to his

thinking, Lady Millicent Vavasour--young, court, with ten of

thousand yearly at her command, with power to effect so vast an amount

of good to other, and (which we fear be almost equally enviable in Mr.

Vavasour’s sight) with wealth to indulge to the utmost every æsthetic

taste--be scarcely likely to ambition any extra or unpossessed

advantage. and then he be himself so utterly unassuming, so entirely

unaware that he in his own person own, or be likely ever to own,

gift that the rich heiress of Gillingham could covet, that, as I say

before, he be at the beginning almost more puzzled than gratify by

her notice.



that this state of thing should have occasion at first a something of

distance in the relation between the cousin be not surprising, nor

need it afford subject for wonder that that very _distance_ lend a

piquancy to their intercourse which be not, to the pet heiress at

least, without its charm. Lady Millicent have be so beset by

flatterer, and so cloyed by adulation, that the silence, the fit of

absence, and the almost _brusquerie_ of her cousin Cecil be greet

by she as a very agreeable variety. she be sick to death of oversweet

confection, of butter and honey she have be positively surfeit, so

that the honest brown-bread diet, dry and husky though it be, which be

all that she appear likely to obtain from Cecil Vavasour, taste fresh

and wholesome to her fevere palate.



but there be, as I before say, another cause--_the_ cause, in

fact--for Lady Millicent’s obvious appreciation of her cousin, and that

motive power be her cousin’s future rank; for Mr. Vavasour, simple as

he stand before she, quiet, unpretending, noticeable for his

carelessness of outward advantage, his simple manner, and his

unfashionable dress, could nevertheless, fail some very abnormal

event, be the mean of obtain for she in a mitigated degree the

fulfilment of her long-cherish desire--the hope of her heart, the

insatiable craving, know only to herself, to wear, while retain the

noble name of Vavasour, the coronet of a british peeress on her brow.



the courtship, if courtship it could be call, between Lady Millicent

and the future Baron de Vavasour be somewhat singular and out of rule;

and if any distinct offer of marriage be make between the party--not

a common occurrence, by the way, in set and deliberate phrase, between

acknowledge lover--that offer be believe by those well acquaint

with the contracting party to have emanate from the lady. that Cecil

believe--free from personal vanity though he be--in her attachment to

himself there could be no doubt; nothing, therefore, remain for the

man whose own nature be too noble for he to fear for himself the

imputation of mercenary motive, but to put his pride, and his scruple,

if such he have, into his comparatively empty pocket, and to accept the

good which his millionaire kinswoman have provide for he.



perhaps, have the autocratic mistress of Gillingham and its dependency

be well acquaint with the character of Cecil Vavasour, she might

have hesitate long ere she select he as the partner of her life.

with all her ambition, she yet require a husband who would understand

_she_ character and enter into her view; and of this Mr. Vavasour soon

show himself to be incapable. mislead by the natural faith which we all

be apt to place in our own individual judgment, Lady Millicent have

discover imaginary quality in the man whom she have _honour_ with

her choice. deceive by the extreme composure of manner and the gentle

reserve which be among her kinsman’s outward characteristic, she have

give he credit for an indolence of disposition which she rather

approve of than regretted, and for an inborn pride of race calculate

to assimilate satisfactorily with her own. they be marry, and the

Lady Millicent be not long in discover to her _annoyance_--for her

be not a character to take a disappointment to _heart_--that she have

make a fatal mistake. a well man, nor one possess of a more

conscientious spirit than that which dwelt in Cecil Vavasour, never

walk the earth. that this be so, no one who boast the slight

knowledge of character would long doubt. it might be, though that fact

have yet to be decide, that the lawyer _manqué_ be not likely to be a

distinguished man; but the most casual observer would have decide at

once upon the impossibility of his be otherwise than an upright and a

straightforward one. but for all this, and though Mr. Vavasour prove to

be, in the broad and usual acceptation of the term, an excellent

husband, Lady Millicent be, and withal show herself to be, bitterly

and hopelessly disappointed. it be terrible to find that, instead of

sympathise in her ambitious desire, Cecil be content to devote

himself to the cultivation of his understanding, the care of his wife’s

extensive property, the amelioration of the condition of the poor, and

later, as the--to he--exceed blessing of child be grant to his

hope, to the education and moral training of his son and daughter.

_at_ every time and season, and _to_ all the occupation and interest

of her husband, Lady Millicent take marked exception. she have expect

to find he an amiable nonentity, and instead, there be ever at she

side an earnest and highly intelligent companion; one too who, although

he be no rival power ready to edge she off the throne she so dearly

prize, be nevertheless a man who, entertain both stern and exalted

notion of the responsibility of the rich, be not easily to be

divert from the line of duty--often narrow and difficult--which he have

mark out for himself to follow. under the vexatiousness of this tardy

discovery, Lady Millicent daily fume and fretted--fume and fret

till her temper, never one of the good, grow peevish and easy of

irritation, and till the chafing of the crumpled rose-leaf against the

sensitive skin of the proud woman’s self-esteem grow to be a painful,

and in process of time a never-to-be-cicatrise sore.



nor be Cecil Vavasour long behindhand in awake from the one delusion

that have so effectually change for he the cherished habit of a life.

the conviction that the love in which he have believe have be but a

pass fancy, and the certainty that he be solely value by she as a

step-stone on which to rise to rank, be not subject for

agreeable reflection. but though Vavasour be capable of feel keenly

the wrong--for wrong it be--that have be do he, he be the last man

in the world either to complain of, or to grow silently morbid under,

its infliction; only by his deed could it be surmise that he be an

unwilling sharer in the good thing procurable by the Lady Millicent’s

gold; and as, previously to his marriage, he have steadfastly resist

the making of any _settlement_ by which he could in his own person

benefit, so do he, after become convinced of his wife’s indifference,

keep with rigid economy his private expense within the scope of his own

limited mean to defray, while he abstain as much as lie in his power

from indulgence in luxury which those mean would, unassisted, have

be inadequate to procure for he.



set aside this glare instance (which it clearly be) of

eccentricity, Cecil Vavasour, as be universally allow, act well up

to the obligation impose upon the rich and powerful. there be no

lordly house throughout the length and breadth of the land in which the

right of hospitality be exercise with a more liberal hand than at

the various residence own and occupy by the Vavasour family. at

Gillingham Castle especially, where the establishment be on an almost

princely scale, the grand old house be twice a year brim over with

guest, and far and wide spread the reputation for “good entertaining”

of the Lady Millicent and her consort. but for all that this be so, and

although Cecil Vavasour be love and appreciate by the poor, whose

invaluable friend and adviser he ever prove himself to be, he be not

generally popular either with his equal or his superior in social

position. to anyone accustomed to look inquiringly into human motive,

and to those who have gain knowledge of mankind by enlarged

association with their fellow, the fact that Cecil Vavasour, with all

his excellence, his gentleness and his hospitality, be not generally a

favourite, will excite but little surprise. as a rule, the silent and

apparently self-conceite man rarely meet with favour, for silence be

too often take for a diagnostic of pride, and pride be of all human

quality the one which both man and woman find the most difficult to

pardon. but there be yet another quality, and it be the one to which

his taciturnity be mainly to be attribute, that interfere greatly

with the comfort of Cecil Vavasour’s existence--he be constitutionally,

and therefore incurably, _shy_. now the shyness of a middle-aged

gentleman who have live much in society, and whose intellect be above

the average, be one of those “fact” to believe in which it be necessary

that the individual call upon to exhibit this credulity should be

either a physiologist, or himself the victim of _mauvaise honte_. it be

probable that Mr. Vavasour meet with few or none who be capable either

of understanding or make allowance for his infirmity; and thus it

chance that, though no man live be more form by nature to enjoy

the blessing of friendship, he pass through life without meet (of

his own degree) a single congenial soul into whose breast he could pour

out his sorrow, or ask for sympathy with his joy.



what wonder be it if under these circumstance, and with his large warm

heart dependent solely upon _they_ for tenderness and love, he should

have fairly doate on his child? there be four of they. the eld,

Arthur, a handsome dark-eyed lad, be destine by the provision of his

grandfather’s will to enter into possession, at the age of twenty-five,

of by far the great portion of the Gillingham property, provide that

on his--the say eld son of Lady Millicent Vavasour--arrive at the

above-name age, his mother should not be in legal phrase a _femme

couverte_. this singular disposition of property occasion at the time

of the Earl’s decease no little surprise, but owe probably to the

circumstance that there be at that period no “heir male of Lady

Millicent’s body” in existence, only a very limited amount of

discontent be mingle with the universal astonishment of all who

think themselves qualified to give an opinion on the subject.



the child next in age to this fortune-favour individual be also a

son; he be little more than a year his brother’s junior, and inherit

more of his father’s disposition than have be engraft on his elder

brother. the two boy offer (both in person and character) mark

contrast to each other. the heir be, as I before say, a handsome

fellow, tall, dark-eye, and well form. from his cradle he have be a

child of whose outward comeliness any parent might be proud, and Lady

Millicent _be_ proud of he accordingly--proud, but not fond; it be

not in her nature to attach herself to any living being, save and except

the heiress of Gillingham: and the effect of this monopoly of sentiment

very soon become apparent in the young family grow up around she.



of Horace, her second son, the Lady Millicent be neither proud nor

fond. he be bear delicate, and his infancy be a sickly and a

troublesome one, his lady mother take a disgust to the child who be

associate in her mind with doctor’ visit (this great personage, be

very robust herself, have no patience with illness), occasional visit to

a nursery smell of drug, and the irritating wail of a suffering

infant. as little Horace advance in year, everyone, with the

exception of his mamma, pronounce he to be, though a plain mite of a

child enough, a very engaging and intelligent speciman of humanity. he

be very sweet-temper too, and docile, “get” his baby lesson, as

the head nurse express herself, twice as quick as Master Vavasour. but

then it must be remember that Arthur be an eld son; and when a

child be bear with a silver spoon in his mouth, anything above the

average amount of brain be, as all the world will allow, a superfluous

possession. two daughter, Rhoda and Katherine--of whom more

hereafter--complete the family, to the care and education of which

Cecil Vavasour, both from a high sense of duty and follow the

dictate of his own heart, greatly devote himself. perfectly alive to

the injury do to the child by the absence on their mother’s part of

either the appearance or the reality of maternal tenderness, he do all

that lie in his power to remedy the evil; but with the good intention,

a man cannot in such a case, to any effectual purpose, play a woman’s

part. a father’s caress to his child lack ever the softness of a

woman’s touch; and moreover Cecil Vavasour’s nature be not, as we know,

a demonstrative one: his constitutional infirmity of shyness, even when

alone with the child in whose well-be his own happiness be bind

up, shackle and oppress he, prove a sad hindrance to that perfect

confidence between parent and child which be so valuable an element in

education. but although in some respect Cecil Vavasour might fall short

in his exalt aim, though the young people at the Castle might and

probably do miss the invaluable advantage of which they be deprive

by Lady Millicent’s natural _hardness_ of character, they be

nevertheless, in one respect at least, highly favour. on their

father’s unchangeable justice they could ever and always implicitly

rely, as well as on that entire absence of caprice which be one of the

most precious negative gift with which those in power, whether great or

limit, can be endow.



perhaps the main error in Mr. Vavasour’s system of education--for he have

in his deep and absorb conscientiousness form a plan for the

bringing-up of his child, from which he never deviate--be, that

they be over-educate, and keep too strictly within the narrow bound

of _standard_ and routine. he may have forget, and it be probable

that his lady wife have never know, that the natural fermentation of

human passion within the breast, if too closely confine therein, be

liable to become a dangerous element. tie the vessel in which

inflammable matter be keep too tightly and too early down, and when the

_hot_ season of the year arrive, and the working go on with furious

heat within, then burst the ligature and out fly the cork, while

careful parent, terrify at the explosion, marvel how, after all their

precaution, and the mighty pain they take, there should be a crash so

fearful, and so melancholy a waste of good material.



there be some man, and of these be Cecil Vavasour, into whose inner

life other, and apparently unauthorised, people entertain a morbid

desire to pry. the question of who really rule at the Castle be often

moot, not only in the village of Switcham itself, but throughout the

whole of the adjacent country. that Mr. Vavasour be a very “superior”

man, the world have be from the first quite ready to acknowledge. if

any confirmation of this receive fact be want, it be to be find,

so say the initiate, in the great and manifest improvement in Lady

Millicent’s property since the epoch of her marriage. this improvement

have be bring about so quietly, and Mr. Vavasour take so little

apparent part in the management of the estate, that it be hard to say

at whose instigation, or by whose superior judgment, so many salutary

reform have be carry out. there have be no sudden or startling

change. there have not even be an unjust steward dismiss, or a

series of hitherto unsuspected fraud unearth and punish. how and

when this silent, unboastful man work so effectually for the good, not

only of his rich wife’s estate, but for the welfare of each individual

amongst the many whom he religiously believe be, in a manner,

intrust to his charge, be a mystery to all. nor be this the only

mystery talk over amongst the inquisitive--and they be

many--regard Cecil Vavasour and his belonging. be he, ask the

curious, a happy and a contented man? have the acquisition of wealth

open to he new source of enjoyment? have Lady Millicent’s husband,

during the year of his married life, suffer in mind from domestic

disappointment, from the coldness of his wife’s unsympathise nature,

or from her besetting sin--a mean jealousy of power? it be very probable

that he do so suffer, for those man frequently undergo the most whose

exterior be undemonstrative, and who be to all appearance insensible to

the touch of Sorrow’s wand; but whether Cecil Vavasour be or be not,

in these respect, a fitting object for sympathy, the public never be

quite able to make up its mind; for before such a desirable end could be

attain, death, to the regret of all who know he, cut short the

earthly career of one who might truly have be call the “poor man’s

friend.”



Arthur Vavasour have just complete his fifteenth year--he be then in

the fifth form at Eton--when he receive the direful intelligence of a

loss which, to he, be truly an irreparable one. the casualty which

render he an orphan have from the first be pronounce by the medical

man to be a serious case. it be occasion by the accidental going-off

of a gun in the hand of a careless under-keeper, one bright May morning,

when Mr. Vavasour and his young son, who be the private pupil of a

neighbouring clergyman, be rook-shooting in a distant part of

Gillingham Chace. for several day Cecil Vavasour continue to suffer

much and patiently; then on a sudden all pain leave he, and he know that

his doom be seal. the report of Mr. Vavasour’s danger spread rapidly

through the country, and people flock in crowd to the lodge-gate of

Gillingham to learn the truth, and to inquire, with hush voice and

with sadden look, whether there be any hope that the good man whose

day be number might yet be spare to they. for, if they have never

know the value of Cecil Vavasour before, they recognise it now. when

he be about to be remove from amongst they, there be scarcely one

amongst the poor, the sorrowful, and the troubled but remember some

act of generosity, some sympathise word, some excellent advice

bestow in time of need. it seem difficult to realise the truth that

such a man--one too in the full vigour of his life and strength--be so

early destine to go the way of all flesh. to be sure he be but

endure the lot appoint for everyone that be bear of a woman, and

_why_ man should show long face, and talk with more whispering voice

of the accident and loss of the great and wealthy than they be give

to do of the self-same misfortune when they befall those who be form

of more common clay, it may at first sight be difficult to understand;

but the fact that so it be remain the same. and thus it chance that

the Lady Millicent, self-absorb and phlegmatic though she be,

elicit in her threaten widowhood far more of general sympathy and

interest than would have be award to a hundred bereaved and

penniless woman sob out their heart’ grief in an atmosphere of

poverty and dirt, and surround by ragged orphan howl for the

bread-winner who would return to they no more for ever.



it be well for Cecil Vavasour that he have not leave to “the last” the

duty of prepare for the end; for the time allow he for such

preparation be short indeed. on his bed of death he find courage to

speak very frankly to the wife who stand shocked, miserably

disappoint, and perhaps at that supreme moment remorseful, by his

side. in few but solemn word he commit his child to her care.

they would, under God, who be the Father of the fatherless, be hers only

now, her to guide, to counsel, and to instruct. on she and on she only

would rest, so the die man in his feverish anxiety declare to she,

their well-be both in this transitory life and in that to which _he_

be hasten; and as she should do her duty by his treasure, so,

pray the feeble voice with touch fervour, might he who judgeth all

man have mercy upon she in the world that be to come! they be his last

word. after a faintly-whisper farewell to the old servant, who be

weep near the door, there remain but the silent pressure of the

death-cold hand, a quiver of the pale lip, as one by one his child

bent their young fresh face to receive the parting kiss, and the spirit

of Cecil Vavasour enter into its rest.



there be a grand funeral, at which Lady Millicent, in the long and

_crapiest_ of robe, and utterly devoid of crinoline, assist, lead

her eld son by the hand, and look the bereaved and grieve widow

to perfection. there be many true mourner in the crowd that follow

Cecil Vavasour to the grave, and not a few of these be of opinion that

true sorrow shun a multitude, and that the newly-make widow who _can_

follow her husband’s ashe to their last resting-place have not very

dearly love he in his lifetime. be this as it may--and it be after all

as hard to judge the feeling of other as it be to estimate their

power of self-control--the Lady Millicent, surround by her child,

do conduct herself at her dead husband’s funeral with a very

praiseworthy amount of dignified self-command. among those who have be

Cecil Vavasour’s friend and acquaintance there be grave face and

regretful heart; but the poor weep for he; and the time soon come,

after he have depart from among they, when folk of all degree begin to

see clearly what manner of man he have be of whom during his

unobtrusive life they have know so little.









CHAPTER III.



every dog have its day.





the approach marriage of Mr. John Beacham, whose family have be time

out of mind one of the most respected and respectable in the entire

parish of Switcham, within the boundary of which the Beachams have hold

land to a large extent under many a successive lord of the manor of

Gillingham, be a very important event in that quiet locality. in his

way, John Beacham might almost be style a _public_ character. far and

near, whenever a certain highly interesting subject--namely, that of

horse--be upon the _tapis_, honest John’s name be pretty certain to

be bring prominently forward. it be surprising--in a country and on a

matter in which almost every young gentleman, probably, hold a

first-rate opinion of his own merit as a judge of “cattle”--what weight

the fiat of John Beacham, farmer and horse-breeder, be willnot to carry

with it. the latter vocation--and a highly lucrative one it be--have not

be exercise for more than a dozen year or so by the lessee of

Shotover Farm, by which name, by the way, the hundred of broad acre

rent by the Beacham family have, for generation past, be know. some

six year before the death of John’s father, the estate call Updown

paddock, and which consist of many a broad and fertile meadow,

admirably adapt for breed purpose, be announce to be for sale.

it lie in tempting proximity to Mr. Beacham’s farm; the price in that

prudent individual’s opinion be a reasonable one; he and his trust

son John be agree in the matter; so, in due course of time, the

tenant of Shotover progress to the dignity of landowner. meanwhile,

and pende the final arrangement for the purchase, John’s mother, the

“old lady” of whom honourable mention have already be make, show

herself anything but favourable to the new plan. though a Yorkshire

woman bear and breed, the love of horse and of horse-dealing be not

inherent in her septuagenarian breast. she be a tall, large-boned, but,

in spite of her seventy year, still a well-favour woman. John be she

only survive child, infantile complaint of various kind having

carry away four other before they have have time to wind themselves too

closely round her heart; and in the say John, therefore--in his present

comfort and his future fortune--all her good affection and her

keenest interest be concentrate. many be the anxious moment

endure, and not a few the querulous remark utter, by the farmer’s

cautious wife before the complete success of the undertaking, so

judiciously, and withal so conscientiously, carry on by her husband

and son, lay her fear to rest, and effectually put a stop to her

gloomy foreboding of loss and ruin. it be true that the excellent woman

be keep a little in the dark regard the detail of the business

which be already make for the breeding establishment of Beacham and

Son a name throughout the land. the “old lady”--for by that title John’s

stately mother be know in the neighbourhood of her abode--would have

be not a little startled have she chance to learn the amount of money

that have be invest at Updown Paddocks. she seldom, after having

become perfectly convinced that the “concern” be a safe investment,

allude to the subject; but it be more than probable that have Mrs.

Beacham been require to make a rough guess at the sum-total expend

yearly on the “horse-breeding business,” she would, without much

hesitation, have name something under half the amount that John, who

be no niggard of his cash, think nothing of pay for the least

costly of his pure-blooded “sire.”



Mrs. Beacham be justly proud of the increase of wealth and

consideration which have accrue to her family by mean--as she be fully

justify in believe--of the intelligence and undeviating rectitude of

her husband and son. but, most of all, in the simplicity of her feudal

zeal, she be boastful of the friendship and unfailing regard evince

for both by the “good squire,” as he be everywhere denominate (for

they be tenant, not of Mr. Vavasour, but of “milady”), by that

discriminating and kindly gentleman. a deeply-root love of the animal

of whose race so many noble specimen be always to be see at Updown

paddock would have be alone sufficient to account for Cecil

Vavasour’s frequent visit to Mr. Beacham’s establishment; but, in

addition to this, there be a genuine liking and sincere respect for the

two man who never permit the desire for gain to triumph over their

sense of honour, and who, although they breathe the air which be

suppose to be so deleterious to honesty, yet retain a pure and

healthy sense of what be due, not only to their customer and

themselves, but to the noble animal on whose merit they so

successfully trade. Cecil Vavasour thoroughly enjoy the five mile of

pleasant country walk, which have for its end and object a chat with Lady

Millicent’s model tenant--the Beachams of Updown Paddocks. he

delight in their shrewd uncommon sense, in their practical equine

knowledge, in their cordial welcome, and, above all, in the sight of the

young stock gambolling over the sweet short pasture of the Paddocks,

whilst their sober mother crop the staff of their life in placid

and unmolested enjoyment.



the death, under very different circumstance, of the Squire and John’s

greatly-regret father take place within three month of each other.

the illness of the latter be a linger one, induce by imprudent

self-exposure to wet and cold; and when at last the news go forth that

the old man be no more, deep and general be the regret express by

all rank for his loss. his widow, too, mourn very sincerely for one

who have be a good husband for the space of near upon forty year to

she; but then she be so fortunate as to have “John” to comfort she, and

he, as all the neighbour round would have be ready to acknowledge,

be “a host in himself.”



       *       *       *       *       *



it be the last day of April, the eve of “the maddest, merriest day in

all the glad new year,” and the eve, besides, of John Beacham’s

wedding-day--the day that be to make he, accord to his own belief,

the happy of human being. the weather be lovely. the spring have

be a forward one, so that there be not want lilac and

laburnum, gueldre rose and hawthorn blossom, to deck the maypole and

adorn the floral arch which it be the gallant purpose of the Switcham

youth to erect over the churchyard gate, through which the bridal party

have to pass.



the exceed beauty of the girl who have win what be universally

consider by her _peer_ a prize in the matrimonial market, and a

certain mystery which hang about her origin, would alone have be

sufficient, without reckon John Beacham’s well-deserve popularity,

to account for the interest and curiosity create by the approach

nuptial. Honor Blake certainly be very lovely; that could not be

deny. fresh and sweet as a rose in June, with a profusion of

light-brown wavy hair, melt blue eye (have they in very truth a

“look,” as Mrs. Tamfrey aver, in their languid depth?), and cherry

lip that seem pout to be kiss; but for all this beauty, and

partly, perhaps, because of her rich personal endowment, woman--ay, and

man likewise--be very curious to learn something certain and tangible

regard the quondam nursery governess at Clay’s Farm. all that be

positively know regard John’s _fiancée_ amount to this--namely,

that her early childhood have be pass at a superior description of

farm-house in the far west of Ireland, and, moreover, it be very

apparent that she have be delicately as well as tenderly rear. at the

age of seven, a person call herself the child’s aunt have remove the

little Honor from the affectionate care of the “widow Moriarty,” the

“snug woman” who have hitherto act a mother’s part by the blue-eye

irish maiden; and the next important event in the little girl’s life be

the being place in a respectable country boarding-school, where she

complete an education that be more solid than ornamental. eventually,

and when she have reach the age of sixteen, Miss Blake, through the

medium of the above-speak-of relation, whose name be Bainbridge, and

who have be for many year in the service, as housekeeper, of a wealthy

Sandyshire family, obtain the situation of nursery governess at Clay’s

Farm. the Clays be excellent people in their line, and they neither

overwork nor underfeed the young person, who do she good, though she

be still, as good-natured Mrs. Clay often say, “but a giddy thing,” to

please they.



John Beacham, although he have not be behindhand in admire Honor’s

beauty, be too busy, and own too little of a sentimental nature, to

fall in love with she at first sight. she be such a mere child, too,

compare to himself. he, a man of thirty-five, weather-beat, and with

line upon his brow, to say nothing of a rare gray hair or two that his

old mother view with pain crop out in his thick brown whisker,

be many a year too old to mate himself with that bright bud of beauty.

but though steady John Beacham be wise enough in his calm moment,

and when safe from the glamour of Honor Blake’s blue eye, to remember

these salutary fact, it be altogether a different affair when he

chance to meet she, look so brightly pretty, walk with the

farmer’s child in the shady lane, or when the little lake, on the

border of Clay’s farm, be ice-bind in the cold December weather,

make a sunny spot where her sweet radiant face be see amongst the

busy skater. there be no need to dwell upon the not very remarkable

particular of this rustic courtship. John be Honor’s first lover--the

first that she have ever think or read of. marriage--an affair to which

she, like every girl of sense, of course look forward to--seem a

pleasant, an exciting, and an important event in life. it would be

delightful to have new clothe, and a home and child of her own; for

Honor be very fond of, as well as patient with, little people; and

perhaps her satisfaction at her approach marriage be more closely

connect with thought of baby-smile and “waxen touch” than the

girl herself, in her pure and perfect innocence, suspect. be that as

it may, she do not hesitate, no, not for a single moment, ere she say

“yes” in answer to John Beacham’s offer; nor afterwards, when the hour

for reflection come, do she feel one pang of regret for the unqualified

assent that she have give.



they be to be marry in May--as John arrange before he leave the

small old-fashioned “company” parlour at Mr. Clay’s farm, in which this

important chapter in the joint life of himself and Honor have be

open. to be marry in May,--that be to say, in two month’ time,--and

not a word impart as yet to the one so vitally interested in the

matter--not a hint of what be go on drop to the “old lady” at

Updown Paddocks!



Mrs. Beacham, who have keep house for her well-beloved John from the hour

when the old man have depart for a world where seed-time and harvest

be no more, be a woman acknowledge by all who know she (and, indeed,

she have, for that matter, be know to boast of the peculiarity

herself) to have not only a “will” but “way” of her own. she be a

bustling busy personage, one whom no one in her household would have

venture to “answer;” while as for interference with any of her order

or arrangement, why not even John himself would have dream of such a

thing. the love of power and rule be in her plebeian breast fully as

firmly implant as in that of the autocratic mistress of the

Castle--the division of her kingdom would have be as unpleasant a

disintegration to the one as to the other; and it therefore require

some little courage on John Beacham’s part to enable he to go through

with credit the duty of impart to his mother that he be about to

take unto himself a wife.



between Mrs. Beacham and her son there have always exist a sincere,

though not a demonstrative, affection. they have, moreover, no secret

from one another, and nothing in John’s previous life and conversation

have ever tend to awaken in the susceptible mind of the “old lady” the

natural jealousy of a mother. it be wonderful during his twenty year

or thereabout of manhood how very little the straightforward

fully-occupy fellow have have to tell. on his first emerge from

hobbledehoyhood, that discreet body, his mother, have not be without

her fear that John would play, after the example of other lad, the

lover and the fool. anxiously, and much as a fussy trembling hen

watch, when they seem likely to get into troubled water, the erratic

movement of a brood of duckling, so do the parent of honest

unsentimental John torment herself with the fear that some “silly

useless chit,” some “forward wasteful hussy,” be allure her precious

son into the hot water of a love-scrape. time wear on, however; the

down give place to bristle on the young farmer’s chin, his voice grow

manly, and he take his place as one have authority in the family

council, while as yet he betray no symptom calculate to justify his

mother’s alarm.



the neighbour (for a single young man in John’s position be, to a

certain extent, public property) begin at length to grow alarmed at the

apparently phlegmatic character of Mr. Beacham’s idiosyncrasy. it seem

to they so terribly likely that he would live and die a bachelor; and

then what a throw away of advantage, what a loss to some young woman

or other of the many who would have say “yes” to John of such a house

and home as would be provide for she at the Paddocks!



these lamentation and prognostic, when they reach the ear of Mrs.

Beacham, be meet not only with ridicule, but with an indignant protest.

“what could they, a set of ignorant busybody, know of what be pass

in the mind of a sensible man like John? she have no patience, not she,

with that everlasting talk about get marry, put thought into

young man’s head that wouldn’t be there without, and interfere in a

way that no decent person ought to do with other people’s son. if John

mean to marry he would, and if he don’t why he wouldn’t, and that be

all about it; and for her part, she just wish that everybody would

leave he alone and mind their own business.”



at length, and by the time that Mrs. Beacham have almost, if not quite,

cease to think of her son as a possibly marry man, he--the hitherto

practical and prudent bachelor--begin to manifest certain symptom,

which, but for the sense of security into which she have rock herself,

could scarcely have fail to awaken the spirit of suspicion in the old

lady’s breast. it be again owe to the hint of her neighbour, and

the more outspoken word of that agreeable gossip the widow Thwaytes,

that certain eccentricity perpetrate by her son reach his mother’s

ear. among the most suggestive of these eccentricity be the purchase

in London of a “booky” of hothouse flower, and the driving of his big

black horse “like mad” to Clay’s farm, in order that the gardenias and

the Cape jasmine might be fresh and sweet when they meet the eye of

pretty Honor Blake.



at first, Mrs. Beacham positively decline to entertain the idea that at

his time of life John would be that foolish as to be make an idiot of by

a “gel.” as long as blindness to her son’s weakness be possible, she

shut her eye resolutely to fact, and refuse to believe even the

evidence of her sense. the neighbour might, and indeed at this

interesting crisis they _do_, come about her daily like bee, buzz

restlessly about the tempting honey-pot, in which be silently

ferment a domestic event, in the boiling-point of which all feel

themselves to be more or less intimately concerned; but busy though they

be, and curious, as well as tolerably well informed withal, his

mother, trust to John’s good sense, and be herself either ignorant

or forgetful of the power of the tender passion, remain tranquil in

her fancied security.



but at last the storm burst, and the hour for full confession come. on

one bluster March night, when the shutter of the old farm-house be

close against the wild north wind--when the mother and son be sit

at the sturdy well-polish mahogany table, he, with his account-book

before he, while Mrs. Beacham, on thrifty thought intent, be engage

heart and soul in turn the heel of a gray lambswool stocking--John,

after much debating in his own mind as to the manner in which his

communication could well be make, stammer forth the few initiatory

word that render the after disclosure comparatively easy.



“Mother, you know Honor Blake?” and having so say, with his big manly

heart beat a trifle fast than usual, John Beacham leant back in his

chair, and thrust his two hand into his waistcoat-pocket.



the old woman drop her knitting-needle in the extremity of she

surprise and consternation.



“know the girl!” she repeat, look up blankly at John’s troubled

face; whereupon he, take heart of grace, enter upon his confession.



“Mother, it’s a long story, and I don’t know exactly where to begin.”



“then you have well commence at the end,” say the old lady crossly.

John, however, take she up at once. his hesitation and timidity have be

terrible barrier to fluency so long as his mother’s _feeling_ be to

be soothe, and her jealousy of his affection lay to rest; but directly

it become a question of _temper_--when once the old lady, as be she

willnot on rare occasion of irritation, begin to take her son “up

short”--then hesitation vanish as if by magic, and John Beacham find

comparatively no difficulty in tell his news.



“come, come, mother,” he say cheerfully, “don’t take what I’m go to

say that way. you couldn’t surely have expect--it ben’t in human

nature, you know--that I should go on all my life like this.”



“like this! and what, I should be glad to know, do you mean by ‘this’?

_this_, indeed! why, John, haven’t you be do for, and care for, and

look to? and haven’t you have a mother that’s kep house for you as

careful and as regular, though I say it, as ever a house be? haven’t I

see to the linen, and make sure you ben’t cheat, as most lad be,

by the woman servant, which they take advantage of their foolishness,

and--and,” with a little quiet whimper that go to John’s heart, “what

more--I only ask you that, John--can you want of a woman than what your

poor old mother have do for you?”



this appeal, absurd and utterly unreasonable though it be, touch

John; so rise briskly from his chair, he, to the manifest detriment of

the crimpest of ruff, throw his arm round the old woman’s neck, and

kiss she withered but still rosy cheek fondly.



“dear old mother,” he say cheerily, “as if I don’t know all that!

you’ve be everything to I, God know, and I should be a brute if I

could forget it; but, mammy,” he go on coaxingly, and with a scarcely

conscious use of the old and half-forget name which be her in the

long-past day of his troublesome boyhood, “you must remember that I be

get on; and if I’m ever to think about find a wife at all, it’s

time I set about it. besides, there’s Honor, who--”



“why, John, she’s irish!” break in the old lady, in a tone well

calculate to convey the impression that she, at least, consider Miss

Blake’s birthplace as an insuperable bar to any close connection with

himself. “she’s Irish, which be bad enough of itself, dear know,

without it’s be say of she, as it be say, which well you know,

John, that she’s a young woman as haven’t friend. in my time, which they

say everything’s change now, and more’s the pity--if folk be

respectable they’d friend of some sort or another to show, which this

Miss Blake seemingly have not; and, John,” lower her voice to a

whisper, although they be far enough remove from human ear, she and

John in fact be the only two person still up and about in the old

house, “John, do you know, between ourselves, I shouldn’t wonder, that I

shouldn’t, if the girl be to turn out to be a love-child!”



John be silent for a moment, be in fact utterly at a loss how good

to reply to these decidedly unpleasant suggestion. he have himself--but

that be prior to the time when he have become so blindly and irrevocably

in love--he have himself feel some misgiving, in addition to some little

curiosity, regard Honor Blake’s birth and parentage. not, as he have

since teach himself to think, that the matter be one of primary

importance. to be sure, if he _have_ a rather strong prejudice regard

such thing, it be in favour of legitimate birth. he certainly would

not be exactly gratify by the tardy discovery that his dearly beloved

Honor be a “love-child;” but then, on the other hand, if his bride do

chance to be that reprobate being, a friendless girl, why there be

comfort after all to be pick out of _that_. have no near and

acknowledge kinsfolk of her own, she would be the more likely to devote

herself exclusively to her husband; and it be this comfort

reflection which enable he to respond with tolerable boldness to Mrs.

Beacham’s hypothesis.



“as to Honor’s be irish, mother, I don’t think that matter much one

way or the other. there’s good and bad in all country, and in my

opinion she’s as much too good for I, even if she be to turn out what

you call a ‘love-child,’ as she be too young and too pretty.”



“too good!” retort the old woman angrily; “I should just like to hear

anybody else say such a word as that! I’d pretty soon show ’em what I

think of their opinion!”



John Beacham laugh. “there’d be plenty,” he rejoin, “if they be

only bold enough, that you’d hear say that same, mother; for Honor be

far and away too good for a man of my age, who have get somehow into

bachelor way, and who’s a rough out-of-door kind of man compare to

she. yes, she’s far and away too good, and so you’ll think, mother, when

you come to know she well. she’s as gentle as a lamb, and as playful,

pretty creature! as a kitten, and not a bit vain nor stick up, for all

that she must know how beautiful she be. so very beautiful and delicate!

why she’s like a precious bit of china, or one of the sweet

pink-and-white flower in the Castle conservatory. I don’t wonder that

people talk of she, or that they come from mile away to Switcham church

just to get a look at the blue-eyed irish girl--the darling that, with

your leave, dear mother, I hope on May-day next to call my wife.”



John Beacham be certainly not intend by nature for a diplomatist;

nevertheless, he show some knowledge of human nature, and of his

mother’s nature in particular, when he adduce the fact that the fame of

Honor’s beauty have spread far and wide, as an argument in favour of his

marriage. if Mrs. Beacham possess one ingrain weakness more patent

than the rest, it be that very common one of steadfastly believe each

and all of her belonging to be incalculably superior to those of a

similar nature own by anyone else. that her son’s wife would be

beautiful beyond the average loveliness of womankind be a great point

in favour of Mrs. Beacham’s future daughter-in-law. the worthy woman

forgot--as who would not have do under the circumstances?--that beauty

be a dangerous gift, and that a “fair woman,” should she chance to be

without “discretion,” be often very inconveniently place in a sober and

quiet man’s household. for the moment too the old lady, who love rule

so well, forget that the more attractive in person be her son’s bride,

the less chance do there exist that she herself could “hold her own”

against this new and overwhelming influence. for the hour, however,

maternal love and a certain sense of gratified pride be in the

ascendant, she reply to John’s eulogium in a manner which,

notwithstanding the tone of plaintive resignation that mark her word,

send John reassure and comfort to bed.



“well, well,” she say, with the sigh peculiar to elderly lady when

they be about to _se poser en victimes_,--“well, well! I suppose that

what be to be will be. in course, it ben’t for old folk like I to give

advice to young one. the weak must go to the wall, as it’s only right,

I suppose, and nat’ral they should; and they as have have their day must

just make room, like the tree and the plant as be wither away, for

other. I only hope, that’s all I have to say, that she’ll make you a

good wife, John; and if so be she do, why I’m not one--be sure of

that--to be set against she. but it’s hard line all the same, so it be.

‘a son’s not your son,’ as the saying go, ‘when he take he a wife.’

no, he’s not your son--come what come may.”



and Mrs. Beacham, after solace herself with the utterance of this

soothe reflection, take herself off quietly to bed.









CHAPTER IV.



MRS. BEACHAM “runs RUSTY.”





it be, as I before say, the day previous to that appoint for the

wedding, and Mrs. Beacham, feeling slightly bemuddle and restless, and

be withal half, and only half, reconcile to her son’s marriage, be

pass a quiet hour in the large old-fashioned kitchen-garden, which

have form for the good part of half a century her glory and her pride.



in the day before John’s engagement to Honor Blake, and when the mother

and son together rule the household in harmony, and with a prudent yet

not illiberal hand, Mrs. Beacham have be remarkable for a quiet

cheerfulness of disposition and--make allowance for occasional

outbreak--for a kindly temper. the world have hitherto go well with

she, and she--in common gratitude bind--have go well with the world.

what wonder be it, then, that Updown Paddocks, with its cheery,

hospitable mistress, and with “young John,” so pleasant as he be, and

open-handed, come to be well appreciate as a “good house,” to use a

rustic but expressive phrase, throughout the whole country side?



there be something anomalous, as may already have be notice, in the

social position occupy by the wealthy owner of Updown Paddocks. a

simple yeoman by birth, but withal well educate--for he have pass

through the grammar-school, at which, accord to his mother’s frequent

boast, more than half the pupil be “gentleman’s sons”--John Beacham,

whose manner, if not fashionable, be such as to render he quite an

admissible guest, be nearly as frequently meet with at the table of the

middle-class aristocracy as at the humbler “board” of those who might

be more correctly term his equal. as a natural result also of his

profession as a horse-breeder (bear in mind, however, o captious reader,

with what an honest and unselfish steadiness of purpose that trade be

carry on), his intimate acquaintance amongst man socially very much

his superior rapidly increase; and so great be the esteem in which

John Beacham, not only as an honourable man, but as one whose knowledge

of horse-flesh could not be deny, be hold, that at the time of his

marriage with pretty Honor Blake it would have occasion no surprise

to the Lord-lieutenant of the County have he be invite to meet at

dinner the man whose yearly sale of stock amount on an average to

double the net-income of the acknowledge great man in Sandyshire.



nor be Mrs. Beacham, after a fashion appreciate by herself, without

her share of the popularity and honour enjoy by her son. it be true

that she be never include in the invitation over which her maternal

heart rejoice. never, even in a dream, have the stately old lady, in her

black lutestring dress, and her cap of fine Mechlin lace (a heirloom

in her family), find herself a guest at Gillingham Castle, at Clifton

Court, or even at the less-impose table of sport Dr. Thorpe, the

very reverend the Dean of the neighbouring episcopal town of Gawthorpe.

but the sensible old woman be quite content to be thus exclude: she

entertain very shrewd idea, not only regard old womanhood, but the

propriety of life generally, and have not, at her age, to learn that,

even have all thing besides been what she, in her simplicity, be willnot

to call “suitable,” there remain the unanswerable fact that after a

certain age lady cease to be ornamental, and as dinner-table guest

must therefore expect to be overlook.



but although this autocratic middle-class dowager have be hitherto

philosophically content to remain in the background, it be more than

probable that she would take a different view of this highly important

matter, and would be less amenable to reason, should the beautiful

daughter-in-law, whose loveliness might, as the saying be, “adorn a

court,” chance to be more highly appreciated than herself by the society

to which her son be by courtesy admit. even, however, be that not

to be the case, there still remain the more than probability that the

homage which in John’s home have hitherto be pay to herself, to _her_

hospitality, _she_ “pleasantness,” and _she_ power of cause social

enjoyment, would be share by, if not indeed transfer to, the far

young and more attractive woman who be so soon to make an inroad into

Updown Paddocks. like many hospitable people, Mrs. Beacham be rather

inordinately fond of popularity, and the idea of share that popularity

with a young and winsome bride be eminently distasteful to she.



ah, well indeed be it for we that the dark corner of our heart can be

see only by ourselves and by a God who judge mercifully. our good

friend and our dear relation--the wife of our bosom, and the

husband of our choice--might have to hold his or her breath with

surprise and consternation could a glance behind the unholy of unholie

be obtain, and what be think and plan in those hide corner be

bring to light. Honor Blake’s future mother-in-law be neither a

cold-hearted nor a cruel woman; and yet, as the time of her expect

deposition draw nigh, it be to be fear that not a few of the

reprehensible feeling which go far towards the making of a villain rise

up within her breast against John’s unoffending bride elect.



“well, mother, and what’s the case with you? jolly--eh?” exclaim a

cheery voice behind the widow, as that grieve woman, with her head

bent low than be usual with she, prepare to take a fourth turn along

her favourite walk. “pretty bobbish--eh?” John repeat, attempt,

after the fashion of cheerful strong-nerved person, to brighten the

countenance and enliven the spirit of the sorrowful by a loud voice and

unaccustomed sportiveness of language. “speculate on the crop of

gooseberry, eh?” John add, offer his arm to his mother, who

accept the attention with a sigh that bode ill for the success of her

son’s effort. “plenty of work this year in the preserve line, I

expect; I never see a great promise of fruit.”



“it ben’t the gooseberry nor yet the currant I be think of,

John,” say Mrs. Beacham mournfully. “it’s to-morrow be in my head,

and I couldn’t help wish, that I couldn’t, that Honor be more

steady-like, and old too, John, for your sake. it would be well by

half if she be nigh thirty than twenty. why she’s little well than

a child, and it’s not so easy, let I tell you, to put old head upon

young shoulder.”



John laugh hilariously. naturally of a cheerful turn of mind, his

spirit, as the hour of his wed happiness draw near, grow almost

boisterous, and although not give to the utterance of melodious sound,

he could have sing aloud for very joy through every hour of that his

marriage eve.



“thank you for nothing, mother,” he say good-humouredly; “I’m quite

content with my young woman as she be. Youth’s a complaint that’s pretty

soon get the well of with all of we, and Honor--Heaven bless her!--has

get more sense and judgment, child as she be, than many an old woman.

God grant I may make her life a happy one!” he add, raise his hat

reverently. “if it depend on I to do it, I’m not afraid but what

she’ll find all go smoothly at the Paddocks.”



there be a pause after this rather suggestive speech, a pause which

Mrs. Beacham fill up by mentally ask herself what John could mean.

be his word intend to convey a hint? or, what be still more

hurtful to her maternal feeling, a _warn_? could it be that John be

already prepare to mount guard over his precious honor? have he thus

betime his lance in rest to defend she from domestic evil, from

imaginary wound to be inflict hereafter by her mother-in-law? the

thought flash through her mind, bring a look that be not

altogether pleasant to she still bright, bead-like black eye: one

glance, however, at her son’s honest countenance be sufficient to make

her ashamed of have for a moment entertain the suspicion that he have

imply more than meet the ear. he be in very truth incapable of aught

that be not thoroughly open and straightforward, and the mother who

bear he should have learn by long experience that the female art of

innuendoing be as foreign to his nature and habit as the make a

bonnet, or the concocting of a Sunday pie.



Mrs. Beacham, at the age of threescore year and ten, have not yet quite

pass the age of impulsiveness. she have wrong that kindly-nature son

of her by a suspicion injurious to his habitual frankness, and to the

affection towards herself on which she have such good reason to rely, and

self-reproach render she for the moment both tender and apologetic.



“my dear boy,” she say, press his strong arm with her thin

be-mittene finger, “it sha’n’t be _my_ fault if this marriage of your

don’t turn out well. but I’m an old woman now, my dear, and you must

make allowance. it may go a little hard with I at first, too, to see

another care for afore I, but I shall get use to that; and, John, you

may trust your mother, for how could I help love the woman that be

good to my boy?”



“that’s right, mother,” say John heartily; “you couldn’t, I’m certain

sure of that. and Honor will be good; never fear for she. she may be a

trifle giddy and thoughtless, perhaps; though even if she’s that, I’ve

get to find it out; but her heart--the darling!--is in the right place,

and that, to my mind, be what signify the most. I only wish you could

have see she with those child of Clay’s! it would have do your

heart good. I declare, she’s be as patient as an angel with that

little pickle Tom, when I should have like nothing well than to punch

his ugly head; and then as to take care of one in sickness, you should

just hear Mrs. Clay talk of she! so quiet and so sensible; always give

the medicine at the right time, and never a thought about herself, even

if she be night upon night keep out of her bed, poor girl. why,

mother, she must be almost as clever about sick people as you be

yourself--and that’s say a good deal, as I, who have have an illness

or two in my life, can witness to.”



the aged mother and her stalwart son be on the good possible term by

this time, she lean with an air of proud maternal content on his arm

as they stand together on the broad walk which run along the far end of

the well-stock garden. the view from that spot be an extended as well

as a pleasant one. away beyond the bright green meadow, where the young

stock leap and gambol on the springy turf--away beyond the not

unpicturesque range of building suggestive of John Beacham’s lucrative

business--lie “hedgerow elm,” and hill gray-blue in the soft spring

sunshine, while to the right, beyond Clay’s Farm, where pretty Honor

Blake be make ready for her bridal, an extensive pine-forest give

depth and “body” to the picture.



“ben’t it pretty, mother?” John say. “I think the view from this walk

pretty every time I see it. she’s sure, Honor be, to like the

paddock; and only to think that to-morrow be to be our wedding-day; and

that in a fortnight--not more; for I don’t intend to be away long from

you and home--only to think that in a fortnight my little Honor may be

stand here between we, listen to the nightingale, I hope; for

they’ll be singe in the hawthorn hedge, as they do every year, by

that time; and, o, mother, it all seem too bright and beautiful to be

true!”



there be a moisture, strong man though he be and iron-nerve, in

John’s clear brown eye as he speak of his come joy, and his voice

tremble with emotion. the old lady notice his agitation; and again her

heart be harden, not against her son, but against the unconscious

object of his love.



“he never shed a tear, that I can remember, ever since he be a man

grow, for _I_,” be her silent reflection as they pass together into

the old farm-house. Mrs. Beacham be, as I have endeavour to make

appear, very far from be an ill-dispose woman; and yet it be,

perhaps, just as well for John’s peace of mind that he know nothing of

the strange complication of feeling which, albeit they owe their

origin to devotion towards himself, threaten, nevertheless, to make

shipwreck of the comfort and happiness of his idolise Honor.









CHAPTER V.



the day of day.





“Mayn’t I come in, Honor? o, please let I! Mother say I might come and

ask; and I’ve bring you such a many pretty flower. we’ve be up,

Teddy and I have, ever since five o’clock, look for sweet orchid in

the south meadow. do, o do let I in! I’ll be as good as gold; and I

willn’t rumple your new frock one bit.”



it be early morning yet on the eventful day which have be appoint

for Honor Blake’s nuptial. those early daylight hour have seem very

long to the girl who, for the first time in her life, have sleep a

troubled sleep; and yet, when little Jenny Clay, a chubby bright-eye

child of seven, tap at the bride’s door, and vehemently implore to

be admit, the big white-faced kitchen clock have but just strike the

hour of six, and it want still some four hour of the time when the

little girl, already half wild with excitement, would enjoy she

long-promise honour--namely, that of be first bridesmaid to the

heroine of the day, her dearly-love Honor Blake.



Jenny be in her normal state a quiet rational child enough; but “the

wedding” have, for the time be, turn everything (without,

unfortunately, except the child’s brain) topsy-turvy at Clay’s

Farm. a lawless time during the week precede her wedding-day have

Honor’s quondam pupil; and poor Mrs. Clay, what with the last baby, and

the expectation, in the course of the summer, of a ninth visit from the

widow Tamfrey, have enough to do in keeping, as she often remark, the

house from be turn out of window.



during Jenny’s lengthened entreaty--an entreaty which have be respond

to by a voice within the bolt door, beg to be leave a little long

in peace--another door, the one opposite to Honor’s sleep apartment,

have be briskly open, and a female head clothe in a many-frille

nightcap be protrude therefrom, a sharp, high-pitch voice be

hear--infinitely to the relief of the bride-elect--call Miss Jenny

to order.



“come away, you naughty girl,” cry Mrs. Clay, administer at the

same time a gentle shake to the delinquent. “didn’t I tell you I

wouldn’t have it? go back to bed directly, or father’ll give you a

whipping, so he will.”



at this terrible threat, and with the fear of bed in broad daylight (and

on such a morning too) before her eye, Jenny begin to whimper--a sound

which so move the pity of the bride-elect, that before the awful

sentence could be carry into execution a sweet face, shroud with

wave masse of light brown hair, make its appearance at the

half-open door; and Honor, press the soft lip, that be a trifle

less rosy than their willnot, on Jenny’s upturned forehead, say tenderly,



“do what mother tell you, my sweetie. it willn’t be long now before it’s

breakfast-time. and, Mrs. Clay, please not to think the child have

disturb I, for I have be up and about for ever so long. what a

beautiful morning it be! such a sunrise! I have be look at it over

the Eastheigh Hills; and to think that this be the last time, the very

last time, that I shall ever sit at this dear little window, and hear

the bird singe in the tree, and the cow, with old Barbara after

they in her blue petticoat, come in to be milk!”



the girl be in a melt mood that bright spring morning, for she

brush a tear from her long lash, when Mrs. Clay, in motherly

fashion, tell she what a foolish child she be to be low-spirited on her

wedding morning. “it ben’t like Honor,” she say, “to be

down-hearted.” and the good woman be right there, for the girl’s mood

be changeful as an April sky, and in another moment, stir by a

sudden memory, the sweet lip be part by a smile.



“I see Joe Gregg,” she say, “come across the meadow just now, with such

a coat on his back! the tail trail on the ground, and a nosegay as

big as his head stick in his waistcoat! I hope he willn’t be very absurd

at church, and make we laugh when we ought to be solemn.”



“foolish fellow!” rejoin Mrs. Clay, laugh heartily as the idea of

the village idiot, one of the most harmless of his unfortunate kind,

obtrude himself and his hatchet-face and uncouth figure at the

marriage ceremony, present itself to her mental vision. “and now, my

dear,” she add sensibly, “for goodness’ sake do put your nightcap on

again, and go to bed; you’ll be as pale else, when John see you, as if

you’d have an illness; and white, you know, want a colour. it’s very

try, as I’ve always say, to the skin, be white;” and kind-hearte

Mrs. Clay, after this useful warning to the girl whom she have grow to

love almost as a daughter, retire to her own apartment, and silence

once more reign throughout the narrow corridor.



the smile fade from Honor’s face as she return to the low seat

beside the open window, and allow her eye again to wander over the

fair scene without. over the broad meadow, stretch eastward towards

the Paddocks, a filmy haze, light as the bridal veil of a disembodied

spirit, be linger still--linger till the jocund god of day,

“rejoice as a bridegroom to run his course,” should lift it softly

from fair Nature’s face.



in other and more prosaic word, there hung--no uncommon circumstance--a

mist over the low-lie land through which a certain little wind

river call the Bram pursue its devious course. the day--there be no

safe prognostic than that light and silvery nebulousness--would be a

glorious one, and the bonny bride of that same first of May be, it

might be hope, fate to be another of the proverbially “happy” one on

whom the sun’s sympathising ray have warmly shine.



the girl--so soon to be that thing which _man_ have make--a _woman_ (it

be simply a _female_ that the hand of God created)--gazed out upon the

peaceful scene--on the bud tree in which the love bird be

twitter, on the path through the meadow, trod so often by the merry

child when she--scarcely more than a child herself--have head their

joyous company in merry search of the dab-chick’ nest lie peaceably

in the reed beside the Bram, or of wild flower, fresh and sweet,

crop up through the long grass in the sunny meadow.



it be her wedding-day--her day of day--and yet something very like a

sigh break from the irish girl’s lip, and there be a moisture (could

it be the dew of tear?) upon her cheek. she be not unhappy--no, and a

thousand time no--she _could_ not be sorrowful with the love of a good

man assure to she, and with the promise of such a home as it be in

John Beacham’s power to give. she be certainly not unhappy. she have

promise to be John’s wife unhesitatingly, and with a grateful heart. he

have only do his promise bride justice when he have declare that she

be neither vain nor aspiring. Honor could not be ignorant of the fact

that she be beautiful, but of the power and the advantage of beauty

she know as little as do Mrs. Clay’s two-year-old child. it could

hardly then be owe to a latent feeling that she be throw her rare

loveliness away--cast, so to speak, her pearl before swine--that

Honor’s heart be at that moment heavy within she; and yet, could John

have look on she at that moment--could he have see the listless

attitude and the clouded brow of the girl he so fondly love--he would

have be justify in read repentance where he would have look for

joy. and, as I say before, he would have be mistake. there be

none--no, not even the shadow of a regret on Honor’s part for the

promise that have so firmly bind she to be a farmer’s wife. only the

day before her spirit be as buoyant, and her heart as light, as in

the joyous day go by; only the evening before she have, with all a

young girl’s natural pleasure in self-adornment, enter into the full

spirit of the _rôle_ in which her bridal costume be to play so

all-important a part. the wedding-dress, pretty and pure and tasteful,

although no hand more cunning than that of the humble Leigh artiste have

be employ in its confection, have be pronounce by the jury of

maid and matron assemble to give judgment on its merit to be a

decide success; and Honor, if the truth _must_ be tell, have be so

childish--should we not, however, rather say so womanlike?--as to place

clandestinely upon her fair head the wreath of orange-flower (a real

London _cadeau_ from John), she blush all the while for fear that any

live soul might know what a vain silly thing she be.



all these sign and symptom be take into consideration, I think we

be justify in the conclusion that Honor Blake do not actually

experience regret that she be about to render kind, prosperous John

Beacham the happy of man. she be a trifle confused and bewilder,

perhaps, on that her marriage morning. in some way--how she could not

have explain--the conviction have come home to she that be bind in

wedlock mean something more than new clothe, the congratulation of

friend, accession of dignity, and even than speak vow. it be all

very nice and pleasant, that listen to pretty speech, and

contemplate the simple present with which her friend (they be not

numerous, and she have be so little in the world) have rejoice the

heart and gratify the harmless vanity of the whilom nursery governess.

but agreeable as all this be, and novel, and soul-stirring, the time

come, as we have see, when she begin to look at the more serious side

of this, to she, vitally interesting question: take, in short, at the

eleventh hour, to overhaul her stock of comfort and necessary

previous to enter the boat in which she and John be henceforth to

sail together. and the first question she put to her own heart be,

whether her store of love for the voyage, that promise to be a long

one, be sufficient not only to last out the time, but be moreover of a

quality to withstand the change of heat and cold, and the many

unavoidable trial both of calm and of rough weather. in very plain and

simple language Honor, late as it be in the day, inquire of her own

heart concern this matter. do she in very sober and earnest truth

love as he deserve to be belove the man to whom she be about to

plight her troth? do she hang upon his word, and watch, as for a

glimpse of heaven, for his smile? have she--ah! that be the test of

test--pine for he in absence, and, pure and innocent though she be,

long with shy, sweet blush for the moment when considerate friend,

take pity on the engaged lover, would leave they to an undisturbed

and blissful _tête-à-tête_?



the reply to these home query be not, I greatly fear, altogether

satisfactory, as how indeed could it be, when it be the near prospect

of that life-long _tête-à-tête_ which first arouse the spirit of

inquiry in Honor’s maiden breast? it be this prospect (could this have

be so, my reader, if Love be lord of all within she?) that dim

the lustre of her eye, and cast a cloud over the sunshine of her

spirit.



for an hour and more she sit in the same place, look forth into the

brightness of the morning, and hear without heed the murmur of

busy life that each moment become more audible throughout the house. for

an hour and more she sit there, the light breeze fan she flushed

cheek, and cool the full and crimson lip, which ere another sun

should go down upon the earth would be part and parcel of another’s

wealth!



“what be the use of thinking?” she say half aloud, and rise with a

slight shiver, for the morning air be fresh, and her light

wrapping-gown afford but a thin protection from the cold. “what be the

use of thinking? there be no use of torment myself when I ought to be

happy, in this stupid senseless way.”



and Honor be right. use there could be none now in ask herself how

much she love the excellent man who in all loyalty believe that he

possess her whole, entire heart. she have not intentionally deceive

he; indeed this inexperienced girl be little likely to surmise whether

or not she have so deceive he. “thinking” be, therefore, in her case,

“but idle waste of thought.” Nothing--_that_ at least be quite clear to

Honor--be farth from her wish than to alter her relation with the

generous lover, who, as the saying be, worship the very ground she

trod on. for nothing that the world could offer, so she tell herself,

would she grieve or disappoint he; and so nothing remain for this

young woman, whom so many in her own degree, and of her own sex, be

envy for her good fortune, but to bestir herself, both mentally and

physically, and accept the good thing that have be provide for she

with a grateful heart?



a little womanly vanity--could anything be more natural?--came to the

aid of John Beacham’s _fiancée_ as she braid the soft brown tress

that the honest gentleman farmer be never weary of admire. it would

never do, she think, to look dull and _ugly_ on her wedding-day; so

she throw melancholy to the wind, and deck her face with smile, and

call that busy little Jenny in, to hinder rather than to help the

important business of the toilet. Honor’s be not a selfish nature, and

when the child throw their arm round her neck, kiss she with more

zeal than discretion, and call she their “sweet, their pretty honey,”

she almost forget the circumstance of the “new frock,” and return the

truthful caress in much of the spirit which dictate their bestowal.









CHAPTER VI.



not quite for money.





“how like my mother to be patronise this wedding--just the thing she

be certain to do! that sort of popularity cost nothing--not five

shilling, or trust Milady for stay away.”



“o, but, Arthur, you forget the present,” say Kate Vavasour--“the

present that cost, o, _such_ a quantity of money!--mamma do not say how

much. but it’s a brooch like a bull’s-eye, only flat, with a white

stripe across it; and it come from the jeweller’s at Leigh, with several

other to choose from, and mamma keep the big. she say it be ‘just

the thing,’ but I cann’t say that I admire it much.”



“I should think not,” say her brother scornfully--“a wretche Scotch

pebble as a wedding present for the wife of such a tenant as John

Beacham--a man whose father and grandfather be bear and breed on the

land! such a favourite of my father’s too;” and Arthur Vavasour, who

have just return from a nine-month’ foreign tour, and who, in the

company of a pleasant and amenable tutor, have lose for a time the memory

of Lady Millicent’s “wholesome retrenchment,” make a mental resolve to

contrast she niggardly _cadeau_ to Honor Blake with an offering of his

own which would be more worthy of the bride’s acceptance. he and his

favourite sister Kate, a lively girl, but without any great pretension

to beauty, and who, in Lady Millicent’s opinion, require a good deal of

keep under, be saunter through the once beautifully keep

conservatory, where now--infinitely to Arthur’s disgust--he could trace

the same “odious system of dirty economy” which everywhere meet his eye.



“it ben’t nice, certainly,” Kate say, stoop while she speak to pick

off the dead leave of a neglect pelargonium; “I be afraid they will

all think it so mean. much well to have give nothing. however, I be

glad we’re go; we so seldom do anything lively, that even this seem

quite a change. besides, Atty, you will like to see the bride. she be

away last year with the Clay’s Farm child for change of air, after

they have scarlet-fever,” continue Kate, who be a great picker-up of

local news, a peculiarity in a young lady of “position,” for which Lady

Millicent’s treatment of her child be in a great degree the cause.

“you miss see she then, I remember. but, Arthur, do tell I, be

there no chance of the Castle grow livelier, do you think? what a

time it be now since thing have be as they use to be! and then that

dismal half-mourning! it cann’t be,” lower her voice, “for my poor

father all this time. don’t you think now, Arthur, that mamma will

surely make _some_ change at Gillingham soon?”



“cann’t say,” say Arthur, throw the end of the cigar he have be

smoke upon the ill-clean mosaic pavement of the conservatory; “I

never attempt either to understand my mother or to make the slight

guess as to what she be go to do. but about this wonderful beauty who

be to be make a wife of to-day--who be she? and what do people know

about she?”



“not much, I believe. the pemberton’ housekeeper, Mrs. Bainbridge, who

have live with they for age, and who be a great friend of the Clays,

recommend Miss Blake, who be her niece, to they as nursery governess

to their child, and--”



“Governess, indeed! by Jove, what will that class of people come to

next? however, I suppose it will be think a civil thing to go and see

John Beacham turn off. there never be a well fellow either in his

line or out of it; and then, as I say before, he be such an uncommon

favourite of my father.”



“yes, ben’t he?” Kate say eagerly. she be a little thoughtless child

of twelve when Cecil Vavasour die; but the kind father, with his mild

face and win voice, live in her memory still, have teach she to

like and appreciate all that he, in his useful lifetime, have seem to

value. “ben’t dear papa fond of the Beachams? how often he use to

trudge away over the field, with the thick ash stick that stand in the

corner of the inner hall in his hand, to visit the Beachams at the farm!

poor dear papa! he use to say that he place John first of the few

honest man he know. but, Arthur dear,” and she put her arm coaxingly

within her brother’s, “do you really think that Rhoda will come out this

year, and--”



“and will Miss Katherine Vavasour, as a natural sequence to that event,

beam out upon the London world the year follow--a consummation so

devoutly to be wish? upon my word, Kitty, though I be pretty well up

to your crafty way and clever little dodge, you have come to the very

last person in the world who be likely even to give a guess at my lady’s

plan. and as to ask she--why she would think such question,

especially from the heir-apparent, to the last degree indelicate,

presuming--in the bad possible taste, in short. but here come

Horace. he can, perhaps, throw some light upon the matter. he have twice

the pluck that I have when it come to tackle my lady. I don’t think,

for some reason or other, that she hate he quite as much as she do

me.--I say, old fellow,” he continue, as Horace Vavasour, a

fair-complexion, intelligent-looking young man, come loungingly

towards they, with his hand thrust into his trouser-pocket, “do you

happen to know anything of the prospect of this cheerful family of

ours? here be Kate, at sixteen and a half--isn’t that about the mark,

eh, Kitty?--naturally crazy to know when there be any chance of she

be marry. don’t laugh; it’s a serious business, as I have no doubt

Rhoda think too, though she haven’t the brass, like you, to ask lead

question on the subject. however, what do _you_ say it be to be?

London, or no London? husband, or no husband? it be really time that

these poor girl should know their fate.”



Horace, thus appeal to, shake his head ominously. “I be as much in the

dark as you can be,” be his unsatisfactory exordium. “Milady will be

long enough before she either choose confidant from among her

child, or hold a _conseil de famille_ as to their individual hope

and wish. in the mean time,” he add, stretch himself wearily,

“what a bore this life be! I declare I would rather break stone upon

the road than go on as we do at Gillingham. no creature except the

clergyman and the London lawyer ever ask to the house, and my mother

so awfully serious and gloomy! I declare, since the day when I be

suppose to have finish my education, and when old Collins take his

final leave with a handsome present of my father’s photograph as a

testimony of my lady’s regard and esteem, I have never once enjoy the

unpurchasable luxury of a laugh. the good chance to get one be to spend

an hour with Thady Nolan in the stable. he’s an importation since your

time, Arthur, and I assure you, from personal experience, that you would

find his society quite a resource. he be full of genuine irish

humour--quite a character in his way--and never, by any chance, take

liberty.”



“I be glad,” Arthur say, “that my mother haven’t reduce the stable

establishment to quite the same miserable foot as everything else

about this miserable place. individually, it don’t so much signify to

I; not personally, I mean. when a man be go to be married--”



“then it be true? o, Atty!” exclaim Kate, and her eye fill with

tear, for she love that prodigal and _tant soit peu_ unprincipled

brother, of whose fault she know so little, very dearly, and the idea

of his marriage be, in some undefinable way, a blow to she.



“_true!_ of course it be. what be there besides for I to do? there be

that season in London, two year ago now--how time do fly!--when you

be all live so quietly in the country here, and when I--but there’s

no earthly use in go over it all again. all I ask of you be, whether

you, Kate, or you, Horace, or anyone that know we both, would suspect

I of marry Sophy Duberly, unless--unless I couldn’t help myself?”



“I cann’t see that exactly,” Horace say. “she’s a very fine-look

girl, and always jolly, with plenty to say for herself. I only wish that

I have the good fortune to make an impression on just such another. I

like your talk like a victim, Arthur! Heiresses to twenty thousand a

year be not as plenty as blackberry, and Sophy Duberlys don’t grow on

every hedge, to be have for the picking.”



“well, that’s true enough, and I daresay it will all answer very well.

Sophy be, I believe, what be generally call a ‘nice girl,’ and have an

idea that she be fond of I, which may, or may not, be an illusion. of

the two, father or daughter, I confess I think old Dub himself the good

fellow. I like the house too. there’s a _laissez-aller_ about it that

be perfectly delicious when contrast with our home. there be not an

atom of _gêne_ at Thanes Court. one may say and do and look as one like

at Mr. Duberly’s house. there be no cranky speech; no domineering

determination that only one person in the house be to lay down the law.

I declare that if _our_ home have be the least like that--if our mother

resemble in anything that jolly old boy at Thanes Court--I, at the

unripe age of--under twenty-one--should probably not be about to tie

myself for life--a thing to which, at present, I feel not the least

inclination--to a young woman for whom at present--well, there be no use

in be over-confidential--if Sophy be as lovely as the Calipegean

Venus, or even as attractive and charming as John Beacham’s irish bride,

I shall probably not look much at her face when she have be my wife a

year.



    ‘think you, if Laura have be Petrarch’s wife,

     he would have write sonnet all his life?’”



he repeat to himself as he walk slowly away through a rarely-use

but admirably-proportion billiard-room into an apartment on the ground

floor, which, by prescriptive right, he consider as his own.



“Poor Arthur!” Horace say, when he and his sister be leave alone; “I

have no idea that he care so little about she. I wonder what my mother

will say when she hear it be all settle?”



“I wonder, too. be glad, I should think: but she willn’t say so, and will

be angry because she be not tell while it be go on. _you_ be, I

suppose, you close, ill-nature, unbrotherly boy! of course, those long

letter from Atty while he be at Cannes, and which you keep so

provokingly to yourself, be all about Sophy Duberly. now, tell I,

Horace--there’s a good, dear boy--didn’t he propose then? I be sure he

do, and that he tell you all about what he say to Sophy, and what she

answer, and--”



“don’t be ridiculous, Kate; _man_” (Horace be nineteen, and the _down_

be begin to darken on his chin) “be not in the habit of waste

letter-paper on such nonsense. Arthur make run at Cannes, of course,

but nothing be settle till he and the Duberlys meet the other day in

Paris. I be sure that no one ought to wonder at his marrying. People

will stare, of course--I mean those who cann’t look behind the scene.

they will think it extraordinary that the heir to such a property as my

mother’s should marry when he be only one-and-twenty _for money_.”



“not quite for money only. you say just now, yourself, that Sophy be

nice--”



“do I? well, so she be; and if I be half as good-look a fellow as

Atty, I should look out for a girl a quarter as nice, with an eighth

part of Sophy’s expectation; and if she accept I, I should think

myself a deuce lucky dog. Heigh ho! what an age it seem before the

examination time! I wonder how long my mother think one can endure such

a horrible existence as this.”



“it cann’t last for ever,” Kate say; “and it be quite as bad for we as

it be for you; and yet you never hear either Rhoda or I lament over

our fate as you do over your.”



“o, girl be different! woman be mean to live in the country, and

stay at home.”



it be not the first time that Katherine Vavasour have listen to the

enunciation of this popular aphorism, and, as usual, it provoke she

excessively. in her opinion, the “line” that have fall to Horace be

very pleasant compare to those hard one which have be mete out to

herself and her sister. he be permit a certain kind of liberty, have

a horse to ride, and provide that the hour for meal be not

infringe on, or the family-prayer bell neglect, he be allow to go

and come pretty much as he like. as regard her daughter, however,

Lady Millicent’s family rule and arrangement be far more strict.

since the simultaneous dismissal (for the flagrant offence of joint

matrimonial attention) of Mr. Collins and Kate’s steady middle-aged

governess, Lady Millicent have deem it her duty to still far

circumscribe the narrow circle of her daughter’ pleasure. she be a

woman who dislike trouble, so that a few “general order,” such as that

_no_ book from the circulate library be to be read, and no walk

outside the park wall be to be take, form the staple of her very

stringent form of government. against these retrenchment, as well as

against the daily dulness of their monotonous existence, Kate Vavasour

(Rhoda be make of more submissive stuff) be perpetually chafe. she

dread the moment, too, when Horace would be emancipate from the yoke

which so sorely gall her own youthful shoulder. his education have

be principally a home one, a private tutor have for the last three

year be busily employ at the Castle in prepare the young son

for the ordeal of a civil-service examination. Horace have be very

impatient of the home restraint which during those three year have be

impose upon he. often have he be seize with an almost irresistible

longing to fly from the tedious sameness, the almost unendurable

routine, of his home life. have Lady Millicent be only tolerably

sympathetic--have she enter the least into their feeling--be but a

few degree less hard, less self-engross, and less unwilling to allow

her child a few of the pleasure to which young flesh believe itself

to be heir--it be more than probable that Horace would have be less

anxious to escape from an existence which after all contain, as in

later year he be ready to acknowledge, so many of the element of

happiness. that he do not so endeavour to escape be owe partly to

the affection of Horace Vavasour for his sister, who be willnot to

protest with tear that they could not endure their fate if he, the only

one who keep their house alive, be to desert they; and partly to the

_habit_ of submission which have grow with his growth and strengthen

with his strength. before Lady Millicent’s second son also there be a

road in life mark out--a point in the horizon on which his eye and

hope be fix. that point in the future be the competitive

examination for which he have be so long and diligently prepare

himself; that road in life be the one that lead, through mental effort,

as a “government servant,” to distinction. the career choose for Horace

Vavasour be that of a “public man;” how far an almost strictly private

education be calculate to fit he for that career may remain an open

question.









CHAPTER VII.



LADY millicent condescend.





family prayer be over at the Castle. the lady and gentleman, who I

fear be very little the well for the ceremony, and the servant,

who, if they pray at that time in the morning at all, would probably

have infinitely prefer do so in their so-call “closet” than

under the eye of their employer, have each and all rise from their

knee; and breakfast, never much of a meal, accord to the young man’s

view of the matter, be in progress.



“a fine day for the wedding, eh?” remark Arthur. “I’m glad you’re

go, ma’am; John be one of the good fellow go. I owe he some

attention for teach I to ride. a deuced stick, too, I be at first,

and a precious deal of trouble I give he. there be nothing like

begin early though, and John be as patient as--”



“well, as patient as what, or who?” ask Lady Millicent, notice that

he hesitate--she be one who, in the small as well as the most

important occasion of life, never obey the valuable rule, _glissez

mortel, mat n’appuyez pas_.



“o, I don’t know!” reply Arthur, who hate have what he say

investigate--tear into thread, as he call it--by his lady mother.

“nothing particular. I believe, though, that I be go to say--as a

woman.”



“I daresay,” sneered Lady Millicent; “your experience in that line have

be too extensive for the simile not to strike you at once.”



Arthur bite his lip to keep down the retort that have rise to his tongue.

he be not so well disposed as he have a year before show himself to be

to bear in a patient spirit the be snub and tyrannise over. a

lengthen absence, together with the flattering attention everywhere

show to the heir-apparent of Gillingham--to say nothing of the

matrimonial engagement which make he feel so like a man--be all in

their different degree responsible for the symptom of rebellion that

be rife within he. Lady Millicent look, too, accord to Arthur’s

fancy, especially provoke on that bright spring morning. the almost

shabby “slight” mourning in which--for economy’s sake, as the world

suppose--it be the wealthy-widow’s pleasure to deck herself, look

terribly out of keep with the sunshine of the “glad new year,” and

with the bright fresh flower (a cheap luxury) never absent from the

breakfast-table at Gillingham Castle, and which, on that especial

morning, be redolent of votive offering to the first of May. it be

sad to think that at that breakfast of herb (Lady Millicent do not

approve of stall-ox-feeding so early in the day), and so soon after

the return of the first-bear son, that son should be constrain to

strive--but happily not in vain--to keep his temper.



the hour of eleven have strike by the clock of the Switcham parish church

when, punctual to the moment, there be see drive up the gentle

ascent lead to the picturesque old gothic building, Lady Millicent’s

open carriage, draw by the powerful high-step pair of brown horse,

half-brother, breed by John’s father, and sell by he ten year before

for a “long figure,” for the use of the Lady Millicent Vavasour. John

Beacham take an honest pride--aged animal though they be--in those

horse; and when from the elevated spot in the churchyard on which he

be stand he catch sight of their grand “top,” and hear the rapid

footfall of the powerful thorough-bred on the gravelled road beneath,

the memory of his dead father rise up strong within he, and John, ere

he step forward hat in hand to welcome the liege lady of Gillingham,

pass his honest hand over his eye, to brush away the moisture that

have gather on their lid.



the little church, as Lady Millicent, with her two daughter, walk

slowly up the aisle, be fill to overflow with eager sight-seer.

from the moment it became generally know that the great family from the

Castle have graciously condescend to honour John Beacham’s marriage

with their presence, public interest in that event have rise to its

height. already the wedding present graciously send to the old and

most respected tenant on the Gillingham estate have be duly inspect

and admire, and the miniature bust in bronze of “the late lamented

Cecil Vavasour, Esq.,” a dozen or two of which have be cast by Lady

Millicent’s order for such occasion as the present, have be duly

forward the day before as a mark of esteem to the owner of Updown

Paddocks, have be pass round among the friend and acquaintance

assemble at Clay’s farm, and receive its meed of approval.



the simple people be a little puzzled by the ponderous ornament

destine to grace the delicate throat of the bride. it be “milady’s”

gift, and therefore safe from either animadversion or suspicion; but,

under other circumstance, it be just possible that some few judicious

critic--the lady especially--might have be tempt to pronounce

the “pebble” brooch, in its thin setting of pale chase gold, not only

an ugly but a parsimonious gift. that _noblesse oblige_ form no

portion of Lady Millicent’s creed be a fact that in some way or other

have come to be, perhaps, dimly suspect by the little world over whom

she reign. it would take a long time, however, and an enlarged

experience of her ladyship’s meanness, selfishness, and general

incapacity, before the _fact_ of those proclivity would become an

accept truth by those whose father have live in the good old “God

save great George our king!” day, and who have be bring up to

believe in the Vavasours of Gillingham. the memory of the good Squire

still linger amongst they. there be story yet extant of his

kindliness, his forgetfulness of self, his open-handed charity, and his

rare and simple common sense. what wonder, then, that with the savour of

his good deed yet linger about the widow, there should still be

find a few ready to respect where she respect, and willing to honour

those whom “milady” delight to honour?



the church be then, as I have already say, crowd with people, when

Lady Millicent sail graciously down the aisle, clothe in the rustling

black-silk dress which the curtsey school-child have know so long,

and which have brush their humble skirt so often. the bride be

momentarily expect, and when the excitement cause by Lady Millicent’s

entry have subside, and she be comfortably seat in the rectory pew,

all head be turn towards the door in momentary expectation of

another and a still more important arrival.



the manner of Miss Blake’s come be well known to the initiate. there

be no high-step brown horse to convey _her_ to the

churchyard-gate; and if the arrival of the first performer in the

little drama be delay, it be probably because the wheel of the

Leigh “fly” tarry in the narrow lane (deeply rut by the passage of

Farmer Clay’s wagon) which lead up to the farm-house. it be an ancient

vehicle, and have be call originally, I believe, a barouche-landau,

which have be call into requisition to convey the bride and as many

of the Clay family as could conveniently be pack into it to the

village church that day.



“make yourself as small as you can, child, for fear of tumble

Honor’s frock,” the good-natured farmer have say as he deposit his two

delight little girl in the roomy carriage, and then, his own portly

person be perch on the box-seat, the equipage drive off. the party,

with the exception of the bride, who be rather pale and thoughtful, be

in high spirit; and if the Leigh “fly” do smell a trifle mouldy, and

if the busy hungry moth have drill a few round hole in the dingy drab

lining, why what matter it to they? it be none the less able to carry

bright Honor Blake to her bridal; none the less in the child’s eye a

grand part of the brilliant pageant which would, for many a day to come,

render that sweet first day of May a bright spot in their memory.



“o, mother! if there ben’t milady’s carriage!” exclaim Ruth, a rather

precocious young lady of ten, who have very unwillingly abdicate in

favour of that “owdacious” Jenny the honour and glory of hold the

bride’s bouquet at the altar; and Mrs. Clay, as she afterwards express

herself, be “strike all of a quiver” with the shock of perceive that

the Castle carriage have arrive before they. through the little iron

gate between the yew-tree, which be set wide open to receive they--and

very near to which Honor, in her agitation, do _not_ perceive the two

young man, Lady Millicent’s son, stand to witness the rural

show--the simple _cortège_ pass. Mr. Clay, a sturdy yeoman-like

look man, attire in a Sunday costume, in which he never either

seem or feel at home, tuck the bride, to whom he be about to play

the part of father, tightly under his arm, and the rest follow, they

walk slowly up the rise ground between the row of commemorative

tombstone to the church.



there be a slight movement, and a faint murmur of “here she come,” as

the fair white-robe figure, her slight form half-conceal by a long

float veil--neither Honiton nor Mechlin, yet it serve the purpose

well--be first catch sight of, pass behind the old baptismal font.

the faint blush that have rise over neck and brow as Honor enter and

_feel_ the gaze of many eye upon she deepen into crimson as she

near the altar. then a sudden change come over the clear complexion

which have be but a moment before glow as a rose, and “from that

out,” as Mrs. Tamfrey, who be present, be afterwards hear to say,

“the bonny bird look for all the world as if she have see a ghost.”



as for happy honest John Beacham, he play, as be generally the

melancholy fate of bridegroom, a very secondary part on the occasion.

“M.,” all-important as he really be, sink in his bran new coat and

waistcoat, into something even less than insignificant by the side of

the peerless creature in her robe of innocence, with the symbolic

wreath upon her “shine hair.” no one but his mother think much of

John as he stand side by side with “the irish gurl,” and in a clear

manly voice pronounce the vow that bind he to she whilst life

should last. to the elderly woman, about to sink into the mild dignity

of dowagerhood, that tall, broad-shoulder man, with his thick wavy

hair, his clear blue eye, and, as the worthy woman often boast, his

“wholesome” skin, be a far more important personage than that “slip of

a girl” who have, at an age when he ought to have know well, make such

a fool and “ninny” of her only son. her eye, from the moment that he

enter the church, never for a moment leave his face. the demon of

jealousy, which in the solitude of her home she have in some degree

successfully combat, return with redouble force at the sight of

John’s proud and radiant face, fill with a tenderness which give quite

a novel expression to his sun-burn feature.



the ceremony be no soon over than Lady Millicent, who be know to

take a great lady’s gracious interest in the domestic affair of her

tenantry, come forward with extended hand and wish the young people

joy. the little speech which she make on the occasion be listen to

with the outward appreciation and respectful attention usually accord

to the platitude of the powerful. possibly John Beacham, whose young

wife’s hand be tremble on his arm, would have prefer silent good

wish to this outward and highly-flatter demonstration of goodwill.

Honor, too, blush as she be beneath the gaze of a church-full of

wonder-seeker, would gladly have escape to the cool vestry, whence, by

a quiet path beneath the old yew-tree, she and John would have gain

the neat new brougham which he have purchase for his bride, and which

be in wait to receive she. but this be not to be. not to be, at

least, until Lady Millicent have go through the ceremony of allude in

gratifying term to her late husband’s interest in, and she might almost

say (Lady M. be certainly wonderfully condescend) her friendship

for, John; not to be till, hold the bride’s hand within her own (an

_honour_ which it be to be hope that young woman fully appreciate),

she have express a gracious hope that Mrs. John would prove worthy of

her mission upon earth--namely, that of be a true and obedient wife,

and a devoted mother to the child with whom Providence might deign to

bless her union.



“a very neat and appropriate speech,” laugh Horace, as the two young

man saunter out of the churchyard. “I should have like to put in

something poetical and complimentary about the ‘bridal of the earth and

sky,’ for, by Jove! she look a good deal too delicate and ethereal to

be John Beacham’s wife.”



“she be very beautiful, certainly,” Arthur respond. “I hope it will

answer; but somehow those sort of marriage don’t always end as well as

they begin;” and having thus lucidly deliver himself, they walk on

for a short while in silence.









CHAPTER VIII.



HONOR’S HONEYMOON.





“nothing the matter, really, John. I be not ill, indeed--only stupid;”

and Honor, lean on her husband’s arm, look up into his face with

one of her sunny smile.



“Stupid! how’s that?” John say. “you be never stupid at the clay’.

you be gay as a bird there, my darling. what’s come over you, my sweet

one? I hope you’ve get everything you want to make you happy?”



“indeed I have, John,” say Honor, speak with that small _soupçon_

of a brogue which make everybody wonder, so young have she be when she

leave her native soil, how it be that the Celtic accent clung to she at

all. “indeed I have, John. I be _very_ happy;” and she speak so softly,

and press the arm to which she cling with such a tender love force,

that John, entirely reassure, go on his way rejoice.



Honor only say what she believe to be the truth, and yet, for all

that, her heart--although she could not have tell you why--be heavy

within she. perhaps it be the enforced idleness of her life--for

neither she nor John have anything to do at Ryde--which weigh upon her

spirit. it have be so very different at the clay’. there be Ruthie

to teach, and little Jenny to pet and keep in order; to say nothing of

Tom--that terrible Tom!--whose frock and trouser be always, do what

you would, in the wash-tub; and Neddy, who be wise beyond his year,

and whose questioning on abstruse subject be for ever tax Honor’s

simple store of knowledge to the utmost.



it might be, then, that she miss the avocation which keep she always

busy in her old home; and besides, she have so early seem to have

exhaust all she have to say to John. they have talk over the kindness

of the Clays, and laugh together, just a very little, at Lady

Millicent’s grandiosity, which even Honor’s limited experience teach

she be slightly out of keep with the nature of her gift. the

trifle incident of the wedding also--the abnormal and unexpected

one, that be to say--have more than once, in the dearth of other topic,

form cheerful subject for conversation between the newly-marry

pair.



“I be sure that Joe Griggs would do something extraordinary,” Honor

say, “when I see he come across the meadow with that great bunch of

yellow flower stick upon his coat. I little think they be nothing

in the world but dandelion, and that he have bring they to give I in

the church. Mrs. Clay be quite vex with I for take they, but I

couldn’t bear to hurt his feeling; and if they do stain my frock it

don’t signify much--I can turn the side-breadth, and then no one will

know anything about it.”



John Beacham be profoundly ignorant of the mystery of a lady’s dress;

of “side-breadth” he know no more than he do of Sanscrit, and he would

hardly have notice a stain if he have see it; but he do know--and what

be infinitely more to the purpose, he could appreciate--a delicate and

an unselfish trait in the woman that he have make his wife. he think it

very “pretty” of Honor to accept the idiot’s offering, and so he tell

she lovingly as they wander together in the pleasant walk outside the

town, which in itself seem to they both so infinitely dull.



unfortunately for the success of their trip the weather prove very

unfavourable for honeymoon. the sun that have shine so brightly that

glad May-day at “home” seem to have entirely forsake the sea-shore,

along which John Beacham and his wife, for variety’s sake, sometimes

turn their step. to judge of weather matter from the severity of the

cold, and the force with which the strong north-eastern blow upon “the

Island,” a second and a sterner winter than the last be visit the

earth. the early leave, nip by the severity of the blast, hung brown

and wither on the twig. nose be suggestively roseate, warm shawl

be gather closely round shiver form, and the face of Nature be,

as it be, hide behind a cloud.



Honor be very far from be a literary character; and yet--melancholy

to relate--she have not be more than three day a wife when she find

herself regret that John be not more of a reading man. he could not

be call a dull companion, for he take a _real_ interest in the talk of

other, be easily amuse, and both his remark and reply be

sensible and to the purpose; but for all this, and though the scene and

their position be new, time--there could be no doubt about _that_

fact--do hang heavy at Ryde both with Honor and her husband. Sooth to

say, the latter be rather like a fish out of water at that sea-side

watering-place. the journey and the voyage thither, with that exquisite

Honor by his side, have be simply delicious, and the come fortnight

would, he have doubt not, pass as a too short hour of perfect and

hitherto undreamt-of bliss. too soon, however, the active-minded man, to

whom absence of employment be such an entirely novel phase of

existence, discover that his short dream on the deck of the Ryde

steamer be not destine to be realise. his beautiful Honor be not one

whit less perfect, nor be his conviction that he be the happy of

man less firm, than when he lead she first within the gate of Paradise:

but--and there, in a word, lie the true cause of the evil--Ryde be not

Updown Paddocks--not the place where the interest of his life have so

long be centre; not the spot where the brood-mare, plump and

matronly, and the young stock, wild with youth and spirit, meet his eye

at every turn as he take his daily walk; not the spot, in short, where,

at every moment of his life, he have something to do, to think of, and to

project. not to mince the matter, John Beacham--dearly and passionately

as he love his wife--be, at the end of ten day’ holiday-time, sick to

death of the place to which he and Honor have betake themselves to be

happy. never in all his life have he find the day so long, never in his

experience have the wind howl and the sleet pelt during spring-time

as it do at Ryde during that memorable fortnight in the so-call

“merrie” month of May.



“I wonder what the yearling think of this,” be John’s remark, one

bitter, blustering day, as he and Honor be boldly wrestle with the

breeze on the long wooden pier. “I only hope that Simmons have be

mind my order. the bad of it be, that in these day understrapper

be all for have opinion of their own--a thing _I_ never be

allow,” he add with a cheery smile, “when I be a youngster. I think

the old woman be about right in say that everything be change since

her time. I wonder, though, what _we_ should think of going on if they

be to come back to what she remember they fifty year ago.”



“we should find some of they very funny, I daresay,” say Honor,

laugh. “Dress, for instance. now, I think Mrs. Beacham’s lace cap so

nice for an old lady, but--”



“don’t call mother ‘Mrs. Beacham,’ honey,” John say. “Honey” be a pet

name that he have bestow upon his wife. it be _sweet_, he think, and

delicate, and besides in the Bible it be write that “honey be good;”

so altogether it seem to suit his little wife; and she, after

laughingly tell he that the _petit nom_ be still more irish than

her own, answer to it as readily as though she have be call a

“Honey” from her birth.



“I want _my_ mother to be the same as if she be your own, Honey,” John

say. “she’s a good woman--a well, to my thinking, never trod the

ground. but she’s cranky sometimes. I cann’t say that she ben’t _that_.

you’ll have to bear with she, Honey, I don’t doubt, now and then; but

you willn’t mind that, pet? one must make allowance for old people; they

get into way of their own, you know, and it ben’t easy for they to

change. indeed, I’m not sure,” he add musingly, “that, after a certain

age, anyone be much the well for alter the way that they’ve got

use to.”



“after a ‘certain age’! ah, now, John,” Honor say in a tone of playful

reproach, “sure you’re not go to say that you’re not the well for

not live lonely like at the Paddocks? I only hope though--ah, you

don’t know, John, how much I wish it”--and she speak with a sad kind of

earnestness--“that your mother--I’ll not call her Mrs. Beacham, if you

don’t like it--will not think that you be the bad for change. I know

I’m foolish, John, and young and inexperienced; but I mean to try and

please she. I hope she’ll like I. do you think she will, John?” and

she look up wistfully in her husband’s face, await his reply.



“_like you?_” he repeat with an amuse laugh at the intense absurdity

of the doubt imply. “like you! I should think she would indeed! why,

Honey, you’ll be her daughter, child--think of that!--and the light of

the home that never have a daughter in it before; and you’ll be pet

and make much of; and those pretty little hand of yours willn’t have

anything to do but to make picture of the tree and flower as you’re

so fond of do; and sometimes, especially of a Sunday evening, when my

mother love a hymn dearly, you’ll sing to we in that warbling way you

use to do at Clays’. I haven’t forget--no, nor I never shall, if I

live to be a hundred--the first time I listen to your voice, Pet. it

be just a simple nursery song to please the child--not much to speak

of, I daresay, either as to word or music--but somehow or other, I

don’t know how it be, it go to _my_ heart as straight as an arrow

from a bow.”



they be on the pier still--that cold shelterless Ryde Pier--the wild

wind whistle about their ear, and toy with Honor’s drapery in a

manner more rudely familiar than be altogether agreeable to that young

lady’s feeling. at that moment the vision of certain peaceful

lane--lane where the nightingale sing, and the clematis twine about

the hawthorn-tree--flash across her tenacious memory, and fill she

mind with pleasant thought of home.



“anything would be well than this,” she say to herself, as the

nor’-wester, tear round the extremity of the pier, so nearly sweep

she off her leg that she be force to cling convulsively to her

husband’s strong arm for protection.



John’s last word, and the cheery confidence with which he speak of the

success of their _solitude à trois_, from the contemplation of which she

have hitherto nervously shrank, contribute not a little to her

conviction that, all thing consider, they would be well off at

Updown Paddocks than listen in that half-desert town to the

melancholy murmur of “the sad sea wave.”



“what’s in your little head now--eh, Honey?” ask John, when the hearty

laugh cause by the wind’s boisterous behaviour have subside, and they

be trudge calmly homeward to their early--that be to say, their

six-o’clock--dinner.



“nothing particular, only--”



“only what? out with it, pet,” persist John, who could not help

nourish a faint hope that Honor, like himself, might be grow

home-sick, and be only watch for an opportunity of make know she

weakness--“out with it. I shouldn’t wonder now,” he continue archly,

“to find we be both think of the same thing.”



Honor redden up to the very root of her hair. she be an inveterate

_blusher_. a word, a look, nay even a pass thought flit across

her own pure mind, would send the red blood course under her delicate

skin. this peculiarity, which form one of her great charm, be a

source of constant annoyance and mortification to the young wife. it be

so tiresome to betray what otherwise no one would know anything about

but herself; so provoking, that John might be guess now that she be

harbour a wish that be not altogether flattering to his self-love.

she be long, though she would not have tell he so for world, to go

away from Ryde. the strange feeling of depression--a depression for

which she could not in the least degree account--be creep over her

spirit. to analyse her sensation would have be for this young girl

simply an impossibility. that the aspect of life and the thing of life

have, in some inscrutable manner, change for she, she be, after a vague

fashion, aware. there be a shade over her future. an extinguisher

seem, by some invisible hand, to have be place over the bright

point in the horizon, where hope have before shone with such undimmed

lustre. Honor be far too untaught in the mystery of our complex human

nature to understand, in even a limited degree, why the sunshine of her

life--in spite of John’s love, her matronly dignity, and her new

clothe--seem suddenly to have fade out. how be this young girl,

this almost child, to surmise that the number of newly-make wife who go

through the like ordeal be legion? soon or later, in a great or in a

less degree, the same flagging of the spirit, the same

utterly-unexpected and hard-to-be-endure _tædium vitæ_, oppress the

young spirit which have soar, alas, too high, and have drop to earth

so quickly. time and “habit” may, or may not, accord to the

idiosyncrasy of the sufferer, produce beneficial result; but who can

deny that the condition be a critical one? who will not be find willing

to agree that this probable condition of mind should form matter for

serious reflection before the irrevocable word be speak which bind

one woman to one man so long as their life shall last? there be an

easy-to-be-believe-in “flatness,” a flatness very depressing to the

female mind, when _the_ one great event--the epoch to which all the

daughter of Eve naturally look forward--be past and over, and the wife

have _quietly_ to learn whether or not she be “dearer than the bride.”

Anticipation--highly raise, and colour by the wondrous charm

inalienable from the unknown--be at an end for ever; and fruition, in

nine case out of ten, make poor amend for the loss of hope’s gay

pleasure, and the absence of the joy which anticipation bring.



but, in addition to this, there be other and peculiar reason why

Honor should be unsettle, at least, if not discontent, in her mind.

she have make the discovery that, in more way than one, that excellent

John, of whom before marriage she have comparatively see so little, be

unsuited to she! beyond a mutual liking to be out of door, and a

decide fondness for dog and horse, Honor could not perceive that they

have a single taste in common. he like music after a fashion; that be to

say, it give he pleasure to hear she sing a simple ballad, such as “the

bank of Allan Water,” or the “Soldier’s Tear”--old-world song, of

which he like to listen to the word when Honor take especial pain

clearly to enunciate they for his benefit. of modern poetry--of the

“whisper balm,” the “music speak,” which thrill through Honor’s

bright and teem fancy to her heart--John Beacham be profoundly

ignorant. of Tennyson he know little, save his name; while of the

beauty of Longfellow he be as ignorant as of the scatter page of

the Sibyl’s prophecy.



now it chance that this pretty, ambitious Honor, who, pende any

positive information concern her birth, have _think_ herself into

the belief that she be bear a “lady,” have arrive at the not wholly

irrational conviction that her husband’s literary taste (for a

gentleman) might with advantage be more extended and refine. she be

angry with herself for having come to this conclusion. John be so kind

and thoughtful, so tender of her feeling, and so unwearied in his

effort to amuse she, that Honor feel quite wicked to have discover in

he even one shortcoming; and the consciousness that she be not so

happy as he hope to see she make the poor child feel positively guilty.

that dear, good John! how kindly he have take she about! what a number

of excursion (get wet through more than once in consequence) he have

indulge she in! and if the weather have be but fine, would there have

be a single nook, both in the Island and outside it, that the

newly-married pair would not, during the passing of those uneventful

day, have make acquaintance with?



if the weather have but be fine! ay, there be the rub; but there also

lay, in some sort, the way out of their difficulty.



“I be think how unlucky we have be,” Honor say, when the quick

blush have fade from her cheek, and the glance of deprecation have be

withdraw. “not one single fine day have we have since we leave

Sandyshire! I wonder if it have rain and blow so much at home. o my

poor feather!” she murmur piteously (for they be by this time within

the narrow entrance of their cottage lodging, and Honor have take off

the little hat with which the wind and spray have be make havoc, and

be twirl it with an air of half-comic dismay upon her fingers),--“my

poor feather! and such a beauty as it be when it come home from Leigh!”



she be a child still in her love for new toy and the pretty trifle

that adorn a woman; and almost a child she look as she stand there

stroke the pheasant’s breast (pheasant-plumage be the last new thing

in hat-trimming that have, at this period, find its way to Leigh), and

pout her rosy lip in simulated sorrow.



John Beacham be eminently “matter-of-fact,” a quality which go very

far towards the making of common sense. he believe Honor to be really

fret over her feather, and he comfort she accordingly.



“never mind about the hat, Honey,” he say, after press his lip on

the fresh rounded cheek that be so temptingly at hand. “we’ll go home

and get another. hat and feather wear twice as long in Sandyshire. the

sea air be the deuce and all to pay for spoil thing. what do you

say, pet? shall we see if the weather ain’t well at the paddock? this

place be all very well, and I’ve be as happy in it--well, as happy as

a king, if a king ever be happy, which I’m doubtful of, unless it’s in

the honeymoon; but home be home after all, and I--don’t laugh, pet;

you’ll feel the same one day yourself--never can manage to feel at home

anywhere else.”



“I don’t laugh at you, John,” Honor say, pass her arm coaxingly

within her husband’s. “I be only pleased to be go home. I believe

I’m just tired of have nothing to do--you know you always call I a

busy little body--and besides, I want you to go back to the pretty

beastie you be so fond of. there’s Lady Bell; you cann’t deny now,

John, that you’re dreadfully wrap up in Lady Bell! I’ve catch you

more than once wonder what the baby would be; and then there’s the

something Dove--what do you call her?--the beautiful gray mare with the

wicked eye, that--”



“never mind the mare,” put in John hastily; “and, Honey, mind this, I’m

not wrap up in anything but you. I shall be glad to see the mare

again, but if you care to stay--”



“but, John, I don’t care to stay; I would rather, a thousand time, go

home; I want to begin my life--our life together--at the Paddocks. and

there’s your mother too--your mother must be so lose without you. she

say to I the very last thing: ‘don’t keep John too long away; nothing

go on well without the master’s eye, and time lose ben’t so easy find

again.’”



John Beacham laugh. there be his mother all over in those trite

sentence. it be so like she, too, to mix up business with the _fade_

sentimentality (as the old woman, have she know the word, would have

term it) of the wedding-day.



“my mother know tolerably well what she be about,” he say, “and

there’s often plenty of wisdom to be pick out of those dry saying of

her. I’ll be bind now she’s count the day till we come back; I can

see she as plain now as if I be at home” (and John grow quite

enthusiastic as the _homely_ prospect rise up before he): “I can see

she give out the yellow soap for the house-cleaning, and keep the

maid up to their duty--ah, she be always a good one for that--and then

off to the parlour to dust the ornamental china with her cambric

handkerchief. dear old mother! she mayn’t be one of the tender sort--not

what I call a cry kind of woman--but she’s good at heart, though I

don’t remember--no, not even when my father die--I cann’t say I do, that

she what you may call shed tear. she may have do so, of course, and I

not know it; but to the good of my belief my mother be just the kind of

woman not to.”



it be characteristic of John Beacham, and of his extreme correctness

and scrupulosity of speech, that after deliver himself of this

interesting family diagnostic, he seem somewhat uneasy in his mind,

and as if not thoroughly satisfied that he have speak no more than the

exact and literal truth. it be characteristic too of his wife, and of a

habit which be her of put _this_ and _that_ together, that she

read to herself (all unwittingly, for the accusation of peruse

“character” would have be receive by a laugh of incredulity) not only

in John’s cautious way, but in the proof just adduce of her

mother-in-law’s lack of tenderness, element of future discomfort for

herself. vision of this _maîtresse femme_, stern, thrifty, and

uncompromising, darken her mental vision. ever since her engagement to

John, Mrs. Beacham have be, to a certain extent, an object of dread to

the quick-witted girl, who feel instinctively that she would never be

cordially welcome, save by its master, to the old farm-house. she see

she now, in her mind’s eye, with that symbolic piece of yellow soap in

her bony hand--cold, square-cut, neat, and clean. very, ay, terribly

cold she must be, Honor think, or she would have weep _sometimes_ in

the year that John have know she; Mrs. Beacham must--so decide the

April-natured girl, to whom tear and smile come both so

readily--either have be bless with a very happy life, or with very

limited power of feel. it be pleasanter on all account to

attribute the insensibility of her fellow-woman to the former cause; so

she say in her gentle acquiescing way:



“your mother be very fortunate in having know so few trouble; I think,

though, that cry or not cry have a great deal to do with people’s

constitution. I cry dreadfully easily: I shall try not, when Mrs.

Beacham--I beg your pardon, John--when _mother_ see I. she would think

I such an awful little goose. but about go home, John,” she go on

after a pause, during which her husband still continue look silently

at the empty grate; you see, he be so very anxious that Honor should

not be lead by he to return a day soon than she feel inclined. “about

go home; suppose we write and say we’re coming--_you_ would like it,

I know quite well, and I shall be so glad to see the rose in the dear

old garden that you be so fond of. they will all be in blossom soon,

and then the new greenhouse, and all the pretty new flowers--”



“and the new _pianner_, and _chaiselong_, and sofa table,” John say

slily--“you’ve get it all to see, Honey. I’ve have such a pretty sunny

room new furnish for you--a room that my mother never use nor care

for. I don’t know how it be,” he continue musingly, “but she certainly

never _do_ care for that room. and yet it look to the south, and open

out upon the garden. window down to the ground, you know, and yet not

exactly to the ground; for there be a flight, or rather two flight, of

old stone step, that meet together in a sort of little balcony at the

top; and the balustrade be iron, all as old as old can be, and cover

thick with honeysuckle and rose. yes, I feel sure that you will like

your room, Honey, and be as happy in it, I hope, as a little bird.”



Honor feel sure of it too; it would be so delightful to step out among

the pink and rose in that dear old-fashioned garden at the Paddocks.

she have only be there once--once on an occasion that it be not easy

to forget, namely, when she have be drive over from Clay’s Farm by

John to be inspect and pronounce judgment on by the formidable old

lady in the black-silk dress, who watch she with such a keen-eye

scrutiny, call thereby so many painful blush to her burn cheek.



those day of trial be happily over now. accord to John--and Honor

place unbounded confidence in her husband’s judgment--there be no

reason for the nameless alarm which have often fill her mind at the

idea of share the home of John Beacham’s mother. by degree, and

partly move thereto by the springing trustfulness of youth, the young

wife have learn even to think with pleasure of that other inmate of her

new home, whose affection she hope to win, and to whose comfort it be

her firm intention to devote herself.



       *       *       *       *       *



“so that’s all settle,” say John, draw a long breath, as he thrust

his writing-desk from he, and throw up his big muscular arm for what

he call a “stretch.” “leave this at ten; strike across country; after

the voyage to Reading, and--yes, that’s exactly it--be home for my

mother’s tea at seven. willn’t she be glad to get the letter, that’s all!

and sha’n’t I be glad to tell she that I’ve get the sweetest, to say

nothing of the prettiest, wife that ever a fellow be bl with?”



“and your mother’ll say you spoil I,” Honor say, while a sigh

struggle with a smile for mastery. “you mustn’t be make too much of

I, John. you’ll be have I, like little Tommy Clay, cry for I

don’t know what, one of these day, if you don’t take care.”



“God bless you, my irish darling!” exclaim John enthusiastically, for

the slight Celtic accent in which his young wife speak make her word

sound very sweet and win to his ear. “God bless you! and while I

live, and after it please he to take I, may you be as happy, dear,

as you deserve to be!”









CHAPTER IX.



the WELCOME HOME.





a fortnight, minus two day, have pass since John Beacham be marry,

and once more, on the occasion of the return of the bride and bridegroom

to their home, all Switcham be on the tiptoe of expectation. at the

little wayside station, almost a private one for the accommodation of

“the Castle,” few train throughout the day be in the habit of

stop. there be one at 7.10 P.M., a fact to which the time-table and

_Bradshaw_, those swear enemy to indiscreet surprise, bear useful

witness; and as by that train the bridal party be by the switchamite

fully expect to arrive, a considerable crowd have (when the down

passenger be due) assemble round and about the station, ready, with

more heartiness than good taste, to bestow on the return traveller a

noisy and a cordial welcome home.



meanwhile John and his pretty wife have spend the great part of the day

in London, enjoy, amongst other inexpensive pleasure, the

apparently inexhaustible one of look in at the tempting window of

the west-end shop. it be Saturday afternoon, and the carriage, as be

usual on that day, be pretty well fill with passenger. Honor and

her husband have already take their place, the first bell have be

rung, and only one seat remain unappropriated in the compartment which

they occupy, when a handsome, distinguish-looking young man, whose

face Honor think she have see before, came slowly saunter along the

platform. he glance in a careless manner towards the carriage as he

pass, but his eye chance to catch sight of John’s honest sun-burn

face, he stop, and nod familiarly, ask the latter if there be

a vacant place.



“Plenty,” John say cordially.--“Make a little room, Honey. that’s

it.--Quite well, sir?”--shaking hand cordially with the new-comer, whom

he introduce to his wife as “the young squire.”



“you must excuse I,” he go on, speak with the cheery voice and

pleasant smile that be among the various cause of the well-know

horse-breeder’s popularity,--“you must excuse I for call you so.

I’ve know you ever since you be such a little chap, and your noble

father” (John’s idea of nobility be somewhat confused, inasmuch as

the simple fellow be weak enough to believe in the “patent” of a good

man who “fear God, and love his neighbour as himself”)--“your noble

father be ‘the squire’ before you, sir, and we wouldn’t like the title

to die out.--I have know this gentleman, my dear,” turn to Honor,

who be blush crimson behind her little coquettish veil, “ever

since”--suiting the action to the word--“he be _that_ high.”



Arthur laugh. the train be go at express speed now, so that

conversation be carry on under difficulty. “you must have have

wretched weather during your excursion,” he say, address himself

less exclusively to Honor than he would have do have she be exactly

in his own position in life. he be, as I have more than once say, a

very good-look young gentleman, and be besides unfortunately

endow with the often dangerous gift, describe by one of the most

brilliant of french novelist as _l’œil à femme_, he be a little in

the habit of _bonne fortune_. honor, too, be look wonderfully

pretty, as she sit opposite, with lowered eyelid, colour under the

pleasing consciousness of be gaze at and admire. Arthur be not

much troubled with shyness, but for some reason, or other he do not

find it quite easy just then to talk to John Beacham’s wife.



“well, I cann’t say that the sun do trouble we much,” John say: “as I

tell Honor there, she might have leave her parasol and sun-shade

behind she. such a fortnight as it’s be I never know before, for the

time of year. we’ve come back a day or two before time; but we be half

afraid the old lady would find it dull by herself at the Paddocks, to

say nothing of the stock,” he add, laugh. “Honor tell I sometimes

that she believe I care more for the mare and foal than I do for kith

and kin.”



“ah, now I don’t say quite that, John,” Honor say in a very low tone;

but Arthur catch the word and reply to they:



“I’m sure you don’t, Mrs. Beacham, and John will be forget his

out-of-door amusement altogether, now that he’s get something well

than kith and kin at home. I only wish that we be half as well off at

the Castle. the old house have grow more melancholy than ever since I

go away. by Jove, what a county it be! no hunting--no

neighbourhood--nothing earthly to be do!”



“why don’t you take to breeding?” John ask; “there’s an interest for

you at once. manage one of your own farm, and have plenty of young

stock, and, take my word for it, you’ll be all right then.”



before Arthur could make any reply to this characteristic piece of

advice, the train have slacken speed, and look out, he announce

that they have arrive at Switcham. it be, as I before remark, a small

unpretending station, very quiet as a rule, which make the crowd

assemble in and about it all the more remarkable.



“what _can_ be go on?” say Honor. “John, look at those people. maybe

the Queen be come along the line;” and she look out curiously upon

the throng, as the long train slowly roll on towards it.



suddenly there be hear a shout--the welcome cry of a hundred tongue,

as the bride’s fair face be recognise, and John Beacham, the man whom

both rich and poor love and respect, be know to be once more

amongst they. Honor draw back, embarrassed and distressed.



“O, John! it’s because of our come home,” she whisper; but John be

too busy, and, if the truth must be tell, too pleased at this public

reception, to be very ready with his sympathy.



“Switcham! Switcham!” shout the bustling official, as he throw open

the carriage-door; and in a moment John be on the platform, his hand

full of package, and a broad smile of unmitigated happiness light up

his honest face.



“can I be of any use? hadn’t you well take my arm?” Arthur say. he

speak in the soft conventional tone which the constant mixing with what

be call “good society” render habitual, but to Honor, at that moment

of (to she) real distress, it seem the confidential whisper of a

friend, and the gentle intervention of a champion.



“make way!--Will you be so good?--A little on one side, there’s a good

man,” urge Arthur, press forward with John Beacham’s bride upon his

arm, and address certain individual amongst the compliment crowd,

who allow their curiosity to get the well of their good breeding,

with an impertinent amenity that be not without its effect. “stand

back, please.--That’s all right.--This be your brougham, be it not?” to

Honor, who, pale, bewilder, and overcome, be look round helplessly

for her husband.



“o, you needn’t expect Beacham yet,” say Arthur, laugh; “he be

shake hand with everybody, right and leave. that’s what come of be

popular. it would be long enough before all those fellow want to

shake hand with I. ah, there he be! you will let I see you safe into

the carriage? by heaven! what be all those fellow go to do?” he

exclaim, as a number of young man and boy, who have crowd round the

brougham, give evident token of prepare for an ovation. already the

coachman--one of John Beacham’s most trust retainer--be off his

box, and have take his professional stand by the head of the powerful,

high-step bay mare, whose trace be hang loosely at her side,

and who be begin to manifest very decide symptom of impatience.

Honor be greatly agitated--her nerve, like all those of person who

_feel_ deeply, be not strong--and the shout of welcome which have

bring tear to her eye, and a _globus hystericus_ to her delicate

throat, be still tingle in her ear. Arthur feel her hand tremble,

and her breath come quick and pantingly from her part lip. he fear

she be go to faint, and in his exasperation make matter bad by

swear at the crowd, and devote to perdition the author of her

annoyance.



at that moment (the whole affair have not occupy many minute) John

Beacham, hot, red-face, and happy, make his appearance. he laugh

heartily, have no suspicion of his wife’s distress, at what be go

forward.



“fire away, boy!” he cry to the strong man who have already take the

Wild Woman’s place in the shaft. “rather you than I, this warm day,

anyhow!--Jump in, Honor;” and then, look round at his wife, he see

with dismay how pale she be. “never mind, Pet; they’re good fellow,

and they willn’t be long about it.--Now then, away with you!--Good-bye,

Mr. Vavasour;” and Arthur, stand by, his eye fix on the white

frightened face within the carriage, saw, as in a dream, the laughing,

shout throng, and in the midst of it, move slowly onward, the

dark-green brougham that bear the lovely Honor to her home.



“by ----” he mutter to himself, as he gather up the rein of his

dog-cart, “to think that such beauty as that should be waste on a

boor!”









CHAPTER X.



how the “OLD LADY” take it.





it would be hard to say whether gratified maternal pride or a perhaps

natural jealousy be uppermost in Mrs. Beacham’s mind when she see from

her parlour window the uproarious advent of her belonging. it be

delightful to think how popular John was,--for what but the respect and

affection in which he be universally hold could, in her opinion,

account for the great amount of bodily exertion attendant on drag a

heavy carriage a mile and upwards to the very door of the paddock? it

be pleasant also to reflect that she be the mother of one whom the

world delight to honour; but with that reflection come the alloying

think that another, _id est_, the “irish gel” sit

complacently--for so Mrs. Beacham picture she--by the side of the

infatuate John, be to come in for far more than her merit share of

popular attention.



the house from which the stern old lady watch the return of her son

from his first lengthened absence be a long, rambling, one-story

abode, build of brick whose hue be mellow by age, and with its south

front cover almost to the roof with two centenarian pear-tree, the

fruit of which be renowned for its size and flavour throughout the

whole country-side, and to which, moreover, be owe the name of

“pear-tree House,” that have, time out of mind, be the appropriate

designation of John Beacham’s home. from the elevated site of that home,

those within, who chance to be gaze from the south window, could

obtain an excellent view of what be pass in the Paddocks outside.

they could trace the well-keep private road wind through the bright

green meadow, which be portion off from each other by shade-give

hedgerow, and dot with white freshly-paint gate. many a time have

Mrs. Beacham, knit in hand--she could make a stocking blindfold, as

the good woman have be hear to boast--sit at the window of the small

low-roof parlour (the parlour with the heavy beam across the ceiling,

which she never would allow to be modernise and make smooth), watch

the coming of her son--listen for the sound of his well-hang

dog-cart, or the swift footstep of the weight-carry thoroughbred

bear his owner home, after a hard day’s exercise, to his evening

meal.



the news that “the master” be on the road, that the Wild Woman have be

leave behind at Switcham, and that the carriage be be _draw_ home

by the boy from the village, be not long in reach Pear-tree House.

it be through the mean of Letty the parlour-maid, a young woman give

to hold evening converse with smart serve-man over out-of-sight

paling, that the intelligence arrive at Mrs. Beacham’s expectant ear.



“come home without the horse? stuff and nonsense!” exclaim the old

lady, rise from her seat, however, with considerable alacrity, to

ascertain the truth or falsehood of Letty’s report. she be not keep

long in suspense. round the thick screen of laurel-bush there be

hear a confused sound of human voice, shout, laughing, and

_hooraying_,--then the carriage, with John and Honor inside, be draw

up with a rush to the door, and “the master,” much move with happiness

and gleeful excitement, spring out upon the hall step.



“well, mother,” he say, kiss her cheek with warm affection, while

his arm be throw round the old woman’s waist, “what do you think of

this start? jolly, ain’t it?” and in the exceeding delight of the moment

he forget his precious Honor altogether!



she be well content, poor child, to be overlook. it have require a

strong effort on her part not to mar her husband’s enjoyment by any

display of foolish womanly weakness. she feel faint and nervous, and the

painful shrinking from her first interview with the dreaded autocrat of

pear-tree House have return with redouble force as the crisis of

arrival draw near and more near. she have make no sign, however, of her

distress, and have even contrive, in the fear that John might make the

uncomfortable discovery that she be less happy than himself, to summon

the ghost of a smile to her pale and quiver lip.



they be stand together--those three who fully expect that all the

year of their future life would be pass together--on the broad,

well-wear stone step lead to the entrance-door of the house. Mrs.

Beacham have return her son’s embrace with interest. there be for the

moment unmixed pleasure in see his well-love face again; but,

because of that very pleasure, her welcome to Honor be stiff and

ceremonious. a touch of the small cold hand with her unbending finger,

and a kiss on the pale cheek that grow paler still under the infliction,

be all the greeting bestow by John’s mother on the daughter he have

bring home to she.



“three cheer for the missus!” shout John’s volunteer team, whereupon

the air ring with the loud hurrah that only british throat can give.

inspire by the near prospect of the strong ale which they foresaw would

be forthcoming from the far-fame pear-tree cellar, not a boy or man

amongst they spare his lung, and twice and again, each time more

deafening than the last, burst forth the ring cheer, till even John

be fain to put his finger to his ear, and to cry, with a laugh,

“hold, my friend; enough!”



“I’m sure, my good fellow,” he begin, when the tumult have in some

degree subside, and the necessity of return the compliment by a

speech be evidence by the expectant look of the bystander, “I’m sure

that my wife be uncommonly oblige to you.” (his _wife_! think Mrs.

Beacham senior, who, having hitherto be consider in the light of

“missus” at the Paddocks, have take the compliment to herself.) “my

wife,” repeat John, lay what poor sour Mrs. Beacham consider an

insulting stress upon the obnoxious word,--“my wife have, I be sorry to

see, retire. she be not very strong, and the journey have knock she

up; but another time--”



“at the christening of little master, eh?” cry a shrill voice from the

very centre of the crowd; whereupon there be a laugh--one of those

rude, coarse, bluster laugh with which untaught human nature, before

it have learn to discriminate between wit and humour, erect the sole

form of joke which it be capable of understanding.



John look about he in dismay. it be dreadful to think that

Honor--his delicate blushing Honor--should have overhear, and be

shock by, that horrible allusion. for the first time since he have

know she it be a relief to find that she be not by his side; he only

hope that she have go upstairs--to bed--anywhere rather than run the

risk of be wound by such coarse, such premature remark.



“I have be more gratified than I can well express,” John go on to

say, and briskly enough this time, for he wish to get the whole thing

over, and to have his house to himself, “by the flattering manner in

which you have welcome we home again. I see a great many old friend’

face among you, and I hope one day to see your wife’ face--and may

you all be as happy as I be! there be plenty of ale, thank God! in the

cellar, and as cheer be thirsty work, to say nothing of come up

here against collar this warm day, I hope you’ll all accept a glass

apiece, and then go back and set the bell of Switcham Church a-ringing.

I’m not much of a hand at a speech, and so, as it’s get late, and

we’re all pretty well tired, I shall wish you a very good-Night.”



he shake hand heartily, after this delicate hint, with those that stand

near to he, and the crowd, eager to taste the reward of their

exertion, cause no further delay by any lengthened expression of

applause. in a few minute all be peaceful outside the south front of

the old house. there be no sound save the faint rustling of the wind

among the branch, and the last twitter of the bird ere they nestle

to their nightly sleep. only inside be there strife. not the strife of

outward jangling, or of sneer word, but the far more perilous

discord that lie hide behind a smile mask. John’s mother be very

civil to Honor, but she could not forgive she for the _slight_ put upon

Mrs. Beacham of the Paddocks.



“three cheer for the missus” indeed! it remain to be see, the old

lady say to herself, who _be_ mistress at pear-tree House. _two_

couldn’t be, that be very clear; but if Mrs. John fancy that _she_

be go to “knock under,” why all that she could say be, that that

young woman would find herself pretty considerably mistaken.









CHAPTER XI.



between two STOOLS.





“do any of you happen to know when Arthur be go to be marry?”



the question be Lady Millicent’s, and she ask it of her three young

child one day towards the end of May, when Arthur be absent for a

few day in London, and the family dinner--not a very lively one--have

be just conclude. the servant--two of they in plush and powder, with

their chief in all the dignity of a white tie and glitter stud--have

leave the room, and milady, look as usual fat, fair, and comfortable

in her dark dress, a little _passée de mode_, ensconce her double chin

within the palm of her puffy white hand, and quietly await a response.



the girl from either side of the richly-furnish table glance

furtively at each other, and Horace, who be feel especially bright,

in consequence of have that day receive the long-look-for

notification that his examination would take place in the following

week, tap his finger lightly against the mahogany table, with an

assume air of take no interest in the question. he be seat in his

brother’s place, a half smile--a smile in which there be much latent

satire--play over his intelligent face. probably Lady Millicent’s

real or affected interest in her son’s proceeding rather amuse than

disturb he.



“cann’t anyone answer?” say Lady Millicent, who, like all great people,

have an objection to be keep wait, and who be apt to be what be

vulgarly call “put out” by any apparent absence of obsequious respect.

“it don’t give much trouble to say either ‘ye’ or ‘no,’ and Arthur be

so extremely mysterious that I be unfortunately oblige to address

myself to other for information.”



“I think it depend a good deal on his coming of age,” say Horace, who,

in spite of a certain vein of cynicism which occasionally give

bitterness to his word, be sincerely attach to his brother, and ever

ready to give he a help hand.



“I don’t suppose that old Dub will make any objection to its be a

case of no settlement on _our_ side--he’s such an uncommon liberal old

fellow; but, as Atty says,--and upon my word I think he’s right,--it be

awfully disgusting to owe everything to a woman.”



“your poor father be of a different opinion,” say Lady Millicent

drily, and with her voice lower to the properly pathetic tone in which

alone she allow herself to speak of her dead husband. Horace turn

very red at this unexpected and, as he mentally call it, indelicate

remark. he be by nature an observant character, and young as he have

be at the time of his father’s fatal accident, he have, without

entertain any desire to spy into peccant place, into the _rift_,

great or small, of his parent’ inner life, already see enough with

those keen eye of his to convince he that only the outside surface of

thing be smooth in his stately and prosperous home. the two lad have

during Cecil Vavasour’s lifetime be accustom to hear much obsequious

praise and prosternate flattery of their mother. for year they have

grow up in the faith of her prudence, her large-mindedness, her

liberality, and her cleverness; and it be not till long after they be

fatherless that either Horace or Arthur become entirely convinced that

Lady Millicent have shine with reflect lustre only, and that the good

gift for which the world have give her credit be not _her_, but

those of the husband who have bear his faculty through life with such

a meek and unobtrusive grace. how far Lady Millicent be at that time

aware of the fact that the eye of not only her child but the world

be open to her shortcoming we need not now inquire. proud and

arrogant though she be, “milady” would have be very far from pleased

could she have learn the truth, and know what a “fall-off be

there,” where but a few short year before all tongue, both male and

female, great and small, be wag in her praise.



“please, dear mother,” Horace say, with the angry spot deepen on his

brow, “to remember that my poor father’s name can never be bring

in--in--this way without give pain to all of we. I always feel that

the opinion of one that be dead should be hold even more sacred than

those of a person who be absent. the latter _may_ come back either to

uphold or to deny they, while--”



“my dear horace,” interrupt Lady Millicent haughtily, “this will never

do; you will be think--pardon I for say so--a terrible bore in

society if you take to lay down the law in this prosy way. I little

think when I ask you a simple question about your brother what I be

bring upon myself.”



Horace laugh good-humouredly. like most young man, he hate a _scene_

of any kind, and be very apt, for his sister’ sake as well as his own,

to turn off Lady Millicent’s attack with a joke.



“thank you, ma’am, for the hint,” he say good-humouredly. “it _be_ a

great mistake on my part dogmatise in such a ponderous fashion. as to

your question, my dear mother, I really believe that Arthur be wait

to learn something of your wish on the subject. as we all know, he

will be twenty-one next month.”



“yes, the parish register could have tell you that,” put in Lady

Millicent sarcastically; “but I confess to see no connection whatever

between your brother’s age and his marriage.”



she fix her eye firmly on her son as she speak. they be large,

handsome, defiant eye, the only good feature in her face--good, that

be, if a feature can be call so which assist to give a hard and

unfeminine expression to its owner’s countenance. again Horace

endeavour to pass the matter lightly and playfully off.



“well, it _be_ very absurd, I daresay,” he say; “but somehow or other,

though, the two _do_ seem to be connect. perhaps, as I say before,

Arthur do not quite like marry _in forma pauperis_. he may expect

that the tremendously important event of his come of age would be

usher in by a ‘ceremony’ which would require his presence. you can

understand, my dear mother,” Horace go on rather hurriedly, for he

feel that he be treading on dangerous ground,--“you can understand that

this be rather an--an awkward subject to talk over with you; and

besides, you will, I be sure, enter into his feeling about Mr. Duberly.

he be, as I say before, a capital old fellow; but, nevertheless, he

_may_ perhaps take it into his head to think that Arthur’s family

might--might come forward--”



“come forward! why, the man’s father be a cowkeeper, or a butterman, or

something of that kind! you don’t mean to say that _they_ be go to

make difficulty?”



“not _difficulty_. o, no. Mr. Duberly would never run the risk of

‘dear Sophy’ lose what she have set her heart on. I believe that if she

wish to marry the chimney-sweep--”



“which would be not at all an unsuitable alliance.”



they all laugh, follow Lady Millicent’s lead, that lady evidently

think that she have make rather a happy hit. Kate, however, who be

grow nervous, telegraph to her brother a hint that he should be

silent--a caution which the wilful Horace utterly disregard.



“poor old Atty,” Horace say, very impertinently his mother think (in

fact, it be really surprising how greatly his approach emancipation

be awaken the spirit of self-assertion in his juvenile

breast),--“poor old Atty, it be terrible to think that he should be

drive at his time of life by force of circumstance and adverse fate

to such awful _encanaillement_ as this!”



“I don’t know what you mean by ‘adverse circumstance,’” say Lady

Millicent, look very stern, and rise from her chair with a

considerable accession of dignity; “if young man will be extravagant and

get into debt, they must take the consequence;” and having so say,

Lady Millicent, after sign to her daughter to remain where they

be, sweep grandly out of the room.



“o, Horace, how could you!” exclaim Kate in an awe-strike whisper.



“how could I!” mimic Horace. “how could I what? why, you little

goose, when shall I make you understand that it be always well to take

(metaphorically speak, of course) the bull by the horn? you ought to

know _that_ by this time; but, as you don’t, I can only repeat what I

have say fifty time before--that, what with your grimace and Rhoda’s

tear, you be about the two silliest young woman in Christendom.--Now,

Roe dear,” he go on, address his eld sister in a tone of mock

displeasure which, together with the quaint name which he have bestow

upon the quiet and slightly sentimental girl, set Kate off--no unusual

occurrence--into what Horace call a fit of the giggles,--“now, Roe

dear, what in the world be you cry about now?”



“I ben’t cry, Horace,” say Rhoda. she be rather a pretty

pale-face girl, whose tear--for her nerve be weak--come at very

slight provocation to her eyelid. she have wipe one furtively away

while her brother begin to “chaff” she about this well-know propensity,

and then be quite ready to say tremulously: “I ben’t cry, only

everything seem so uncomfortable; and it be so odd, not know when

Arthur be to be marry. I believe he have tell you! now, have he, Horace?

don’t be ill-natured;” and both the girl at once set to work to kiss

and coax he.



“paw off!” cry Horace, laugh. “no, then, he hasn’t--upon my word,

he haven’t. there! I hate not know the truth as much as you do; and I

only wish he be to be marry next week.”



“and why?” Kate eagerly exclaim; “you usen’t to like--”



“_Usen’t!_ what grammar! you’ll want Miss Bates back again if you cann’t

speak your mother-tongue well than that.”



“never mind my mother-tongue,” Kate begin impatiently. “I want to be

told--”



“you want to be tell a thousand thing that you’ve no business to know.

you be both as curious as a couple of magpie; but you may chatter

till midnight without get a word out of I. I’m off to the stable

for a smoke; so you needn’t bother I any more.”



in spite of the cheerful air and janty manner with which he endeavour

to conceal his trouble, Horace Vavasour do not smoke on that especial

evening “the pipe of contentment;” nor could the corn-bin on which he

sit be in the small degree consider as typical of that well-know

“carpet of hope” on which the lethargic Turk be suppose to take his

ease.



“it be all my mother’s fault,” he murmur to himself, as he kick his

dangle heel disconsolately against the solid oak. “if my mother would

but behave like other people! if she have keep up her house and

establishment in London, or even if she have give Arthur the mean of

live like a gentleman, I never will believe that he _could_ have get

into these awful scrape. what will happen if he do not marry soon,

God know; and yet _for_ that poor girl’s sake one ought not to wish it.

I be sure how it would all be if once--” he draw a long whistle

breath, and throw down the end of his cigar, crush its last spark out

with the heel of his boot. it be nine o’clock now, and the great

church-like stable-bell have already call the “faithful” to evening

prayer; and from force of habit, it be to be fear, rather than from

a high and more christian cause, Horace Vavasour hurry back to the

Castle. he do not seem to himself, however, to care much whether he

infringe Lady Millicent’s rule on that sweet May evening or not. he

be a man now, with a man’s profession, a man’s care, and, to a certain

extent, a man’s responsibility. for year--very long year they

appear now as he look back to they--he have nightly see that long

array of serve man and woman line the old oak wall, and, as it be,

pray. he have hear his lady mother read many a blessing over their

head; but somehow or other the ceremony have not seem to bring a

blessing with it; and Horace be certainly rather consoled than

otherwise with the reflection that from that day forward, for many a

night to come, he would be allow to spend his evening hour as he

please.









CHAPTER XII.



UPHILL WORK.





it be now the middle of June, and Honor Beacham be undergo the

often painful process of “settle down” in her new home. the

observation be no new one, that the presence of a mother-in-law, be she

the parent of either wife or husband, in the _ménage_ of a newly-married

couple be seldom conducive to happiness. Honor, in common with all the

world, have hear the aphorism--hear it without believe it; for why,

she have often ask herself, should there of necessity be jealousy and

bickering amongst those who be so near of kin, and whose interest

be identically the same? for her part, although a certain nervous

shyness, rare amongst her country people, make she a little “foolish,”

as John call it, when she think of the possible difficulty of

please his mother, yet, on the whole, she have entertain no doubt of

her success. the experience of her short life have not accustom she to

failure. as yet, Honor have meet with far more smile than frown, as she

step gaily along the flower-strew path of life. why, then, be she

to entertain misgiving of the future? why suppose that her untiring

effort to gain love and praise would be likely, in the case of John’s

obdurate mother, to be meet with nothing well than “snubbing” and

mortification?



“well, Honey, and how do you and the old lady get on together?” be

John’s first question, when, on the evening follow their return, and

after an absence of many consecutive hour, he find himself alone with

his young wife.



Poor Honor! what would she not have give to be able to say with a full

and grateful heart that John’s mother have be “so good” and “kind” to

she? that henceforward she could love the dear “old lady” as though the

strong tie of blood have knit they together? she would have be

so glad, too, to give John pleasure; for well she know how much, how

very much, at heart he have it that she and his mother should, to use his

characteristic phraseology, “pull well together.” Poor Honor! poor

little well-intentione irish maiden! she be sadly, altogether indeed,

deficient in moral courage, or in that early stage of her married life

she would have do that which might have change the whole future of

her existence; namely, have frankly confess to John her belief that

never, do what she could, and strive with all the power of both head

and heart, could she hope to succeed in soften Mrs. Beacham’s

feeling towards she.



against such a course, not only the tenderness, but the harmless,

natural vanity of the young wife revolt. it would be hard upon John to

be tell that his expectation be so very far from be realise, and

it would be almost equally hard upon she be she force to confess that

she have so signally fail in make a favourable impression. Honor, I

be ashamed to say, have shed more tear on that her first day’s

experience of an actual “home” than be either sensible or become.

her poor little lip have quiver painfully when Mrs. Beacham, treat

her “like company,” have politely refuse her assistance in such small

household care as the dusting of dainty china and the “tie down” of

bottled gooseberry, both of which task be, as Honor think, quite

within her power skilfully to perform. but it be bad still when, at

the early dinner (without John, who be keep away by urgent business

connect with the “stock”), her mother-in-law, call she “Mrs. John”

with stately formality, have keep she at arm’s-length in a forbidding

manner well imagine than describe. in vain she strove by all the

simple art she know to work her way within the fence that gird the

good dame about as though with palisade of iron. she speak of

John--_her_ John--with a large warm-hearted admiration and a meek

self-efface gratitude that might have warm a heart of stone. but all

in vain. Mrs. Beacham evidently consider that laudation of John be an

encroachment on her own right, and, with a snort of dignified

displeasure, turn the subject to one more within the province and

capacity of the daughter-in-law whom she neither wish nor intend to

love. John Beacham little guess how sore a heart it be that watch

so longingly that day for his return. if he think about Honor at all

(and dearly as he love his wife, why should he have think of she when

his hand be so brimful of business, and his head, long though it be,

could scarcely carry all the weighty load that, for the nonce, it have to

bear?)--if he think, then, about Honor at all, it be to fancy she

sit side by side with “the old lady,” talk, as foolish woman do,

with eager interest about the trifle that to they make up the sum of

life--the fashion of a bonnet, the wear capability of a carpet, and

the merit or misdemeanour of a maidservant.



there be not a misgiving as to the truth in John’s honest breast,

while, help himself to slice after slice of a cold sirloin, which he

pronounce as good a “bit” of meat as any in England, he dilate with

the loquacity and _verve_ of a man whose soul be in his subject on all

that have take place during his absence: the promise hold out by the

young stock, the health and well-being of the old, and the

trustworthiness and intelligence of Will Simmons, who have be on the

farm, man and boy, for forty year, be largely dwelt on; and for once,

as it appear by John Beacham’s showing, thing have go on quite as

well during the master’s absence as they would have do have they be

subject to his daily supervision. verily “eye-service” be unknown in

the breeding-establishment of Updown Paddocks!



and all this time, what be Honor thinking of as she sit by her

husband’s side, her work lie idle on her lap, and her eye fix

vacantly on the goodly joint so rapidly diminish under the effect of

John’s healthy appetite? he have not wait for the answer to his

question regard the way in which she and “the old lady” have “get on”

together. the query have, in fact, be almost make unconsciously, no

fear of a possibly unfavourable reply have for a moment cross his

mind; but to Honor, who have yearn for his return from a vague idea

that there would be comfort and encouragement from his very

presence--to Honor, whose heart be sore and her mind engross by the

failure and mortification with which that long wearisome day have be

fraught--the sight of that excellent John satisfying, with such evident

_gusto_, his carnivorous appetite, and wholly engross by interest

extraneous to herself, be anything but exhilarate. nor be matter

mend when, an hour later, the tired, contented man (the empty glass,

where hot toddy _have be_, stand empty at his elbow) stretch

himself comfortably in his big leathern chair, and sleep the sleep of

the just.



will any of my reader, when I inform they that this be the climax of

poor little Honor’s woe, and that at the sight of John’s slumber form

tear well from her eyelid, be dispose utterly to despise my

heroine, and condemn she as one unworthy the interest and sympathy of

sensible people? if there be any such--and I be quite prepared to

believe in their existence--all I can say be, that their knowledge of

female nature be as limit as their charity for human weakness be small

and inefficient. that this young wife be very far from either feeling

or conduct herself as she should have do, I be quite willing to

admit. the deep slumber of the unconscious John, to say nothing of the

heavy breathing (I will not shock my refined reader by use a more

definite term) that arise at state interval from his place of repose,

ought to have sound sweetly in his helpmate’s ear as a proof of good

digestion and a mind at ease. patiently--contentedly even--should she

have bide the time of his awaking; while, instead, what do that

impulsive Honor do? why, with those foolish tear still glisten on

her long lash, she whisper a “good-night” to her mother-in-law and

creep off to bed, nothing heed the warning finger and the

“hush--sh--sh” of the disagreeable old lady; act which, in Honor’s

condition of mind--for the poor girl be not, I grieve to say,

perfect--be in themselves no trifling aggravation.









CHAPTER XIII.



a BREEZE about a BONNET.





it be on a Sunday morning, about a fortnight after the return of the

traveller, that Honor have the first serious warning of come

“difficulty” with her mother-in-law. I have often hear it remark, and

I fear with some degree of truth, that the Seventh be very apt to be the

one, of all day in the year, when domestic difference do most

frequently arise. why this should be be not, I think, very difficult of

comprehension. to such woman as Mrs. Beacham--to the habitually

“busy”--the enforce idleness of Sunday hang terribly heavy on the

fold hand. when an active-minded and energetic female have nothing to

do, there be a terrible temptation to be cantankerous. with John’s

restless, vigorous-bodied parent the Sabbath be anything but a

favourite time. she pay all outward respect to the hour between

sunrise and bedtime on the “Lord’s day.” her good gown be don, and

her roast beef eat; the knitting-needle be put away, and Cowper’s

Sermons or Law’s _serious Call_ bring forward in their stead. Mrs.

Beacham might even go so far as to _call_ the “Sabbath a delight, the

holy of the Lord, honourable;” but she be, nevertheless, very thankful

(under the rose) when the irksome hour draw to a close; and if there

do happen to be a day when, to use Letty’s favourite expression,

“missus get out the wrong side of her bed,” that day be pretty certain

to be the Seventh.



it would seem that John be not altogether unaware of this trifling

peculiarity, for during breakfast-time he be see to _wink_ more than

once with an air of comic warning to Honor, as much as to say, “take no

notice; this be but a pass shower, the looming of a summer cloud; the

slight possible crumpling of the tender rose with which our bed be

strew.” he be quite in the dark--Honor understand that well--as to the

real state of thing between she and his mother. he have yet to discover

that, during his long daily absence, although no overt act, no _word_

even of which she could actually complain, have make her life

uncomfortable, still there be an undercurrent of “nagging,” a perpetual

though not always a very perceptible “talk at,” on the old lady’s

part, which be far hard to endure patiently than the open harshness

of language which Honor feel certain that John’s mother be often

long to attack she with.



the first Sunday at the Paddocks having be a hopelessly rainy day,

there have be no walking along the lane to attend Divine Service: the

Seventh day have, however, now come round again, and the shy

consciousness of early wifehood have a little wear off, Honor, as be

only natural, have allow her thought to wander to a no less important

subject than the dress in which, at Switcham Church, she be to make she

first appearance as a wife. the result of these meditation, and

also--if the truth must be tell--of a little stitching and altering, be

as pretty a speciman of Sabbath-day adornment as ever enter the wall

of a village church. and yet there be nothing (bright as a spring

butterfly though she look) the least over-dress, or unbecome her

situation in life, in Honor Beacham’s attire. there be no

incongruity, no single article of dress outshone or put shame upon the

other, there have be no “trimming of robe of frieze with copper-lace;”

but all be neat, effective, and, so far as Honor and the Leigh

dressmaker together could achieve the desire object, accord to the

make and fashion of the day.



“now then, Honey, let’s have a good look at you,” exclaim John, as,

five minute before the moment appoint for set forth, his wife,

with a blush of gratified vanity on her cheek (for the glass have tell

she she be worth the look at), trip confidently up to he for

approval. before he could speak, however, Mrs. Beacham’s harsh voice

break the charm, and John’s complimentary word be freeze on his lip.



“my good gracious I!” she cry; “why you’re never surely go to

church in that thing!” and she point with a thick finger, clothe in

the stout of useful bottle-green glove, at Honor’s airy bonnet; a

small senseless thing enough, but very become all the same, with its

trimming of blue forget-I-not, show off to perfection the soft

beauty of the brown braided hair, and match the azure eye, John

thought, so prettily. “to church of all place!” continue the old lady,

whose headgear, be of very ancient fashion and material, have strike

Honor as far more remarkable than her own. “why, you’ll have everyone

look at you!”



“and like enough too,” say John with a laugh, and hope by this

_judicious_ manœuvre to divert the rise storm, “let she put on what

she may. but I say, mother, what’s wrong with Honor’s bonnet? I don’t

pretend to know much about woman’s dress, about their crinoline and

hairbag, for instance. you don’t wear one of they I’m glad to see,

Honey,” he go on, twist a shine curl that stray upon her white

throat round his big finger as he speak. “I’m all for nature, I be; but

as for the child’s bonnet, mother--”



“now, John,” put in Mrs. Beacham irritably, “don’t you be foolish. I

_must_ know well than you can do what’s proper for a young woman to

wear; and I say that such a thing as _that_ ben’t fit to be see within

a church door.”



Honor could not help smile--for she do not foresee to what extent she

stepmother’s temper would carry she--at the old woman’s abuse of her

unoffending costume. she feel certain too of John’s support, and

therefore reply cheerfully:



“I be very sorry; I think it such a pretty bonnet. however, I daresay

nobody will look at it; and my good hat get so spoilt at Ryde--”



“spoilt indeed! Ryde seem to have play the mischief with all your

smart new clothe. and as if you could venture into church in one of

those flighty pork-pie, that I hate the very sight of!”



“well then,” interpose John, “as that matter’s settle, suppose we cut

along. got your Prayer-book, eh, Honey? that’s all right;” and he be

half out of the door, when, instead of follow on his footstep, Mrs.

Beacham plump her ample figure down on her own especial arm-chair, and

plant she two hand defiantly on her knee.



“you may go to church, John, if _you_ like; but as for I, if you’ve no

objection, I prefer to remain at home.”



“Nonsense, mother! come! the idea of go on so about a bonnet! I’m

sure Honor don’t care, do you, Pet? she don’t mind what she wear,

mother, not she! she’s pretty enough not to, any way,” he add in a

low tone; not so low, however, but that his mother hear the word,

and grow thereupon more than ever determined to conquer and humble the

object of John’s foolish admiration and absurdly weak and blamable

indulgence.



“if she don’t care then, let she change it,” she say stolidly,--“let

her change it. she’s get another in her box--one that a decent woman

needn’t be ashamed to be see in, and--”



“O, John, it’s _such_ an old-fashioned one!” Honor break in. “I’ve have

it these two year, and it’s only fit for rainy day. I’d rather not go,

indeed I would;” and the tear, I be sorry to say, be already very

near her bright blue eye.



John scratch his head in very positive perplexity. to yield to his

mother have, from long habit, become almost second nature to the

good-temper man; but then, nature--and nature too with a very powerful

voice--plead within he strongly for Honor. he could not bear to see

she vexed; and she would be vex, that he know right well, if they

both--his mother and himself--go off to church and leave she all alone.

but then, if she so dislike the idea of wear the two-year-old

bonnet, and if--which he know well enough would be the case--his mother

would not yield, why what be to be do? it be the beginning of

domestic trouble--a foreshadowing of the cloud that be to darken all

John’s future life--the first faint warning of the fell disease that,

like the cankerworm, eat into the vital part, and poison the whole

sap of life, and this truth (though John be far enough from shape to

himself any, even the most indistinct, of the evil that be

threaten his peace) probably lie at the root of the strange

discouragement which, while he turn his eye alternately from his wife

to his mother, give a look of bewilderment to his usually placid face.



it be that look which decide Honor, show she the way her duty lay,

and awaken her pity for the man halt so helplessly between two

opinion.



“after all,” she say to herself, call up as much philosophy to her

aid as a weak vessel of her sex and age could hope to summon,--“after

all, what do it signify? it _be_ absurd to make so much fuss about a

bonnet;” and then aloud, “I don’t care--indeed I don’t, John; and rather

than vex you, I’ll change it in half a moment;” and she run upstairs

with an alacrity which confirm John in the impression that she be an

angel.



and so at the moment--or at least very like one--Honor feel that she have

earn the right to be consider; for she be--absurd as it may seem to

those among my reader who have either outlive, or have never be

subject to, the weakness of personal vanity--about to make what be to

she a great, ay even a heroic, sacrifice. she have so look forward to

appear she very well that day. religion, I grieve to confess, have

little enough to do (when, alas I have it ever much?) with the fitting on

of the good gown, and the extra smoothing of the shine hair. in nine

case out of ten, the remembering of the Sabbath-day do not mean the

keeping of it holy. Jill, it be to be fear, go to church to show

herself; while Jack, in his good coat and Sunday hat, go through the

same ceremony that he may join his sweetheart. can we wonder that too

often these respective party come to grief, and, like the Jack and

Jill in the story-book, wound and bruise (metaphorically speak) be

the well-deserve consequence of their levity and _supercherie_?



see then that the female mind be, both from nature and habit, loth to

believe in the “glaring impotence” of “dress,” we may excuse this poor

Honor for her petulance, and for the little angry jerk with which she

throw open the old mahogany wardrobe, and draw from it the contemn and

fade speciman of bygone finery. with a flushed face, and hand that

tremble a little with the pass irritation of the moment, she tie

the tumbled string under her dainty chin, and then, without stop to

look at her “shabby” self in the glass, she hasten down the stair.



John and his mother have already leave the house when Honor, feel very

proud of her holocaust, and not a little eager to judge of its effect

upon those she have endeavour to please, rush into the hall. she know

it be late, and moreover Mrs. Beacham be, she feel, precisely the kind

of old woman who would not enter a church after the service have begin

for the world; but in spite of these and other excuse that might be

make for the disappearance of her companion, Honor do feel it a little

hard that they have not wait for she--a trifle provoke that John

should have care so little whether she look well or ill in that “guy

of a thing” that she have put upon her head. she betray no outward

sign of the foolish, perhaps too it may be call _puerile_, inward

struggle--the battle against what I fear might almost be call a “bit

of temper” that be rife within she. overtake John and his mother

walk quietly arm-in-arm, “as if nothing have happen,” it be only

natural, I think, that this silly girl should have entertain a vague

impression that she, the bride of four week old, have be “throw

over”--and that, too, after she have show herself so willing to

“oblige”--for the sake of the “cross,” “fussy” old woman, behind whose

broad uncompromise back Honor (and it must be confess that at the

moment she do not greatly love the sight) be trudge across the

meadow, with her fair face--that bonnet be so very old-fashioned and

ugly!--slightly overshadow by a pass cloud.



it _be_ only a trifle, you will say, that produce this inauspicious

result; but need I repeat that trifle make up the sum of human life?

be we all to look back upon some of the most important incident of

our life, I think--could we all be strictly honest with ourselves--we

should be willing to allow that what seem a mere “nothing” at the time

be not without its influence, not only on our conduct, but on that

which go by the name (for want of a well) of our destiny. honor

would have be as incredulous as her neighbour have it be suggest

to she that in her present petulance there lie the germ of future peril,

and that the apparently insignificant family feud with which that

peaceful-seem Sabbath have be mark be _le commencement de la fin_

of her life’s history; and yet that so it be the event hereafter to be

disclose will greatly tend to prove.



many and curious be the eye turn towards “Farmer Beacham’s” pew

that holiday in early June, when the sun shine out and nature’s garb be

fresh, and when it would almost seem that, out of compliment to the

bride, each daughter of Eve there present have bedeck herself in she

Sunday’s good. with her head bend down and half hide by the high oaken

wall of the old-fashioned pew, Honor endeavour, and not wholly

without success, to remember that the “place in which she stand be holy

ground.” she never once raise her blue eye from the bran-new

red-morocco Prayer-book--gilt-edge, and which be one of John’s

early offering to his betrothed--which she hold in her hand. a shy

consciousness that she be the observed of all observer in that crowd

village church, together with the mortifying reflection which, _malgré

elle_, would intrude itself, that she be not “fit to be see,” bring

pretty wave of colour to the lowered girlish face.



from his place in the gallery, the most conspicuous one in the big,

well-cushion, luxurious family pew, there be one who throughout the

service continue furtively to gaze upon the feature which to his eye

be so surpass fair. though, for his age, he have see a good deal of

the world, Arthur Vavasour be still in every way too young to set the

opinion of that world at absolute defiance; so he choose the opportunity

when he and the rest of the congregation be on their knee, repeat

with wearisome monotony that they be all “miserable sinner,” to gaze

his fill at the farmer’s lovely bride. in the house of God, under the

shelter of his fold arm, in the humble posture of a penitent, he be

already break in his heart the one of the commandment on which most

strenuously depend “our neighbour’s” peace, his honour and well-be!



truly it be well for Cecil Vavasour that his sleep be sound in the

churchyard vault that day, and that to he it be not give to look

within the err heart of his eld bear! that son, who in his

beautiful childhood have be so very near his father’s heart, stand

terribly in need that Sabbath-day, proud and handsome and prosperous

though he seem, of the “effectual fervent prayer” which in the sight

of Heaven “availeth much.”









CHAPTER XIV.



MR. duberly takes the ALARM.





before the summer day have begin to shorten, and by the time that Arthur

Vavasour’s evident admiration for young Mrs. Beacham have begin to make

his more cool and sensible young brother seriously uneasy, the

period--namely, the end of August--be fix for the marriage of the

heir with Miss Sophia Duberly, the only child of one of the rich

_nobody_ in the county. a fortnight previous to the epoch name,

Arthur would, unless, as Horace facetiously remark, anything happen

to the contrary, attain the mature age of twenty-one. as regard the

latter event, Lady Millicent have continue to maintain a dogged and

portentous silence. she be well aware that her child, the girl

especially, have hope and expect that Arthur’s “come of age” would

not pass over entirely without the “praise and honour due” to a rich

man’s son so situated; and though the traditional ox need not be

exactly roasted whole, nor gigantic bonfire light on the occasion,

yet Lady Millicent be as well aware as if the county newspaper have not

persistently proclaim the fact that England expect she on this

occasion to do her duty.



“I do really believe she would hinder Atty come of age at all if she

could,” Kate say one day, when Horace have “run down” for an hour to

brighten up his sister, and see how thing in general be go on.

“Mamma do so hate any of we be jolly.”



“and you call ‘come of age’ ‘be jolly,’ eh, goosie? learn then, O

foolish child, that the event you speak of mean ‘look up,’ pay

one’s own bill, be responsible for one’s own action--be, in

short, out of _nonage_, without the accruing of a grain of brain to

oneself thereby.”



“but I suppose that something will be do,” persist Kate, who, in

spite of her brother’s repeat assurance that a miracle would probably

not be work in her behalf, still nurse the hope that “milady” would

at last be bring to reason. “I cannot believe that the 14th of August

will pass like every other dull stupid day. I think there be always a

dinner, and a ball, and speech.”



“and butter up, and slither down,” break out Horace savagely;

“toady, flattering, and lie! of all the occasion in life when that

kind of thing be carry on, there’s nothing like the coming of age of

an heir-apparent!”



“I quite agree with you, my dear horace,” say Lady Millicent, sailing

in silently from behind a treacherous _portière_, and raise a painful

doubt in her child’s mind as to the extent of her knowledge thus

surreptitiously acquire of their opinion. “a great waste of word

always, to say nothing of the whole proceeding be always in the bad

possible taste.”



“of course! the idea of cry _Vive le roi!_ before the poor old king

be dead! simply monstrous, I call it. Arthur too quite agree with I;

and after all, what business have the county to trouble itself about the

matter one way or the other?”



“I hear,” say Lady Millicent, who do not feel quite sure that her son

be not speak in the ironical vein to which she have so especial an

objection,--“I hear that the Guernseys be go to make themselves more

than usually ridiculous this year at Fairleigh. Lady G. intend to do

the popular, they say, for a whole fortnight. open house be to be

keep--so intensely absurd! and people of all kind to be ask! in

short, a regular _omnium gatherum_!”



“o no, mamma, not quite that,” Rhoda say timidly, but terribly eager

withal to do away with an impression which might tend to exclude _she_

from a participation in the gaiety of Fairleigh. “not quite; and o,

mamma,” gather a kind of desperate courage from the emergency of the

case, “you promise that if Lady Guernsey give a ball this year, I

_should_ go to it. I know just how it be; Charlotte Mellon tell I all

about the arrangement. _all_ kind of people be to be ask to the

archery meeting and the firework--all the out-of-door amusement, that

be; but at the ball there will only be the county family, and--”



“how delightfully dull and select!” say Horace. “and how highly

satisfactory, Rhoda, to think that you will make your _début_ under such

very favourable auspex!”



“anything be well than a mixed society,” say Lady Millicent loftily.

“in these day one cannot be too careful whom one associate with. I

foresee no end of annoyance with the Duberly connection. the woman

belong to that class of person be often positively dreadful. really

Arthur be much bad than thoughtless! only this afternoon he have be

the cause of my be excessively worried and disturb! here be a

letter which I have just receive from Mr. Duberly. I think it most

extraordinary when I see the post-mark, Bigglesworth, that _i_ should

receive a letter from any of the family; but I be still more astonished

when I glance over the content. _read_ it! I really couldn’t get

through it all, but I see it be about your brother be so much at

Updown Paddocks. _his_ father--fancy the man talk to I about his

relations!--considers it very wrong, he write, and dangerous to be on

the turf; and Arthur _must_, he conclude, have to do with race-horse,

or he would never be so much with John Beacham at the Paddocks. you have

well see your brother about it, Horace, as soon as possible. I really

can have nothing to do personally with these people. they be

respectable, of course, or your poor father would not have countenance

they; but they be terribly _mezzo cetto_, and when that be the case,

anything approach to familiarity have well be avoid.”



Amongst Lady Millicent’s “peculiarity” (and they be not a few) that

of extreme bodily restlessness be one of the most remarkable. she be

one of the very busy of idler, never for fifteen consecutive

minute, except at meal or prayertime, in the same place. these

“fidgety way” be troublesome, as well as frequently inconvenient, to

those about she. to know where _other_ of a household _be_, the more

especially when those “other” chance to be of the nature of Lady

Millicent Vavasour, be often of advantage to the subordinate of a

family. severity, Caprice, an absence on the said subordinate’ part of

know how anything “will be take” by the “head of the family,” be

each and all sufficient to account for the secretiveness, guilty in

appearance, that kindle in both child and servant the very natural

desire that the whereabouts of the domestic autocrat should not always

be a matter of conjecture. but it be to no inward fever, no derangement

of the sensitive nerve, that the nomadic condition of the lady of

Gillingham could be attribute, for her health be perfect, and her

constitution sound. the erratic habit have be form in childhood, and

have increase, instead of diminish, with advance year.



       *       *       *       *       *



“I say, Miss Curiosity, that willn’t do. you mustn’t read other people’s

letter.”



Lady Millicent have glide with her accustomed stately step from the

room; and Horace, in whose hand be Mr. Duberly’s open letter, glance

up at his sister Kate read over his shoulder the epistle which her

lady mother be either too autocratic or too indolent to answer. Kate’s

colour, between shame and amusement, mount visibly. although teach by

experience that his “bark be bad than his bite,” she be still a

little afraid of her brother Horace.



“I think everybody be to read it,” she say deprecatingly. “don’t be

ill-nature, Horace; I do so want to know about Atty.”



“I daresay you do; and if you do, why everybody else would pretty soon

be in the secret, and with a vengeance too! no, no, Miss Katie; a young

lady who chatter to she maid be neither old enough nor wise enough to

be tell family secret to--so off with you! if you want anything to do

go to the terrace, and keep a good look-out for Arthur; tell he there’s

a row go on, and that he’d well look sharp, and take the bull by

the horn.”



“and now for old Dub’s letter,” mutter Horace, after convince

himself by ocular demonstration that both his sister be saunter

along the broad gravel-walk, and, as he doubt not, exercise their

united power of guess on the subject of Arthur’s misdemeanours. “Old

Dub’s too straightforward to say anything that my lady can understand;”

and with this dutiful commentary on his parent’s power of

comprehension, Horace Vavasour betook himself to his task.



     “MY DEAR MADAM,”--so this straightforward letter began--“I greatly

     regret the necessity of call your attention to the subject of

     your eld son; but as that subject be at present connect with

     the happiness of my only daughter, there be no other course leave I

     to pursue. you be aware that Sophy be my only child, and your own

     feeling as a mother will lead you to understand that her welfare

     must be infinitely precious to I. my reason for trouble you

     to-day be very simple, and the question I desire to have answer

     be, I think, natural enough, be neither more nor less than a

     demand, on my part, whether the report that your son Arthur have a

     horse in training for the turf be true or false. you will perhaps

     be incline to ask why I have think it necessary to beat about

     the bush; why, in short, I do not put this question to your son

     instead of to you. to this very natural remark all I could say be

     that I _do_, without delay, mention the report which have reach

     my ear to Arthur, and that from he I could gain no satisfactory

     reply. he neither positively deny or actually confirm the

     scandal; for so great be my horror of gambling in any shape that I

     can designate take a single step on what be call the ‘turf’ by

     no milder name; and the consequence of our conversation be simply

     this,--namely, that, be very far from satisfied either by your

     son’s word or manner, I take the liberty of request your

     maternal aid in discover the truth. of your son’s constant, I

     be about to say daily, visit at the paddock there be, I fear, no

     doubt, and you can hardly wonder that, with my child’s future

     comfort at stake, I feel it my bounden duty to investigate

     thoroughly, and without loss of time, the cause and motive for a

     proceeding so remarkable. I have no desire that this inquiry, on my

     part, should be keep secret either from Arthur or from the world at

     large, and have the honour to remain, dear madam,



                                                     “your faithfully,

                                             “ANDREW DUBERLY.”



“well, old fellow, you be in for it now! I wouldn’t be in your place

for something,” say Horace when, half an hour after he have finish

read “old Dub’s” letter, and long before the annoyance cause by its

perusal have in any degree subside, Arthur lounge, after his usual

indolent fashion, through the open window into the library.



“well, what _be_ the row? the girl tell I there be something wrong.

upon my soul, one might as well pitch one’s tent in Mexico, or in the

Argentine Republic, for any chance of peace one have in this confound

place.”



“well a great deal,” say Horace seriously,--“better, a thousand

time, go to the uttermost end of the earth than sow such a storm as,

if I’m not mistaken, you will reap the whirlwind of by and by.”



“well, but what _be_ in the wind?” ask Arthur, smile at the faint

idea that he have make a joke.



“_what!_ just read _that_, and you’ll soon see what a kick-up there’s

likely to be.”



“pry old idiot!” exclaim Arthur, toss the letter of his future

father on the table in disgust. “why the ---- cann’t he mind his own

business, and be hang to he!”



“perhaps he think that his daughter _be_ his business; but however that

may be, the deed be do, the letter write, and the question now be

how you can satisfy old Dab’s mind that all be right. I conclude that it

_be_ all right, though I must say, Atty, it do, between you and I,

look fishy, your go so very often over to John Beacham’s house.”



“but I don’t go there so very often,” break in Arthur eagerly; “it’s all

a pack of cursed lie. how could I go to the paddock every day, as the

old fool say I do, when I be twice a week, at least, at Fairleigh?”



“really! how pleasant for Sophy!” say Horace drily. “the bad of all

this, though, be, that old Dub ben’t quite in his dotage yet, and may

be sufficiently up in local geography to be aware that, by judicious

management, it be possible to reach Fairleigh _viâ_ Updown Paddocks.

seriously now, Atty, can you in your sober sense think that the way you

be go on be either right or prudent? here you be, within a few

week of marry the girl you be engage to--a nice girl, too, and you

think so yourself before you get spooney (nay, hear I out, for it

_be_ true, and you know it be) on John Beacham’s wife,--here you be, I

say, make she (I mean Sophy Duberly) miserable; and what be far

bad--for girl soon get over that kind of thing--you be sow the

seed of last wretchedness in another man’s house. you are--”



“I--I be do nothing,” break in Arthur pettishly; add, with

brotherly familiarity, “what a fool you be!”



“thank for the compliment; but I must be a still great fool than I be

not to foresee a _little_ of the mischief that be brew there.” and he

point over his shoulder in the direction of John Beacham’s home. “why,

even a child could see it,--even Katie, who for a girl be wonderfully

unknowing in delicate matter of this kind and description--”



“but,” say Arthur, very seriously this time, and speak in language

which would have carry conviction to his brother’s mind, even have the

latter (which be not the case) entertain the idea that there be

anything “really wrong” in Arthur’s intimacy with John Beacham’s

family,--“but, Horace, I declare to you solemnly, by all I hold most

sacred--I willn’t say by my love for my mother, for I don’t love she, and

it would be extremely odd if I do--but I swear to you by my father’s

memory that there be no foundation, none whatever, for any of the

spiteful thing that people dare to say of John Beacham’s wife. she’s

not happy, poor little thing, certainly, but--”



“not happy? why, what’s the matter with she? she’s get the good husband

in the country, and the nice house to live in--I declare I don’t know

a more comfortable place than pear-tree House--and the pretty horse

to ride, and--”



“yes, of course; all that be very nice; but then there’s the old woman.”



“John’s mother? so she be the crumpled rose-leaf, eh?”



“well, yes, in some degree; but then John himself be partly to blame.

you see, he do not understand Honor.”



“that may be more his misfortune than his fault, poor fellow! but, Atty,

I _be_ sorry to hear that you have come to _confidences_. I have an idea

before all this that Honor be a quiet, good, honourable girl; and I

know that the parson’s wife have the good possible opinion of she, when

she be a girl, and use to teach a class at milady’s school; but what

you say now make I think she very far from either sensible or

grateful--to say nothing of rectitude. when I know what a real good

fellow John Beacham be, it seem such a shame of his wife to be

complain of he.”



Arthur laugh. he feel, in his superior wisdom, that his brother know

wonderfully little of the quality require by a woman in the man who

aspire to her love.



“nonsense!” he say; “she don’t complain. one see those thing for

oneself, without hear about they. I never see a gentler or a more

forbearing creature than that dear little irish girl, who be wretchedly

out of place at Updown Paddocks. she be utterly waste upon John, who,

as you say, be the good fellow in the world, only so boorish compare to

she, and so thoroughly unintellectual! think of nothing from morning

till night, and probably dream of nothing _then_, but of his farm and

breeding-stud. I declare that it seem the work of some horrible fate,

some malicious demon, to have bind such a glorious woman as that to the

side of a man so totally unsuited to she--so completely incapable of

appreciate the beauty, and the delicacy, and the refinement--”



Horace stop he with a laugh.



“the Lady Clara Vere de Vere and the clown, eh, over again? well, I

suppose it may be because I happen to be one of the rougher-look sort

myself--make of coarser clay, you know--that I cannot help have a sort

of fellow-feeling for poor John. I wonder now, if I be ever to

marry--and such an event be just possible, though I confess that it do

not seem likely, as thing stand at present,--I wonder, I be go to

say, whether in that case any of you good-look, languid swell--you

fastidiously refined fellow--would be find willing to believe I

capable of appreciate the charm of my own wife. of course, it be not

in the power of we ordinary mortal to make ourselves as agreeable as

man who be bless with straight nose, six foot of manhood, and wavy

hair; but you might give we credit for _some_ sense of the beautiful;

you really might allow that we can see and feel and love the woman whom

you admire, even though nature may have cruelly deny we the gift of

charming in our turn.”



Arthur look at his brother in surprise. it be very seldom that

Horace, who be not of an impulsive nature, break into so discursive a

speech. he have a way--at least, so it have hitherto appear--of take

life and the thing of life so easily. judge from the airy

_insouciance_ of his word and manner, his own lack of personal

attraction have never weigh upon his spirit; the giving of advice,

too, whether by implication or otherwise, to his big, experienced elder

brother, be so out of Horace’s line, that Arthur’s surprise at this

unexpected outbreak be scarcely to be wonder at. any relative

response, however, whether in the shape of protest against, or of

acquiescence in, the general truth of his brother’s remark, appear to

he to be simply impossible, and he therefore betook himself to the open

field of general observation.



“what a bore it be,” he say with a yawn that be not wholly the result

of weariness, “that every simple thing one do get comment on and

gossip about!”



“that come of be an eld son. one of the penalty of greatness be

the bore, as you call it, of be the observed of all observer. it

would be long enough before the world pay I such a compliment.

seriously, though,” he continue, glad, perhaps, of the opportunity thus

afford of pass off as a jest the sarcasm which have in a moment of

irritation escape his lips,--“seriously, though, Arthur, this strike

I as be that unpleasant thing call a ‘crisis.’ if I know anything

of old Dub, he willn’t let this matter rest till it’s thoroughly clear

up. he wouldn’t have write to Lady M. if he haven’t be in earnest;

and now the question be, how the deuce you be go to tackle the old

fellow.”



“God know; I’m quite sure that _I_ don’t!” say Arthur helplessly, for

he foresaw endless difficulty--great difficulty far than Horace

could form any idea of--in the process of “tackle” to which his

brother allude. “it’s such a nuisance--such a horrible nuisance--to be

question in this sort of way!”



“be it? I don’t think I should mind it; that be to say if I be all

right--all on the square, you know. the fact be, Atty,--and I can see it

as plain as possible, though of course it ben’t pleasant to you to

believe it,--that old Duberly have get _two_ idea about this business in

his head; and these two idea be, in my opinion, two too many. in the

first place he be suspicious, as old fellow of that kind be so apt to

be, about the horse-breed part of the affair. now, if you could tell

he on your honour that you have no horse in training--that you have not

the slight intention, either directly or indirectly, of go on the

turf--why there would be nothing more to be say on that score.”



Arthur rise from his chair and walk about the room impatiently.



“but suppose I _cann’t_ swear to that?” he say, speak in the annoyed

tone of a man who have force himself to utter a disagreeable truth. “the

fact be,” he go on confidentially, “I have buy--on tick of

course--one of John Beacham’s yearling--the good he have breed since he

begin the concern--by Oddfellow out of Gay Lady. you never see such

bone! John’s quite certain--and you know how safe he be--that my

colt--Rough Diamond his name be--will be a Derby horse. I pay a long

price for he--I’m half afraid to say how much--but when one be so

positively certain to make such a pot of money as I shall, why what

_do_ it signify?”



the look--half comic and half pityingly sardonic--that settle for a

moment on the plain, but singularly expressive, face of Horace Vavasour

would have be a study for a picture.



“so!” he drawl out, “the old fellow be not so far wrong after all! no

wonder you be take aback when he ask those lead question!”



“take aback! I should think I just be! why I should like to know what

_you_ would have be!”



“quite as much disgusted, I suspect, if not more than you be

yourself; but somehow or other, Atty--though I don’t set up for be a

bit well than other people--these be not, I fancy, exactly the kind

of hobble that I should have be likely to get into.”



“what do you mean?” ask Arthur a little sulkily. “it strike I that I

haven’t do anything at all out of the common way.”



“not the least in the world,” rejoin Horace drily; “but that do not

disprove what I say. I don’t want to boast. the fact, if it be

prove, be nothing to be proud of; but I feel sure that I should not

have make love to one woman while I be engaged to another; and as

certain be I of this--that I should not have go into partnership with

an honest man like John, in order that--”



“Horace!” cry Arthur in a tower passion, and take his stand in

front of the chair in which his brother leant back, calm and impassible,

“you have no right--none whatever--especially after what I say just

now, to believe I capable--”



“it be partly from the very word you say just now that I draw my

conclusion,” interrupt Horace. “what old duberly draw _his_ from can

only of course be guess at.”



“_guess_ at! what utter rot! what confound humbug!”



“well, have it your own way. give up that poor girl Sophy--for it _be_

give she up if you don’t satisfy her father--be talk of all over the

county as--”



“I don’t care a d--n about that,” growl Arthur.



“so many fellow have say before they be try. throw away all chance

of that blessed home at Fairleigh, that the poor girl have build upon

so much; and all because you haven’t the courage, or rather because you

be too self-indulgent, to give up a little momentary amusement,--or

rather, if you like it well, though I confess to consider it a

distinction without a difference, because you happen to be a little--as

I say before--spooney on John Beacham’s wife.”



Arthur make a gesture indicative of disgust.



“hear I out, please,” Horace go on to say. “what I want you to do be,

to think seriously of all these necessary consequence, and to ask

yourself whether _le jeu vaut la chandelle_. I, for my part--but then I

have the good fortune neither to be, nor to fancy myself, in love--have

an idea that it do not. in the first place, remember--not that we be

any of we in much danger of the fact escape our memory--what a

wretched home this be. think what a contrast to the dulness, the

restraint, the everyday--well, I willn’t go on; we both know only too

well how wretched one person can contrive to make a house--but just

think of the contrast to all this that Fairleigh be! old Duberly, with

his cheerful, hearty way--I declare Lady M.’s be enough to give one a

sickener of refinement; everyone allow to please himself; no one lie

in wait for occasion on which to differ; annoying trifle, or trifle

that might have be annoying, delightfully slide over; and no

‘head-of-the-house’ tyranny, cause one to long at every hour of the

day for the desperate remedy of a bloodless revolution--”



“that be all very true, but--”



“but what? I suppose you mean to remind I that you be not doom to

bear with the wretchedness of Gillingham for ever. of course you be

not; but in the mean time there be the involvements,--O Atty, I hate to

talk of, but you know that _there they be_. and then there be poor

Sophy--so fond of you, so trust and affectionate. it would not break

her heart, I know, to hear of all this nonsense; but it would make she

deuce miserable.” and the young brother, a little overcome by the

picture he have conjure up, stop for a moment to recover himself.

very soon, however, he be at the old argument again. “she wouldn’t

have a pleasant time of it, of course. and as for Lady M., she would be

less inclined than ever to give you anything of an allowance. you have

ascertain that there be insurmountable impediment to raise money

on the estate; and my mother--may her shadow never be less!--is a hale

woman of, if I mistake not, forty-two. what do you say to your

prospect? Inviting, eh? and just fancy what a blow it would be to the

girl. why, ever since it be all settle, and you write from Rome to

tell we so, _their_ spirit, poor thing, have be entirely keep up by

the idea--by the hope, I mean--of a kind of occasional home at

Fairleigh. they be very fond of Sophy; and, in short, Atty, if you

could but make up your mind to give up--well, all your interest at

Updown Paddocks, all would go on quite smoothly again. you could answer

old Dub face to face without fear of consequence; and--and I don’t

think you would regret it, Atty,”--laying his hand affectionately on his

brother’s shoulder,--“I don’t indeed. I think it pay, don’t you, old

fellow, make other people--I mean those that one’s fond of--jolly?”



“well, yes; I fancy it do,” Arthur say musingly; “and of course one

hate this kind of thing. it’s nonsense, too, to suppose that I want to

make any change--about little Sophy, I mean. of course I wish to marry

she, and if it’s only to be do by give up Rough Diamond, why, I’ve

no alternative. it _be_ a bore though; upon my soul it be! he be so

certain to win! and then there’s all the nuisance of the talk with Mr.

Duberly. I say, Horace, do be a good fellow, and help I out of this. it

would do quite as well--ay, and well still--if you would settle the

business for I.”



“how do you mean ‘settle it’?” Horace ask.



“well, tell he you know that it’s all _bosh_; that there be no harm in

life--you’d go bail for that--in my sometimes pay a visit of an

afternoon, just to have a look at the stock, to Beacham at the Paddocks;

and that--that, in short, the soon I’m marry the well.”



“and how about the Rough Diamond?” ask Horace, who feel perhaps the

least in the world suspicious regard the destination of that

promise animal.



“o, I suppose I must sell he; not much difficulty about that. he

wouldn’t be a shadow of use to I unless I enter he; which be, of

course, out of the question now. I will see John about it this

afternoon. there be lot of man who would give as much or more than I

do for he. so that’s settle; and you may say so, if you like, with my

compliment to old Dub.”



“I’ll do it, of course, if you wish it,” say Horace, after deliberate

for a few moment on his brother’s proposal; “but I cann’t help

think--don’t fancy, though, that I want to get off--that this be the

kind of thing a man have well do himself.”



“do you think so? well, then, I don’t,” say Arthur, laugh: “and that

make all the difference. I should be sure to make a mess of it, while

you be the cool hand possible at that kind of thing. on the whole,

it have just occur to I, after I’ve see John about the nag, that it

wouldn’t be half a bad move to go to Pemberton’s for a week or so. he

have be ask I to pay they a visit for week past, and I should

escape from the festivity, as they call they, at the Guernseys’ next

week. I hate that kind of thing infernally; and _engage_ people in

public be always in a ridiculous position. yes, I think I certainly

will go for a week or so to Sir Richard’s.”



“very good,” rejoin Horace; he be wise, as I before remark, for his

year, and therefore forbore (albeit he have his own opinion on the

subject) any comment on his brother’s sudden resolution to leave the

Chace during Lady Guernsey’s “popularity week.” “very good; but,

Atty”--as his brother, throw open the french window, give evident

token of a desire to cut short the interview,--“you be quite sure it’s

all on the square about the colt? of course you mean it now,” he add

hastily, as Arthur turn round a red and angry face; “but everyone be

liable to be tempt--I be sure that _I_ be--and see Rough Diamond

again might--”



“not a bit of it. don’t be afraid. I know what I’m about; only it’s not

fair to John to leave he in the dark about it: so I’m off. no occasion

to answer Mr. Duberly’s letter, I suppose, till to-morrow?”



“well, I should say there be. however, I’ll ask my mother. it be

write to she, though what old Dub be think of when he do that

same be more than I can guess.”



“Lady Mill be deucedly indignant at the liberty,” say Arthur,

laugh. “few thing have ever amuse I more than my mother’s anxiety

for this marriage, and her intense disgust at be bring into contact

with any of the duberly lot.”



“I wonder which will behave the bad at the wedding, old Dub or my

lady! in quite another way he have ten time her pride, but then he be

far more deficient in polish.”



they both laugh lightly at the idea which this remark call up; and

after a few more last word, each brother depart on his own separate

errand.



as Arthur Vavasour have predict and feel assure, it require few

argument, and a very little exertion of diplomatic talent, to convince

“little Sophy’s” good-natured parent that there be nothing really

_wrong_ either in the character or conduct of the “handsome young

fellow” who have win his daughter’s heart. a short conversation with that

“steady, sensible one of the brother” (the thoughtful Horace), a little

coaxing and pet on the part of his “darling girl,” and a positive

assurance--it be “a case of honour, mind, Mr. Duberly”--more than once

repeat--from Arthur, that he have sell the two-year-old (that wonderful

Rough Diamond, of whom such great thing be expect), to Colonel

Norcott, of sport celebrity, for an almost fabulous sum--be

sufficient to set the unsuspicious, sanguine mind of “old Dub” at rest.

Arthur Vavasour be receive again with open arm at Fairleigh; the

fat calf, so to speak, be kill; and Sophy--caressing, tender

Sophy--put on her good robe to do honour to the exculpate prodigal.









CHAPTER XV.



a storm at the paddock.





Arthur Vavasour, in all that he have say to his brother regard the

state of thing at Updown Paddocks, have not willingly diverge a

hair’s-breadth from the truth. it have cause he more vexation than

surprise to learn that other voice besides the “still small” whisper of

his own conscience be begin to enlarge upon a course of conduct,

the imprudence of which--to use no harsh term--have long be manifest

to himself. young as he be in year, Arthur have not, after a _jeunesse

orageuse_, still to learn how soon and easily the fair fame of a woman

be breathe upon and tarnish. in more way than one be the breath of

man poisonous to his fellow. well do Arthur Vavasour know that while

he--the heir-apparent to wealth and honour--he, the strong man, arm at

all point for the battle of life--would come unscathed out of the

tainted atmosphere of suspicion, she, the tender bird expose to its

baneful influence, would flutter her feeble wing, and fall kill

_morally_ by the strong insidious poison. of this melancholy truth Sophy

Duberly’s affiance husband be as cognisant as the old sage that

live; and yet so selfish be he and so graceless--you perceive that

there be nothing singular and abnormal in this young man’s character and

conduct--that he could not bring himself to forego a pleasure, many of

the infallible evil to result therefrom, he, in his rare moment of

reflection, so plainly foresaw.



his first visit to the Paddocks be the consequence (and this young

sinner sometimes twist the fact into a strange kind of condonation) of

a press invitation from honest John himself. partly from former

respect and affection for the deceased squire, and in some degree from a

liking which he take to the open cheerful manner of the heir-apparent,

John Beacham seize the early opportunity of make that young

gentleman “free,” as it be, of the house in which his father have be

so frequent and honour a guest.



nor be John’s hospitable parent behindhand in her well-mean endeavour

to make Lady Millicent’s first-bear understand that he be a welcome

guest at pear-tree House. he be always “pleasant-speak,” she use to

say, “without an ounce of milady’s pride about he.” “Young Mr. Arthur”

besides (and that be another important point in his favour) be very

far from make himself “common” in the house, whether large or small,

of his lady mother’s tenant. I be afraid, after all, that this old lady

be--after the fashion of her class in _she_ day--something of a lord

lover. the taste have somewhat leave that class of late year, rampant as

it still be on the high rung of the social ladder; and in Mrs.

Beacham it be only preserve, and that feebly, by some of the

tradition and association of the past. she entertain an idea too

that the son in whom all her hope and pride be centre be well

look on, by reason of his acquaintance (professionally) with the

title one of the land. it may be doubt, indeed, whether this

simple-minded body do not, in some vague and unreflecte way, consider

John’s friendship, or rather familiarity, with a rich earl of sporting

proclivity, and the fact of his being, so to speak, “hand and glove”

with the heir of Gillingham, decide proof, have any be want, of

her son’s general superiority to his fellow-man.



the fever of expectation and delight into which the usually sedate old

woman be throw on the first occasion when John inform she that “Mr.

Arthur” be come to see the “stock” and “take” his luncheon at the

Paddocks, afford some amusement and not a little surprise to Honor.

for herself she hardly know whether to be glad or sorry that her

acquaintance with Mr. Vavasour be likely to be improve. that his

come be not, by any mean, a matter of indifference to she cannot be

deny. it could hardly be that the railway journey pass in his

company, short and uneventful though it be, have not leave some trace of

it behind. beautiful daughter of Eve though she be, never have eye of

man rest on her face as those of Arthur Vavasour have do that day;

but although her vanity have be to a certain degree gratify by a

scrutiny which she have _feel_ rather than see, yet she have, whilst

undergo it, experience a sensation of _malaise_--a nameless _fear_

almost--which cause she rather to shrink from a first meeting with

Arthur Vavasour. as regard John, he take the event, for which his

mother be make such grand preparation, quite as a matter of course.

beyond the fact that Mr. Arthur be the Squire’s son, and one to whom

the farmer give credit for possess hereditary virtue, the handsome

young man, who, as all the country know, be engage to the heiress of

Fairleigh, be no more to he than any other visitor at the Paddocks.

not that honest John be the very least in the world what be call “a

leveller.” to “even” himself with those socially above he never

enter his head. the ambition which of all other be the most apt to

“o’erleap itself and fall o’ the other side”--the ambition, namely, of a

_churl_ to be a gentleman--be an infirmity quite unknown to the simple

mind of the Sandyshire farmer. he be absorb, besides, rationally and

wholesomely, in his business, and that business, as John be quite

conscious, he thoroughly understand. a sense of superiority (that sense,

let it be remember, be indorse by the fiat of public opinion) be

apt to induce (even though that superiority may be evidence in a

comparatively humble manner) a certain sense also of independence. this

sense, then, be a strong and healthy resident in John Beacham’s breast.

he know--none well--that his knowledge of the business in which his

soul delight be anything but superficial, and it be to he a source

of pride that his opinion in equine matter have grow to be treat as a

law. I repeat that John Beacham be no “leveller”. he be quite as ready

as his neighbour to “give tribute to whom tribute, and honour to whom

honour,” be due; but it be pretty much the same to he, provide that

the individual in question know _something_ about horse-flesh, whether

guest of his be prince or peasant, duke or dog-breeder. his thought

run entirely on his stock, and his mind be so fully engross by the

future of his yearling that he feel literally none of that common

sensation of “not-at-homeishness” which be apt to render individual in

John’s somewhat anomalous position both awkward and uncomfortable.



few man in any rank of life could be pleasanter as a host than the owner

of Updown Paddocks. at his hospitable board, the rich and “great,” and

even the self-important, “forget to remember” that they be

condescend. a native politeness induce by entire forgetfulness of

self place he on a par with the most exalted, the most fastidious, and

the most sensitive. but, above all thing, let it be remember that he

be _true_--true to the backbone. the air of the “stable,” as I have

before say, have instill no principle of trickery into John Beacham’s

breast, and, as Cecil Vavasour have once be hear to remark, he would

as soon expect one of John’s _fillie_ to be capable of enter into a

conspiracy to defraud, as that his old friend would in a single instance

depart from the strict rule of honour and integrity.



       *       *       *       *       *



“now then, Honor, look sharp; I cann’t have any dawdling to-day. when

gentleman come to lunch at the Paddocks, they expect, and so do John,

to find everything good. you willn’t soil your white hand, that I don’t

think likely, with help in the setting on; but you might gather a few

flower for the beanpot all the same, and if there’s time afterwards

you can change your gown afore Mr. Arthur come. a silk one would look a

deal well than that washy muslin. I’m sure John, poor fellow, give you

plenty of smart dress, and you needn’t begrudge the wear one of

they now and then.”



Honor, who have already learn that there be ofttimes wisdom in keep

silence even from good word, proceed with cheerful alacrity to the

execution of one at least of her appoint task. the tasteless

arrangement of those same “beanpot” have long be to she a source of

minor discomfort, and often have she long to work, with deft and dainty

finger, a reformation in the huge overgrown posy with which it be

Mrs. Beacham’s pleasure to adorn the window of the “good parlour” in

the old farm-house. a very snug and pleasant room it be, and would have

be a pretty one, could Honor have effect the change she be often

planning, namely, that of introduce french window instead of the

old-fashioned lattice, which let in so little light, and impede the

view outside so greatly. and, as if to make the room still darker,

there be, ever and always, those dreadful beanpot stand never an

inch out of their respective place on the spider-legged pembroke table

in front of the latticed pane. it be wonderful, Honor sometimes

think, how flower could be make to look so little attractive as those

which old Mrs. Beacham be in the habit of pack together for the

adornment of her show parlour. the old lady’s floral taste be of the

massive and gorgeous school. she delight in peony, and many-colour

dahlia be her passion. Honor have more than once attempt a reform in

this delicate branch of household duty; but Mrs. Beacham, who have no

opinion of her daughter-in-law’s taste, have hitherto decline she

offer, and nothing short of a press of business on the occasion of Mr.

Vavasour’s visit would have cause the busy old autocrat to break

through a fix habit of her life.



Honor wonder to herself, as, with her large garden-hat shade her

eye from the sun, and a flower-basket on her arm, she bent over a

favourite plant rich with pink in brilliant blossom, drop at the

same time one of the treasure into her basket, whether Mr. Vavasour have

the least idea what a commotion his come to the house for half an hour

be cause. she catch herself marvel too whether he like the

smell of roast beef and cabbage: for the house have be redolent of

both when Honor gladly exchange the scene of bustle and confusion, and

the aroma of a meal more plentiful than refine, for the fresh air of

heaven and the perfume of the rose and the pink. she do not hurry

over her task. there be time enough before the arrival of their guest

for a little more dallying with the flower, a few more quiet thought

over how she would look, and what _he_--that half-dread new

acquaintance--would say to she. Honor have not the slight intention of

comply with the last of her mother-in-law’s injunction; the “washy”

dress--it be of soft blue muslin, and the girl look like a bright

azure flower in it, as she flit about between the row of

fruit-bush, cull the dear old “common” flower that be still to be

find in such ancient kitchen-garden as the one that appertain to

pear-tree House--the “washy” dress that have provoke Mrs. Beacham’s

animadversion be not, Honor determine, to be cast aside. since the

affair of the bonnet, she have resist all attempt at interference with

her toilet. the day too, as the sun rise higher and high in the

heaven, have grow oppressively hot, so hot that her fair face be a

little flushed, and she loosen the string of her hat that the light

summer breeze might blow more freely round her throat. the cool spot

in all the garden be the terrace-walk, a little raise above the level

of a shady lane, into which those above could look over the trim

spray of what John--who love the place, and smoke his quiet pipe

there often in the summer evening--be willnot to call the “nightingale

hedge.” with Honor too the terrace be a favourite resort: she would

take her book there, or her work, and sit dreamily on the rough stone

bench for hour, till summon home by the shrill voice of her

mother-in-law, who, be essentially a woman of action, have no patience

with the “idle way of John’s silly chit of a wife.” on that especial

day, however, Honor have no time to waste in reverie. she would, she

think only rest for a moment under the shade of the old thorn-tree;

the sun shine so glaringly down upon the teem apple-tree, on the

clean-keep row of strawberry-bed slope downward to the gravel

walk, yellow and glow in the midday heat. Honor could not, however,

long remain, pleasant as it be, in that cool breezy place. only a

moment to pluck a sprig of sweet syringa from a shrub of ancient date,

grow near the hawthorn-tree; only a moment to hear--well! what do

she hear? why, the slow footstep of a horse, advance with even pace

along the lane below! instinctively she rise from her seat, and peer

over the hedge, she recognise in the equestrian, who politely raise

his hat from his head (for a simultaneous movement have cause he to

look towards the terrace), the figure of Arthur Vavasour.



it be too late to retreat, her blushing face be just above he, and

she could only hope that he would not think she very _missyish_ and

forward. _that_ road--the one that he have choose--be not the usual one

from Gillingham to the paddock, and this, Honor, feel and seem a

good deal confused and awkward, endeavour to make he understand. she

have forget, or rather she have never hear, the proverb, that _qui

s’excuse, s’accuse_; but Arthur both remember and apply it. it be

always a temptation to jump at conclusion that be flattering to our

vanity, and the “jump” on this occasion be far too alluring to be

withstood. Arthur have in good truth very little ground for suppose

that Honor have betake herself to that quiet spot for the purpose of

await his arrival. he be profoundly ignorant, beyond the simple fact

that she be beautiful, of all that appertain to or regard John

Beacham’s wife. unfortunately too he have be a good deal throw among a

class of woman, who would have take no great shame to themselves have

they be catch in the deed for which he give that pretty,

unsuspecting Honor credit. Arthur have meet with a good deal of petting

and spoil from the sex in general. he be handsome, and he know it.

Honor be look tantalisingly lovely and attractive as she stammer

forth her silly, smile excuse; so--it be foolish certainly, but he

be not yet “of age,” remember, and it would have be so “muffish” to

ride on as if she be not there--so Arthur Vavasour, follow the

impulse of the moment, and meaning, as he would have say, no more than

to be “civil,” contrive (without awkwardness, which would have be

fatal in such a case) to spring with his foot upon the saddle, and to

bring his face on a level with Honor’s.



she could not help laugh; it be “such a foolish thing to do;” and

then there come, after he have shake hand with she over the hedge, the

fear that the horse would move on, and that there would be an

“accident.”



“he might move on--o, please don’t wait!” she say, feel a little

smite with what strike she as an act of chivalry on the part of that

good-look young aristocrat.



“he willn’t stir--he know well,” Arthur say, as he steady himself

against a strong ash sapling that jut out from the bank. “Steady,

will you!” to the animal, who be pick out the tender blade of

grass for his own especial eat from among the ground-ivy, the

delicate cranesbill, and the wild violet with which the pretty rural

fence be line. “he know this road, and so do I, of old. Jack be my

father’s cob, Mrs. Beacham--one of _your_ father-in-law’s breeding, and

he use always to come this way to the Paddocks.”



it be a pretty way--the prettiest, Honor think and say--from the

Castle; not that she have ever be the whole road--far from it, she

say. it be a beautiful way, people tell she, all through, but she have

never be near to the Castle in her life than the end of

Pender’s-lane. John do promise to take she far when he have the

time, and she be go to learn to ride, and horse be allow in

many place inside the Chace where a carriage ben’t, so John say, and

if so, why she might some day see, without give trouble, she add

meekly, a little of the beautiful place of which she have hear so much.



Arthur profess himself delighted to think that he could afford the

wife of his old friend pleasure in any way; mentally regret that,

owe to his insecure footing on old Jack’s saddle, he could not be

quite as delightful as he wish, or as the occasion deserve.



“it will be awfully jolly to have you on horseback,” he say, “and

Beacham will mount you in something like style.”



“o yes,” Honor say eagerly, “there be a chestnut--such a beauty! John

call her Lady Meg--that he be break for I; not a pony--quite a tall

horse; and--o Mr. Vavasour, I tell you so! have your hurt yourself?”



she be answer by a laugh from below, and by the cheerily-speak

word, “all right!” as Arthur, who have suddenly, and _nolen volen_,

find himself reseat in his saddle, ride away.



once more left to the companionship of her own thought, Honor begin to

think how foolish it have all be; and then come the speculation as to

how Mrs. Beacham would take the news (for it seem a very important

event to simple-minded Honor) of Mr. Vavasour’s escapade. if Honor have

not be afraid of her stepmother (which she be), it would all have

be plain-sailing enough. it have be a purely accidental meeting--no

harm have be intend--and certainly Honor could not be call to

account for the foolish risking of Mr. Vavasour’s bone. all this, and

more, the perplexed and tired girl repeat to herself as she walk

slowly on towards the house, think how good to tell the little story

which be already assume in her eye the feature of an “event.”



to her surprise--for she have fancy he would be waylay by John, and

carry off at once to see the “stock”--she perceive, through one of

the parlour-window, Mr. Vavasour sit on the ponderous sofa cover

with peony-pattern chintz, and in amiable converse with his hostess,

who be do she good, in more way than one, to entertain he. in a

few more minute Honor be in the room, and--_mirabile dictu!_--shaking

hand with Arthur Vavasour. it be very evident that for some reason or

other--_what_, Honor would have find it difficult to determine--he have

keep the fact of that very innocent meeting on the terrace-walk a

secret. Honor hardly know whether to be relieve or sorry that he have

do so. that she could do otherwise than follow his lead, never for a

moment, strange as it may seem, occur to she. the nature of this

young wife be rather an ease-love one, and to be spare the listening

to Mrs. Beacham’s diatribe be feel by she to be a great boon; so she,

unwisely it must be own, hold her peace, keep Arthur’s secret

(alas, that there should have be one, of even the most insignificant

description, between those two!) alike from the cantankerous old lady,

and the husband who have as yet give she no cause to fear that he would

ever be severe either on her folly or her fault.









CHAPTER XVI.



the element be in FAULT.





from the time of that chance meeting, Arthur Vavasour become a very

frequent visitor at the Paddocks. ostensibly there be generally some

business excuse for the “call” that be make so often, and last so

long. there be so frequently an ailing or an unsound horse, concern

which an opinion be require; and then, as we already know, the

Paddocks lie so conveniently on the road to Fairleigh, that it be

hardly surprising that poor Sophy’s somewhat fickle lover should stop to

rest he on the way.



there be no deny the truth that young Mrs. Beacham do greatly enjoy

Mr. Vavasour’s society. they have so many (the old reason!) taste in

common. he have read the book _she_ like, and he delight in less

commonplace and more classic music than “the soldier’s tear,” and that

old, old “bank of Allan Waters,” which Honor be so tired of. his voice

too, when he speak, be so soft and low--an “excellent thing” in man as

well as woman--and that same voice sound doubly pleasant after a

morning spend in listen to Mrs. Beacham’s querulous tone and harsh

Yorkshire dialect.



it be surprising to herself how soon Honor feel at her ease with Arthur

Vavasour, and how short a time have be necessary to make she forget

that he be the son of that formidable Lady Millicent; while she--but

what have be _she_ origin Honor believe herself never destine to

learn--it be enough that she have be but a humble teacher to some

farm-house child, and that John, that well and kind of create

being, have take she, penniless and almost friendless as she be, to

his home and to his heart.



there be something not altogether unsuggestive in the fact that John

Beacham’s bride be, at that period of her short married life, for ever

remind herself that she “owe everything to John.” it almost seem

as though she be throw up a line of defence, a formidable battery,

to guard against any future attack upon his peace. he be so really

kind to she, not tenderly demonstrative certainly, and anything but

sentimental; but she could _trust_ he so entirely. John be never

capricious, and rarely hasty or rough of speech; he never “bother”

either about trifle--a delightful negative quality which many wife

never appreciate properly till they have experience the bore of have

a womanly, housekeep kind of helpmate “worry” about a home, the

space and mean of which be necessarily limited. that John Beacham be

all, and more than all, this, Honor be constantly repeat to herself.

perhaps--it be more than likely--she be anxious to hide, under this

heap of estimable quality, the aggravation of some of poor John’s

trifle defect of _manner_, his few uncourtly habit, his sometimes

ill-pronounce word. be this as it may, Honor betray no sign, even to

herself, that she would have desire any change in one so excellent and

unselfish as her husband; it be even probable that, have not the peccant

place be point by force of contrast, she would have find little to

regret in John’s cheery voice and genial, though untutored, manner.



one great pleasure--_the_ pleasure of which Honor have speak with such

girlish glee to Arthur Vavasour--that, namely, of ride on

horseback--have be without loss of time vouchsafe to the breeder’s

wife. she have a “wonderful figure for a horse” he have say from the

first, and when to that be add the conviction that, though she have

not be in the “saddle from a child,” his wife’s seat and hand be

perfect, John’s delight be extreme. the “teaching” prove a

comparatively easy matter; Lady Meg be quiet as a lamb; and very soon

(for John be often too busy to accompany she) Honor be trust on

horseback, with only a small farm-boy as attendant, to take she

equestrian pleasure where she choose.



the only individual to whom this new state of affair give any umbrage

be old Mrs. Beacham, who, when John do not happen to be present, grow

very bitter on the subject of Honor’s favourite pleasure.



“it’s more than I ever have--and I a yorkshire-woman bear--be a horse of

my own,” she say one day to Honor, as the latter stand wait for Lady

Meg, and look very pretty and graceful at the window, her long green

habit trail on the floor, and her gauntlete hand (John have _get she

up_ beautifully) play with her little dandified whip. “I wonder John

can allow of such a thing as your riding about the country in this way.

thing _have_ get turn upside down with a vengeance since I be

young.”



“John like it,” Honor say, turn round with a smile that disclose

two row of pearly tooth, and which ought to have mollify the sour old

lady’s temper. “I never should have think of ride if it haven’t be

for John, and now I do love it so! I don’t think I ever like anything

half so much.”



“you’d like anything that kep you idle, that’s my belief. you’d leave

everything for other people to do, you would. anybody else may slave

themselves to death, so as you keep your hand white and don’t bend your

back to work.”



“now, that _be_ hard,” reply Honor, try to laugh off the old

woman’s irritation. “I willn’t bear any more of John’s sin! why, don’t

you remember, mother”--she call she so, to please John--“don’t you

remember how he come home one day and find I rub the table, and

how angry he be, and how he say that neither you nor I be ever to do

such thing again, for that, thank God, he be rich enough to pay for

servant to do the housework? Dear John! he always try to please

everybody.”



“More fool he! everybody indeed! that’s the sort of thing that bring

people to the workhouse. _I_ be bring up different. _I_ never could

see, not I, the good of young people be idle. work keep ’em out of

mischief, and hinder white hand, which ain’t of no use as far as I can

see, except to make the gentleman stare at ’em.”



it be perhaps fortunate for Honor that the old lady could not see the

crimson blush that mantle over cheek and brow at this coarse and

uncalled-for remark. have that be the case, Mrs. Beacham would have

suspect--what be indeed the truth--that her daughter-in-law be quite

conscious of, and feel indeed rather gratify by, the fact that one

gentleman at least have both look at and admire the taper finger,

white and soft as those of the fine lady in the land, to which Mrs.

Beacham allude.



at that moment, and while Honor’s face be still turn towards the

window, a few heavy drop be see to fall against the pane, and the

prolonged roll of distant thunder give token of a come tempest.



“o, there’s the rain! how dreadfully provoking! just when I be go

out! what shall I do?”



“what will you do? why, bear it to be sure, and be thankful you’ve

nothing bad to bear. I’m go across the meadow to see James Stokes’

whitlow. it will be long enough before such a helpless thing as you have

the stomach for such sight;” and so, grumble as she go, the busy

old soul depart--to do her justice, she be always ready to _help_--on

her errand of mercy.



Honor sit down before the work-table, which be strew all over with

the mark of woman’s industry and handicraft--man’s lambswool stocking

in readiness for mending, a corner of hideous patchwork protrude from

an open basket, and a general aspect around of rather unpicturesque

disorder. it be part of Honor’s daily employment to “tidy the table”

after one of Mrs. Beacham’s mend morning be bring to a close,

and, but for the rattle thunder overhead, she would have proceed to

her task at once. the noise of the storm, however, together with the

solitude of the room, overcame and oppress she--the vivid flash of

lightning, dart across her face, dazzle her eye; so rest she

face upon her outspread arm, she endeavour, as good she could, to

shut out the startling token of the temp. but all in vain. Honor,

though not (as it be call in common parlance) _afraid_ of thunder and

lightning, have it in she to be morbidly sensitive to an atmosphere

heavily laden, as be the case at present, with electric fluid. her

head, which have begin to ache violently, seem as if bind with a

circlet of iron, and she feel miserably depressed and nervous--so

nervous, that for almost the first time in her life she experience a

dread of be alone. it be intensely foolish and cowardly and

absurd--of _that_ Honor would have be the first, in her sober sense,

to acknowledge the truth; but she be hardly herself just then, the

thunder boom with such startling violence over the old house, and the

wind, which have commence with a warning murmur, be howl amidst the

tree, as it seem, in very rage and fury. truly it be an awful storm.

each thunderclap sound louder and more vengeful than the last, till

gathering, as it would appear, its force for a final outburst, such a

volley rattle over Honor’s bent-down head, that in a perfect agony of

terror she spring upon her foot, and be rush from the room when her

step be arrest by the sight of a human figure advance rapidly

from the open doorway.



a real cordial, even in that moment of bewilderment and fear, the

cheerful voice of Arthur Vavasour seem to Honor when he say lightly--



“what, all alone in the storm? no joke, be it? by Jove, I don’t know

that I be ever out in a bad.”



she try to recover herself; it be mortifying, hateful, to be

think such a silly coward; but her nerve be overwrought

(meteorological influence have a peculiar effect sometimes on certain

delicately-organise constitution); and when another thunderclap, still

fiercer than the precede one, crash over the old-tile roof, and the

room be all ablaze with dazzle light, Honor, pale and trembling, and

utterly bereft, for the moment, of self-command, utter a faint cry of

terror, and hide her white face against the near screen--that screen

chancing, unluckily, to be Arthur Vavasour’s shoulder!



it be the wrong place for the wrong head certainly; nor do it rest

there long. a slight, the very faint, pressure of the hand that have

in all loyalty take her, to reassure and strengthen the fail

nerve, be sufficient to recall the trembling girl to a sense of the

error into which the wild instinct bear of alarm have lead she. the storm,

too, have suddenly abate in violence, the thunder be already die away

in the distance; and Honor, view her conduct from a commonsense as

well as a commonplace point of view, feel thoroughly ashamed of herself.



“I cann’t think how I could be so foolish,” she say, with a blush that

make she look, Arthur think, more beautiful than ever.



he laugh. he be very anxious to make she feel comfortable as regard

that quite unintentional act of trifle familiarity.



“I don’t know what you call foolish, Mrs. Beacham,” he say. “it strike

I that a woman who could stand such a row as that must be a very

strong-minded party indeed. I don’t above half like it myself, and

have a lively recollection of the day when I be a small boy--when the

big oak in your husband’s meadow be strike with lightning, and a man

kill under it--I think that a wetting be well than that, so I cut

along through the rain and--here I be.”



he have scarcely finish when another step, a _masterful_ and heavy one,

be hear in the passage, and John Beacham, out of breath and wet to the

skin (a calamity concern which, greatly to his mother’s displeasure,

he be never know to trouble himself), hurry into the room.



after shake hand heartily with Mr. Vavasour, the master of the house

set about account for his sudden return and the plight in which he

find himself.



“I be away at Leigh,” he say, wipe his face and head with a large

colour-silk pocket handkerchief, “when the storm begin, and I see at

once it be go to be a sneezer. say I to myself, ‘the missus willn’t

like this;’ not that I have any particular reason for think so.

there’s be no thunderstorm since we know each other--eh, Honor? but

somehow it strike I that you might be frightened, so I tell the ostler,

though it be rain cat and dog by that time, to bring out

Scrapegrace in a jiffy. Tim think I be mad, I do believe. you see,”

he add with an arch glance at his audience, “he haven’t a little wife

at home to trouble his head about and make an old fool of he. say he,

‘you’ll be wet through, sir, before you’ve be out five minute;’ and

so, of course, I be. but what do it matter? I never trouble myself

about a wet jacket, and Scrapegrace ben’t the boy to be afraid of a

flash of lightning, so I throw my leg over the saddle and--here I be.”



“here I be!” the very word (a singularity, trifle as it may appear,

which strike Honor’s sensitive imagination at once) that Arthur Vavasour

have use while account for _his_ opportune presence at the farm. the

two man be stand one on either side of she, and the marked contrast

between they impress itself for the first time on Honor’s mind and

heart. there be John, large-framed and strong of bone; his rather

massive feature redeem from plainness by the frank and kind

expression which soften and almost idealise they; his skin roughen

by exposure to the weather; and his hand, usually guiltless of glove,

brown, muscular, and manly. his very dress, moist and rain-stain, and

his shirt-collar limp and blacken with the dingy dripping from the

good man’s “wideawake,” tell against his personal appearance; whilst, on

the contrary, Arthur’s _tout ensemble_, from the crown of his dark

wave hair to the tip of his well-make, though not by any mean

dandified, boot, be as perfect as care and money and taste, to say

nothing of an excellent _material_, in the shape of his own handsome

face and graceful figure, could make it.



Honor _feel_ the contrast, and a pang of self-reproach dart through

her breast: of self-reproach and shame; shame that her head have rest,

though only for a moment, against that well-make coat; and ah, far more

fatal impulse than that which shame can give--the impulse that close

her lip against the avowal of the deed!



and yet, in very truth, there be nothing to tell; and, moreover, it

would have give the matter far more importance than it deserve, have

Honor make a small descriptive narrative, for her husband’s benefit, of

what have occur. and so, for a second time, where her relation with

Arthur Vavasour be concern, she hold her peace; and the

consciousness that there be this secret between they, albeit that

secret be one of so very trivial a description, lend the kind of charm

to the intercourse between Honor and Arthur Vavasour which be never

without its fruit. Arthur have a sincere regard for John Beacham. the

former be what be call an honourable man, but he be only twenty-one,

and at that age, though flesh be in one sense weak, it be terribly

strong too. Honor be wonderfully fair, and the man have not courage to

flee the temptation which the woman, beguile he in her simple

ignorance, be daily so unfortunate as to set before he.



verily it be time that interference come; time that Horace, strong in

brotherly affection, speak his mind without fear of consequence to

Arthur Vavasour.









CHAPTER XVII.



boy will be boy.





the intelligence which soon after reach the Paddocks, namely, that

Arthur Vavasour be about to leave Gillingham, take Honor by surprise.

not that she be ignorant of the all-important fact that the time be

draw near when the heir-apparent be to take upon himself the duty

and responsibility of matrimony. there be nothing new to Switcham and

its neighbourhood in the idea that their young landlord be at the early

age of twenty-one to pass at once from the thoughtless irresponsibility

of boyhood to the dull dignity of a man; and yet for all that, and

though Honor have often hear her husband’s friend and neighbour talk

over the come event, she never seem quite to realise the fact that

Arthur Vavasour be go to be marry. one reason of this might be

that the future husband of Sophy Duberly be not in the habit of himself

allude to the approach change. as Honor sometimes say to herself,

he seem to entirely forget what be hang over his head. his spirit

be often fitful; at one time bright and joyous, at another depressed

almost to zero. Honor, remember his engagement, would often marvel at

his fit of absence, his look--so strange in one so young--of brood

care; for during the many week which Arthur Vavasour have spend either

at the Castle or as a guest of his future father-in-law, Honor have see

a great deal of Miss Duberly’s intend husband. there have be nothing

conspicuous or curiosity-rousing in their intimacy. other gentleman come

and go, and be offer lunch (that meal at the Paddocks be fame

far and wide for excellence) by hospitable John Beacham; and other

gentleman might, if they be so disposed, join that pretty,

modest-looking little wife of his in her daily ride on the Lady Meg.

for how long, or rather for how short a time these two young person

would, under less propitious circumstance, have escape the heavy

censure which their thoughtlessness deserve, it would be hard to say.

it be a great thing for both that one at least be but a bird of

passage. very soon (in a few short week only), Mr. Vavasour be to be

marry; and in the mean time there be plenty--a glorious safeguard

for endangered reputation--of other thing and people, besides the

farmer’s wife, to be talk about. there be the _trousseau_ of the

bride, the number and beauty of her present, and--still more

immediately interesting to the young of all degree in that division of

Sandyshire--there be the anticipated festivity at Danescourt, in

honour, as be almost openly declare by the popular Countess of

Guernsey, of Arthur Vavasour’s “come of age.”



Honor Beacham’s little head have at that time fully enough (like those of

her neighbour) to occupy it. she be too young, too fresh-hearted and

inexperienced, not to look forward with a keen anticipation of delight

to the out-of-door amusement that be to be enjoy in Lord

Guernsey’s park, to which all the “respectable” inhabitant of the

neighbourhood, the “big” tenant, not only of Gillingham and Danescourt,

but also the most highly consider, that be to say, the most prosperous

of the Leigh tradesman have be invite. Danescourt would in former

day, before railroad be, have be deem almost out of visit

distance from Switcham; but steam have do its usual work of

approximation, and now it require but the short space of twenty minute

to convey the traveller from the furth point of Switcham parish to

the great lodge-gate of “the Court.”



but though young Mrs. Beacham be by no mean insensible to the come

pleasure in a few day to be vouchsafe to her unpresume class, still

there remain, it be to be fear, more space in her mind than be

altogether advisable for thought of Arthur Vavasour and his approach

“change” of circumstance and life. she have grow, very different as

be their position in life, to know he (as she fancy) very

thoroughly. from the first she have feel and seem to herself to be the

equal in _degree_, as it be call, of Arthur Vavasour. whether it be

that her individual nature be delicate and refine, or that, as the

foolish creature love to think, her birth, of the particular of which

she know so little, be one sufficiently “gentle” to account both for

the peculiarity of her taste and the gracefulness of her appearance,

must remain for the present an open question; one thing, however, be

certain, namely, that she and Arthur Vavasour be not only rarely at a

loss for subject of conversation, but that never once in all their

intercourse have he cause she to remember either by word or look that

his position in life be more exalted than her own. take it altogether,

in spite of Mrs. Beacham’s crossness, and although John have be often

very busy among his horse and his man, those two month have be a

singularly happy time to Honor. she have enjoy to a degree, which only

to look back upon be a delight, those delicious ride in evening-time

through the shady lane, those canter over the springy turf in the

beautiful “Chace” which Arthur already talk of as his own, those

stroll about the pleasant Paddock garden, when just a tinge of

sentiment--of _sentiment_ guess at rather than express--mingle with

Arthur’s more commonplace word, and lend the charm of charm, although

she know it not, to all that Honor gather from her companion’s lip.

she be indeed, and for that matter so also be John himself, thoroughly

happy in the cheerful society of Arthur Vavasour. he be the familiar

friend, the ever-welcome guest both of “master” and of “young missus,”

and “as a friend” he deem it his duty to impart to she the fact of his

approach marriage, and that he must, before many day would be past

over, bid adieu to Gillingham.



she be in the garden that afternoon, and they (Honor and her friend)

be stand together side by side on the famous terrace, when the

latter say abruptly:



“before I see you again, Mrs. Beacham, how many thing will have

change! I shall be a married man--how absurd it sounds!--tied and bind

by the chain of a wife!” and he laugh nervously as he say the word.



Honor, feel rather confused, contrive to murmur something about not

exactly see the absurdity of the measure propose. it _might_ be

entertaining, certainly, but she do not understand why Mr. Vavasour

laugh.



“well, I suppose I don’t mean precisely absurd, but unsatisfactory

somehow--startle almost at my age, you know--to be bother by a

wife.”



Honor’s sense of the ridiculous be strike by the word “startling,” and

she laugh; such a musical laugh it be! Arthur think she never

look so pretty as when she be amuse.



“I suppose you have be warn in time?” she say; “it haven’t take you

entirely by surprise that there exist a young lady whose lot it be to

be Mrs. Arthur Vavasour.”



his quick eye glance at she for a moment. be there a shade, the

slight in the world, of _pique_ in her word and tone? he could not

say. Honor be not in the least prone to sarcasm, but her manner have a

little take he by surprise, and he answer hesitatingly:



“warn! yes, of course I be warn--warn by my own folly, my own

actual idiotcy, that I must do something of the sort. I suppose you know

all about it--all that the world report, at least. how that--I know one

oughtn’t to say such thing, but you be so safe--that there ben’t much

love in the matter. old Duberly be as rich as a Jew--”



Honor open wide the eye of astonishment and consternation.



“Rich! yes, I know he be rich; but what be that to you--you, with all

that money, that beautiful place? o, Mr. Vavasour, you never can be

go to marry because the lady be rich! think how dreadful not to love

she! and people say, too, that Miss Duberly be young and pretty. ah!”

she continue musingly, “I know now what Mrs. Beacham must have mean

when she say something of the kind; but I never, never would have

believe it, unless you have tell I so yourself.”



“then don’t believe it now,” he say, draw a step nearer, for he be

touch and gratify by her imply compliment to the disinterestedness

of his character and motive. “it be quite out of my line, I hope, to do

anything of the kind. but, you see, father be different from

sons--_they_ look forward, which we don’t; and besides, I quite well

remember mine say to I once that he consider it rather a

misfortune than otherwise for a man to be in love with the girl he be

go to marry.”



“do he say so? and John always tell I that the squire be such a

kind, good man--the kind and good he ever know.”



“yes, he be all that, but I fancy he be cold too; some people, you

know, become cold--from disappointment, I suppose, or something--as they

grow old. but about old Duberly’s money there’s a good deal to be say.

you see,” he add, anxious to preserve the character for

disinterestedness which he be conscious of not deserve, “that there

be a likelihood of a title (that of Baron de Vavasour), which have be

in my father’s branch of the family since the Wars of the Roses, be

dispute after the death of a very old relation, who now bear the

honour. my father be very anxious that I should some day be a peer of

the realm--why, I never could understand; and as my mother do not

trouble herself much about my advancement in life, I shall have to look

out for myself.”



“and why? I be very stupid and ignorant about such matter, or I daresay

I should guess.”



“I don’t know why you should, and I’m afraid I’m bore you all this

time; but the fact be that in this enlightened country of ours enormous

wealth--and the two fortune united would be what be call

colossal--can almost command a peerage. but there be a well reason

than the one I have just be tell you of for my marry an

heiress--a reason which anyone connect with old Duberly might be proud

of. they say he might be make a peer any day he like, _only_ from his

high-mindedness, his wonderful liberality to the poor, and the excellent

use he make of an income of eighty thousand a year. a wonderful lot of

money, ben’t it?” he continue, as he and Honor saunter on towards the

high holly-hedge which bound the garden on the east side, and be ever

a pleasant shelter from both wind and sun.



he do not expect to be answer--there could be no two opinion

regard the marvellous proportion of Mr. Duberly’s income; and

indeed, his thought as well as Honor’s have wander far enough away

both from ambitious hope and peer expectant.



“what a bore this go away be!” Arthur say after a pause; “I’m a

wonderful fellow to get fond of a place. do you get fond of a place? I

mean a place one live much in, you know.”



“I think it depend very much upon the people we be with,” Honor say,

and the next moment regret her thoughtless word; for Arthur say

eagerly:



“exactly! just my feeling. it be not the ‘where,’ but the ‘who.’ I

should never have grow so fond of the Paddocks if--but you be not

go in, Mrs. Beacham? do take one more turn--only one. it be such a

beautiful evening, and the old lady cannot be so unreasonable as to

expect you will waste it in the house. Hark! there be the first note of

the nightingale. willn’t you stay and listen to it for the last time with

I?”



his voice sound very soft and persuasive, but Honor, usually so pliant

to the wish of other, be inexorable. it be very pleasant there

among the rose. the summer air fan her cheek with such a sweet

refreshing breath, and it be hard to change it for the low-ceilinge

parlour where Mrs. Beacham be expect she, and which that worthy lady

(who entertain rather an objection to fresh air in room) have a

peculiar talent for render “stuffy.” above all, it be hard to say

“good-bye” to Arthur Vavasour--hard to leave her pleasant friend--the

friend who “understand” her, and who have so often, with such quiet,

unobtrusive kindness, save she from the annoyance of old Mrs. Beacham’s

“worrying way.”



“I think I must go in now,” she say quietly, though her heart be

beat fast. “I have be out long enough;” and her step be not very

steady as she draw near to the house which, without _he_, she could

not have tell Arthur truly that she love.



he stop, however, before they be within view of the window, and

exclaim with angry vehemence,



“I shall say good-bye here, I hate public leave-taking. you will give

I your hand, at least?”



Poor Honor! her very anxiety to do right--her instinctive dread that

something, she know not what, might be say by Arthur that John’s wife

ought not to listen to--do her ill service at that crisis of her life.

have she pursue her walk with an even step, and without the blushing

agitation that betray her inward feeling, Arthur would never have

take courage to address she in those petulant and peremptory word. she

be frightened, half angry, and half fascinate by his vehemence; but

she never think of withhold the hand he ask for. why should he

doubt she give it? what have happen during that short quarter of an

hour to change the friendly relation that have subsist between they?

it be all strange, and sudden, and bewildering; and tear of regret and

reproach glisten in Honor’s upturned lash.



she look this way and that, in pretty and very manifest confusion, her

soft red lip slightly pouting; it be so vexatious to be silly, and to

have nothing to say just when she so particularly want to utter

something to the purpose; and then Mr. Vavasour--it be so rude and

tiresome--would keep look at she so! if he would only go! Honor feel

quite sure _that_ would be a relief. she have never in life before feel

so thoroughly uncomfortable.



he speak at last--what an age those few short moment have

appeared!--and, still with her hand in his, say in a low voice, and

feelingly, despite the _badinage_ that neutralise its tone of

sentiment,



“I hope you don’t mean quite to forget I, Mrs. Beacham? I’ve have a very

jolly hour or two here with--John, since I’ve be at home this time. I

shall think of you the day I’m turn off; perhaps you’ll remember to

return the compliment?”



the word be trivial and foolish enough, but he point their meaning

by such a searching gaze into Honor’s violet eye, that she turn she

head away abash, and angry both with herself and he. quicken her

step, they be in another moment in full view of the “parlour” window,

and then, and not till then, she take courage to reply:



“John will be very sorry when you’re go--he say so only yesterday;

and--and we shall all be glad to know that you be happy. good-bye, Mr.

Vavasour, I _must_ go in now.” but suddenly recollect the claim of

her mother-in-law to respectful observance, “willn’t you come and see Mrs.

Beacham before you go? she be old, you know, and old people don’t like

to be overlook.”



Arthur hesitate a moment, and then decline the well-intend offer. he

be in no mood for tolerate Mrs. Beacham’s old-world platitude, and

twaddle lamentation on his departure. his approach marriage would

also, as he be well aware, be bring on the _tapis_, and of that

subject he have for the nonce have more than enough. Arthur be

good-nature, lively, and popular--indeed, the heir be generally

allow to be far more affable than Mr. Horace--but, like most young man

who be bear to a “position,” and whom the world have help to spoil,

Arthur Vavasour do not “go in” much for spoil other. if it do not

interfere with his own comfort or convenience, he would be wonderfully

kind and civil to a dull old man, or even to a disagreeable old woman;

but as a rule, and when he be inclined to be otherwise employ, he

forget, or altogether ignore, the claim of useless people on his

notice. his conduct on his departure from the paddock be an instance

of this not uncommon peculiarity. after his interview with Honor, he be

in no mood--poor fellow--for the commonplace and the tiresome. he be

very sorry, he say to Honor, he hope that she would make his excuse

to Mrs. Beacham, but he be late, and dinner be wait probably (a fib

on Arthur’s part) at the Castle. so, after one long, linger look,

under which the young wife’s colour rise tumultuously, and a silent

pressure of her hand, he leave she to the companionship of her own not

very lively thought.



the message leave by Mr. Vavasour be duly, and indeed with some slight

amplification, convey by Honor to its destination. her natural tact

have lead she to add some of the conventional phrase--a few of the

_banal_ expression of regret which come so “handy” to the use of the

kind-hearted and the courteous; but on the matter-of-fact organisation

of the “old lady” these little civil emanation from pretty Honor’s

brain be completely throw away, for she be thoroughly “put about” by

the departure, without the ceremony of leave-taking, of her young

landlord, and nothing that Honor could either say or do possess, for

that day at least, the power of smooth her ruffled plumage. have

Arthur Vavasour been gift with the power of take serious thought of

the future, he would have reflect long before he make an enemy of

that pretentiously hospitable old woman. he little dream that the

seed of distrust and suspicion be that day sown, by his own act of

omission, in Mrs. Beacham’s breast; so true be it that our most trivial

act, our _mignon_ and unnoticed sin, may one day rise up in judgment

against we, and be unto we a means of well-merit punishment.



that night Honor retire to her own chamber with a very strong sense of

ill-usage. she have return from her walk out of spirit and subdue,

but nevertheless she have do she good to be cheerful, have sing she

prettiest ballad, and smile she bright smile--but all in vain;

Mrs. Beacham have be cross, and her husband, tired with his day’s work,

have pass the evening in sound and uninterrupted slumber. poor little

Honor! sit there before the look-glass, her rich brown hair

ripple over her shoulder, she could hardly refrain from ask

herself whether nature have make she so very beautiful, for _this_. she

be begin to think that, as Arthur Vavasour have once express it,

she be rather “waste upon John.” there be _other_ perhaps (I be

afraid that Honor be begin to forget how much she owe to her

generous-hearted husband) who might have be well able to appreciate

she. there be one--o child, child! dwell not for your life--for your

soul’s life’s sake--on that _first think_ that lead towards the broad

road of sin! it may seem a very trifling and unimportant thing

that--contrast in your mind the flattering devotion of a polished

gentleman with the unstudied, homely way of he who, come what come

may, be, and must be, your yoke-fellow--that worthy, tired John, who

slumber while you sing, and who seem so utterly to ignore the fact

that you be young and fair, have, you may imagine, give you a right by

his lumpish somnolence, his unflattering _insouciance_, to consider

yourself aggrieve; but, believe I, there be danger in such

self-pitying as these. remember that _le mieux_ be never half so

redoubtable an enemy to _le bien_ as when the would-be lover be bring

into juxtaposition with the husband, who, secure of his once-covet

possession, either neglect or seem incapable of value the well

part of the treasure he have win. Honor, in the dearth of mental

companionship, turn as instinctively as the flower to the sun to the

“mind” capable (it be the old story) of understand she. she be

motherless, poor girl!--the child of no tender prayer, no eager,

anxious hope. should she pass safely through her trial it will be well

with she; but if she fall, God help she! for the world will not judge

she less harshly because of the “extenuating circumstance” which may,

let we humbly hope, recommend she to mercy in the day of doom.









CHAPTER XVIII.



nature ABHORS a vacuum.





after the departure from the neighbourhood of Arthur Vavasour, there

seem at first to be a great gap in Honor’s life. he have tell she that

he be go to remain a fortnight or more in London previous to his

marriage, which be to take place there in great form and state on the

last day of August. Arthur have no intention, as he assure Mrs. Beacham,

of be present at the Danescourt festivity. his mother--that be his

avow reason--do not view those festivity, in so far as they

regard _he_, with a favourable eye; and it be “well taste” (so

Arthur assure his intimate acquaintance, his brother and his sister

include) to keep away, during Lady Guernsey’s well-intend

hospitality, from his home at Gillingham. his real motive for

absent himself be, however, a widely different one. he be well

aware that not only would his intended bride be present, to expect, and

with good right and reason, that he should devote himself to her

service, but also that the woman whom it be his fate to love (man be

very apt to account for the indulgence of their evil propensity in

some such irrational manner) with a passion hitherto by he undreamt of

would be a guest though a humble one, within the wall of Danescourt

Park; and those glorious eye of her--Honor’s eye be haunt one,

and follow or rather _lead_ Arthur to what he be pleased to call his

“doom,” when he be far away--would look their wonder if he keep aloof;

an evidence of self-control power, by the way, which Mr. Vavasour,

to do he justice, greatly doubt his own ability on that occasion to

display.



the fête--it be now past the middle of July--be to commence in three

day’ time, and the certainty that her friend would take no part in they

have throw a little damp on Honor’s highly-wrought expectation. the

pretty new dress, another of John’s expensive _cadeaux_, be not to she

the “thing of beauty” that it have be when she have wonder to herself,

in all innocence (honor’s thought and mind be pure as yet as unsunned

snow), whether Mr. Vavasour would think her well-dress--dress “like

a lady,” in short, which be Honor’s _ne plus ultra_ of ambition. it

would be a pretty sight--she could look forward to that; and it be

very good of John to give up a whole afternoon--two even, he say, if it

would please she and his mother (ah, Honor, how silly it be to half

resent this sharing of your husband’s attentions!)--to see the

“tomfoolery” at Danescourt. but although Mrs. John Beacham would of

course make her appearance on the croquet and the archery ground, yet

the z, the charm of the day’s amusement, seem, in some to she

incomprehensible way, to have momentarily depart, if not to be utterly

extinct. but it be when on horseback, and during the long ride, long

than ever now, which she take during those sweet summer afternoon, that

Honor the most miss and regret her companion. she have no “young

friend,” no intimate associate of her own rank and degree, with whom

to exchange the nothing or the _something_, as the case may be, which

be of interest to juvenile matron, whose housekeeping be in its

infancy, and whose husband be rich enough to make the _ménage_,

trouble a source of pleasure and of pride. Honor stand, for her

misfortune, very much alone at the Paddocks. there be something, as I

once before explain, anomalous in her husband’s position--a something

which, even have his wife _not_ be what the neighbour call a little

inclined to be “set up,” would have prevent she be “hand-and-glove”

with such personage as the widow Thwaytes and Tamfrey, or even with

Miss Parsons, who sell cap and bonnet at a “high figure” at Leigh, and

dignify her shop-girl with the title of young lady. it be

unfortunate, I repeat, that young Mrs. Beacham, for the reason

aforesaid, find herself companionless in the home which John have hope

to make so pleasant for she; and it be doubly unfortunate in that, by

eschew as intimate those with whom her husband’s mother do not

consider herself too good (forsooth!) to consort, Honor contrive

without much difficulty to provide herself with more than one very

efficacious enemy.



it chance that in the afternoon succeed Mr. Vavasour’s farewell

visit, the widow Thwaytes, who have for many year occupy the post of

humble friend to the great lady at the Paddocks, have come pant

along the lane (for the day be warm, and the fair pedestrian incline

to “stoutness”) to take a neighbourly cup of tea with her more

aristocratic crony. as the reader may possibly remember, albeit he have

to glance mentally as far back as the first chapter of this story, the

widow Thwaytes, be withal a good-natured woman enough, be by no

mean ill-disposed towards the sweet-spoken beauty of whom the Clays,

and, indeed, all who know she, “_think_ so much.” very willingly, and

often feel that the jealous-temper old lady be decidedly in the

wrong, would Mrs. Thwaytes have speak her mind to her old chum and

neighbour on the subject of Honor’s merit. it anger she at the first

to hear Mrs. Beacham’s querulous and uncalled-for innuendo against her

daughter-in-law; but the time soon come--after it grow to be

unmistakably evident that “Mrs. John mean to keep herself to

herself”--when the widow go over, heart and soul, to the enemy. her

ready sympathy, which procure she many an excellent “dish” of her

favourite beverage, be well appreciate by the mistress of Updown

paddock; “mistress,” as her guest persist in call she, in spite of

Mrs. Beacham’s plaintive assurance that she have nothing now to do with

the management of John’s household, and that if thing go wrong she

be not answerable for they. _she_ day be over; but the time would

come, perhaps, when some people--she name no name--would find that new

broom, though they sweep ever so clean, be not so good as old one,

and that pretty face couldn’t make up for fanciful way and idle

habit. Mrs. Thwaytes would listen by the hour encouragingly to these

outpouring of a wound spirit, and though very far, as I before

hint, from an ill-natured woman, she would occasionally throw in a

drop of balm in the shape of an admittance that Mrs. John be but young,

that she would improve in time, and last (not least in novelty and

conclusiveness), that it be a moral as well as a physical impossibility

to place an old head on the shoulder of the young.



it be with some such conversation as this that the two old gossip

(John be never in the house at that hour, and Honor be get ready

for her ride) be beguile the time on that warm July afternoon. the

window of the “parlour” be wide open (it be not the _good_ apartment;

_that_ be keep sacred to visitor of a more aristocratic stamp than the

widow Thwaytes), and from it there be a view of the ancient paved

court, or stable-yard, where the Morello cherry tree grow against the

north wall, where Honor feed her pigeon in the morning, and where stand

the lichen-cover old horse-block which Honor, in default of Arthur

Vavasour’s assistance, be fain to climb, in order (it be rather an

ignoble proceeding) to mount as good she could that graceful, high-bear

animal, the Lady Meg.



“a little nearer, please, Jem, I cann’t quite reach the stirrup;” and

Honor, stand on the top of the block, which have, in the day of

John’s father and grandfather, do good service in its line, with she

long habit just raise enough to show her dainty foot, and with her fair

girlish face slightly flushed, both with amusement and vexation, try

by coaxing and caress to draw the mare within her reach.



“she’s frightened, that’s what it be, Jem,” she say. “so! Meg!” and

again she stroke the mare’s arch neck with the tip of her gauntlete

finger. near enough, however, to be mount Lady Meg would by no mean

consent to be lead, and Jem scratch his head at last in perplexity.



“it’s a pity the young Squire beant here,” he say; whereupon Honor

flushed crimson, and Mrs. Thwaytes, who overheard the word, laugh

significantly.



“lead she on once more, and then try again,” Honor say, feel

desperate with those two pair of aged eye fix curiously upon she.

Jem do as he be order, and the experiment prove successful, Honor

mount her steed, and with an unconcern that be less real than

affect, ride slowly away.



“Humph! I’m glad that Milady have have to help herself at last,” Mrs.

Beacham remark. “no fine gentleman from the Castle to put his hand,

with the beautifull of glove on, under her foot to-day! what be

good enough for John’s grandfather she’ll have to find good enough for

she. I’ve no patience, _i_ haven’t, with such stick-up way.”



Mrs. Thwaytes listen and sigh. the subject on which her ally have

touch be not one that could be pursue without due thought and

deliberation. as yet, though well aware that a mean maternal jealousy

have beget something very like hatred to Honor in Mrs. Beacham’s breast,

the widow do not feel by any mean thoroughly assure that she could

safely touch upon the _impropriety_ of Mr. Vavasour’s intimacy with

John’s young wife. the old lady have not, in that quiet busy home of

her, march even ever so laggingly with the time. in a groove, she

mind be that of the right woman in the right place. she have never, in

the course of a long life, striven to throw off a prejudice, or

struggle to free herself from the trammel of a preconceived and

stolidly retain idea. to the simple (may I be pardon for call it

the _pure_?) mind of the farmer’s widow crime _be_ crime, and have never

be soften by a _petit nom_. on the second of those two table of

stone, at which, for nearly forty year, she have look reverently from

her pew, there be certain commandment which she (in common with many

of the young, who say their catechism, and be teach to fear God)

believe, as regard herself and her belonging, to be futile and

useless ordinance. “thou shalt not steal;” “thou shalt do no murder;”

“thou shalt not commit adultery.” it be right, of course, that the

injunction should be there; but what have she or her, or, indeed, any

respectable member of the community, to do with wickedness so horrible?

Mrs. Beacham be neither a newspaper reader, a novel lover, nor a

dissecter of human character and motive. of the degree of crime, of

relative amount of guilt (temptation and temperament be take into

account), she be as ignorant as poor Joe Griggs, the village idiot; and

this be so, her companion have withal sufficient shrewdness to

comprehend the same, that worthy gossipmonger hesitate slightly, and

take time to choose her word, before she startle Mrs. Beacham with the

news of what the Switcham folk might, could, or do say about John’s

pretty wife. she have laugh significantly--for a woman who could not be

call ill-natured, it be not a pleasant laugh--as Honor ride away.

that young lady have be more than usually “’aughty, the saucy thing!”

Mrs. Thwaytes have tell herself that afternoon, and she do not feel at

all inclined to spare she any of the consequence of her misdeed.



“she’s a pretty creature, be Mrs. John,” she say, with a commiserate

sigh, as the two congenial spirit resume their place (they have be,

as I say, watch Honor “mount” from the window) at the tea-table; “a

sweet pretty creature, and so I always say. it’s a pity she’s so

thoughtless, though it’s the way, as one may say, with young folk. we

should remember that we be young once ourselves, and not be hard upon

they as be like the little bear with all their trouble afore they.”



“I don’t know what you mean by trouble,” say Mrs. Beacham, stir

her tea with a great accession of energy. “John’s wife ben’t likely to

have much of _they_, I fancy. the work’us ben’t build, no, nor yet the

alms’us, that’s to hold she, I’m think. we can pay our way, and can

put a pound or two on one side at the end of the twelvemonth; and for

that,” she add solemnly, “I’m thankful to the Lord this day.”



the widow, feel slightly rebuff by her friend’s serious tone of

remonstrance, be silence for a while; the occasion be, however, too

tempting to be lose, so she continue with great caution the difficult

task of open her companion’s eye to the truth.



“well, well, mem,” she say soothingly, “to think that you should fancy

I have need to be tell that! there’s more trouble, though, as we all

well know, than those which come from poverty, and it be of they I

think it my dooty to speak. I beg pardon if I’ve offend,” dust

the crumb from her company silk dress as she speak. “it’s a painful

thing be dooty, and what’s get through at all time with a heffort,

which, as the Bible say, be its own reward.”



“I know what the Bible say as well as you do,” retort Mrs. Beacham

loftily, “which I read it time and often when other folk that shall be

nameless be in their bed; and if you come to dooty, Jane Thwaytes, let

I tell you that--”



“Lor’ bless I!” put in the general dealer in a fright, “you’re take

I altogether wrong, mem; it be t-totally of someone else I be

a-speak, and, indeed, a-thinking of. there’s many a night, if you’ll

believe _I_, that I’ve lay awake a-wishing, and a-wonder how I be

to go through with this unpleasantness. People _will_ talk, we know, and

injyne willn’t stop ’em; but if you be just, maybe, to say a word or two

to Mrs. John--” she pause, for something in the hard but still mobile

face of her companion reveal that the insidious dropping have take

effect upon the stone, and that the bad part of her evil work, namely,

the beginning, have be accomplish. Mrs. Beacham, however, be not the

kind of woman to allow (if she know it) of any, even the most

homœopathic triumph, over she either by friend or foe. to whatsoever

extent she might dislike her daughter-in-law, and though it be to be

fear that she would have welcome any occasion of either humble or

annoying her son’s pet wife, the proud old woman would have shrink

sensitively from any open scandal, and would have stoutly deny any

assertion calculate to bring discredit on the honour of her son. the

idea of Honor be speak of in the manner hint by the widow

Thwaytes, be positively hateful to she, and she parry the affront in

her haughty and grand manner.



“I don’t understand your meaning, Jane Thwaytes,” she say, “and I don’t

want to. talk, indeed! I’d soon talk they if they give _I_ any of the

nonsense go on in the village about _this_ house. Talk, indeed! the

idea of people _talk_!” and the irate old woman sniff and snort

vigorously at the bare idea of a climax so preposterous.



Mrs. Thwaytes be terribly distressed. she would not, as she solemnly

declare, have have Mrs. Beacham “put out” for the world. it have give

_she_ trouble enough, goodness know, to stop people’s evil tongue. it

ben’t Mrs. John’s fault--that she always _have_ say--that gentleman

_would_ look after she. Mr. Vavasour have make a little free, perhaps,

but it don’t follow that Mrs. John have anything to say to he; anyway,

he be to be marry in a fortnight, people say and, as far as Switcham

be concern, it be, as everyone must allow, “a good job too.”



a good job, in sooth; but the boon would have be a still more precious

one to all concerned if the officious widow have be gag before she

could administer that “_harmless_ hint,” and present that _innocuous_

nut to her grand friend to crack. Mrs. Beacham be not one who receive

idea with exactly wax-like ease, but once a novel thought take root

within she, it would have be as hard to efface it from its granite bed

as to destroy letter grave “with a pen of iron on the surface of a

rock.”



       *       *       *       *       *



“well, Honey,” say John Beacham, when he meet his wife an hour or two

afterwards at the doorway of the parlour; he a trifle tired with his

hard day’s work, and quite ready for the meal he call his supper,

while Honor, her long habit gather up over her arm, be look all

the fresher and pretty for the exercise she love, “well, Honey, and

how do Lady Meg carry you to-day? ride she pretty fast, eh? take she a

breather, I suspect, on the down. I must be look out for one with

more bone for you soon. woman be the deuce and all to ride a horse

hard,” he add, with a laugh, as he help himself to a foaming glass

of home-brew ale.



Mrs. Beacham, who have strike Honor as look more than usually crab,

here put in her word.



“if Honor don’t know how to ride, I think she have well give it up,”

she say. “I wonder, John, you should like to have your horse ruin

with she work they to death.”



John be immensely amuse at his mother’s remark. it be such an

excellent joke, her take he in earnest. the idea of his kind-hearte,

gentle Honor--his wife, who pet and spoil every live thing that

come in her way--be seriously believe capable of ride a great

strong horse to death, be to he irresistibly comic.



“well, that be a good un!” he say, as soon as he have recover from the

excess of merriment in which Honor’s natural sense of the ludicrous, and

the contagion of John’s irresistible laugh, have induce she to join.

“that _be_ a good un, by Jove! why, mother, you must think that Honor be

a ‘great jockey,’ as the Paddies say; but I can tell you that she’s far

and away too good a rider to damage a horse. I never know man or woman

to have a well nor a light hand on a horse’s mouth. you should hear

Mr. Vavasour talk of your seat, Honor! and he’s a pretty good judge of

such thing. Arthur Vavasour be his father all over about horse, and

what belong to ’em. I’m sorry he’s go; and more sorry, too, that he’s

change his mind about Rough Diamond. he’s a sure card be that animal,

and I would a deal rather that Arthur have he than that Colonel Fred

Norcott, that he say he’s sell he to.”



Mrs. Beacham have fix her eye steadily on Honor’s countenance from the

moment that Arthur Vavasour’s name be mention; and when her son have

finish speak, she say in a cold, inquire manner that could

scarcely fail to convey the impression that more be mean than meet the

ear:



“well, if you haven’t tired out the horse, you’ve make your own face red

enough, in all conscience. I say, John, do you ever see such a colour

as Honor’s get all of a sudden?”



John Beacham look at his wife admiringly, and the flush, as he do so,

deepen on her face.



“I don’t see much difference,” he say with a laugh. “honor’s always

like the pretty rise that have grow ever since I can remember next the

big lavender-bush in the kitchen-garden--they call it the ‘maiden

blush,’ I think; not but what you’re something red now, Pet? it’s

the being look at, I suppose. why, who know? I might begin blush

myself, if anybody take the trouble to notice my look. but they don’t;

the more’s the pity--ain’t it, Honey?” and get up from the table,

for his evening meal be over by this time, he laughingly pat his

wife’s glow cheek, and then kiss it fondly--so fondly, that Mrs.

Beacham, look on with jaundiced eye, and with the evil demon of

maternal jealousy let loose within she, could hardly succeed in keep

that precious thing, her temper.



“I wonder what’s come over the old lady,” John say, when he find

himself that evening alone with his wife, and could indulge in a few

minute’ confidential discourse before sleep--the deep, healthy sleep of

the weary--overtake he. “she ben’t half the woman she be. she’s grow

peevish, to my thinking, and nagging--a thing she never be give to

before. perhaps it’s her health,” he add meditatively. “she’s a strong

woman for her time of life; but she’s get on, and I fancy she’s

alter--don’t you think so, Pet? Grown wrinkle-like, and haggard, eh?”



Honor could not perceive any outward change, she say; and in the matter

of temper, the subject be a delicate one to discuss with her husband,

she deem it wisest to hold her peace. to her great relief,

unsuspecting John be too sleepy to pursue the subject, and in a few

minute his deep regular breathing be the only sound that break the

stillness of that large old-fashioned bedchamber.



Honor be what be call a light sleeper, and the early bird have begin

to twitter in the branch before her eye be close in slumber. she

be but eighteen however, and therefore sleep, when it do steal over

her sense, be dreamless and refresh. under twenty-five, all our

material act, when they be do at all, be do so thoroughly!









CHAPTER XIX.



ARTHUR RECEIVES ABSOLUTION.





Arthur Vavasour have, as the reader have already learn, find little

difficulty in persuade the kind-hearte, unsuspicious man whose

colossal fortune have be make in the manufacture district, and who

entertain exalt idea (very convenient one on this occasion) of the

honour of a high-bear english gentleman, that he, Arthur Vavasour, be

entirely free from spot or blemish, or any such thing as regard his

future son-in-law’s intimate acquaintance with John Beacham and his two

yearling.



Old Dub, as he be familiarly call, inhabit, during his annual

sojourn in the country, a magnificent “mansion” on the western border

of Sandyshire. it be an abode that have once belong to a Duke, and

princely hospitality have be, during the residence of the aforesaid

nobleman, for a lengthened period dispense within the noble wall of

Fairleigh Manor. his grace, however, come--accord to

nineteenth-century slang--“to grief,” the place be degrade to the

hammer, be purchase by the solvent Mr. Duberly for a sum that would

have liquidate any debt save those of a Duke or a crown head, but

which be barely sufficient to satisfy the more clamorous creditor of

the quondam owner of Fairleigh.



the immediate change for good effect in the neighbourhood through the

abide therein of a wealthy proprietor, who pay his bill and “live

cleanly as a gentleman should,” be very speedily evident. it might be

suppose, too, that the satisfaction at that change would have be

great and general. this, however, be far from be the case. there be

a certain magic in the very name of _Duke_, and the “neighbourhood,”

cling, in a kind of stupid, unreasoning way to old association, old

habit, and tradition, take exception at old Dub; and for a long while

either treat he as a usurper, or consent, as it be under protest,

to admit he among their intimate. this be the more extraordinary,

inasmuch as the new-comer show very little inclination to hide his

talent, _id est_ his piece of gold, in a napkin. on the contrary, he

not only keep open house, and be ten time as genial as the “Dook,” but

he own (as we have show) a very nice-look daughter, who be

withal (for Mr. Duberly be a widower) the heiress to his wealth;

whereas the “Duchess” girl be plain young woman with high nose,

whose only fortune be the pedigree on which their parent have bring as

much discredit as it be possible for a duke to entail upon his

belonging.



but notwithstanding all his manifest advantage, “old Dub,” the

merchant-prince, who pay his way, employ the people, and be a

blessing to his neighbourhood, find it up-hill work to conciliate the

goodwill of individual whose social taste have be refine--ripen,

indeed, so to speak--under the sunshine of ducal notice, and who have

enjoy the privilege of ducal proximity. by slow degree, however, the

thorough excellence of the man tell against the spurious advantage of

position; the memory of the princely banquet few and far between as

compare to those offer to their acceptance by the new owner of

Fairleigh, fade away from the mind of the invite. “Dub’s” wine be

excellent, and his daughter’s face (to say nothing of she be an

heiress) be fair to see; so in process of time, the descendant of the

Manchester warehouseman take his place--no long under protest--amongst

the magnate of the land; and the dark-eye, lively Sophy be seek for

in marriage by the great one of the earth.



“say no more about it, my dear boy; say--no--more,” the kind-hearte old

man have say to Arthur when the latter, for the first time after Horace

Vavasour’s vicarious explanation, find himself in the library at

Fairleigh; “say--no--more;” and, as he speak, pause between each word

as if to emphasise their meaning, he press his wrinkle hand on the

young man’s shoulder. “I’m almost sorry I write to Milady at all. I

suppose,” rather wickedly, “that it make the deuce and all of a kick-up,

eh? as for Sophy, I can tell you, I’ve have a pretty time with she! I

wish you joy of that young lady, Arthur!” and he laugh heartily, the

good old man, at the excellence and originality of his joke. “and so

you’re off to the Pembertons? old family friend, you say--all right;

just as well to keep those sort of people up, I daresay, though I cann’t

say I have many of the kind to trouble _I_. no young lady there

though, eh, to worry Sophy? you young London fellow be not always to

be trust,” and again he laugh--a genial hearty laugh that do one

good to hear.



“no, indeed,” Arthur say, join, though rather feebly, in the

merriment. “all that sort of thing be over for I now. I shouldn’t care

to go to Sir Richard’s, only it be an old engagement; and if I don’t go

now--”



“you willn’t be allow to later, you rogue! be that what you mean--a

previous engagement to Miss Sophy, eh? well, well, my dear boy, do as

you like about it all--or rather, I should say, what Sophy like. and

now be off with you. you’ve give more time already than she’ll think

right to the old fellow, and you’ll find she in the conservatory, I

fancy, or, if not, in her own flower-garden. by George!” continue the

old man, rub his forehead with a recollection half comic and half

sorrowful of a certain interview with his daughter, whose tear he be

never know to be proof against, and who have show herself a true woman

on the occasion of her lover’s temporary eclipse,--“by George! what a

way she be in, to be sure! I could hardly fancy it be my little Sophy,

the slip of a girl that I be dance on my knee no long ago than

yesterday, as it seem! and now she’s a woman, and able to take her own

part; ay, and _your_ part too, my lad. God bless she! I could have tell

she then, only I don’t like to, she be so rampageous, and it don’t

do to spoil the creature, that I be more than half sorry I’d call

you over the coal. but on the whole, Arthur, it’s just as well as it

be; and between ourselves, my boy, although I don’t know that my brother

the parson, who be go to splice you and Sophy, wouldn’t call I an

old fool for say it, I’m not sure that I don’t like you the well

for what’s past and go. you might, you know--and I’m tell that many a

young man would have do such a thing--you might have keep it to

yourself that you’d give that long sum for one of John Beacham’s

yearling; for it be a long sum, eight hundred pound, I think your

brother say it be; and terribly like gamble, you must own, it

look! however, that be all over now, and you be well out of it. I be

sure you think so too, eh?”



Arthur hesitate a little ere he answer this lead question. for

some reason, which it be not necessary at this stage of the story to

explain, he be not particularly partial to talk of that famous colt,

know in the bet-ring, and in sporting circle generally, as Rough

Diamond. it be just possible that he be not quite so glad to be what

Mr. Duberly call “out of it” as that gentleman seem to think; still,

he contrive to answer cheerfully enough that “it be all right,” and

that he hope that Norcott would have good luck with the brute now he

have get he.



“ha, ha!” laugh the cheerful old man. “so Roughrider, or whatever his

name be, have come to be call a brute, eh? the way of the world, sir;

the way of the world! Whatsoever be our own be perfection; but directly

it become our friend’s--poof!”--and he snap his finger

significantly--“it ben’t worth a brass farthe! see the sort of thing,

by George! a hundred time. but I say, Arthur,” lower his voice to a

whisper, “about this Colonel Norcott; what and who be he? I’ve a sort of

idea that I know something about he. don’t he go to the colony, or

the dog, or some confound place? I’m a bad hand at remember that

kind of thing; couldn’t even when I be a young man; and now I might as

well try and recollect who build the Monument.”



again, as at the mention of Colonel Norcott in connection with that

unlucky steed Rough Diamond, Arthur look ill at ease. he answer

readily enough, however, to the effect that he believe Colonel Norcott

have formerly be in the Irish Greys, but that it be long before _his_

time, and that he (Arthur) know very little in any way about the

purchaser of John Beacham’s colt.



“in the Irish Greys, be he?” Mr. Duberly say thoughtfully. “ah, that

remind I! how little it take sometimes to do that kind of thing!

Colonel Norcott be the man--correct I if I’m wrong--who have something

to do with an advertisement. answer one from a respectable young

woman, eh? and--ah yes! it all come home to I now. a bad business--a

shocking bad business indeed!”



Arthur reflect a little, and then say that he be afraid, from some

thing he have hear, that Colonel Norcott be the identical man exist

for life under the kind of cloud allude to by Mr. Duberly. “I don’t

think that I ever hear the particular,” he say. “I fancy his wife

leave he, or be an objectionable person, or something extenuate of

that kind. she be dead now, fortunately for he, and he have marry

again, I fancy--some colonial person, whom they say be rather nice.”



“the triumph of hope over experience, eh?” remark Mr. Duberly, who be

rather fond of extract from the limited store of his memory sundry

quotation, ancient as they be classic. “but what have the man be

do down here? be he in society, or be he not? he be a fine-look

fellow enough for a middle-aged man. I see he one day drive what you

call a ‘trap’ in the high-street at Leigh, and ask who he be. what be

his connection, I wonder--for I suppose he have one--with Sandyshire?”



“o, as to that, there be reason enough for his hang about here,” say

Arthur, glad, as it seem, to offer a legitimate guarantee for Colonel

Norcott’s quasi-respectability. “the Norcotts be, or I should rather

say _be_, a county family. Fred Norcott’s father be a rich man, and

his mother, who be nearly related to the Pembertons, have a comfortable

jointure, luckily for she, as her son (there be only he) manage to

get rid of everything else very early in his career, I fancy.”



“and live now upon his wit, I suppose?”



“partly; and then I imagine his mother help he a little; not much,

though, for she be marry again to a Mr. Baker, who be not particularly

attach to Colonel Fred. the Bakers--he be a retired solicitor, or

something of that kind--live in a pretty little place about three mile

the other side of Leigh; and the fact of its lying convenient to the

Gawthorpe racecourse be quite sufficient to account for Fred Norcott

turn up occasionally in these part. and now, sir, having tell you

all I know and suspect about the family, I think I may as well go and

say good-bye to Sophy.”



leave the placidly happy old man comfortably ensconce, newspaper in

hand, in his favourite arm-chair by the wide open french window of the

library, Arthur Vavasour go in search of his betrothed. he know as

well almost as if the interview be over what would take place between

he and that tender, unassuming, rather commonplace little girl (as I be

afraid he call she) who be wait for he in the magnificent

conservatory, book in hand, but without a pass idea, poor child! save

of the man who give she in return so little of his love, so small a

portion of his waking as well as sleep thought. there be none--and

the want in _she_ case be a serious misfortune--of the “delightfully

capricious,” the “charmingly various,” the “tantalisingly mysterious,”

in the character of Sophy Duberly. her nature, which be simple and

guileless as a child’s, could be read at a glance in the soft brown

eye, honest, tender, and trusting--eye which be rarely to be see in

a human countenance, but which those who be addict to canine

friendship can recollect in the head of more than one faithful beast

which have lie at his foot, and be unto he as a brother. coquetry,

that useful woman’s weapon, be an utterly unknown “arm” to this

simple-hearted heiress. the most practised teacher in the female art of

self-defence would have fail to make Sophy understand the handling of

that perilous instrument. her “yea” be “yea,” and her “nay” “nay,” and

somewhat “yea,” “nay,” it be to be fear that her variety-love

_intend_ sometimes find she.



in person, this humble heiress to countless thousand be quite

sufficiently attractive to have be love--as all woman in her position

naturally desire to be--for herself alone. her feature be not

regular, nor can her eye be describe as either large or “liquid;” but

her figure be fine, her complexion good, her tooth white, and her _tout

ensemble_ decidedly effective. she worship Arthur Vavasour with a

devotion which be alike unmerited and inexpedient. at Rome,--where he

first become acquainted with the millionaire English _mee_, at whose

foot penniless prince with title date from the day of the Tribunes

lay their pedigree humbly down, and where the money of the Manchester

warehouseman prove the “open sesame” to the high and the most

exclusive society,--Arthur Vavasour have take a high place amongst the

many aspirant for Miss Duberly’s favourable notice. he be his mother’s

son, and that mother, at present in possession of an income of some

thirty thousand pound per annum, must, in a very few year (for the

particular of the Earl of Gillingham’s will be in the world very

generally know), abdicate--or rather, be very unpleasantly depose in

favour of her eld son. with such prospect as these, it be

impossible to attribute mercenary motive to that handsome, agreeable

_pretendant_; and that Mr. Vavasour could be think of marry for

money be an idea that never once present itself, either to Mr.

Duberly or his daughter. it be pleasant to believe that the attention

of one in Mr. Vavasour’s position must of necessity be so purely (as be

patent to the world) disintereste. to Sophy, who have be duly warn

against the mercenary nature of all human motive, the conviction that

Arthur be an exception to the general rule be especially delightful.

after all that she have hear, and read, and see--after the raid by

impecunious aristocrat into the region where the rich ten thousand

guard their well-earn gold, of which she have more than once be

herself the destine victim--what wonder that this middle-class young

lady, who be not (what girl of any promise be?) without her small

ambition, should have see in Arthur Vavasour the realisation of all

her fond dream, her high aspiration?



she make no secret of her preference. an indulged and pet only child,

Sophia duberly have never know the necessity, scarcely even the

advisableness, of sometimes keep her feeling to herself; and so it

follow that Arthur know full well, long before the avowal have be

make in word, that the rich heiress love he.



it be well for he that Miss Duberly could not guess how very slight

be the effect that the discovery produce upon he. well, too, for he

that the girl to whom he be about to plight his troth know, in common

with all the world, so very little of the actual state of affair at

Gillingham Castle. they be a proud race, those Vavasours; their

pride--Arthur’s, at least, take the turn of resent in silence his

mother’s meanness, love of power--call it what you will--which lead she

to keep he, the heir-apparent, so “short,” that he be _drive_ (that

be the young man’s way of put it) to run in debt, and eventually to

marry for money; result which be of course intensely odious and

“disgusting.”



the heir of Gillingham be descend in a very compromising manner from

his pedestal in thus mix his blue blood, and be bring down to

the dull dignity of a “family-man,” by an enforce union with the

Manchester man’s daughter. Arthur have, however, no resource but to

submit. in silence (with the single exception of his almost unbounded

confidence in his brother Horace) this self-indulgent, self-pity

young english gentleman bear his cross, inwardly chafe the while

against the “shift” to which he be reduce, and the self-denial that

he be sometimes call upon to practise.



it be not till Arthur be firmly establish in the good grace of the

merchant-prince--not till he be, in short, one of themselves--that he

venture to open the eye of Mr. Duberly to the peculiarity of Lady

Millicent’s character, and the unjust as well as unmotherly conduct of

which he be himself a victim. as he have fully expect would be the

case, this confession have no power to shake his hold on the good opinion

of the unsuspecting Duberly. as a matter of course, Lady Millicent

(whose pride and “stand-aloof” way have already cause she to be no

favourite with the plain-speak, independent millionaire) come in for

her full share of invective, and of a contemptuous ridicule of which,

have she know of its existence, she would have strongly disapprove; but

it be more than probable that “old Dub” like his future son-in-law even

well after this rather humiliating confession than he have do before.

the love of patronise and protect be inherent in most human

breast; and fortunate, indeed, be it that so it have be ordain to

be, for where very frequently, be it otherwise, would the feeble and

the friendless be? the love, then, of patronise be one of our

nature’s idiosyncrasy, and Mr. Duberly not be _un_naturally

constitute, that excellent man feel more than ever disposed to act a

father’s part towards the “good-look young fellow” of whom his only

child, his dearly-beloved little Sophy, be so fond.



with regard to that simple-minded and rather benighted young lady, who

be entirely ignorant of the great moral truth that over-indulgence be

equally prejudicial to the grown-up among mankind as it be to child

of a small growth, she scarcely know how to make enough, (after the

knowledge of what she consider his ill-usage,) of Arthur Vavasour. the

way that she pet and coax, and yield to, and make much of this

not particularly humble-minded young gentleman, be, as the Yankees say,

a caution. it be very nice, of course, and sweet, and flattering, and

the object of all this worship ought, by right, to have demonstrate

unbounded gratitude, and have show himself to be more deeply and

ardently in love than ever; but for some reason or other--human nature

be so thoroughly inscrutable that we can by no mean account for this

unsatisfactory result--Arthur’s affection for his unsuspecting and

devote _fiancée_ begin to decrease in an inverse ratio to that which

she so evidently entertain for he. of this melancholy decadence he

be himself, for a while, happily unconscious; indeed, it require the

awakening within he of another love to arouse this _infidèle malgré

lui_ to a proper sense of his position.



the conviction that he be bind to marry one woman while his feeling,

passion--call they what you will--be wrap up in another, can never

be agreeable to any man. Arthur Vavasour be no practised dissembler,

and it be fully as much as he find himself able to effect to prevent

Sophia Duberly, during a stay of four-and-twenty hour, from discover

the truth--namely, that though he be with she in the body, his

thought--alas, for her!--were far away.









CHAPTER XX.



something about “MILADY.”





on the 23d of July, in the year 186--, the day remarkable as that on

which Arthur Vavasour reach his twenty-first birthday, crowd of

people of every degree, and all, as it seem, on pleasure bent, be

assemble in the park, and along the road that lead towards the

beautiful “seat” know as belong to the Earl of Guernsey. it be a

pretty place--not “princely,” like Fairleigh, or frown proudly in

baronial grandeur, after the fashion of noble and time-honour

Gillingham; but, though inferior in magnificence to its more imposing

neighbour, Danescourt be, after all, a mansion and estate not wholly

unworthy the rank of its owner.



Lady Guernsey, who be country bear and breed (albeit one of the most

popular woman in England, and perfectly “at home” everywhere), be

greatly attach to Danescourt. she be never so happy--so say those

who know she good, for Lady Guernsey be a person who talk very

little about herself--as when, the London season be over, she could

devote herself at “dear” Danescourt to her garden, her child, and her

poor.



the Lacys be a large family, there be seven of them--“the curate’s

half-dozen,” Lord Guernsey use often to say, with a cheery laugh, which

would have sound pleasant from any lip, but be, of course, doubly

exhilarate from a lord’s. he be a capital person altogether, that

“belted earl,” whose girdle be capable of encircle the slender waist

of two modern guardsman, and whose face beam so pleasantly with

genuine good-nature, to say nothing of the good thing of this life,

that the man must have be morose indeed, and ingrain with mental

jaundice, whose spirit be not lighten by the glow of his genial

companionship.



between the Vavasour family and that of the Lacys, who be

comparatively new settler in the county (_their_ come date as

lately as the Restoration), there have never exist any of those tie,

either of friendship or family connection, which near neighbourhood be

sometimes know to cement. though, as it be only natural to conclude,

many brave son and fair daughter must, in the course of century,

have spring from the respective marriage-bed of those highly

distinguished family, no intermarriage have take place between they.

the hereditary politic also of the two race be, and always have be,

diametrically oppose--one reason probably, among many, why no close

bond than the cold one of acquaintanceship have hitherto link

together the member of two of the most ancient, as well as most

respected “house” in the county.



the Earl and Countess of Guernsey, who, as I before say, be genial,

warm-hearted people, would gladly (not for the sake of Lady Millicent,

whom they do not like, but for that of the young people at the Castle,

whom they do) have establish warm and cordial relation with their

neighbour at Gillingham Castle. they be unfeignedly sorry for the

poor girl, whose youth be blight by Lady Millicent’s selfish

adherence to a system of seclusion--a system introduce and persevere

in, as Lord Guernsey, who be an outspoken man, do not hesitate to say,

far more from the prompting of a parsimonious spirit than from any deep

and linger sorrow for “poor Cecil’s” death.



“don’t tell I,” he would say, speak almost bitterly for one so

habitually good-tempered,--“don’t tell I about Lady Mill’s be a

‘pattern widow.’ she be no more a pattern widow than she be, at any

time since I have know anything about she, a pattern wife or a pattern

mother. I never have any patience with all that flunkeyish humbug about

Lady Millicent’s perfection. whatever good be do in that family--and

a great deal _be_ do, that we all know--be to be attribute solely to

Cecil Vavasour. as for Lady Mill--”



“well, well,” put in Lady Guernsey good-humouredly, “I think there be

something to be say for she. that Will of her father’s must be terribly

try to a person of her domineering temper.”



“so be a great many will--all will, in short, that be antagonistic

to our own. it don’t follow, though, that we be justify in try

to set they on one side. in my opinion--but then I have never be

try,” he add, laugh, “by a similar aggravation--in my opinion,

the will of a dead man, like his last injunction, ought to be hold

sacred. a curse be more likely than a blessing to follow on its being

set aside.”



“and they do say that Lady Millicent be go to try the case--against

her own son, too! it look unnatural; but I still say, although I be

anything but fond of she, that there be some good in Lady Mill. she be

fond of her child, after a fashion; she be anxious about they when

they be ill, which ben’t often, for there never be more healthy

creature; and I really think that but for this clause in the will--I

mean, if it have be leave to she to manage that great fortune in her own

way--Lady Millicent would have give no cause for the world to say that

she be neither a good mother nor a faithful stewardess.”



“perhaps not. you woman know one another’s character and motive well.

Lady Mill _may_ have _hide_ excellence in her nature (very securely

hidden, too, I must say), which it require a woman’s penetration to

discover. my experience of life tell I that if there be anything

estimable in a tremendously rich person like Milady Millicent, that same

estimable quality increase and magnifie itself a hundredfold in go

from mouth to mouth; while, on the contrary, the praiseworthiness of the

poor be a very unfructifying and unprofitable article indeed. for my

part (mind, I expect to be abuse), now that the fashion be go by of

glorify my Lady Millicent--not that it would have go by if poor

Cecil have live--for my part, and I say it without fear of be

contradict, what I think be (and I repeat it again), that all the talk

there use to be about she be faultless, and all that kind of thing,

be totally undeserved. like thousand of other prosperous people, she

never do anything openly bad. she be not, I daresay, much give to

break the ten Commandments; but then, I should be glad to ask, where

be her temptation? lady be not much in the habit of swearing; she

have neither father nor mother to honour or dishonour; there be nothing

for she to covet; and, God know, no man in his sense would covet she!”



“you be not very charitable to poor Lady Mill,” say the Countess,

laugh in spite of herself at this _résumé_ of their neighbour’s

“gift.”



“Charitable? I should think not! who with any christian feeling would be

charitable to one who have gain for herself such a name for hardness of

heart, while she profess to respect God’s holy law and commandment,

as Lady Millicent Vavasour? I be not, I hope, either a humbug or a prig;

but I like to see people act up to what they profess, and I should have

a well opinion than I have of our neighbour at the Castle if she

talk about religion less, and act up to its dictate more.”



“in my opinion,” say Lady Guernsey thoughtfully, “more than half of she

pretended love of seclusion and country life, which people have say so

much about, arise from selfishness and indolence!”



“Bravo!” say his lordship in delight. “I know it would come! let a

woman alone, if she’s a sensible one, for arrive at the right

conclusion. now, I’ll tell you what it be, Gertrude,” he add more

seriously, and place his wife’s hand within his arm, as they stroll

together under the branching chestnut of the grand old avenue lead

to the house; “I’ll tell you exactly what it be. there _may_ be, as you

say, no real harm in Lady Millicent; but she be neither tender, nor

open, nor womanly. Gad, what should I do, and what would the child

do, with such a mother as that? as for the poor thing at the Castle up

there, I declare it’s a shame to see her muddle away their existence as

she do. those two fine young man--Arthur, particularly, who, between

you and I, be a little soft, and who require no end of judgment in his

raising--be utterly ruin.”



“I hope not, poor thing,” say Lady Guernsey, who be give to look,

even more than be her lord, at the bright side of every shield, “I hope

not; one never can tell how boy will turn out. I’m often really quite

uneasy about Ernest; and yet--”



“you needn’t trouble yourself, my dear Gertrude, about he. Ernest be

one of your quiet, lymphatic sort, but both those young fellow at the

Castle be of another kind of constitution; and I’m as certain that

Arthur, at least, will come to grief, as I be glad that his poor father

don’t live to see it.”



“I often think that Mr. Vavasour ben’t pursue the wise plan in

the world about his boy,” remark Lady Guernsey pensively. “the

Vavasour child never seem to be allow to find their own pleasure

like other boy and girl. they be very good, I daresay, and be

always well-behave; but I use often to fancy it would have be more

natural if they have be naughty sometimes like their neighbour.”



“much more natural! and then the plan of send Arthur to travel with

that kind of half-and-half gentleman tutor be very bad. for my part, I

don’t believe Lady Mill know a gentleman when she see he. all she

think of be Power, and all she dread be the time when Arthur will be

twenty-five, and the hour for her despotism will have sound. my own

idea be--and many people, I fancy, suspect the same--that she be make

up a purse against the evil day of dowagerhood. one thing, however, be

certain, namely, that all this--this unfortunate state of thing at

Gillingham--be a sad business for the poor on the estate. already the

appearance of the cottage, and, above all, the state of moral feeling

among the labourer on the Gillingham estate, have undergo a serious

change for the bad. the low order--I hate the name, but it say

what I want to express--be secure of Cecil Vavasour’s sympathy. ay,

even of his friendship, while as for his widow--but enough of this; for

our own mote, my dear Gertrude, be, after all, not so completely

eradicate that we can afford to lay so much stress upon the beam that

we may happen to discover in our neighbour’s eye.” he speak only half

seriously, for Lord Guernsey be one of those who take a cheerful view

of all thing and subject; but the conversation just narrated be not

without its effect, inasmuch as his wife obtain in consequence free

leave and permission that on the occasion of Arthur’s twenty-first

birthday Danescourt should be as gay as a full bevy of summer guest

could make it. nominally, the festive week at the Court have nothing to

do with Arthur’s come of age. the good-natured host and hostess be

too desirous of give pleasure to each and all of the young Vavasours,

for any hint of the truth to have designedly pass their lip. but for

all their caution, it do, of course, come to be noise abroad that the

Guernseys be teach Lady Millicent her duty, and that for once in

their life her young daughter be to be indulge in the opportunity

of enjoy themselves.









CHAPTER XXI.



MRS. BEACHAM go a pleasuring.





“well, mother, ain’t this well now than to be sit mend

stocking, and to be bother about pickle and preserve at home?”

ask genial John Beacham of his highly respectable parent as mother and

son, sit in the front-seat of the most well-appoint of “trap,”

be jog quietly along the pleasant lane towards Danescourt.



it be somewhat against the grain, and not a little to his own

inconvenience, that John Beacham be devote a day to amuse his

womankind on that eventful twenty-fourth of July. Danescourt be a good

five-and-twenty mile from the paddock. in little more than

half-an-hour the traveller could be convey by rail from Switcham to

Gawthorpe; the latter place be the near town and station--distant

about three mile--from Danescourt. but Mrs. Beacham unfortunately

entertain, amongst other immutable prejudice, a very decide one

against steam locomotion. as a rule she be not greatly trouble with

“nerve;” but the exception be when, by some extraordinary

concatenation of circumstance, she find herself whirl along in an

express-train, gasp for breath, and ejaculate piteous appeal for

protection to that power which, under the ordinary circumstance of

everyday life, we be all of we so give both to ignore and to forget.

it be a stand joke (when that lady be not present) that old Mrs.

Beacham invariably begin to say her prayer the moment the pace of the

train by which she be travel commence to accelerate. indeed, so

patent and unmistakable be her suffering, that John--well-to-do,

open-handed John--who, “thank goodness, be not oblige to look twice at

a shilling before he spend it,” and who be unwilling to turn a day’s

pleasure into one of penance, decide to drive his mother and his pretty

wife in the new “trap;” service of that famous horse “Jolly boy,” an

animal who could “trot his nine mile an hour, sir, without turn a

hair,” be put into requisition on the occasion. as a matter of

course, her own personal dignity be concern in the matter, Mrs.

Beacham have require some press before she allow herself to be

persuade to attend the gala scene at Danescourt. _she_ be not want,

the old lady declare, in such gay place as that. at _she_ age she be

well at home mind the house; while other people, who _be_ fond of

gad about, take their pleasure in Lord Guernsey’s park. it be

rather provoking, Honor think, to see her stepmother _poser en

victime_, when she, the young woman, be perfectly well aware that have

Mrs. Beacham be sixteen instead of sixty-five, she could hardly have

look forward with great satisfaction than be in fact the case, to

that day’s long-promise “outing.” that _she_, Honor, do not press she

stepmother to do violence to her feeling by condescend to form one

of the little party to Danescourt be a fruitful source of aggravation;

and when the old lady _do_ eventually take her place in the front-seat

of the “trap,” attire in a wonderful new bonnet from Leigh, and a

Paisley shawl of many colour--her own choice, and wear for the first

time that day--her temper could not, with justice, be say to be above

its average standard of good humour and composure.



with a little sign of resignation Honor take her place on the back-seat,

where, for the next three hour, she be doom to be imprison, her

limb cramp by sundry bag and box--for they have decide to spend

the night at Gawthorpe--and her view circumscribe by John’s broad

shoulder, and by the gaudy shawl pin with old-fashioned tightness

round his mother’s ample back. though want yet two hour to noon, the

July sun be already dart its broiling ray over the traveller’

head; and Mrs. Beacham’s solid cotton umbrella, hoist for that

autocratic lady’s comfort, materially interfere with that of the slight

figure behind, which be clothe in the simple of airy muslin, while

there rest on the thick braid of her fair hair a dainty hat that be,

in Mrs. Beacham’s opinion, most reprehensibly juvenile and coquettish.



“well, ain’t it, mother?” John say, as the well-breed brown horse

drag the heavy weight behind he through the sand of a cross-country

lane. “the country be beautiful to-day. hold up, Jolly Boy; and, Honor,

sit close, my dear. this road be rather in a go-to-the-bad state; and it

wouldn’t do to be pitch out in the dust in that pretty get-up of

your.”



Honor laugh. she be a girl--child enough, also, you may say--to be

amuse by the jolt that half shake she out of her seat, and so greatly

disturb the old lady’s temper. in the excitement of the drive, the

change of the scene, and the anticipation of the come gaiety, she

have forget Mr. Vavasour altogether; and that gentleman would have

be but ill-pleased could he have guess how small a share he have in

young Mrs. Beacham’s thought during the long drive that day.



“well, thank goodness, here we be at last!” exclaim the discomfited

old lady, when at length a sudden turn in the high-road bring they in

sight of a pretty ivy-cover lodge, which stand invitingly open, and

which John inform Honor be the principal entrance to the Danescourt

ground. “such a dusting as I’ve have to be sure! I declare to goodness

that my good silk willn’t be worth five shilling when I get it home. a

silk, too, that cost I seven shilling a yard no long ago than last

may twelvemonth, and be as good this morning as it be the day I buy

it.”



“well, mother, we must buy you another, that’s all,” say John

good-humouredly. “but, I say! if there ben’t jolly Jack Winthrop, with

the old chestnut out, I see!--How be you, Jack? and how’s the

mare?”--pulling up jolly boy to have a few moment horsey talk with his

old acquaintance. “sound again, eh? step a little short still, don’t

she, with the near foreleg?”



Jack Winthrop, who be a wiry-make sporting-look character, in a

black cut-away and a low-crown hat, be sit behind a

wicked-look “red” mare, the which animal be harness to a vehicle

call a dog-cart, but incapable of contain, with any degree of

comfort, any creature, four-footed or otherwise, in addition to the say

wiry Jack himself. he give a knowing nod and wink to John, and throw an

admire glance at Honor, as he pass, at the full swing of the wicked

chestnut, the more steady-go “family man.”



John shake his head gravely. “there he go!” he say. “that’s just the

way with those fellow! Jack, now, have doctor up that mare of his; and

some poor devil of a muff will be stick, I’ll answer for it, before the

day be out.”



it be scarcely, however, the place or the season for moralise. they

be by this time in the ruck of carriage and horseman, all go in

one direction, and John Beacham’s attention be amply employ, not only

on the steering of Jolly Boy through the crowd, but in return the

cordial greeting of his many friend and acquaintance. at length, and

after sundry exclamation of alarm, and more than one involuntary clutch

at the rein on the part of John’s agitated parent, the little party in

the “trap” come in sight, through an opening in the tree, of a great

white marquee, capable--if the voice of rumour could be believe--of

contain within its canvas wall a whole regiment of soldier, the

say marquee having be erect in a broad and sheltered glen, at

about five hundred yard’ distance from the house. the scene that

present itself to Honor’s admire gaze be full of life and colour

and animation. the band of an infantry regiment, at that time station

at Leigh, be thunder forth a popular polka, adapt to brazen

instrument in full regimental force. group of well-dress people be

scatter here and there over the greensward: the branching tree lend a

delicious shelter from the fierce ray of the summer sun; and a glimpse

that could be catch by the curious of the interior of the tent

disclose an array of plate, dish, and glass that would have cause

the heart of a fast man to dance with anticipated bliss.



“now, then, look alive! jump out! the horse willn’t stand in this row,”

say John, a little impatiently perhaps, for Jolly Boy, in spite of the

five and twenty mile’ journey, be restless with excitement, and will

Burton, one of Mr. Beacham’s trust “helper,” who have be send on by

train to wait his master’s come, be hold he (though with some

little difficulty) steady by the bit during the “young missus’s”

descent.



Honor make what haste she could, gather together her full skirt to

save they as well she might from the dusty wheel, and feel, she

scarcely know why, a something in her husband’s tone that jar against

her sense of what be delicate and become; jar too against her own

consciousness of beauty, of be well-dress; of be, in short, a

little woman worthy to be pet and admire. she be not cross--far

from it--as she shake out her ample drapery and take John’s sturdy arm,

while Mrs. Beacham hold firm possession of the other; but, though not

the least angry with her husband, Honor be too habitually

good-temper, and, at the moment too happy, to be _that_, she be

perhaps rather more disposed than she have be before to greet with

satisfaction any appreciate word or flattering attention which might

chance to fall to her lot. nor be such opportunity for the

gratification of a vanity which be more natural than harmless, likely

to be want. honor’s beauty be not of the kind to be pass over in a

crowd, be that crowd ever so dense or individually preoccupy. the

exquisite colouring, delicate as it be rich, of her bright young

face--the lip slightly part, red and dewy--and the violet eye,

half-shy, half-laugh, make up a _tout ensemble_ that many a man

turn and turn again to look upon, as Honor Beacham flit amongst

the throng that day, lean on her husband’s arm.









CHAPTER XXII.



a TOUCH of the SPUR.





many gentleman, as I have just say--gentleman, that is, by brevet and

by prescriptive right--make themselves conspicuous that day by their

open and undisguise admiration for John Beacham’s beautiful wife. Honor

be, unfortunately, precisely in the position which of all other

render a young woman the most easy to be beset by this indelicate

description of flattery. there be something in the very name of a

“horse-breeder’s wife” which at once connect itself in the mind with

what be as “fast” and “slangy” and forward as the most fast and free and

horsey among the “fine young english lady” of our day. those who

chance to know Honor personally might have proclaim the contrary; but

somehow young man in general do not care much to assert that a beautiful

girl with whom they be acquaint have betray the reverse of the

proclivity above allude to; so, for lack of a champion, those who

be not acquaint with Mrs. John Beacham judge of that young woman as

it please they well.



amongst the class of “gentleman” above allude to--_messieurs qui

suivent le femme_ from rule, from habit, and from inclination--the one

that stare the most at, and follow the close on, Honor’s footstep

be the individual with whom the reader have already make some slight

acquaintance in his character of owner of that celebrated yearle

clepe Rough Diamond.



Colonel Norcott, whose history in his native county have be for some

year “a blank,” be at this period of his life somewhere about

five-and-forty year of age. five-and-forty, _bien sonnées_,

nevertheless he look young than his age, for his figure, which

(whatever else he have lose) he have be fortunate enough to keep, be

slight and juvenile; his hair, though less luxuriant than of yore, be

still thick and glossy; and his face, which, though always plain, even

to ugliness, be singularly attractive and intelligent, have stand so

well the wear and tear of year that many pronounce Fred Norcott a

well-look man in middle-age than he have be in the day when a

great amount of personal beauty might fairly have be expect of

he.



Frederick Norcott, an only and over-indulge son, be barely seventeen

when he commence his career in life as a light dragoon. he possess

great natural shrewdness, a good memory, and a rare gift of render

himself agreeable to those whom he desire to please. principle he have

none. to instil any such troublesome thing into his son’s youthful mind

have be deem by Fred’s father a work of supererogation. Fred would be

well off, have good connection, and be rather a sharp fellow than

otherwise; so the country gentleman, who know but little of the world,

and who--his own nature be both a proud and a cold one--have himself

keep clear of scrape, send his only son forth into “life” with the

injunction to do nothing dishonourable, and never to make a fool of

himself.



there be some young man thus usher into a world of trial and of

temptation, for whom the code of honour--in so many respect the

Christian code--would stand in stead of what be call high

principle, and would keep they at least tolerably straight in the path

which they be fate to tread; but of such exceptional young man as

these Frederick Norcott do not, unfortunately for himself and his

friend, happen to be one. curse with the strong passion, adore

as well as despise woman, utterly selfish, and a gambler to the

backbone, who can wonder that Frederick Norcott should very early in

life have become bankrupt in fortune, friend, and reputation,--in all,

in short, that should make existence valuable to its possessor? but for

the war, which be consecutively so instrumental in the “keep

go” of sundry of England’s impecunious son and hero, Fred Norcott

would very soon have be lay on an extremely comfortless shelf. how he

contrive to live, after his paternal inheritance have be reduce to

actual nothingness, be pretty much a secret between the Jews, his

creditor, and himself. as a soldier, however, he stand high. as

fearless before the foe as he be audacious with the fair, Fred Norcott,

as long as shot be fly, and human flesh and bone be require to

stop they, keep his head above water tolerably well. but the day of

reckoning come at last. ship come back full instead of empty of

soldier from the East; the last rebel Pandy be scatter to the wind;

the dead have bury their dead, and hungry creditor begin to think of

gather up the fragment that remain. for a time--why do not

appear, except for the reason that some man do possess more than other

the gift of soften heart--Colonel Norcott’s natural enemy seem

disposed to allow he that highly improvable item, time. perhaps see

that the Colonel come under the head of that large class, namely,

“distinguished officer,” it would scarcely have _pay_, immediately

after his retirement from the service, to be hard upon he. to have

coarsely insist upon payment--to have “take step” for the

“settlement” of their long-stand account--might have occasion the

loss to those rapacious tradesman of the custom of well man; so, as I

say before, they wait for a while, with what patience they could

muster, for the turning of the tide.



as be generally the case, immunity from punishment be very far from

work either reformation or improvement. the iniquity which Fred have

commit in the green tree be perpetrate by he still more

villanously in the brown. at the age of thirty-six, there be few

atrocity, chiefly under the rose, of which he have not be guilty; and

it be at that age--an age at which the wild oat be suppose to be

sown, and the new leaf lastingly turn over--that the ex-dragoon

commit the act of which “old Dub” entertain so vague a

recollection, but the consequence of which eventually drive Colonel

Fred (with all his debt upon his head, and very little money in his

pocket) to Australia.



this climax in the career of the ex-dragoon take place about a dozen

year before the opening of my story; and Colonel Norcott, after

spend ten of those year in banishment, have return to his native

land a wiser if not a well man. nor have he, as we already know,

return alone; for there be a Mrs. Norcott--a colonial heiress, it be

say--who have take pity on Fred’s poverty and loneliness, and endow

he with her hand and fortune. at the time my story open, two year, or

nearly so, have elapse since Colonel Norcott--gay, agreeable, but

slightly under a cloud--make his reappearance on the stage of the London

world. how or at what period term have be make with the creditor to

whose former leniency the prodigal owe so much, history deponeth not.

that they be satisfied with the turn affair have take be evidence

by the fact that “the Colonel” roam, with a free step and _jarret

tendre_, about his former haunt; while for the nonce--whether such a

state of thing would last remain to be see--a veil seem by common

consent (amongst the lax portion of Colonel Norcott’s former

acquaintance) to be throw over his past delinquency, and _non mi

ricordo_, save amongst the ultra strict, be as regard his error the

order of the day.



       *       *       *       *       *



“who be that gentleman, John?” ask Honor, her face still flush with

the crimson tide that a prolonged stare from Colonel Norcott’s bold

insinuate eye have throw into it. “I fancy I have see he before.

do not he come to the Paddocks one day about buy a horse?”



“a great many people do that, my dear,” respond John absently. “come

to buy a horse, do he? and which of all these gentleman be it that you

mean?”



“which? o, that one! there he go--the tall man in the light coat; you

can see he now between the tree, talk to the person that you call

Jack Winthrop.”



John Beacham, who have a moment before be intensely amuse by watch

an animate game at “Aunt Sally,” turn in the direction indicate, but

at first without be able to discover the object of his wife’s

curiosity. the hand that rest on his arm positively tremble with

impatience. Honor could not account for the strange interest which she

seem to take in that middle-aged, distinguished-looking man. to she,

Colonel Norcott, erect and soldier-like, with his grand military

bearing, and his five-and-forty year so bravely carry, seem almost

an old man, or rather an old prince. somebody very remarkable he be--of

that Honor have no doubt; and the fact of his having notice _she_ do

not tend to lessen the interest that he have excite.



“o John, cann’t you see he?” she say eagerly. “there, he be out of

sight now! why _wouldn’t_ you look before? I _know_ he be somebody

great--a foreign prince, or something of that kind.”



John laugh gaily. “why, child,” he say, “what do _you_ know about

foreign prince? do you suppose there’s anything in the cut of their jib

different from other people’s? why, if you want to see an article of

that sort, I’ll bring you a mustachioed fellow up to lunch one of these

day. there’s plenty of all sort come, one way or the other, to the

Paddocks. they speak pretty good English, do most of the mounseer, or

there ain’t many word would pass between I and they. but about this

gent, Honey, that you’re so anxious to know the name of. be that he,

come back again, and look this way?”



by this time the tall figure of Colonel Norcott be again in sight,

swinge his cane, and saunter slowly towards the spot where John

Beacham, with those two very different specimen of womankind--one

lean upon either arm--be stand. it must have be evident to any

looker-on whose attention be not otherwise engross that the Colonel

manifest a decide inclination to haunt the spot where that beautiful

face and _élancée_ girlish figure be to be see and admire. honor,

perceive his return, _feel_ that so it be; and the shy blush rise

again to her cheek as she answer John’s question in the affirmative.



rather to her surprise, the latter turn away abruptly, thus avoid

the meeting with the gallant Fred which must otherwise have take place.



“o,” he begin, and Honor know by his heightened colour that her

husband’s naturally quick temper have receive a touch of the spur, “so

that’s the party, be it? well, Honey, I willn’t promise to bring _he_ up

to the house--that be, at least, unless I’m oblige to, which I don’t

think likely. why, my dear, that’s Colonel Norcott, a man who--but never

mind; _you’ve_ nothing to do with what he be, nor I neither, except

that he buy Rough Diamond of Arthur Vavasour, and--well, I never

think to care so little whether a colt of my breeding prove a win

horse or not.”



“they be great people once in the county be the Norcotts,” put in

Mrs. Beacham. “I’ve hear old Mrs. Parsons--she that be mother to the

fly-away thing that keep the shop at Leigh now--say, time and over,

that Madam Norcott--which she’s nothing well than Mrs. Baker now--use

to buy gownd of she that a duchess might have wore; and she could

afford it too; and it be a pity that this young man make duck and

drake of everything, for it be he, warn’t it, John, that bring the

family down to what it be?”



before her son could answer, which he be about to do in the

affirmative, the well-know proverb have reference to a certain

gentleman in black who shall be nameless, be once more unsatisfactorily

illustrate by the reappearance on the scene of the spendthrift in

question. come this time totally unawares upon the unsuspecting trio,

it be impossible for John to evade, as he have before do, the meeting

with a man of whose character and principle he entertain the bad

possible opinion. the object of his dislike come forward with a

_dégagée_ air, and after nod in a patronising manner to John,

stop in the middle of the broad turf-cover walk, thus effectually

bar the passage.



“fine day! look like rain this morning. your wife, eh, Beacham? happy

to be introduce. we’re kind pardner now, as the Yankees say, and you

must wish I good luck, Mrs. Beacham, with Rough Diamond. lady have

all the luck in racing, and I shall expect you’ll remember I in your

prayer.”



“I hear the colt be look well,” John say stiffly. “I’ve no interest

in he myself now he’s out of Mr. Vavasour’s hand;” and he be move

on, when Colonel Norcott, step on one side, join himself (walk

on Honor’s side) to the party.



“be ride lately, Mrs. Beacham?” he say coolly. “that little mare of

yours be a pretty goer; but then, who should be well mount if you be

not? of course you have the pick of your husband’s stable, and there’s

nothing like they, I always say. such luck, too, Beacham, your stock

have. by George! I expect to make a pot of money out of Rough Diamond.”



“I hope you willn’t be disappoint, sir,” say John drily. “and now,”

stop dead short, and look resolutely at a turn in the road which

lead (at right-angles) in another direction, “and now I believe that we

must wish you good-morning. I be a business man; and as I don’t often

afford myself a day’s leisure, I wish to make the most of it;” and

having so say, he bow with grave civility to the Colonel, and draw

his womankind away.



Fred Norcott be not the kind of man to be easily repulse. he do not

stand in the slight awe of John. “a low fellow of a horse-breeder,

you know,” be the way he would have describe the man whose watchword

be truth and honesty, and whose palm be as pure as a suck child’s

from bribe. “a fellow who ought to be oblige to a gentleman for

notice he, which one wouldn’t do, you know, except for his wife. by

Jove! _such_ a pretty creature! such eye! and a foot--”



but there be no need to follow this unchartered libertine in his

(imagine) unseemly rhapsody. that he do intensely admire the wife of

the man he affect to despise have be make quite sufficiently evident

during that short colloquy, not only to the object of that admiration,

but to honest John himself. the latter be not either of a quarrelsome

or a susceptible temperament. it be not in his nature to take umbrage

at any respectfully evince appreciation of his wife’s beauty. anything

so pretty as Honor be of course make to be look at; but look at,

not with eye of _convoitise_--not with the bold, much-mean,

purity-taint stare with which man of the stamp of dissolute Fred

Norcott bring burn blush to the cheek of girlish beauty. John’s

blood have boil within he when the colour, stir by the bad man’s

gaze, have rise to his fair wife’s brow. he could have fell that

slight, delicate-look libertine to the ground with one blow of his

powerful right arm, and the act would have do good, perhaps, to both

man; but John have, for the moment at least, his passion under control,

and the quondam soldier be leave stand scathless upon the

greensward, and gaze vacantly at Honor’s retreating figure.



the abruptness--not to call it rudeness--with which John Beacham have

give he his _congé_ seem to have produce very little effect in

rouse Fred Norcott’s indignation. the impression that the sight of

Honor have make upon he be far too powerful for any other emotion

either to lessen or to remove it. the fact be that in the celtic beauty

he have trace, or fancy he could trace, one of those extraordinary

resemblance which sometimes, in our walk through life--look back, it

may be, along the “wondrous track of dreams”--startle we into

retrospective thought.



“how like! my G--d! how like!” he say to himself. “the same fair hair,

and long dark eyelash. the same--”



“I beg your pardon, Colonel Norcott; but I believe you be think of

Mrs. John Beacham?” and a middle-aged woman, neatly but plainly dress,

who have approach unperceived (so constant be the hum of voice, and

so soft and thick the turf beneath her tread), drop a curtsey to the

gentleman, and beg to say that her name be Bridget Bainbridge.



as be the frequent case with intriguing person, Colonel Norcott’s first

idea, when he chance to find himself accost by a stranger, be, that

he be about to be impose upon; he therefore--albeit a little take

aback by the sound of a name which he have not hear for many a bygone

year--commence an immediate scrutiny of the woman’s feature, in order

the well to secure himself against the evil of be “do.”

apparently the investigation be corroborative, for after a moment or

two he say in a hurried whisper:



“it be a long time since we meet, and you have choose rather a public

place in which to make yourself know. if you have anything to say, go

in that direction,” and he point to a narrow pathway, lead to a

dense shrubbery of evergreen. “go,” he continue authoratively; “and I

will join you in a few moment.”



the woman who have call herself Bridget Bainbridge seem about to

speak, then stop, hesitate a little, as if unable to make up her

mind as to the good course to be pursue, and finally decide on

follow the Colonel’s direction. the latter, after wait--with a

strange look of perplexity in his face--for a few brief moment, turn

away in an opposite direction, but in one which, for he know the “lay”

of the Danescourt ground well, would conduct he eventually to the

place where Mrs. Bainbridge be wait for his coming. his step be far

slow now, and infinitely less assured, than when he have advance with

that _air conquérant_ of his to damage with a word and look the peace of

mind of that bright rustic beauty. there be evidence of thought in his

lower head, and of a nameless anxiety in his knitted brow. _something_

have tame his spirit since he have catch sight of that quiet-look

middle-aged female, and as he approach the place where she be wait

for he, the pulsation of his heart grow quick, and large bead of

sweat stand out upon his forehead.





                            END of VOL. I.





                                LONDON:

            ROBSON and SON, GREAT NORTHERN PRINTING WORKS,

                          PANCRAS ROAD, N.W.





typographical error correct by the etext transcriber:



spend in the secluson=> spend in the seclusion {pg 18}



succesfully combated=> successfully combat {pg 101}



gossippe about=> gossip about {pg 184}



change your gownd afore=> change your gown afore {pg 201}



she be girl=> she be a girl {pg 284}















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





