The project Gutenberg eBook of Sink or swim?

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: sink or swim?

        a novel; vol. 3/3



author: Mrs. Houstoun



Release date: December 31, 2023 [ebook #72562]



language: English



original publication: London: Tinsley Brothers, 1868



credit: Sonya Schermann, Chuck Greif and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***











                             sink or swim?



                               a novel.



                           by the AUTHOR of

                        “recommended to mercy,”

                                 ETC.



                           in three VOLUMES.



                               VOL. III.



                                LONDON:

              TINSLEY brother, 18 CATHERINE ST. STRAND.



                                 1868.



      [_the right of translation and reproduction be reserve._]





                                LONDON:

            ROBSON and SON, GREAT NORTHERN PRINTING WORKS,

                          PANCRAS ROAD, N.W.









                         content of VOL. III.





CHAP.                                                               PAGE



I. “he come TOO NEAR,” ETC.                                           1



II. a LOVER FOUND and lose                                            21



III. what be HONOR do?                                            36



IV. MRS. BEACHAM write a letter                                      46



V. HONOR turn REBELLIOUS                                             54



VI. what, SELL ROUGH DIAMOND!                                         62



VII. MEA CULPA                                                        77



VIII. JOHN BEACHAM make a DISCOVERY                                  87



IX. JOHN prove his right                                            104



X. “as well as can be expect”                                      111



XI. from LIVELY to SEVERE                                            119



XII. MRS. BEACHAM REFUSES to FORGET                                  131



xiii. arthur cheer up                                               136



XIV. arthur find himself do                                       146



XV. MISFORTUNES never COME SINGLY                                    154



XVI. OUT AT SEA                                                      164



XVII. HONOR make a new ACQUAINTANCE                                 188



xviii. JOHN discover his loss                                       202



XIX. another ESCAPE                                                  208



XX. POOR SOPHY!                                                      216



XXI. SUSPENSE                                                        227



XXII. JOHN GIVES WAY                                                 237



XXIII. HONOR RECEIVES a letter                                       243



XXIV. the use of ADVERSITY                                          259



XXV. CONCLUSION                                                      274









sink or swim?









CHAPTER I.



“he come TOO NEAR,” ETC.





the merrie month of May be speed onward, and with it--fast and

furious--rattle over stone, and dash over impediment, run the

fierce strong current of “London life.” there be an intoxicating

influence, especially on the inexperienced, in the rapid motion, the

ever-change aspect of pleasure, the atmosphere redolent of poisonous

influence, that be breathe by the upper ten thousand in the month of

May, in busy, half-mad London. by none be this insidious influence more

perilously undergone than by the impressionable, weak-nerve woman who,

through her own folly, considerably aid by “circumstance over which

she have no control,” be stand on the very brink of the abyss, the

name of which be “ruin.”



it be now the middle of May, and during a swiftly-pass fortnight

Honor Beacham, continue her course of semi-deception regard she

father’s condition, and entirely conceal from the husband whom she

believe to be exclusively absorb in his own pursuit and interest

the fact that her day and night be spend in one continue round of

exciting pleasure, go on her way--if not rejoice, at least in a

condition of such delightful mental inebriation, that she find barely

sense or time enough to ask herself the serious question, if the life

which she be lead indeed be joy.



John’s answer to her letter, write under the influence of hurt

feeling, and pen by a man utterly destitute, not only of the art to

make a thing appear the thing it be not, but of _l’eloquence du billet_

in general, be one exactly calculate to rouse in a high-spirit

nature a dormant inclination to rebel. in it there be an implied right

to command, a right solely arrogate (to Honor’s thinking) by reason of

the writer’s indifference to her proceeding, and scanty appreciation of

her merit. “you will come back, I suppose,”--so write the unwise man,

who, on his side, have so egregiously err in his estimate of

character,--“you will come back when you have have enough of London. I

don’t say to you, ‘come home,’ for woman that be make to do the thing

they don’t like be, as mother say, not over and above pleasant in a

house. we be uncommon busy, too, just now; there be paint to be

do, and the chintz to be calender, so perhaps you be as well out of

the way of the bother.”



Poor John! could Honor have hear the heavy sigh that break from his

full heart as he close the letter; could she, above all, have look

into that heart and read its secret sorrow, she could not have doubt

of her husband’s love; and perhaps, remove from the glamour of Arthur

Vavasour’s presence, from the mesmeric influence of a passion which be

become terribly overpower in its hourly-gather strength, she

might have be again a happy woman in the simple fashion and the humble

sphere to which she have be bring up. such a “chance,” however, be

not for the foolish, beautiful woman who, with half-tender word (for,

alas, it have come to that) from her high-breed adorer linger on her

memory, read the simple letter, which it have cost so much pain to write,

in anger and in bitterness. toss it on her toilet-table with an

impatient jerk, she tell herself that John do not care for she. it be

nothing to he, she say mentally, whether she stay away or not; but

as she inly speak the word, the finger of her little gauntlete

hand--she have just return from ride in the Park--dash away

something very like tear that have gather on her long lash and

nothing short of the recollection that she be go in a few hour’

time to dine at Richmond with Arthur Vavasour and a few other friend of

her father’s prevent she (for it would be dreadful to make she

appearance with red eye) from indulge in the luxury of a “good cry.”



that party to London’s prettiest suburb--an evening’s enjoyment which

be to include a row towards Twickenham and Teddington on the clear,

flow river, and a delicious dinner after dusk in one of the charming

_cabinet particulier_ appertain to the Star and Garter, and opening

on its pleasant garden, have be for day look forward to with keen

anticipation of delight by Honor Beacham. they be to proceed thither

in two open “_hire_ carriage,” in one of which be to be seat Honor

and the Colonel’s wife, while Arthur Vavasour and a dull, unobservant

Mr. Foley, a gentleman, like Pope’s woman, “with no character at all,”

be to occupy the opposite seat. in the second carriage the party

collect be likely to be of a far more noisy, as well as a more

congenial, description. Mrs. Foley--a lady a little on the wrong side of

thirty, and whose animal spirit, be apt occasionally, as the saying

be, to “get the well of she,” be in their full swing of triumph on

such an occasion as a Richmond dinner--arrive at Stanwick-street

punctually as the clock strike four, array in a toilet which, but for

the still more amazing costume of the young lady with whom she be

accompany, would have decidedly monopolise the attention and wonder

of every female observer in that quiet neighbourhood. shake themselves

clear of the straw and _tumble_, consequent on their cab-drive from some

distant locality, Mrs. Foley and her bright-eyed sister Dora Tibbets

stand on the doorstep of No. 14, laugh noisily--more noisily than

lady of their stamp often laugh when no one of the male sex be present

to stir their spirit up to boiling point. their dress, as they stand

there in the bright sunshine of a May afternoon, be of the kind well

suit to a wedding breakfast than to a “quiet dinner,” as Fred Norcott

have describe it, in the country. light and fair and frolicsome they

look; woman with more _auburn_ frizzle hair about their head than

could, by the most lively and charitable imagination, have be suppose

to be their own, with bright pink rose mingle with their hirsute

ornament, and with a _quantum suff._ of _poudre de riz_ soften the

lustre of their complexion.



“how smart they be!” Honor whisper in dismay to Arthur, as the two

catch a glimpse of the lively sister from behind the muslin curtain of

the first-front drawing-room.



“awfully. it’s a bore they’re come, but if there have be nobody it

would have be bad,” say Arthur, lean over her chair, and

speak in the low tone which always go so thrillingly to her heart.

“Imagine! I _might_ have be unable, all this evening, to say one word

alone to you. and we have so few more day, Honor! you say that you

cannot expect a much long holiday; but tell I--do you never, never

think what will become of I when you be go?”



“don’t talk in that way,” she say, one of her crimson blush speak

far more eloquently than her word, while she try to hide her

confusion by carefully draw on finger after finger of her delicate

Paris glove. “don’t talk in that way; I must talk to these people now.

you don’t know they, of course?” and rise gracefully, she go through

the ceremony of introduction which her father deem it necessary to

perform.



the next arrival (they dash up to the door in a hansom, and remained

talk up to the balcony during the few minute that elapse before

the descent of the major portion of the party) be Mr. Foley, and a

young gentleman of slightly _horsey_ appearance, but who, nevertheless,

contrive to snip his word and lisp as ridiculously as any foolish

would-be fine gentleman in town. Captain Bowles be the son of a general

officer, and be himself, though of small dimension, and of anything

but military bearing, a soldier. he be plain of feature, with a large

mouth and a beardless face. his appearance be more that of an inferior

order of counter-jumper than of a guardsman; nevertheless he be pet

and make much of, especially by the fair sex. Mrs. Foley and her sister

be “fine woman,” and “fast,” so the general’s son--who would have be

vote, under less favourable circumstance, a little snob--be allow

to stand up before they with his hand in his trouser pocket like a

man; and while he mince his platitude with graceful ease, be smile

on as fondly as though he be a hero and a gentleman.



there could scarcely have be find a more good-natured _chaperone_,

_duenna_,--call her what you will,--than the Colonel’s lanky wife,

seat opposite to dull, sleepy Mr. Foley, who, by the way, be an

individual of no particular profession, gain a precarious livelihood

as “director” to one or two doubtful company, and have a float

capital in the same. Mrs. Norcott, under cover of her pink parasol, keep

up a dozy conversation with that harmless man of business, while Arthur

Vavasour, who have no right whatever (see that his young wife be in

the most delicate of situation--nervous during his absence, and only

comfort by the certainty that he be within call) to be there at all,

have--ala for the credit of poor selfish human nature!--forgotten every

duty, and ignore the sacred claim of wifehood, for the sake of pass

a few blissful hour by the side of the forbidden woman he adore. and

she--that other wife, who still, strange as it may seem, and eke

impossible to many, keep a large corner in her heart for home and duty,

and the rough, tender-hearted man she call her husband--what be her

thought, her feeling, as the tempter, with his bold beseech eye

fix on her blushing face, tell she, in look more dangerous still than

word, the bewildering, but as yet only half-welcome truth that she be

all the world to he, and that, to gain her love, he would cast to the

four wind of heaven every tie on earth, as well as every hope of

heaven?



for it have come to that with this “fond, foolish,” passionate young man.

make of the stuff that love in wild extreme, unused to put a bridle on

his fierce desire, restrain by no sweet early home-affection, the

dear love, mother-love, that bid the profligate, sometimes in his

wild moment, to go no far--only a myth to he--with a God above

but half believe in, and himself the deity on earth he worship--who

can wonder that this man, vigorous with the strength and health of his

one-and-twenty year, should make no effort to resist the devil that,

without resistance, _would_ not flee from he?



“how glad I be that you remember the Park,” Honor say, as they, the

carriage follow at a foot’s pace, saunter slowly along the

beautiful woode brow beyond Pembroke Lodge; “I would not have miss

this view for the world.”



they be together now,--those two who have be well far have the wide

sea divide they--those two who could not but have own that so it

be, have any put the question to they in the rare sober moment which

nineteen and twenty-one, in the heyday of folly and of love, be bless

with. the rest have stroll away in pair; so that Arthur could speak as

well as look his love into the bewilder eye of his friend’s lovely

wife.



“Mad,--yes, I suppose I be mad,” he say, in answer to a half-reproach

from his companion; “but who, I ask, would not be mad--mad as you be

beautiful--see you as I do, Honor, nearly every day, every hour? it

be my fate--for by the heaven above I I _cannot_ help it--to look upon

your beautiful face, and see you smile, my love, my darling! ah, do not,

for the love of all that be good and beautiful, be angry with I! from

the moment that I see you first, Honor, I feel as I never feel before

for mortal woman--I--”



“don’t say so. all man say that,” put in Honor, who be more versed in

the theory of love-making than its practice, and who, while she feel the

necessity of check her admirer’s outpouring, be terribly shy and

untutored in the process. “besides, Mr. Vavasour,”--gathering courage as

she proceeded,--“it be very wicked--_terribly_ wicked, both for you to

talk and for I to listen to such word. there be your wife at home,

poor thing,--I often think of her,--how unhappy she would be could she

only guess that you say such thing to any woman as I have just be

wicked enough to listen to!”



Arthur could scarcely repress a sigh as the image of poor neglect

Sophy, stretch on her luxurious couch in the gorgeously-furnish back

drawing-room in Hyde-park-terrace, present itself to his mind’s eye.

“she know nothing, guess nothing,” he say, with an ineffectual

effort at carelessness. “where ignorance be bliss, you know, it’s bad

than folly to be wise. I suspect there be a Bluebeard’s closet in

almost every house, and as long as woman don’t try to look inside, all

go on smoothly.”



for a moment, whilst Arthur be impart to his fair companion this

result of his worldly experience, _her_ thought glance back to her own

home, and to the marked exception to her lover’s rule which it afford.

at the paddock--and well do Honor know that so it be--there could be

find no hidden chamber bar off from the investigation of the

curious. the wife of true-hearte John Beacham could pry at her own

wonder will into any and every corner of his big warm heart, and find

there no skeleton of the past, no flesh-cover denizen of the present,

warn she with uplifted finger that he be false.



very guilty she feel for a second or two, and humble and odious, as the

consciousness of be a vile deceiver send a blush to her fair cheek,

and check any answering word that have rise to her tongue. time,

however, for useful reflection be deny she. the sound of her father’s

voice announce that it be five o’clock, and that the boat be

wait at the Castle-stair, effectually interrupt a reverie of a

more wholesome description than might, under the circumstance, have

be expect; and, reëntere their respective carriage, the party

be soon on their way down the hill so love by Cockney

pleasure-seeker, and so be sing by nature-worship poet.



       *       *       *       *       *



once in the large comfortable wherry which have be hire for the

occasion, Arthur find very little opportunity, beyond that of pay

the most devoted attention to her personal comfort, of make himself

agreeable to his lady-love. that there be _one_ subject, at least,

besides herself of real and almost absorb interest to Arthur Vavasour

soon become evident to Honor; and that subject be the approach Derby

race. since her instalment in Stanwick-street, Honor have hear more talk

of that all-important annual event than--horse-breeder’s wife though she

be--she have listen to through all the many month of her married

life; and naturally enough, see that the “favourite” be her father’s

property, and that Arthur Vavasour appear deeply interested in the

triumph of Rough Diamond, the success of that distinguished animal

become one of the most anxious wish of Mrs. John Beacham’s heart.



“o, I do so hope he’ll win!” she exclaim enthusiastically; “he be such

a wonderfully beautiful creature. and he have a brother who, they think,

will be more perfect still;--no, not a brother quite, a half-brother, I

think he be; and I use to watch he every day lead out to exercise,

look so wild and lovely. he be only a year old, and his name be

Faust; and they say he be quite sure to be a Derby horse.”



Poor Honor! in her eagerness on the subject, and her intense love of the

animal whose varied charm and excellence be to be see in such

perfection in her husband’s home, she have be inadvertently “talk

shop” for the amusement of the spurious fine lady, whose supercilious

glance at each other be not, even by such a novice as Honor Beacham,

to be mistake. in a moment--for the poison of such glance be as rapid

as it be insidious--two evil spirit, the spirit of anger and of a keen

desire to be avenge, take possession of our heroine. she see herself

despise, and--so true be it that we cannot scarcely commit the small

sin without do an injury as well to our neighbour as to

ourselves--she resolve, to the utter extinction of the very inferior

beauty near she, to make the most of the wondrous gift of loveliness

which she be conscious of possess. Hitherto she have “borne she

faculty meekly;” the consciousness that she be, by marriage, without

the pale of the “upper ten thousand” have, together with an innate

modesty which be one of her rare charm, keep she silent and somewhat

subdue when in what be call “company.” it have require the look of

contempt which she have see pass between the well-get-up sister to

rouse the spirit of display in Honor Beacham’s heart; but, once arouse,

the intoxication of success encourage she to proceed, and the demon of

Coquetry be find hard indeed to crush.



the row, slow and dreamy, up-stream to Teddington-lock, would, even have

there be no unlawful and much-prize lover--of whom, explain it as you

will, Honor be more than half afraid--by her side, have be simply

delightful. the river be so purely clear that the water-weed beneath

its pellucid surface show brightly, freshly green; and then the long

low islet, with the graceful willow-bough, vivid with the hue of

early spring, dip their last-open bud into the lave stream, and

the bank, verdant and fair, and cattle-sprinkle--all combine to make

a Breughal-like picture of spring verdure and beauty.



notwithstanding a certain amount of horsey conversation, flirt,

covert as well as open, be the order of the afternoon. both Mrs. Foley

and her sister be adept at that truly feminine and easily-acquire

accomplishment. to look the thing they mean not, to understand or not

understand the ingenious _double entendre_, to give the little hope that

hinder from despair, and _only_ the _little_ hope, lest the excite

lover should presume, be art in which _ce dame_, the

unprofessional demi-monde of gay middle life, be thoroughly skilled.

it require more audacity than Honor would have previously believe that

she possess to cope with rival such as these, but, _champagne

aidant_, she get through the female duty well; and the dinner which

succeed the aquatic excursion owe not a little of its success to the

lively spirit lending add charm to the powerful influence of beauty.



the hour of ten have strike by the town clock, and the many wine-bottle

on the table of no. 3 room be near to empty, before it occur to

any of the party therein assemble that the night be fine and warm and

starlight, and that in the garden of the hotel a fresher, purer air

could be imbibe than that which remind they somewhat too forcibly of

the good thing they have be imbibe.



at a conjugal hint from the Colonel, his watchful and obedient wife

suggest that the moon have rise, and be look lovely over the

river. a turn on the terrace would be delightful, she think; and as

her proposal meet with no opposition, they make themselves an impromptu

drawing-room under the starry canopy of heaven.



“what a lovely night! how glad I be to have see this! the moonlight

never look to I so soft and beautiful before!”



“never? I be glad of that,” Arthur say, his face very near to Honor’s

as they leant over the stone balustrade and gaze out upon the tranquil

scene. “I may hope then that, for a little while at least, the memory of

this night will linger with you. it be a day that I at least shall find

it very hard to forget. you smile and shake your head. perhaps you take

I for one who know nothing of his own mind,--one whom a fresh face can

stir into new and soon-to-be-change feeling. but, Honor, listen to

I--listen while we have these few moment we can call our own. I tell

you that the love I feel for you be one that will defy all time and

space and change. you have never be love, my beautiful one, with such

a love as this. you would tell I, be you not an angel, and too pure

and good for such a world as this, that your husband--”



“hush, hush! please don’t; I cannot bear to hear you speak of he, Mr.

Vavasour,--well, well, _Arthur_--I know I have be very weak and

wicked; but for my own folly you would never have--have tell I that you

love I; and indeed I do not mean--I--”



he seize both her little hand in his strong grasp, and hold they there

as in a vice.



“Honor,” he whispered,--and his voice tremble with concentrated

passion,--“are you go to tell I that I have be a blunder fool,

and that I have mistake every look and word and smile that lead I on to

love you? if so,--but no, I cannot, will not think it possible. long

ago, my darling,”--and his voice soften into entreaty,--“long ago,

when first I hold this precious hand in mine, you might, with cold word

and scanty smile, have teach me”--and he smile bitterly--“my place.

but that you do not do, honor: you _know_ you do not. what your motive

be in lead I on to hope that I be something--a very little--more

to you than a mere acquaintance, you well can say. if it be well mean

on your part, all I can say be that it be cruel kindness; for it will

be a hard fall down again to the place from which your gentle word and

smile have raise I. but once more, Honor, for the love of Heaven, tell

I that you have not trifle with I. do not make I lose my faith in

every woman. tell I before we part to-night that if we be doom

never to meet again you would sorrow a little, just a very little, for

my loss. tell I that sometimes, when you be alone, you think of I;

tell me”--and he venture unreproved to steal his arm round she

waist--“tell I that you love I just a very little, Honor, in return

for the heart’s whole devotion that I feel for you.”



her bosom heave, and her heart beat very quickly, under the strong firm

pressure of his hand; but for all that--and perhaps some of my reader

may understand the anomaly--the strong feeling in Honor Beacham’s

mind at that important crisis be one of relief that she be not _alone_

with her adorer. and yet in one sense she love he. his touch, his

lingering gaze into the depth of her blue eye, exercise--and never

more so than at that moment--a strange magnetic influence over her

nerve. she could ill have bear a decree that banish Arthur Vavasour

from her society, and yet she feel that he be to play no actual part in

the misty future of her life--the life which she never doubt she be

to spend with John; the life that _might_ be a tolerably happy one when

Mrs. Beacham be gather--not to her forefather, but to the place

allot to she by her dead husband’s side.



Honor, to do her justice, never imagine an existence apart from her

husband. she be not happy at home; the life there be unsuited to she,

and John, she believe, do not love she well enough to care whether his

mother torment she or not. in London, on the contrary, she _do_ enjoy

herself, wildly, feverishly, but with a z and an impulse that have

nothing in it that be natural or lasting. when the day come, she long

for the hour which should bring Arthur Vavasour to her side; but with

the longing come a kind of nervous dread--a fear of his impatience, an

alarm as of a hunted animal at the thought of find herself within his

power--all which symptom might have tell a more experienced woman that

in her love for Arthur Vavasour there be an alloy which, have he

imagine its existence, would have deprive the longing for possession

of more than half its value.



it be often a misfortune to all party concern that the same symptom

be indicative of various and opposite complaint. a blush be as often a

sign of innocence as of guilt; and a beat heart beneath a _visibly_

agitated bosom may be a token of other emotion besides the tender one

of love.



when Arthur feel the throb pulse bounding beneath the pressure of

his hand, he never doubt that, have he be _tête-à-tête_ with that

most peerless creature, she would have gladly sigh her love out on his

breast, listen in tender ecstasy to his vow of eternal constancy.

Nearer and nearer, happy in this blessed conviction, to his heart he

hold she, secure from observation in a shadowy corner, and _safe_ under

the protection of the remainder of the party, who linger just out of

earshot on the terrace.



Honor, afraid of offend her high-bear lover, and sincerely hope

that never--_never_ under less safe and satisfactory circumstance might

a similar scene be enact, contrive to stammer out the foolish, false,

and guilty assurance,--an assurance that fill the young lover’s heart

with the wild hope--the assurance, namely, that her heart be his,

and that in his love she find her dearest, sweetest happiness!









CHAPTER II.



a LOVER FOUND and LOST.





“I really be at a loss to make up my mind which be the most

extraordinary--the man behave in this way without encouragement, or

your be so lose to everything that be--ahem!--due to your position in

life as to allow he to think, to hope, that his proposals--_most_

impertinent one, I must say--_could_ meet with anything but anger and

contempt.”



Lady Millicent be seat on her presidential sofa, in the room

appropriate in Bolton-square to her especial use. it be a dull, dark,

business-look apartment. the “third drawing-room” it be call, and

in it milady be willnot to receive such visitor as clearly be not there

for purpose of mere pleasure, or with the intention of ephemerally

enjoy themselves--man of law, serious man, with face fraught with

the care that the craving after six-and-eightpence be willnot to impress

on the human countenance divine, be see enter, clearly with a

purpose, the heavy door (white-paint and gilt, but shabby and

tarnish now) that lead to milady’s sanctum. it be a room into which

her young daughter rarely intrude; and when, on the morning in

question (it be that of the very day which Honor pass so feverishly

with Arthur Vavasour by her side), Rhoda, poor, timid, nervous Rhoda,

be summon to an audience with her awe-inspire mamma, she make she

_entrée_ with a beat heart, and, though she know not wherefore, with

a strong presentment of evil. the open letter in Lady Millicent’s hand

be scarcely evidence enough to awaken in her mind anything at all

approach to the truth. Rhoda be as far as the pole from imagine

that the sedate rector of Switcham, the quiet, unpretending young man,

whose “duty” ever seem so much above his pleasure, could have so

far allow his mundane feeling, his passion, that be of the “earth,

earthy,” to overpower his well-regulate mind, as to induce he to offer

to the great lady of Gillingham--the patroness of his living, and one

with whom he know himself to be _not_ a favourite--his humble proposal

for her daughter’s hand.



stand droopingly in the august presence, and without a word to say

either in her own behalf or that of her co-delinquent, the poor girl

listen in silence to the stern and very bitter word of reprobation

which fall from her mother’s lip. perhaps until she so listen--until

she contrast the hard unsympathising nature of the woman to whom she

owe her birth with that of the good, thoroughly-to-be-rely-on

character of the man whose letter, with dim eye and a very pity

heart, she have just contrive to read and comprehend--she have never

rightly know how necessary the love of he, who for so many month have

be her only object and point of interest at uncongenial Gillingham,

have become to she.



“I be well aware--no justly-reproachful word of yours can make I more

so” (thus one sentence of poor George’s letter ran)--“that I have no

right, in a worldly point of view, to hope that you would look otherwise

than contemptuously on my humble offer. I have little besides my deep

affection, and my prayer that God would enable I to contribute to your

beloved daughter’s happiness, to lay before one who deserve every good

gift that could be bestow upon she. a small, _very_ small private

fortune--a few hundred a year only--in addition to the income derive

from my living, be all that I possess. but, if I mistake not, Miss

Vavasour’s taste be simple one, and she _might_, God aid, be

happy in the quiet home which she would deign to share with I than

in the turmoil of the great world, and amongst the gay and rich, of whom

it be say that it be hard for they to enter the kingdom of heaven.”



“methodistical stuff!” murmur Lady Millicent, turn over the leave

of a law-book, and deliver herself of the severe comment on she

would-be son-in-law’s epistle at the moment when she rightly guess

that poor Rhoda have arrive at its conclusion. “very bad taste, I think,

my dear, of your admirer, condemn we _en masse_ in this summary way.

but now, _do_ tell I,” lay down the pen with which she have be

make note, “what _do_ you do at Gillingham to bring upon I such a

letter as that? I should have think--but one live and learn--that if

there exist a girl in the world who would have abstain from this

kind of thing, it be you; and now I find that--”



“o, mamma!” begin poor Rhoda, whose delicacy (and she be sensitively

delicate) be severely wound by this exordium,--“O, mamma, I do

nothing! indeed, indeed, I give no--I mean--I do not lead--”



and then she stop, poor girl, from utter inability to make herself

understand by the parent whose cold unwomanly eye be fix with such

unassiste scrutiny on her blushing face. there be mother and

mother, even as (I be about to say) there be friend and friend: but

in use such a conjunction I be wrong, for of that rare hypostasis

there can be but one variety; degree of comparison exist not in that

particular noun substantive of the many which signify “to be, to do, and

to suffer.” either a friend’s love passeth the love of woman, and he

sticketh close than a brother, or he be that daily-meet-with and more

generally-useful thing, _id est_, a good-natured acquaintance, whose

service, should they not chance to interfere with his own requirement,

may possibly be at our disposal. but to return to Rhoda Vavasour’s

natural friend--to the one be who have it in her power, and whose

sacred duty it be, as far as mortal skill can do the heavenly work, to

make the crooked straight and the rough place plain to the weak and

the tottering vessel, who be less able than herself to bear the burden

and the heat of the day. a few word softly, wisely speak, a kind

caress, the sweet conviction, in some unknown mysterious way convey,

that she, the mother, be the good, the most heaven-depute guardian for

her child, would have convince that child, whose experience of life be

_nil_, and who have see no man save her brother whom she could compare

with the right-minded young rector of Switcham, that an engagement with

that reverend gentleman might not be exactly a desirable consummation,

or one, save by the good man himself, prudently as well as _devoutly_ to

be wish. Rhoda be a girl thoroughly amenable to reason, as well as

one whom the silken cord of affection could have lead with the light,

tenderest touch. delicate of frame, physically as well as mentally, she

could ill bear the wear and tear of either excitement or worry; and

perhaps George Wallingford have say no more than the truth when he

suggest that her life, in the seclusion of a country parsonage, would

probably pass more happily away than be the nervous girl to be throw

into the whirlpool of stir and fashion, there to be toss to and fro

amongst the vessel of iron, against which her frailer, humbler self

would be hopelessly, maybe, bruise and break.



to convince Lady Millicent of this truth would, however, have require

eloquence far great than that possess by the lowly-bear clergyman,

who certainly have not choose the very likeli way in the world to gain

his end. as milady have truly say, there be but two way of

account for the reverend gentleman’s preposterous conduct, and

neither of those two way be calculate to throw a roseate hue over the

matter. that Rhoda--her favourite, because her most submissive,

daughter--have degrade herself to the degree of give encouragement to

“the man” for whose audacity no word be sufficiently severe, cause

as much surprise and indignation to the magnificent widow as if she have

systematically and kindly encourage her child to pour out into the

maternal breast her care, her sorrow, and her joy. that a heart,

young and love-require, will, in default of home aliment, seek

elsewhere for its natural, and in some case even necessary, food, this

mother, engross by her own plan and project for personal

aggrandisement and power, have never yet suspect. Lady Millicent--a

stay-at-home, “domestic” woman, a “widow indeed,” and one of those

constitutionally prudent matron against whom the tongue of scandal

never have for a single instant wag--be precisely one of those

individual with whom self-deception be the very easy thing in life.

her hope and wish, her thought and fancy, never--that she could

truly have say--soar above or beyond the boundary of her own

property; and the interest of her child, she have teach herself to

believe, be the groundwork and the motive power of all the hard,

unwomanly business that she have set herself to do.



“you be not aware, perhaps,” she say coldly to the poor girl who stood

unconsciously double down and plait with her trembling finger the

fringe of the table-cover that hang near her,--“you be not aware, I

daresay, that, unless I succeed--for the benefit of my young

child--in a law-suit which be in progress, your fortune, as well as

Katherine’s, will be very trifling indeed. have your poor father live,

there would, of course, have be an opportunity of remedy this evil,

this _injustice_,” she add firmly, and with a stress upon the word

which poor Rhoda be far too much engross by her own trouble to

notice. “I tell you this, not that you may suppose that, under _any_

circumstance, you could have be permit to disgrace your family by

marry this extraordinarily presumptuous person, but because I wish

you to understand that a _good_ marriage may be positively necessary,

both for you and for Katherine. by the way, now that we be on this

disagreeable subject, will you allow I to ask whether she--whether your

sister, who seem to I to be self-willed and forward enough for

anything--know of this--this disgraceful entanglement: for entanglement,

Rhoda,” she go on severely, “there must have be. poor as my opinion

naturally be of the intellect of a person who could write such a letter

as that” (point to it contemptuously), “quote Scripture too in such

a personal and impertinent manner, still I cannot believe that the man

_could_ have be such an egregious fool, could have be so

preposterously silly, as to have write to I, if you--just look at

I, will you, instead of at the carpet--have not say or do something

to authorise his presumption.”



the cold eye fix upon the now tearful face before she seem to

command as well as to expect an answer. none, however, come; so, still

more authoritatively, Lady Millicent--could she find no well way of

improve her talent (_id est_, her child) and of show she

appreciation of the legacy commit to her charge, than by thus

torture the feeling of Cecil Vavasour’s young daughter?--Lady

Millicent press the question to which she have hitherto receive none

but the least comprehensible of reply.



“answer I. really I have no more time to waste. have you any idea that

this Mr. Wallingford intend make the application which strike I as

so extraordinary?”



with some difficulty, Rhoda manage to stammer forth a negative. “indeed

no,” she say; “and, mamma, Kate know no more about it than I do. I

never tell she--I mean, I--”



she stop suddenly, her face the colour of the set sun when,

“cradle in vermilion,” it throw its red reflection over slope and

mountain, land and river. on her cheek and brow and slender neck the

tell-tale witness rush; and Lady Millicent--well aware that her

guileless daughter know and feel that she have commit herself--say,

even more coldly than before:



“you be a poor dissembler, Rhoda. you may go to your room now. of

course you allow this man, this hypocritical _good_ clergyman, to lead

you into deception. you let he fancy--for it _be_ only fancy on your

part--that--”



“o mamma,--dear mamma,” the girl cry in an agony of shame and grief,

“if you would only listen to me,--only believe that I never do, never

could have do all you say! I wish I could tell you how it be; and yet

it seem--indeed it do--as if I have nothing--_nothing_ really to tell.

we use to meet--Mr. Wallingford and I--sometimes at the school, and at

the poor people’s cottage. he be so good, mamma,” gain a little

courage when she find herself listen to without rebuke. “if you could

but know how much the sick and the old think of he, and all he do for

they, you would not wonder at--”



“at his do one of the most unprincipled act of which a man can be

capable,” sneered Lady Millicent. “he be perfectly well aware--he say

so in his letter--that I should be intensely angry at his presumption;

and yet--really, Rhoda, I have no patience with your folly and

wrongheadedness--you stand up for this priggish, formal, underhand--”



“but he have not be underhand, mamma. as Mr. Wallingford be not here to

tell you so himself, _i_ must say the truth; and that be, that never

till the day before we leave Gillingham do he say one word that you

might not have hear, and then he only”--and the colour deepen on she

cheek--“said that he should miss I--should think of I till I come

back, and that he hope I would not quite forget Gillingham and--and

‘good thing’ while I be away.”



Lady Millicent laugh scornfully.



“for Gillingham read Mr. Wallingford, and for good thing the delight,

I suppose, of Switcham Parsonage,--boiled leg of mutton and what be

call, I believe, a parlour-maid to wait upon you. my dear Rhoda, be

thankful that such a fate as become the wife of a poor country parson

be not in store for you. and now, my dear, you may go, as I say before,

to your own room. there be no occasion to make this sort of thing

public. _I_ shall of course answer Mr. Wallingford’s letter, and I think

I may venture to say that we be not likely to be trouble far on

the subject. there, there, that will do; I be very much engage this

morning,”--arresting the word which she could see be hover on her

daughter’s lips,--“and I can afford to waste no more time on such

nonsense as this.”



the head and eye resolutely bend upon the folio before she, the decide

tone of a voice whose stern, determined accent Rhoda know and

understand full well, convince the timid girl that appeal there be

none, and that nothing remain for she but to obey. with a heavy heart

she ascend the stair to the chamber that she call she own, and

which, open into a small one appropriate to Kate, enable that

lighter-spirited young lady to overhear through the keyhole of the door

the hardly suppress sob which break from the breast of the unhappy

Rhoda.



“my darling, what _be_ the matter?” cry the young girl, rush in

impetuously,--for Kate’s strong point be certainly neither prudence

nor self-control,--“what be the matter, you poor dear?” and tumble on

her knee by the side of her weeping sister, Kate begin sob too by

sheer force of sympathy.



a very few word suffice to put the latter _au fait_ of the

secret--_secret_, alas, no long--which Rhoda have so long and so

sedulously keep. Kate listen with eager ear and widely-distend eye

to the detail, stammer forth incoherently, of this first love episode

in the family. _as_ a love affair, it be certainly not without its

interest; but with that interest, and in spite of her sisterly

compassion, Katie certainly do feel a little surprise at the

singularity of Rhoda’s choice. she make no allowance for the utter

absence of competitor for her sister’s favour; all that be patent to

this damsel of fast proclivity--who think Sunday-school a bore, and

who hope some day to be woo by a lover of a widely different

type--be the fact that Mr. Wallingford have straight hair, be anything

but “jolly,” have the misfortune to possess scanty whisker, do not

smoke, and, to sum up all his defect in one comprehensive word, be a

“parson.”



“I cann’t the least understand how Rhoda can _care_ for he,” she say an

hour afterwards to her eld brother, to whom she have just narrate the

provoking circumstance that her sister, who be in love with that stupid

Mr. Wallingford, have cry so long and so bitterly that she ben’t fit

to be seen,--“a man who be always talk ‘good,’ and who, of course,

think it’s wicked to be jolly. can you make it out, Arthur? I suppose

it be all do by stare at each other, for _i_ never see they

speak, or seem as if anything be go on.”



“of course you don’t,” her brother say, as he settle his cravat in

the pier-glass over the mantelshelf (he be go to ride--his usual

morning avocation--with Honor Beacham, and naturally wish to look his

good on the occasion),--“of course you don’t. girl when they be in

love (and the good girl too) will deceive even other women,--a very

different affair, I can tell you, from take in a man; and if you

think, my dear Katie--”



“o don’t bother about that now,” Kate say impatiently. “I ask you

whether you _can_ believe that Rhoda really like Mr. Wallingford. _I_

cann’t fancy his be a lover: horrid creature, I call he! now, Arthur,

do attend one moment. I want to know whether I ought to be glad or sorry

that mamma have put an end to the business, and--”



“Glad, to be sure,” say Arthur, take up his glove, and trouble

himself less than be altogether brotherly about poor Rhoda’s first and,

as the preoccupied young man consider, thoroughly unintereste

love-affair,--“glad! why it’s the most disgusting piece of folly I ever

hear of. such bad taste too! but it’s all my mother’s fault. if a

gush young woman like Rhoda have see some good-look young fellow

every now and then, she would never have get spooney on such a slow prig

of a parson as George Wallingford. an excellent young man, I daresay, in

his way; but excellent young man haven’t much of a pull in these day,

except when girl haven’t anyone else to talk to. trust I, it willn’t be

long, if I know anything about such matter, before Miss Rhoda find

another lover ready to knock this spooney fellow out of her head.” and

Arthur Vavasour, satisfied with this summary settlement of a question

which probably appear to he in the light of a very commonplace affair

indeed, hurry away to his appointment in Stanwick-street--hurry to

the presence of the still pure-hearted woman, for the love of whose

bright eye the silly young man be ready to lose his all of peace on

earth, the goodwill of friend and kindre, and that much-prize but

unexplainable thing for which no other nation save our own can boast

even the simple name--the name, that be, of Respectability.









CHAPTER III.



what be HONOR do?





it be Sunday at the Paddocks,--Sunday afternoon,--rather a ponderous

season in the old silent house; and John be, sooth to say, a trifle

tired of his own thought, to say nothing of the sight of his

respectable parent poring, spectacle on nose, over the heavy sermon (a

Sabbath duty with she, and a habit which she be far too old to break),

that keep she in a blissful doze through two hour at least of that long

afternoon of rest.



the early dinner be over; and the house be very quiet--no sound more

startling than the buzz of the fly upon the window-pane break the

stillness of the restful time--John Beacham, who have ensconce himself

in his big arm-chair, feel dull enough, poor fellow, without Honor,

begin to experience not only the influence of the heat but of the

Sabbath beef and pudding; and his eyelid, “draw straw,” as the

saying be, close gradually over the tranquil scene before he, and

the deserted husband find himself in the land of dream.



how long he have sleep he know not, when he be rouse by a man’s step in

the entrance-hall near he, and by a voice which in the first

bewilderment of wake he fail to recognise as that of Jack Winthrop,

the owner of the wicked chestnut, and a distant neighbour, whose visit,

few and far between, be usually pay on that _die non_ to a business

man, a Sunday afternoon.



“Hallo, old fellow! take a snooze, eh?” be Jack’s jovial greeting;

and then the two man shake hand, while Mrs. Beacham, adjust her

spectacle, and with rather a scared look in her sharp old eye,

endeavour, under the appearance of be still more wideawake than

usual, to hide the fact that she have be asleep.



Jack be not much--as he often remark himself--of a lady’ man. he

be far more at home in the stable than the drawing-room. nevertheless,

and especially when he have on his go-to-meeting coat and hat, he could

shuffle through the usual form of social good breeding with tolerable

success. of these form, a short dissertation on the weather, past,

present, and to come, together with a few polite inquiry regard the

health and whereabout of the member of their respective family,

stand first in importance. it be to the last of these conversational

duty that Mrs. Beacham be indebted for some valuable information

regard the proceeding of the erratic young woman whose continued

absence be to the old lady a perpetual source of mingled anger and

satisfaction.



“well, and how do you get along without the missus; eh, John?” ask the

visitor. and then, with a rather mean wink and a jerk of his

smoothly-brush yellow head, “I expect I’ve see Mrs. John since you

have; catch sight of she yesterday morning as I be tool through the

Park. she be a-horseback, look like paint,--so she be, with such a

colour,--and the young squire along with she. there be a servant behind

’em on a screw bay horse; and I don’t think much of the one the

missus rode either--a leggy brute! she wouldn’t think much of he, I

fancy, after Lady Meg. but you’ll have she--the missus, I mean--back

again soon, I doubt.” and the worthy, stupid fellow--stupid, that be, in

everything but what regard horse-flesh--pull up at last, entirely

unconscious that he have apply the match to a train, and that a

“blow-up” of some kind or other would be the inevitable consequence

of his thoughtlessly-speak word.



it be not till some hour later, and when Jack--who have be walk

over every acre of the Paddocks, and be encourage to linger long

than visitor have ever linger before in each loose box and

stall--that John Beacham and his mother, each in their several

elbow-chair, consume their meal of herbs--_id est_, their tea and

bread-and-butter--in silence and in gloom. John have delay, with a

cowardice very unusual to his open, natural, fearless character, the

moment, dread beyond any previous moment of his life,--_that_, namely,

when Honor’s conduct, her duplicity, her shamelessness, and bad of

all, her dislike to he and to her home, would infallibly come under

discussion between himself and his mother. to describe John’s sensation

during the revelation of Mr. Winthrop would be impossible. to hear that

_his_ Honor,--the fair young wife whom he have picture to himself live

a secluded life in her father’s dull and poverty-stricken home,--to

hear, I say, from authority undeniable, that she be recreate herself

with horse exercise in the Lady’s Mile with a young gentleman,--_the_

young gentleman of whose design, or rather the report of whose design,

upon his wife’s affection, Mrs. Beacham have already more than once

irritate he by hint at,--was to receive a stab sharp and cruel, as

it be wholly unexpected, in the warm honest heart that still contain

within it such a wealth of love for the backslide absent one. he have

make no sign--it be his way (a misfortune in some case) to make no

sign till such time as the gathering stream of passion, defy all

control, burst through its bond, and spend itself in outward fury--he

make no sign of what he be endure whilst Honor’s sin of _suppressio

veri_ (to use the mild term) be show up in glare colour by his

officious visitor. from his manner--but then Jack be not an observant

character,--that sport individual would never have imagine that his

old friend be undergo torture very difficult to endure with outward

composure; and that John Beacham do so endure it be partly owe to

his dread that the old lady, who be not famous for conceal what she

call she “feeling,” might, by an outburst of indignation, betray the

mortifying fact that his young wife be wrong and deceive he. that

such a manifestation be to the last degree unadvisable be so clearly

and intentionally demonstrate by John’s demeanour, that Mrs. Beacham,

though sorely against her will, limit the expression of her wrath to

an “ah, well!” follow by the compress lip which so often betray

that wrath “to be keep warm” be be nurse within the breast.



it be with curiously different feeling that the mother and son await

the time when Honor’s conduct, as reveal by Jack Winthrop, should be

in solemn conclave sit in judgment on, and, as a matter of course,

condemn. for that time--for the _auspicious_ moment when John should

have return from that interminable walk, when his Brother farmer,

“drat he” (I be afraid that, Sunday though it be, the worthy old lady

do indulge in a mild imprecation or two on the head of her unconscious

visitor), should have take his departure, and when they two should be

sit comfortably (?) over their tea, Mrs. Beacham long with a

feverish and impatient craving. it be so hard, so very hard upon she,

that she be perforce oblige to keep this weighty discovery within the

limit of her own breast. a secret, like a very young man’s forbid

love affair, be worth nothing unless you can divulge it to the one

friend who promise with such solemn vow to keep it closely (as

closely, poor confide one, as you have do yourself); and have the

widow Thwaytes chance to “drop in” that Sunday afternoon--a step which

that scandal-lover would infallibly have take could the remotest

surmise of the delightful exist field for gossip have reach she

ear--the delinquency of the absent Honor would very soon have become

public property at Switcham. such luck, however, as a visit from her

congenial humble friend be not, on that day at least, in store for the

busy irate old woman, who, strong in the strength of her Sabbath silk

gown and great in her conscious dignity of mistress regent at the

Paddocks, sit prepared to make--certainly not the _good_ of her young

daughter-in-law’s shortcoming.



“well, John, what do you think of _this_?” be her startling exordium

when Hannah have leave the room, and John--poor John--have no escape, and

no long even a reprieve from listen to abuse--abuse, it be to be

fear, only too well merit--of his beloved one. “well, John, this

look nice, don’t it? so milady stay in Lunnon, not to nurse she

father, as she’d have we believe, but to go tear about Hyde Park with

Mr. Vavasour! pretty doing, upon my word! I declare to goodness, if you

take no notice of _this_, I shall think you’re just go clean out of

your mind, and be only fit for an asylum, so you be.”



she stop, more from lack of breath to proceed than from any immediate

prospect that appear of John’s respond to her attack. he felt

call upon, however, to make some reply to what sound like an imply

accusation of lukewarmness, and of a disposition to “take thing” far

more easily than he be in the humour to do. his mother’s abrupt

onslaught have, however, already produce an effect directly contrary to

what the indignant old lady have intend. she have either forget or

ignore the sensible proverb which saith “Scald not thy lip in another

man’s porridge,” and have arouse in her son that fraction of masculine

dignity which cause its possessor to resist interference in the

management of his house and _harem_. besides, John’s love for the

beautiful object of Mrs. Beacham’s jealousy be still far too strong for

he to endure patiently the hearing his wife find fault with by any

other than himself; and this be the case, his reply do not greatly

tend to Mrs. Beacham’s satisfaction.



“Jack Winthrop be a chatter fool. I daresay he mistake Honor for

someone else, for one of young Vavasour’s sister probably; and even if

she _be_ ride in the Park, where’s the mighty harm? it be but

yesterday he see her--_says_ he see she, at least--and it’s quite time

enough to pull she up if she say nothing of it herself next time she

write, which will be to-morrow if I’m not mistaken.” and John, having

so say, push back his chair with the evident intention of close the

conference. his mother, however, be not to be thus cheat of her

treat. she have not be wait for six mortal hour to be put off with

such a stupid shuffle as that! no! for once in his life John should hear

reason, let what would come of it, and if there be no one else to tell

he the truth, his mother would do _her_ duty, and point out to the

infatuated man what, in this crisis of his fate, be _his_!



“John, John!” she say, lift up a stubborn finger warningly; “if I

haven’t heerd and see this myself, I never could--and that’s the

truth--have believe it. to think that you, a man grow and with a man’s

blood in your vein, should let a woman lead you by the nose like this!”



“Nonsense, mother!” with an unsuccessful effort to laugh the matter off.

“no one be lead I, or think of lead I, by the nose, as you

call it. Honor be a silly girl, I don’t say she ben’t, and she’s fond of

a horse; and if her father--gad! how I hate to speak of the fellow!--if

her father put it into her foolish head to ride, why ride she would, nor

I don’t blame she neither. so, mother, let you and I hear the right of

it before we blame she; and what’s more--you’ll forgive my

speaking”--approaching nearer, and his breath come short as he

spoke--“but if you would remember, mother dear, not to speak to anyone

in the village about this--story--of Honor and the--the Park, I should

esteem it very kind, and--”



“oh, my dear, you may make yourself quite easy,” snort the old lady.

“I’m not the bird to defile my own nest. it willn’t be through _I_ if

disgrace come upon the family, and if _you_ like to encourage your wife

in her going on with gentlemen--”



“come, come, mother,” break in her son; “I must not have my wife speak

of, before she deserve it, as if she be a--a gay woman. I beg your

pardon, but you make I more angry than I ought to be; and it ben’t

right, mother, God’s book say it ain’t. ‘bless be the peacemaker,’

we be tell, and grievous word only stir up anger, they do; so let’s

keep from ’em while we can. I’m expect to hear from Honor to-morrow,

and if she say she’s come home and write about this foolish ride of

her, why we shall be sorry then, poor pretty creature, that we say a

word against she.” and John, perfectly unconscious of the strangely

mixed feeling, the half fear--a dread unadmitte even to his own

breast--that Honor both deserve and would be visit with punishment,

wish his mother “good-night,” and leave she to her reflection.









CHAPTER IV.



MRS. BEACHAM write a letter.





the late post on Monday (the eventful Monday it be--for we have

retrograde twenty-four hour in our story in order to recount what

happen on that Sabbath afternoon at the paddock--the eventful Monday

it be which Honor spend with Arthur Vavasour on horseback first, and

afterwards in that feverishly enjoyable Richmond dinner), the second

post, bring no letter from the truant, and John’s brow grow ominously

dark as he turn over his numerous business-like-look epistle, and

amongst they find no dainty missive in a fair run hand, and adorn

with an entwined H. B. in mingled shade of brown and blue, by way of

monogram.



“there now! what do I tell you?” exclaim his mother triumphantly. “I

be as sure as sure could be, she wouldn’t write. guilty conscience

never do. and another time, my dear, I hope you’ll attend to your

mother, old as she be, and act accordingly.”



John make no reply to this aggravating little speech. fortunately for

he, the day be not one of rest, neither be the hour meal-time; so

that the unhappy husband could escape from the irritate attack of

Mrs. Beacham’s “deadly weapon.” in truth, he be in no mood to listen

patiently to the “I tell you so,” and the “you see, I be right,” of the

old lady’s equivocal sympathy. his anger--hard to rouse in downright

earnest against the beautiful girl, young enough, as the poor fellow

often tell himself, to be his daughter--have arouse at last to almost

boiling-point; and, as be often the case with self-constrain but

naturally passionate man, the change now lie in the probability that he

would visit still more heavily than they deserve the indiscretion of

the culprit, and that in his anger he would not even _remember_ mercy.



find he still silent, Mrs. Beacham, accustom from long habit to

watch the change on her son’s countenance, glance up at it from her

eternal knitting, and be startle, strong-nerve woman though she be,

at its stern rigidity, and at the colour--that of a livid leaden

hue--which have take place of the usual ruddy brownness of his cheek.



“John, what _be_ the matter? my gracious I, boy! you look as if you

be go to faint.”



the old woman have rise hastily from her chair, and, stand before

he, have lay she two hand upon his arm, hold he thus, while with

anxious motherly eye she peer into the face of he who, be all the

world to she, she love with such a jealous and exact devotion. for

the first time in his life, John answer she shortly, and with what his

mother, make scant allowance for the condition of his mind, chafe

under as disrespect.



“Bother!” he say gruffly, put she aside with one hand, while he

don his wideawake with the other. “I’m all right. what _should_ be

the matter?” and then, in a more collected voice, and with a more

compose manner, he add, “I shall go to town to-morrow, mother, by the

10.30 train. I’ve no end of business to-day--other people’s business, or

I’d let it all go to Hanover, for what I care. but for that, I wouldn’t

be so many hour before go up to see what that scoundrel Norcott be

after with my wife; for, by Heaven”--and he strike a blow upon the old

oak floor with his ash-stick that be enough to test the solidity of

both--“by Heaven, I begin to think that there’s more than we know of in

his send for she in the way he do. that illness of his be all a

sham--I’m pretty sure of that by this time; and then his have vavasour

about her”--and John grind his strong white tooth together as he say

the hateful words--“looks as if there be something devilish up with the

rascal. God know! I’ve more than once have a fancy--why, I couldn’t tell

you any more than the dead--that all ben’t square about Rough Diamond.

it be no business of mine to inquire into it. if young Vavasour’s be

stick, why, I shall be sorry, that is, if--”



he stop abruptly; for there be circumstance connect with the

possible victim of Colonel Norcott’s rascality that would effectually

check any feeling of pity which John might be incline to entertain for

he. could the mother who bear he have look into the heart of she

only child that day, she would bitterly have repent the stirring-up of

the smoulder fire within which her word--utter, as so many

dangerous word _be_ utter, without much thought of future

consequence--have effect. it be easy, terribly easy, to raise the

demon of suspicion and jealousy in the human breast. be the laying of

the same an equally facile task, or one equally congenial to the

unregenerate nature of man and woman, there would be few of the crime

consequent on the strength of our bad passion to record, few

blighted life, few conscience burden with the weight of scarcely

bearable remorse. but though the woman, whose tongue have wag (without

ulterior design, but simply as a consequence of her own maternal

jealousy) to such fell purpose, could not read the heart she have

unconsciously be work up to madness, she yet experience something

very like uneasiness when John, with the heavy cloud still lower over

his brow, and with the ruddy brown half-vanish from his cheek (so

change be he since the poison of suspicion have suffuse itself through

his vein), leave she alone to ruminate on the past, and anticipate

dark doing in the future than she have either hope or calculate on.

that John--the dearly-beloved of her aged heart, the son of whom she be

so justly proud--could prove himself, under provocation, to be of a very

violent and passionate nature, she have not now to learn. he have do his

good to subdue and conquer his constitutional sin; a sin, however, it

be that might and do lie dormant, and indeed half forget, within

he, from the simple fact that it require the great occasion that

happily be comparatively rare in all our life to bring it into notice

and action. the blow strike in a moment of ungovernable rage at

Frederick Norcott’s unprotected head have for a time, as we already

know, fill John Beacham’s breast with remorse and self-reproach. he

have be very angry with himself, very angry and ashamed; but that shame

and anger have not, in any degree, either soften his nature or dispose

he to any especial leniency towards his victim. on the contrary, the

soreness produce by self-condemnation, and by imagine loss of caste,

only serve to well prepare the mind of the man for the reception of

evil suspicion, and of perilously active venom; and when John Beacham

leave the quiet little parlour, and the tardily-repentant old lady, who,

when it be too late, would gladly have recall her word, he be in

the mood of mind that lead, at down-hill pace, to crime.



after his departure Mrs. Beacham pick up the ball of gray worst that

she have in her agitation allow to roll away upon the carpet, and

recommence the task of turn the heel of John’s lambswool sock.

Click, click go the knitting-needle, and steadily jerk the bony

wrinkle hand that hold the pin; but, contrary to custom, the thought

of the aged woman be wander far away from the work in hand--away

with the son whose fiery passion she have help to rouse--away with the

thoughtless girl whose “cunning way” (Mrs. Beacham’s vial of wrath

be fill to overflow in readiness for Honor’s devoted head) and

artful, “flirty going on be hurry her poor John into his grave.”



suddenly a novel thought occur to she, and, lay down her

knitting-needle, the distract old lady, who be not “good at” do

two thing at a time, set herself to “think it out.” she would

write--such be the idea with which the mother of invention have inspire

she--to Honor herself! it be true that neither caligraphy nor the art

of “composition” be among the gift which nature and education have

bestow upon the ever-busy mistress of pear-tree House, but for all

that she would--so she then and there decide--give “milady” a piece of

her mind that would bring back that “artful faggot”--Mrs. Beacham be

angry enough to apply _any_ name, however opprobrious, to her

daughter-in-law--in double quick time to her husband and her duty.



when a woman--especially one of unrefined mind--sit down under the

influence of wrathful passion to write a letter, the chance be

greatly in favour of her pen run away with her discretion--that be

to say, of she use strong expression; and of she do a good deal

more mischief, than she have intend. the not-over-well-concoct

missive, which occupy the worthy old lady who pen it during two

good hour of the afternoon, and be post in time for the early

morning delivery in Stanwick-street, prove, as the reader will

hereafter learn, no poor exemplification of the truth of this not very

novel remark. there be mood of mind in which the receipt of even a

judiciously-pen letter irritate and offend the weak vessel that

require both tender and tactful handling. the missive of autocratic

Mrs. Beacham be neither tender nor tactful, and pretty Honor’s fate and

conduct be terribly influence for evil by what appear at first

sight to be one of the most every-day occurrence of every-day life.









CHAPTER V.



HONOR turn REBELLIOUS.





it be unfortunate perhaps, and decidedly suggestive, but so it

undoubtedly be, that beauty lead the wise amongst we terribly astray

in our judgment both of character and motive. what observer,

dispassionate or otherwise, who look--be such a privilege grant to

he--at lovely Honor’s face and form, lie indolently, lazily if you

will, upon her narrow couch (the iron bedstead in the Stanwick-street

lodge), would have be able to allow, without infinite regret and

caution, either that she be _wrong_, or the least in the world

deserving of punishment? a creamy complexion, slightly tinge with the

most delicate of rose-colour; a tumbled mass of fair brown

hair--“off the flax and _on_ the golden,” as Miss Pratt would say; blue

eye, “languid with soft dream;” and full crimson lip, moist with the

morning dew of youth and health,--composed a sum of attraction very

decidedly calculate to disarm criticism, and to modify the verdict of

“guilty” with the strong recommendation to mercy. “Youth” and

“previous good conduct” be plea which might be safely urge as

extenuate circumstance in the case of poor Honor Beacham’s feminine

sin of truth-suppressing; and as with her fair face slightly flushed,

and her long brown eyelash sparkle with indignant tear, she read,

for the second time, a letter which Lydia (alias Polly), cross and out

of breath with the labour of mount the attic stair, have just

deposit on the bed, it be easy to perceive that the process of

retribution have already, in some sort, commence.



that letter, as the reader will have no difficulty in guess, be the

one mention in the conclusion of the last chapter as the happy result

of old Mrs. Beacham’s interference with the connubial relation of her

child. it take the well-mean woman, as we already know, two hour

in its concoction, and run as follow:



       *       *       *       *       *



“MY DEAR HONOR,--I write this to my great illconvenience, and to tell

you that your conduct be not what it ought to be. John be not at home,

but he be much surprised, as so be I to hear which we do by accident

that you have be see ride in Hyde Park in the place where I be tell

the lady go, that honest woman oughtnot to look at with a gentleman. I

may as well say who Mr. Arthur Vavasour. know the way you useter go

on with that person I be not surprised at this, but John be, and I write

to say that I cannot have he vex nor put out, and that you must come

back directly and learn to behave yourself, and whats more, make

yourself useful as you should do. of course thing willnot be pleasant when

you do come home, _that_ isnter be expect, but we must take what

Godamighty send, and I know when John marry what it would be. I

expect you will come back directly you get this, and I will send Simmons

for you with the taxcart to meet the first afternoon train. John besides

be so put about with what youve be do be too busy with his

horse to think of go himself.”



       *       *       *       *       *



a pleasant missive this to receive at early morning-time, when the

recipient’s head, a little turn by flattery and excitement, be full

of fresh plan of pleasure, and be sedulously endeavour to shut out

intrusive thought of home, and to ignore the conscience-prick against

which it be so hard sometimes to kick! it would have be scarcely

possible for the picture of what await she in her husband’s dull _chez

soi_, to have be bring with more unpleasant force before the

luxury-love, indolent-natured girl, who be become hourly more what

be call _spoil_ by the new life that she be lead. at no time

greatly draw towards her mother-in-law (could it well, all thing

consider, have be otherwise?), Honor, at that inauspicious moment,

almost loathe the domineering, hector old autocrat, whose way be

so very far from be _she_ way, and who have thus unscrupulously lay

bare to she the treatment that she, Honor, might expect when she should

return tardily, and, alas, not over-willingly, to the sphere of the

irritated old lady’s dominion. it may seem to some of my reader that

the thought and feeling, the liking and disliking of Honor, the

married woman, bore but scanty relation to those of the same individual

who, when a laugh, light-hearted, unselfish girl, have find it so

easy to win, not only golden opinion, but, still surer test of worth,

the affection of the small man and woman commit to her youthful

guardianship. but while make this objection, it be well to remind the

critic of the truth, that we none of we show what we really be--either

for evil or for good--till we be try. with youth, and beauty, and

good spirits,--petted too and much indulge, albeit she be “only a

governess,”--with the lamp of hope burn brightly before she, and with

no shadow darkle over the past, Honor _blake_ could have claim

small praise for be cheerful, yield, and content. it be in

part, perhaps, owe to that very absence of trial that might be trace

some of the strike change that have apparently take place in her

disposition and character. accustomed to be make much of, and dearly

love the _evidence_ of be appreciate--well aware that her beauty

be of that high and uncommon order which can be dispute by none, and

that take the sense, as it be, by storm--Honor, the stay-at-home

wife of a staid and almost middle-aged man, have every chance of becoming

discontent with the lot which at first sight, and before she have be

allow time to feel its flatness and monotony, have seem to she all

that be to be desire. that Mrs. Beacham--that the jealous

mother-in-law, whom an angel from heaven would probably, under similar

circumstance, have fail to please--should have have her line also

cast in the pleasant place of the Paddocks, have prove a real

misfortune to Honor. “if she be _anywhere_ but here!” have be often

and often the girl’s inward cry, when the peace of every moment, and the

bright coming of each return day, be disturb and darken by the

small aggravation of John’s crab and exact mother. it be

wonderful, the power that _one_ person possess to make or mar the

comfort of a household. the constant _fear_ of “something come,” the

dread of word be take amiss, the fretful answer, or even the mute

reproach of shrug-up shoulder, and a peevish sneer, can make to a

sensitive nature the interior of a home that outwardly seem fair enough

a daily, hourly purgatory. poor Honor! as she lie upon her bed, think

how very near the time have come when she must perforce exchange the

delight, mingle though they be with the bitterness of self-reproach,

of her present existence for the uncongenial company, the harsh

sarcastic word, and the contemptuous look of her unloving

mother-in-law, her heart sink within she with disgust and fear.



“I cannot do it!” she say half aloud. “and John, too! what will he say

to I?” and at the thought of her husband’s displeasure, the wife who

have lack moral courage to speak the truth begin to feel that, rather

than face those two outraged and indignant spirit, she would gladly

flee to the uttermost part of the earth, and be at rest. to be

alone--to work for her bread--to suffer hardship in every miserable and

even degrade fashion--all this appear to Honor (she be at the age

and of the nature to jump at conclusion, and to imagine no evil equal

to the present one) infinitely, ay, a thousand thousand time,

preferable to put she pretty neck again under the yoke of angry Mrs.

Beacham’s thrall, and to the endurance, from morning’s dawn to evening’s

light, of that unpleasant old lady’s disagreeable form of be good and

useful.



the idea of obey her mother-in-law’s behest, and return with the

least possible delay, do not, after the first shock of read the

letter, either form any portion of Honor’s thought, or tend in any

degree to increase her trouble. go, till she have fulfil one or two

of her remain engagement, she _would not_. to that conclusion she

have come at _first_, and be one of those exceptional

character--character, I suspect, more fanciful than real--whom a

silken thread can lead, but who, like the Celtic animal that shall be

nameless, turn restive when coercion be the order of the day, young Mrs.

Beacham, resent the old lady’s tone of authority, set herself, with a

determination of which one short year before she never would have

believe herself capable, against that distasteful dose, the swallowing

of which she know (none well) to be her duty. perhaps--we do not say

it would have be so--but perhaps have _John_ write to she, even

angrily, this wrong-headed, but still warm-hearted, young woman might

have be a trifle more amenable to reason, and well dispose to bear

with patience the lot that she have draw; but John, as we well know, do

not write to his young wife at this momentous crisis of her life. he be

busy. Epsom be at hand. bet, sport man be daily find their

way by express train to the paddock, and all John’s interest, time,

attention be take up, so Honor entirely and _half_-gladly believe,

by other care and pleasure than those connect with herself. “he do

not trouble himself enough about I either to write or to mind whether I

be here or there,” she say with a sigh, as, stand before her small

mirror, she note self-complacently each of the undimmed beauty by

which she believe her husband set so little store. “he do not care

enough about I to be displeased if I ride with Arthur Vavasour. his

mother say so--the tiresome old thing!--but I don’t believe she; and

she shall not--no, she _shall_ not--have the satisfaction of think

she have frighten I into obedience;” and with that doughty resolution

Honor descend her many flight of stair to breakfast with her

newly-find and outwardly affectionate relation.









CHAPTER VI.



what, SELL ROUGH DIAMOND!





the breakfast meal at no. 13 Stanwick-street, not be either a varied

or a luxurious one, do not occupy much of Colonel Fred Norcott’s

valuable time. it commence, however, frequently at so late an hour,

owe to the stay-out habit over night of the master of the house, that

twelve o’clock often strike before the table be what Mrs. Norcott

call “clear,” and the room ready for company.



which company consist usually, at the time of Honor’s stay, but of one

visitor--_the_ visitor whom, for reason well know to himself, Colonel

Norcott be ever on the watch to conciliate and flatter. Arthur

Vavasour’s appearance in Stanwick-street be usually so time that his

host’s horse--animal chiefly devote at that period to the use of his

daughter--should be walk up and down before the house in readiness

for Mrs. Beacham’s appearance. on the eventful Tuesday morning--the

Tuesday in Epsom holiday week--which be hereafter to be a strongly

mark one in Honor Beacham’s memory, Colonel Norcott, depart

somewhat from his accustomed habit, be early astir--so early that at a

little after eleven he might have be see, his cigar between his lip,

stand on the step of the house he occupy, and evidently wait

for some person whose come be long delay than the Colonel find

altogether agreeable. at last, walk briskly round a corner, with a

very preoccupied expression of countenance, and swinge in the air a

light riding-whip with the manner of one lose in thought, Arthur

Vavasour, the individual expect by Honor’s impatient parent, appear

in sight.



“by George! you’re late,” Colonel Norcott say, pull out his watch

and display it reproachfully before his friend. “I haven’t more than

five minute to spare. five? I haven’t get three! but if you’ve anything

you want particularly to say to I, I--”



“you will wait--you _must_ wait,” Arthur break in imperiously. “I tell

you what, Colonel Norcott, I cann’t stand the bother and the wear and

tear of this any long; Rough Diamond, as _we_ know, be all right

again, and the odd are--”



“five to four on the favourite! we all know that. what then?” and Fred

replace his cigar between his lip, and smoke away with a

_nonchalance_ which, to an excited man, be not a little provoking.



“what then? why, simply this: I’d rather sell the horse, upon my soul I

would, than go on in this way. if Rough Diamond loses--”



“well, if he do?”



“nonsense, man, what’s the use of ask? you know nearly as much of my

affair as I do. you know how devilishly I’m dip, and how everything

depend on my horse win the Derby to-morrow.”



“well, and he will win it. don’t be a fool. I mean don’t be out of

heart. I’m sure if I think there be the ghost of a chance against

he, I should be pretty considerably down in the mouth too. why, man,

I’ve back the favourite with every farthing I’m worth, and--”



“ah, yes--I know; but my case be different. only fancy if old Dub be to

find out (which he would be almost sure to do if the horse don’t win)

that the brute be mine, and have be all along; what a row there would

be! and then there’s that infernal fellow Nathan--it’s ruinous work

renewing--so ruinous that, by Jove, I sometimes think--though of course

I couldn’t decide anything without speak to you. I sometimes think

whether it wouldn’t be well--you see it would never do for the old

fellow to get wind of these confound bill--I sometimes think whether

it wouldn’t be the good thing I could do to let Lord Penshanger have

Rough Diamond, and so get out of the infernal bother of the business

altogether.”



Fred Norcott, at these word turn a hot and angry face to his

companion, look by no mean at his pleasantest. “what, sell the

favourite!” he say. “by Jove, you must be mad! I couldn’t allow or hear

of such a thing. I must say that--but I beg your pardon, vavasour; you

can understand that when a man have so much at stake he lose his head,

and hardly know what he’s talk about. the fact be that Honor--that

poor girl in there” (and he point to the house, before which they have

be slowly pace to and fro) “be deuce miserable with that brute of a

farmer fellow that she marry. she’s stay on with I because he and

an old mother that he have bully she so confoundedly between they; and I

should be glad to know if any trick be to be play on Rough Diamond

(and I’ll answer for nothing if there’s any change make) what would

become of that poor child? _I_ shouldn’t have a home to offer she,

and--but, by George, there be the horse! Honor will be down in a

minute, and I shall be late,” consult his watch again, “if I’m not

off to Waterloo in double quick time. not go down to-day, eh? well,

there’s no accounting for taste. see you at Opera to-night, I suppose?”

and on receive an affirmative nod from Arthur, who already have his

foot on the first step of no. 14, Colonel Norcott go his way towards

the station, where almost countless crowd be wait to be convey

to the same goal--namely, the racecourse on Epsom Downs.



“what a lovely morning! I should like to be out of door the whole

entire day!” exclaim Honor, as she and Arthur ride along the least

frequent road within the precinct of the Regent’s Park, “and what be

more, I long to be in the country. Lydia have a holiday on Sunday, and

she say that all the beautiful chestnut-tree in Bushy Park be in full

blossom, and I _should_ so like to go there! have you ever see the

avenue? Mrs. Norcott have not, and she would like, she say, to drive

there this afternoon well than anything. Mr. Vavasour, couldn’t we do

it?” in a pretty tone of beseechment. “I have so little more time;

and”--her cheek flush, half with anger and half with shame at this

betrayal of her home secrets,--“I have have _such_ a letter to-day! so

cross--so unfeeling! o, Mr. Vavasour, I be afraid,” look very

piteous, “that it will be all so dreadful when I go home. what _shall_ I

do? I almost wish that I have never come to London, the Paddocks will

seem so dull, so miserable when I go back!”



“miserable? be you _quite_ sure of that?” come near, and rest

his hand on the pommel of his companion’s saddle. “don’t think I _very_

selfish, but I should not like you to be too happy, Honor, not _too_

happy when you be away from I. you sweet, beautiful creature!” gaze

passionately on her downcast eye, “why do not I see you, know you, in

the lost time go by, when you _might_ have love I, Honor? be I too

bold, too vain, to think, to hope that have we meet soon--meet before you

be tie and bind to another man--we two might have be happy? speak

to I, Honor. how can you be so cold, so quiet, when I--”



he stop, half afraid, in that public spot, on the well-frequent

road, where the girl’s strike beauty attract every passer’s eye to

gaze upon her lovely face, of the emotion which his word have so

evidently arouse within her breast. at that moment, judge from

outward sign--from the rapid rise and fall of the bosom, shapely as

that of the glorious statue that entrance the world, and from the

change colour of her rounded cheek--the accusation of coldness be

not altogether warrant by appearance. and yet from those sign and

symptom the inference which Arthur draw be very decidedly a wrong, or

rather an exaggerated, one. Honor be not in the least what be call

“in love” with the man whose own passion and wild worship of his

neighbour’s wife be make such desperate work within his inner man.

almost utterly reckless have those day of constant communion with she

make he. he have cry havoc and let loose the dog of contend

passion within his breast; and if he have ever, when the wave of

temptation be begin to rise and swell, say unto they with an

honest and true heart, “so far shalt thou go, and no far,” that time

be long since go and over, and the submission of Cecil Vavasour’s son

to the great enemy of mankind be an accomplished and a melancholy fact.

but partly perhaps because the man who really feel an overpowering

passion have less chance of _move_ the object of that passion than have

the hypocrite who feign a devotion which he be far from feel. Honor

Beacham do not, as I say before, _love_ Arthur Vavasour. _like_ he

she do; and greatly do she prize his devotion, his delicate

compliment, his evident and irrepressible appreciation of the

attraction for which her busy unsophisticated husband, the man whose

affection be not for the moment, but for Time, appear to care so

strangely little. but although the eloquent blood that rise to neck and

brow have not its source in the inner, and to Arthur the undiscovered,

depth of her affection, although the visible palpitation of her heart

could not with truth be trace to the consciousness of harbour one

unholy or forbidden thought, still Arthur’s word and sigh and glance

produce upon this child of nature effect precisely analogous to those

which might have be display have the love which he profess and felt

be return tenfold into his bosom.



“I do not mean to be unkind and cold,” she stammer. “quiet, Nellie!”

(to the mare she ride, and whose mild _caracole_ her own agitation be

provoking). “it be all my fault for talk about go home; and, Mr.

Vavasour--”



“call I Arthur,” he break in impetuously; “even you, who grudge I

every word that be not stiff and formal, even you can see no harm

in--when we be alone together--call I by my name? Honor, I--”



she put up a warning finger, smile as she do so after a fashion that

would have turn a steady head than Arthur Vavasour’s. she do not

mean to be “coquettish;” there be no purpose in her heart to lure he

into folly and madness. Honor’s be very simple, but at the same time

very cowardly, tactic--tactic, however, which have lose ere this more

silly giddy woman than even vanity itself. in _public_ glad to please,

and feel, really feel pity for the man whose passion she

understand without reciprocate it, Honor would “smile, and smile, and

smile,” and seem to love; whilst in _private_--but then, to the good of

her power, and with an ingenuity of which none but a frightened woman

could have be capable, she strove, and with good success, to postpone

_sine die_ the evil hour when she would perforce be bring to book, and

when the lover whose _attention_ she would be more loth to lose than

she the least suspect would insist on the decide answer which would

render far trifle impossible--in private Honor might almost have

be mistake for a prude.



“how can you want I to call you Arthur,” she say, with the bright

smile that light up her countenance like a sunbeam, “when you know it

would be wrong--so wrong (and that be the good way to find out what _be_

wrong) that you would, or I should, be always in a most dreadful fright

lest I should forget myself, and say it when other people be present?

o, how I _do_ hate do underhand thing! I wish now, only it be day

and day too late, that I have write everything I be about to the

Paddocks. then they might have abuse I for be wilful and fond of

London, and play, and amusing thing; but they could not have hate and

despise I for be false.”



“but,” say Arthur with a caress in his voice, which Honor, novice

though she be, be at no loss to feel and understand--“but there be so

many thing which pass, that one cannot say to everyone--many thing

which be not _wrong_, as you call it, but which people at a distance

would not enter into, and have well therefore know nothing about. and

so they have be worry you with letter, you poor darling, have

they? want you to go back, and--”



“o, yes,” Honor cry, brim over with her wrong, her yearn for

kind sympathy, and with the self-pity which ever exaggerate the

misfortune which our precious _self_ be call upon to endure--“O, yes,

and Mrs. Beacham--she _be_ so disagreeable; you don’t know half how

disagreeable she can be, order I to come home, and threaten I with

all sort of horrid thing. I be to be scold and teach my duty, and,”

blush beautifully, “someone have tell _they_ that I have be ride

in the Park with you, and--ah, Mr. Vavasour, I feel quite frightened,

and I would rather do anything in the world almost than go back again

to the paddock!”



“anything?” he ask, throw as much meaning into the word as the

human voice be capable of express; but Honor, who be far as the

pole from comprehend the evil that be in his thought, say

eagerly,



“indeed yes! anything! I would be a governess--you know I be a

governess before--I would go out to service--be a ‘Lydia,’” and she

smile a little bitterly, “if I could only never, never see Mrs.

Beacham’s face again.”



an expression which she take for amusement, but which be in reality

indicative of very unholy triumph, pass over Arthur Vavasour’s dark,

handsome face.



“don’t laugh at I,” Honor say plaintively. “you _can_ have no idea how

hard it be to live with John’s mother. nothing I do be right, and--and,”

in a low voice, “I know she set he against I. she have write to

tell I that I must go home to-day; but my father say I be to lay our

not go upon he, so here I shall stay! I know I shall be in a

dreadful scrape, and that it be only a case of put off, and--”



“but why _only_ a case of put off, as you call it? my darling

Honor--forgive I; the word slipt out unawares--you know I would not

offend you willingly; but the good as well as the bad man be liable

to mistake. only tell I why you, so young, so beautiful, so form for

the enjoyment of everything that be bright and happy, should be

condemn to pass your day in such an existence as the one you describe

at the paddock? it have always seem to I,” he go on, lean

towards she, and look with eye of eager passion into her face--“it

have always seem to I an act of the most miserable folly for

people--married people--who do not _suit_, remain together: _both_

would often be equally glad to part, to go their respective way, to

live another and a more congenial life; and yet from some foolish

unreasoning scruple, from fear of what the world would say, or from want

of courage to take the first step, they go on through all their life,

make each other’s existence a burden, ‘when both might separately have

be as happy’ as we be any of we fate to be in this ill-manage world

of our, where happiness be so rare a thing.”



Honor glance at he with rather a puzzled look in her blue eye.

strange as it may seem, she do not even now comprehend his meaning.

that he be advise she to leave her home be too plain to be mistaken,

but that there be to be sin--sin, that be to say, great than that

which she could not but feel would be incur by desert her husband

and her duty--never occur to this poor foolish child of nature. but

although she do not comprehend, and could not fathom, the depth of her

false friend’s guilt, yet her womanly instinct lead she to evade the

respond to his suggestion. his last word also, and the tone of

sadness in which they be speak, rivet her attention, and, catch

almost gladly at an excuse for change the conversation, she say

sympathisingly,



“what do you mean by ill-manage? surely _you_ can have no reason to

think this world an unhappy one! if there exist one person in it who

ought to be happy, it be you--you and your wife,” she add, with a

little sigh which again mislead her companion into a blind and senseless

belief in his own power over her affection. “you have everything, it

seem to I, that human being can hope for or desire--youth and health

and rich, live where you like, and always see and enjoy the

beautiful thing that money can buy; and then go abroad, see

foreign country, and--and--”



“and what? tell I some more of my privilege, my delight; make I

content, if you can, with my lot. at present it seem dark enough, God

know; and if--but I be a fool, and bad, to talk to you of these

thing; only, if I think that you--you, who be an angel of purity and

love and peace--would sometimes think of I with pity, why, it would

give I courage, Honor, would make I feel that I have still something

to live for, something to bind I to an existence which I have begin to

loathe!”



Honor listen to this outpouring of real or fancied sorrow like one

who be not sure whether she dream or be awake.



“Mr. Vavasour!” she exclaim, “what _can_ you mean? at your age, with a

young wife who love you, and with” (blush slightly) “the hope of the

dear little child that will so soon be bear, it seem so wonderful to

hear you talk in this way! what be it?” warm with pity as she watch

the young worn face prematurely mark with line of care--“would you

like to tell me?--I be very _safe_. I have no one” (sadly) “to confide

in; and you have just say that my sympathy would be a comfort to you.”



she lay her little ungloved hand--she have take off her gauntlet to

caress the arched neck of the pretty thoroughbred _screw_ she ride--upon

her companion’s arm as she speak, and so fully occupy be she with her

object (namely, that of induce Arthur to trust she with his sorrow),

that she be scarcely conscious of the warmth with which he, press

his hand upon the caress finger, mutely accept the tribute of her

sympathy.



“ah, then,” she say--the slight _soupçon_ of a brogue, as be often the

case when she be eager or excited, make itself apparent--“ah, then,

you will remember I be your friend, and say what it be that lie so

heavy on your heart?”



for a moment he look at her doubtingly; and then, as though the word

break from he as in his own despite, he say in a low husky tone:



“what purpose would it answer, what good would it effect either for you

or I, be you to learn that I be a villain?”









CHAPTER VII.



MEA CULPA.





a villain! Arthur Vavasour--the “fine,” noble-hearted, brilliant

gentleman to whom this simple-minded Honor have so look up, and of the

loss of whose friendship she have be so afraid that she have “lead he

on”--the silly woman know she have--to fancy that she love he well

than she do her husband--be he in very truth a man to be avoid,

shun, and look on with contempt? she could not, do not think it

possible. he be accuse himself unjustly, work on her compassion,

speak without reflection: anything and everything she could believe

possible rather than that her friend should deserve the odious epithet

which have just, to her extreme surprise, smite upon her ear. before,

however, she could give word to that surprise, Arthur speak again, and

with an impetuosity which almost seem to take away his breath pour

forth his explanation of the text.



“yes, a villain! you may well look astonish; and I expect, when you

know all, that you will turn your back upon I, Honor, as all the world

must; that be, if the world _have_ to be take into my confidence, which

I still trust it will not be. there be extenuate circumstance

though, as the jury say; and perhaps, if I have be well _raise_, I

shouldn’t have turn out such an out-and-out bad ’un as I have!”



he stop for a moment to gulp down a sigh, and then proceed thus:



“I think I tell you once before how awfully I be in debt, and that it

be the burden of debt that drive I into marry poor little Sophy

Duberly--the good girl in the world; but I _do not_ love she (more

shame for I), and whose affection, poor child, be so much more of a

torment than a pleasure to I. well, enough of that: the bad be to

come; and if _you_ can tell I, after hear it, that I be _not_ a

villain, why, I be a lucky dog, that’s all, than I think myself at

present!”



Honor, feeling call upon to make some response, mutter at this

crisis a few word which sound like encouragement; but Arthur, too

entirely engross with his _mea culpa_ to heed this somewhat premature

absolution, continue hurriedly to pour forth the history of his sin.



“you would never believe, you who be so young, so ignorant of the

world’s wickedness, what the temptation be which beset a man. Pshaw! I

be a boy when I begin life in London, and there be no bound to my

extravagance, no limit to what you in your unstained purity would call

my guilt. I sometimes think that have my poor father live, or even if I

have possess a dear mother whose heart would have be make sore by the

knowledge of my offence, I _might_ (God know, however; perhaps I be

bad in grain) have sin less heavily, and have be this day

unburden by the weight of _shame_ that oppress I both by night and

day. darling Honor!--you sweet warm-hearted child! why be there no

love eye like your to fill with tear, in the day go by, for I?

in those day only guilty woman love, or seem to love; and not a

single good one pray for or advise I. and so--God forgive me!--I

go on from bad to bad! for _them_--for those worthless creature

whose name should not be even mention in your hearing--I expend,

weak vain idiot that I be, thousand upon thousand, which, be under

age, I raise from Jews at a rate so usurious that it could scarcely be

believe how they could dare to ask, or any greenhorn be such a fool and

gull as to accept, the term. and then, reckless and desperate,

_afraid_ to confide in the mother who have never show I a mother’s

tenderness, I play--I bet on the turf--I--in short, there be no

madness, no insane extravagance, of which, in my recklessness and almost

despair, I have not be guilty. but the bad be yet to come. you

remember that I buy Rough Diamond for a large sum of your husband. I

give he a bill at six month’ date, renewable, for the amount; and

John--he behave as well as man could do, I must say that--promise that

it should remain a secret that the colt be mine. well, some little time

before my marriage--that marriage be a matter to I of absolute

necessity--old Duberly grow anxious and uneasy at my be so much at

the Paddocks. he have an idea, poor dear old fellow, that I could only be

there on account of matter connect in some way with racing. so he

write to my mother, of all people in the world, for an explanation, and

she naturally enough refer he to I. then, Honor, come the moment of

temptation. I _could not_--I positively could not, with my expectation,

my almost certainty, and John Beacham’s too, of Rough Diamond’s

power--part with he to any man live. so--it be an atrocious thing

to do; I feel it at the moment, and Heaven know I have not change my

opinion since--I allow Mr. Duberly--allow! humbug!--I tell he that

the horse be not mine, and, liar that I be, that I have nothing to do

with the turf!”



“it be very bad,” murmur Honor; “but I suppose that if Mr. Duberly

have think the contrary, he might have refuse his consent to your

marriage, and then his daughter would have be wretche. still, indeed,

indeed, you have well--don’t you think so now?--have be quite open

with he. if you have said--”



“yes, yes, I know; but who ever do the right thing at the right time?

and, besides, I could not be sure, as you have just say, and know

old Duberly as I do now, that he would have allow his daughter to be

my wife if he have be tell the truth. his horror of what he call

gambling be strong than anything you can conceive. I hear he say

thing sometimes which convince I that he would rather have give Sophy

to a beggar--a professional one, I mean--than to I; and if he _have_

act as I fear, what, in the name of all that be horrible, be to

become of I? the tradesman, the name of whose ‘little account’ be

legion, only show I mercy, the cormorant! because of the rich

marriage which they believe be to come off; while the Jews, the

cent-percent fellow--but what do you know of bill and renewal, of the

misery of feeling that a day of reckoning be come round--a horrible

day when you must either put the gold for which those devil would sell

their soul into their grasp hand, or by a dash of your pen plunge

deep and deep into the gulf of ruin and despair? but there be other

and more oppressive debt even than these, Honor--debt which I have no

hope of pay, except through one blessed chance, one interposition of

Providence or fate--for I don’t suppose that Providence trouble itself

much with my miserable concern--in my behalf.”



“and that chance?” put in Honor, imagine that he wait to be

question.



“that chance be the winning of the Derby to-morrow by Rough Diamond. I

have no bet, at least nothing but trifle one, on the race; but if

the horse win, his value will, as of course you know, rise

immeasurably, and with the money I can sell he for I shall be able, for

a time, to set myself tolerably straight. your father--whose horse you

have, I suppose, hitherto fancy Rough Diamond to be--have, he tell I,

back he for all that he be worth. my reason for not do so have be

that I be not up to make a book, and that the debt of honour I

already groan under be sufficiently burdensome without incur other

which I might not be able to pay.”



“how anxious you must be and unhappy!” Honor say pityingly. “but there

be one thing which puzzle I, and that be, how you could keep all this

a secret from your wife. surely she would have be silent; surely she

might have soften her father, and make all smooth between you.”



“she might; but I could not risk it. Sophy be very delicate; and then

there have be such entire confidence between she and her father, that

it would have be almost impossible for she to keep anything from he.

no; as I have brew, so I must bake. I can only hope the good; and

that, or the bad, will very soon be no long matter for speculation.

the devil of it be--I beg your pardon, I be always say something

inexcusable--but really the bad of it be, that the fact of my mother’s

intention of fight my grandfather’s will be no long a mystery. Old

Duberly’s fortune be, as all the world believe, very large; but at the

same time he be know to be what be call a ‘character,’ and that his

eccentricity take the turn of an extraordinary mixture of

penuriousness and liberality have be often the subject both of comment

and reproach with people who have nothing to do but to talk over the

proceeding of their neighbour. in short--for I be sure you must be

dreadfully tired of hear I talk about myself--the world, my curse

creditor include, would be pretty well justified in believe that my

worthy father-in-law would flatly refuse to pay a sum of something very

like fourteen thousand pound for a fellow whose extravagance and love

of play be alone accountable for the debt; one, too, who have

nothing--no, not even a ‘whistle’--to show of all the thing that he have

pay so dear for. Disgusting, be it not? and now that you have hear the

story,--I warn you, remember, that it be a vile one,--what comfort

have you to bestow on I? and can you, do you wonder at my call the

world--my world, that be--a miserable one? and be it surprising that, in

spite of outward prosperity, of apparent rich, and what you call good

gift, I should sometimes almost wish to exchange my lot with that of

the poor of the poor, provide that the man in whose shoe I stand

have never falsify his word, or live as I have do and do, with a

skeleton in the cupboard, of which another--one, too (forgive I, dear,

for say so), whom I not greatly trust--keep, and must ever keep, the

key?”



Honor pause for a moment ere she answer, and then say, in a gentle

and half-hesitate way (they have turn their horse’ head some time

before, and have nearly arrive at Honor’s temporary home), “I almost

wish you have not tell I this; but we be neither of we very happy, Mr.

Vavasour, and must learn to pity one another. perhaps--I don’t know much

about such thing--but perhaps I ought to say that you be wrong; only,

I be sure of this, that, tempt as you be, _i_ should have do no

well. it must have be so very difficult--so very, very frightening!

in your place I should never have have courage enough to speak the truth;

and I hope--o, how I hope!--both for your sake and my father’s, that

your horse may win! but be I to say,” she whisper, as with his arm

clasp round her slender waist he lift she from the saddle, “be I to

say to he, to my father, that I know about Rough Diamond? I should be

so sorry, from thoughtlessness, to repeat anything you might wish

unsaid.”



he follow she into the narrow passage, where for a single moment they

be alone, and the craving within he to hold she to his heart be

almost beyond his power to conquer. Perhaps,--we owe so much sometimes

to simple adventitious circumstances,--but for the chance opening of a

door on the landing-place above, Honor would at last have be awaken

to the danger of treat Arthur Vavasour as a friend. she be very

sorry for he; but she would have be more distressed than gratify

have he press she to his heart with all the fervour of youthful

passion, and implore she to trust herself entirely to his tender

guardianship. on the contrary, see that he simply ask if Mrs.

Norcott be at home, and remind Honor of her wish to see the famous

chestnut avenue, and of the practicability of realise her wish,

pretty Mrs. John Beacham trip upstairs before he with a lightened

heart, in search of the _chaperone_ who be ever so good-naturedly ready

to contribute to her pleasure.









CHAPTER VIII.



JOHN BEACHAM make a DISCOVERY.





People, especially imaginative one, be apt to talk a good deal about

come shadow and presentiment of evil, become especially diffuse on

the subject of the low spirit which they feel or fancy they have feel

previous to any great and dire calamity. in my humble opinion such

warning lie entirely in the imagination, and, moreover, those who prate

about this gift of second sight be apt to forget the million case of

_un_announced misfortune to be set against the isolated instance of

anticipate evil. amongst these million case we may safely cite that of

Honor Beacham on the afternoon of that famous Tuesday when, with

complaisant Mrs. Norcott for her duenna, she stroll with Arthur

Vavasour under the avenue of arch tree, then in their rich wealth of

snowy beauty, which lead, as all the world well know, to



                      “the structure of majestic frame

    which from the neighbour Hampton take its name.”



have Honor either be a few year old, less constitutionally light of

heart, or more experienced in sorrow, she would never have be able so

entirely--as be the case with this giddy young woman--to cast off the

sense and memory of her woe. a reprieve after all be _but_ a reprieve;

and the consciousness that each moment, however blissful, serve only to

bring we near to its termination, ought to and do fill the mind of

the thoughtful with very sobering reflection. but, as I have just

remark, Honor’s constitutionally happy spirit buoy she up

triumphantly on the water whose under-swell betoken a come tempest,

and throughout the two swiftly-pass hour which she spend in the

beautiful park with Arthur Vavasour by her side, she, recklessly set

memory and conscience at defiance, be far happy than she deserve to

be.



the “pale and penitential moon” be rise over the Hyde-Park tree as

the open carriage drive into Stanwick-street, and Honor, half pale and

remorseful too now that the hour be draw near when she must _think_,

promise, in answer to Arthur’s whisper entreaty, that no command, no

fatigue, no dangerous second thought, should cause she to absent

herself that night from the theatre, where she be to enjoy one of their

_last_ pleasure, he remind she, together. she run upstairs--a little

tired, flushed, eager, beautiful. would there be--she have think more

than once of _that_ as they drive homeward--would there be any letter

for she upon the table in the little sitting-room where what Mrs.

Norcott call a “heavy tea” be set out for their delectation? would

there--she have no time to speculate upon chance; for her quick eye soon

detect a business-like-look missive direct to herself, and lie

on the table in front of her accustomed seat.



with a feeling of desperation--have she delay to strive for courage the

letter would probably, for that night at least, have remain

unread--she tear it open and peruse the follow line, write in her

husband’s bold, hard, rather trade-like writing, and sign by the name

of John Beacham:



     “DEAR HONOR,--I suppose you have some excuse to make for yourself,

     though _i_ can see none any more than my mother do. you seem to

     be go on at a fine rate, and a rate, I can tell you, that willn’t

     suit I. I have be at the house you lodge at to tell you that I

     shall take you home with I to-morrow; so you have well be ready

     early in the day. my mother think you must have be very badly

     bring up to deceive we as you have do, and it will be the last

     time that I shall allow you to spend a day under your father’s

     roof.”



Poor Honor! poor because, tottering, waver between good and ill, it

require but a small impetus, give either way, to decide her course. if

it be true (and true indeed it be) that grievous _speak_ word be willnot

to stir up anger, still more certain be it that angry sentence write

in moment of fierce resentment, and read in a spirit of rebellion and

hurt pride, be apt to produce direful consequence. when Honor, with

the charm of Arthur Vavasour’s incense of adulation still bewilder

her brain, and with the distaste which the memory of old Mrs. Beacham’s

society inspire she with strong upon she, read her husband’s terse and

unstudie as well as not particularly refined epistle, the effect

produce by its perusal be disastrous indeed. dash the passionate

tear from her eye, and with a wrench throw off the dainty little

bonnet and the airy mantle in which Arthur Vavasour have tell she she be

so exquisitely “get up,” she prepare herself to meet again at the New

Adelphi the man whose influence over she, aid by the unfortunate

circumstance in which she be place, have more than _begin_ to be

dangerous. on that night, her _last_ night--but--and here Honor lay

down the brush with which she be smooth out her rich rippling

tress--but must it be indeed, she ask herself, the last night that

she would be free? the last night that she might hope to pass away from

the wretched thraldom, the detest daily, hourly worry of she unloved

and unlove mother-in-law? must she indeed return (and at the unspoken

question her heart beat wildly, half with terror and half with the

joyful flutter of anticipated freedom), must she obey the _order_--for

order it be, and sternly, harshly give--to place herself once more in

Mrs. Beacham’s power, in the home which that domineering and unkind old

woman have render hateful to she?



to do Honor only justice, there be no glimmering, or rather, to use a

more appropriate word, no overshadowing, of guilt (of guilt, that be to

say, as regard the straying of the thought to forbid pleasure) in

her desire--a desire that be slowly form itself into an

intention--of make a home for herself elsewhere than at the Paddocks.

she have arrive, with the unreflecte rapidity of impulsive youth, at

the decision that John have cease to love, and be incapable of

appreciate either her beauty or her intellect. his mother, too--and in

this decision Honor be not greatly in the wrong--wish she anywhere

rather than in the house where _she_ have be accustom to reign

supreme; and this be the case, and see also that poor Honor could

expect (for do not those two threatening letter proclaim the fact?)

nothing but unkindness on her return, there remain for she only the

alternative--so at least she almost bring herself to believe--of

separate herself from those with whom she live in such continued and

very real unhappiness.



during all the time that be employ in tastefully arrange the hair

whose rich luxuriance scarcely need the foreign aid of ornament, and

in don the dress fashion after the _décolletée_ taste of the day,

but which Mrs. Norcott--who entertain an unfortunate fancy, common to

bony woman, of display her shoulder for the public benefit--assure

she be the _de rigueur costume_ for the theatre,--during all the time

that Honor be occupy in make herself ready for the evening’s

dissipation, the idea of “live alone” haunted and, while it cheer,

oppress she. of decide and fix plan she have none; and whether she

would depart on the morrow, leave no trace to follow of her

whereabout, or whether she would delay her purpose till a few day

should have elapse after her enforce return to pear-tree House, be

subordinate arrangement which this misguide young woman tell herself

that she would postpone for after consideration. for the moment, the

prospect of listen to the most exciting of drama, and of see (for

she be easily please) the well-dress audience of a popular theatre,

bear their full share in cause the future, as it hang before Honor’s

sight, to be confuse and misty. the convenient season for thought be

to be _after_ this last of her much-prize pleasure; and when this

bouquet of the ephemeral delight by which her sense have be so

enthralled would be a memory and a vision of the past, the young wife

tell herself that the time for serious reflection should begin.



an hour later, in a box on the pit tier, listen with every pulse (for

Honor be too new and fresh not to take an almost painful interest in

the half-tragic and perfectly-act play) beat responsive to

newly-arouse sensation, the young wife of the Sandyshire farmer

attract a good deal more attention and admiration than she--entirely

engross with the scene and the performance--could, vain daughter of

Eve though she be, have suppose to be possible. her dress, make of

inexpensive material, but of pure, fresh white, and unadorned, except

with a bunch of pale-blue convolvulus, match another of the same

flower in the side of her small, fair head, be a triumph of

unpretende simplicity. alas, however, for the fashion of these our

day! for well would it have be--before one pair of eye, gaze on

Honor’s attraction from the pit, have rest on her beauty--could some

more efficient covering than the turquoise cross, suspend from her

rounded throat by a black velvet ribbon, have veil her loveliness from

glance profane! Honor little know--could she have have the faint

surmise that so it be, her dismay would have be great indeed--honor

little know whose eye those be that for a short ten minute--no

more--be rivet, with feeling of surprise and horror which for the

moment almost make his breast a hell, upon the box in which she be

seat. John Beacham--for the individual thus rouse to very natural

indignation be no other than that much-aggrieved husband--have learn

from chatter Lydia, on his visit to Stanwick-street, that Mrs.

Beacham be on that evening to betake herself to the New Adelphi

with--the name go through honest John’s heart like a knife--Mr.

Vavasour and Mrs. Norcott. they be gone--“_them three_,” Miss Lydia

say--to “’Ampton Court” for the afternoon; but the Colonel--he be

expect back before the other. perhaps the gentleman--the parlour-maid

be totally ignorant of the visitor’s right to be interested in Mrs.

John Beacham’s movement--perhaps the gentleman would wait, or it might

be more convenient to he to call again when the Colonel would have come

back from the race. she don’t believe that Colonel Norcott would go to

the theatre. she’d hear some talk of his go to the club; but if--



John, who have hear with dilated and angry ear the main point of these

disclosure, and who be very far from desire to come in contact with

the man whom upon earth he most despise and dislike, wait to hear no

more, but, stride hastily away, surrender himself, not only to the

gloomiest, but to the most bitter and revengeful thought. that this

man--unsuspicious though he be by nature, and wonderfully ignorant of

the wicked way of a most wicked world--should at last be rouse to a

sense of the terrible possibility that he be be deceive and wrong

be, I think, under the circumstance, only natural; and in proportion

to the man’s previous security--in proportion to his entire trust, and

complete deficiency of previous susceptibility regard Honor’s

possible shortcoming--be the amount of almost uncontrolable wrath that

burn within his aching breast. for as he leave that door, as he walk

swiftly down the street, and remember how he have love--ay,

worship--in his simple, inexpressive way, the lovely creature who be

no long, he fear, worthy either of his respect or tenderness, no

judgment seem too heavy, no punishment too condign for she who have so

outrage his feeling and set at naught his authority. full of these

angry feeling, and boil over with a desire to redress his wrong,

John Beacham repair to the tavern where he be in the habit, when

chance or business keep he late in London, of satisfy the craving

of hunger. alone, at the small table on which be serve to he his

frugal meal of beefsteak and ale, John brood over his misfortune,

curse in bitterness of spirit the hour when he first see Honor Blake’s

bewildering face, and exaggerate--as the moment speed by, and his

blood grew warm with one or two unaccustomed “tumblers”--the offence

of which she have be guilty.



he be rouse from this unpleasant ponder by the clock that tick

above the tall mantelshelf of the coffee-room sound forth the hour of

eight. eight o’clock, and John, who never pass a night if he could

help it in London, have not yet make up his mind where to spend the hour

which must intervene before his morning meeting with his wife. enter the

door of Colonel Norcott’s abode--save for the purpose of carry away

the headstrong, deceitful girl whom he, John’s enemy, have so meanly

entrap--the injured husband mentally vow should be no act of his:

not again would he trust his own power of self-command by find

himself, if he know it, face to face with the object of his hatred. from

the hour, and to that effect he register a vow--from the hour when he

should regain possession of his wife, all communication of every kind

whatsoever should cease between Honor and the bold bad man in whose very

notice there be contamination and disgrace. from henceforward Honor, so

he tell himself, would find a very different, and a far less yielding,

husband than the fool who have shut his eye to what his mother’s have so

plainly see. Henceforward the young fop and spendthrift, whom for the

boy’s father’s sake he have encourage to visit at his house, should find

it less easy to make an idiot of he. henceforward--but at this point in

his cogitation a sudden idea occur to he; it be one that would in

all probability have strike he long before, and would certainly have

shorten the modest repast over which he have be linger, if he have

entertain--which certainly be not yet the case--any doubt and

suspicion of a really grave character relative to Arthur Vavasour’s

intimacy with his wife. that she have deceive he with any design more

unpardonable than that of temporarily amuse herself be a thought

that have not hitherto find a resting-place within the bosom of this

unworld-teach husband; though that Honor have so deceive he be a blow

that have fall very heavily upon he. thoroughly truthful in his own

nature, and incapable of trickery, he have be so startled and engross

by the discovery in Honor’s mental idiosyncrasy of directly opposite

quality, that for a while he be incapable of receive any other and

still more painful impression concern she. to some man--especially to

those unfortunately-constitute one who see in “trifle light as air”

“consummation strong” of their own jealous fantasy--it may seem

strange that John Beacham should not have soon take the alarm, and

vow hot vengeance against the destroyer of his peace. that he have not

do so be probably owe to a happy peculiarity in his constitution.

he be a man too well aware of his own hasty temperament to rush without

reflection into situation to which I can give no well or more

expressive name than that of _scene_. to quarrel with, also, or to

offend the son of Cecil Vavasour would have be a source of infinite

pain to the man whose respect and affection for his dead landlord would

end but with his life; his wish, therefore, that Arthur have be and be

no more to Honor than the companion, in all innocence, of her girlish

folly, be the father to the conjecture as well as to the belief that

so it be.



probably, have John be return for business purpose that day to the

Paddocks, the idea which do then and there occur to he, of hurry

off to the New Adelphi, in order to _judge for himself_--as if in such a

case any man could judge justly!--of Honor’s conduct and proceeding,

would never have enter his head. it be a sore temptation only to look

again, soon than he have expect, at his wife’s beautiful face; and

as, in memory as well as in anticipation, he dwell upon it, the strong

man’s heart soften towards the weak child-like creature whom he have

swear to honour as well as to love, and it would have require but one

smile from her lip, one pressure of her tender arm, to persuade he

once again that _she_ be perfect, and that if fault or folly there have

be, the error lie in himself alone.



perhaps in all that crowded house--amongst that forest of face that

fill the box and gallery to the roof--there be not one, save that

honest countryman, whose attention be not fix and absorb that night

on one of the most sensational melodrama that have ever draw tear

from weak human eye. at another time and under other circumstance John

Beacham who, strong-bodied and iron-nerve man though he be, could

never keep from what he call make a fool of himself at a dismal

play, would not have see unmove the wondrous tragic acting of one of

the very good (alas, that we must speak of he in the past!) of our

comic actor: but John Beacham, on the night in question, be not in the

mood to listen with interest to the divinest display of eloquence that

ever burst from human lip. he be there for another and less exalted

purpose: there as a spy upon the action of another--there to feast his

eye (for, as I say before, in spite of all her error, his heart be

very soft towards the one woman whom he love) on the wife who have

defy his authority, and, possibly, make he an object of ridicule.



he have not be long in the unconspicuous place he have choose before,

not far remove from he--in a box, as I before say, on the pit

tier--he descry his unsuspecting wife. such a start as he give when

first he see she! such a start that, have not his neighbour on the next

seat be fully occupy with the stage, they must have perceive and

wonder at his agitation. at first he could hardly bring himself to

believe--so changed be she, and so wondrously beautify--that it could

in reality be his own Honor whom he see there, radiant in her glorious

loveliness, and with that loveliness--ah, poor, poor John

Beacham!--displayed, in a manner which almost take away his breath, to

the gaze of hundred upon hundred of admire eye.



until that moment--the moment when he see she the admire of all

beholder, in the evening toilet which so enhance her attraction, it

may be doubt whether John have ever entirely realise the exceeding

beauty of the wife whom he have choose. in her simple morning-dress, and

especially in the little coquettish hat which he have sometimes see she

wear, the honest farmer be quite willing to allow that Honor be

pretty by far than nine out of ten of the pretty girl that tread the

path of life; but it be in the dress, or rather undress, that evening

dissipation render (accord to Mrs. Norcott’s dictum) necessary that

young Mrs. Beacham become--in her husband’s eye--not only a marvel and

miracle of loveliness, but a source of such exceed pain to that

inexperienced rustic that in his agony of jealous susceptibility he

clench his muscular hand together till the blood well-nigh burst from

his finger-end with the strong though all involuntary compression of

his finger.



for there be more than the sight of those white shoulder to rouse the

demon of anger in his breast; there be more than the memory of the

woman’s deceit to harden his heart against she; for beside, or rather

behind she, lean over those same white shoulder in most lover-like

and devoted fashion, stand Arthur Vavasour, the man of whom his mother

have in her rude fashion warn he, the man whose father have be not

only his (John Beacham’s) friend, but his benefactor!



whispering in her ear, call the crimson blush to her fair cheek--the

husband see it all! and ah, how at that moment poor John hate that dark

handsome face--the face of one look so like a tempter send to try the

faith and virtue of an angel only too ready, so it seem, to fall!



will any of my reader--any, that be to say, who have in their own

person borne the burden and the heat of human passion--marvel that

this man, spur by the spectacle before he--the spectacle not of

_fictitious_ crime and sorrow, for there be a side-scene in which a

deep melodrama be be enact for his benefit--should have “lose

his head” under the pressure of such unwonted excitement?



something--it be not common sense or reason, for he be long past any

safeguard they could render him--_something_ retain the man, whose

passion be so rapidly grow to be his master, in the place which,

between two elderly playgoer who be entirely absorb by the “scene,”

have be assign to he--retain he, that be to say, till such time

as, the act be over, he could move from his place without cause

public excitement and commotion.



when the curtain fall, and the rushing, rustle sound betoken that

the spectator, over-work and excited, be stretch their limb

and refresh their brain by a change of scene and posture, John

Beacham, follow a sudden and uncontrollable impulse, and with no

fix purpose within his brain or choice of word upon his lip,

stagger like a drunken man to the box where Honor, breathless with

eagerness and her fair face flush with excitement, have just--in entire

and happy ignorance of her husband’s proximity--turn her glossy head

to talk over the startling incident of the play with Arthur Vavasour.









CHAPTER IX.



JOHN prove his right.





as he open the box-door, a ray of reason--there be often on such

occasion something sober in the mere presence of stranger--throw a

composing light over John Beacham’s troubled brain. he be not, as we

already know, a man who love excitement and “go in” for sensation; on

the contrary, his country habit and his rather matter-of-fact nature

unfit he for take part in any emotional scene, of what kind soever

it might be.



enter the box, he take off his hat with instinctive politeness; but

that duty perform, he lay his hand--it be as we know an honest one,

but heavy enough withal--on Honor’s snowy shoulder. what follow be

the work almost of moment; but rapid though it be, the scene remained

engrave on Honor’s memory for ever. as the iron finger press into

the delicate flesh--he could not guess, poor man, that her _first_

feeling when he enter have be one of gladness--she utter a sharp

cry of pain, and cast an appealing glance--for John’s wild look and

violent action frighten she--at Arthur.



be it in mortal man, or rather be it in the man who love she, and who

almost believe his love return, to remain neuter, absolutely neuter,

in such a case as this? it be true, quite true, that the husband be

_dans son droit_, and have a right to resent as an insult the

interference in his wife’s behalf of any man that live. of this

important truth, however, Arthur remember nothing. blind by passion,

disturb at a moment when, forgetful of all the world beside, he be

distil what he believe to be successful poison into the ear of the

woman he adore, this spoilt child of sin, who have never deny himself

a pleasure, or make during his whole stormy manhood a single sacrifice

either to other or to duty, resent the entrance of Honor’s

unconventional husband into his private box, as if that husband be in

fact the encroacher, and _he_ the lawful possessor of the prize.



White, ay, almost livid with rage, he wrench away the hand that hold

the woman whom he delight to protect, and would have speak word of

violence suit to the intemperate action, have not John Beacham, subdue

for the moment by the sight of passion even strong than his own,

command he in a tone of startling energy to be silent.



“for your father’s sake, young man,” he say, lay his broad hand for

an instant on Arthur’s thin white lips--“for your dead father’s sake,

make no ugly scandal here. if I believe you bad than foolish, I would

kill you as you stand there! but I do not believe such evil of your

father’s son. go, sir, to your young wife; go and repent you of your

sin; and when we meet again, God grant that I may have a well opinion

than I hold now of the boy that Cecil Vavasour love in his life so

well!”



Startled, overcome, and terribly confused, Arthur stand as if

transfix; while John, after hastily wrap the trembling Honor in

her opera-cloak, lead she, without another word speak, from the box.



in perfect silence--a silence only break by the woman’s violent

tremble as she hang helplessly on her husband’s arm--the re-united

pair leave the crowded theatre together. Honor move along as if

mechanically, dread the moment when she would be alone with the man

of whose violence she have just experience such unpleasant proof, and

feel already, with terrible force, the bitter contrast between she

lot as it have lately be, and her fate as it loom darkly, wearily

before she. _resign_ she do not feel. the contrast be too great, too

sudden; and, to speak the truth, the aspect of John in his rough

overcoat, his driving-glove, and country-make hat, do not exactly tend

either to put Honor in good humour with her husband, or to reconcile she

to the loss of half her evening’s amusement.



have there be in the woman’s conscience the load of even the small

secret guilt, _fear_ would have usurp the place of anger, and all idea

of rebellion would have banish from her mind. but Honor’s fit of

trembling arise from no such hidden cause. no “sin,” even of thought,

hitherto “unwhipt of justice,” cause her cheek to pale and her limb to

quake with fear. she be simply over-wrought, over-excited; and more

than all, she be indignant. a woman--a beautiful one, that be to

say--do not always calmly submit, even from a husband, to rudeness,

when she have be accustom to adulation; or to coercion, when she have

be place upon a throne, and learn to think herself a “queen for

life.”



she be the first to speak--the woman usually be in embarrassing case

such as that I be describe. the man, who be as a rule less nervous and

excitable, and who generally speak have his sense more under his own

command, be apt to hold his tongue, and rather dread the breaking of

the ice--the prelude to the startling and unpleasant plunge from which

he greatly doubt that any good can possibly result.



“O, John!” Honor say, “where _be_ you take I to? you might have

wait till to-morrow, and--and--I see you be so angry.” and burst

into tear, she leant she shapely little head against the side of the

cab in which John have place himself and she, and sob with almost

hysterical violence.



“angry? I should think so,” be his reply, as he endeavour to harden

his heart against the wilful girl whom yet (he be terribly ashamed of

the uxorious weakness) he ardently long to take to his heart and

whisper the fond assurance that she be forgive. “I should think I

_be_ angry--ay, and precious angry too. why, now, I should like to know

how you come to act underhand in the way you have do, and that, too,

from first to last? why don’t you write that you be ride about and

amuse yourself? why do you allow we--my mother and I--to think that

your father be in difficulty, while all the time he could afford to

keep horse, and give you all sort of amusement? by George!”--and he

give a blow on the floor of the cab with his stout stick which must have

sorely test the strength of both--“by George! if anyone--if the good

friend I have on earth--if the mother that bear I have say a month ago

that she have see what I have see this night, I would not have believe

she; and now--”



“and now,” interrupt Honor, her tear check as if by magic, and

turn her large indignant eye full upon her husband, “and _now_,

what, pray, have you see? you talk to I as if I have do something

wicked, something disgraceful; whereas the bad crime of which I can

excuse myself be a dread, a _horror_--I have well say the truth at

last--of live with, and be torment by, your mother. it be more

than I can bear to live with she. I would rather beg my bread, rather be

a servant a hundred thousand time, than go back to Mrs. Beacham and be

treat as she have treat I. but,” suddenly let down the window of

the cab, and look out into the street, “you be not really take I

back to Updown? John,” clasp her hand in wild entreaty, “I implore

you not to let I live again at pear-tree House. I don’t know why it

be--I cann’t account for it--but besides my being frightened at your

mother, I have a fear upon I, a great dread, of that old house.

something, I be certain of it, as certain of it as that I be pray to

you for kindness now, will happen if you take I home to Updown. I--”



“you be a goose, my dear, and don’t know when you be well off. there,

there, don’t cry any more. we be close upon the station now, and people

will think I have be beat you.”



the cab draw up to the entrance of the south-western terminus as he

speak, and Honor, feel that remonstrance be useless, allow her arm

to be pass through that of her legitimate guardian, and herself to be

seat, with a very unwilling mind, in the carriage that be to convey

she, luggageless and nervous, to the country home which she have learn

to loathe.









CHAPTER X.



“as well as can be expect.”





the great day of the sporting year, the “maddest,” if not exactly the

“merry” day, be close at hand; and the world, both high and low,

rich and poor, one _against_ another, be on the _qui-vive_ of

excitement and the very tip-toe of expectation. among these variously

interested being, one of those who have in reality most at stake, be

Arthur Vavasour. Fortune, honour, credit, all be involve, and that to

no limited extent, in the winning of the Derby race by that big-bone,

coarse-make, but wonderfully _stay_ horse, Rough Diamond. time be

(before the master passion have lay hold of, grapple with, and finally

take possession of this impulsive and ill-train young man) when the

result of the morrow’s racing would have occupy his every thought, and

would have seem to his eye the most important of all earthly

consideration. and all-important indeed it be; for spur on thereto

by money difficulty, and be but of a weak and unstable character,

Arthur Vavasour have, as the reader must have already gather, deceive,

and to a certain degree outwit, the shrewd and rather obstinate old

man, whose idea of honour and morality be so widely different from

his own. by marry Sophy Duberly he have for a time escape the

consequence of his own reckless extravagance, and of the gaming

propensity, the knowledge of which would, as he well know, have

entirely prevent the union between himself and one of the rich

heiress of the day; but happiness have not follow upon his sin, nor

have a sense of security be the consequence of his deception.



that Mr. Duberly be not wholly without his misgiving on the score of

the young aristocrat on whom his daughter’s maiden affection be fix

be evidence by the fact that “nothing be leave,” as the saying be, in

Arthur’s “power.” the allowance that “old Dub” make to his future

heiress be liberal to profuseness; and Arthur himself, have he desire

such an indulgence, might have have his path pave with gold, provide

always that he, the retire Manchester man, be perfectly _au courant_

of how the money be dispose of, and that his dearly-beloved Sophy trod

the same brilliant way, side by side and lovingly with the partner of

her life. More than this, however, for his son-in-law at least, old Dub

be never likely to do. to have his penny-worth for his penny, to keep

his account regularly and systematically, be, in his opinion, among

the first duty of man; and any _know_ neglect of these duty by his

daughter’s husband would have annoy and disquiet he. well aware of

this “absurdity,” as he consider it, on the part of his father-in-law,

Arthur have for some short time after his marriage go through certain

minor form calculate to convey the impression that he be a “business

man.” a room, call by courtesy his study, have be devoted to his use;

and a book dignify by the title of an “account-book” be disfigure by

certain scrawling entry in Arthur’s large illegible hand, and be

suppose to contain a record of Mr. Vavasour’s daily expenditure.

happily for he, old Duberly have hitherto either take his business

talent for grant, or, like many other good-natured, as well as

slightly indolent people, have shrink from discovery which might only

tend to his own discomfort, and the possible unhappiness of his child.

Sophy--the darling of his age, and the sunshine of his luxurious

home--be blithe and joyous as a bird which have just find its mate; and

this be so, why be he to disturb she from her security, and fill

her unsuspecting mind with doubt and fear which never might be

realise? as long as Sophy, who be a very _girl_ still in simplicity

and buoyant spirit, went singe about the house (a little heavy in

step now, poor thing, for she be very near to her hour of pain and

travail), old Duberly be well content to let everything remain as it

be, and to hope the good regard his young and outwardly very

likeable son-in-law. that there be any _great_ harm in one who seem

so frank, and who be too young as well as too well-bear (the Manchester

man think a great deal of birth) to have have either much opportunity

or much temptation to sin, Mr. duberly never for a moment suspect; but

in spite of this trust, and gladly as he would have entirely confide in

his daughter’s husband, there linger, almost unknown to himself, a

grain--the very shadow of a shade it be--of doubt; a doubt bear of the

former visit of Arthur Vavasour to the Paddocks, where live the most

beautiful woman that Mr. Duberly have ever see, and where the “tempting”

yearling put on strength and muscle for the arduous work that lie

before they. that such a doubt do linger in the old man’s mind be a

fact of which he himself be almost ignorant. have any human being

venture to hint a syllable in disparagement of Arthur Vavasour the

blood of the quondam cotton lord would have be up at once, and he

would have indignantly repel the insinuation of the enemy. accord

to his own belief he have place implicit faith in Arthur’s assurance

that the turf and he be stranger, and that his “occasional” visit to

pear-tree House be either purely business one, or be the natural

consequence of his dead father’s respect and like for honest,

straightforward John Beacham.



it be the certainty that his father-in-law have so believe, and in

consequence of that belief have consent to the already arrange

marriage, which be the main cause of Arthur’s anxiety that Rough

Diamond should, by win the Derby, diminish the chance--a very

slender one he hope and trust--of Andrew Duberly’s discover the

trick--for trick it be--that have be play upon he. “Manchester man”

though he be, and somewhat rough in manner--to say nothing of his

live out of the pale of Arthur’s “world”--that young man nevertheless,

such be the force of moral worth, dread, more than he would have care

to own, the betrayal to his wife’s father of the secret which, for all

his seem carelessness, have not lain altogether lightly on his bosom.

his debt--bar those of _honour_, considerable though they

be--trouble he but little. tradesman, however careful of their own

interest, will never press inconveniently for payment when they know

for a certainty that in the family of their debtor there be asset

sufficient to defray ten thousandfold the “little account” which add

interest be yearly swell. it be the float paper, his debt to

so-call friend, and above all, as I have just say, it be the

guarding of his disgraceful secret, which, even under other

circumstance than the present, would, on the day before the Derby, have

make Arthur Vavasour’s brow a clouded one by day, and break his natural

sleep by night. and even now--madly, passionately as he love the woman

of whom it be guilt even to think, and from whom, to his intense

annoyance, he have be so suddenly and violently separate--Arthur could

not avoid the frequent recurrence of the oppressive thought connect

with his own falsehood, and the morrow’s all-important event. even on

his way home on foot from the theatre--walk, contrary to his custom,

because he desire time for thought previous to his return to home and

Sophy--even then, with the memory of Honor’s bewilder beauty still

fresh within his brain, reflection bear of his complicated trouble

force themselves upon his unwilling mind. what would happen to he if

the favourite--a chance quite, of course, upon the card--be

distance? what would happen to he if--and the idea be not by any

mean a novel one--he could not trust the unprincipled associate in his

scheme? what would happen if Honor’s father should in some way or

other--Arthur have never go the length of guess _how_--play he at

the eleventh hour false?



these and sundry other such-like question be easy enough--as

torment question usually be--to ask, but the response to they be

not in the present case forthcoming. plod on, with anything but a

young man’s elastic spring, Arthur wend his way to Hyde-park-gardens;

and grievous as the truth must seem, there be not, in the certainty

that one warm woman’s heart would throb with joy at his return, a drop

of balm to soothe the wound from which he suffer. and reason good be

there that so it should be, for those wound be of his own

inflicting--deal by his own guilty hand, and not to be heal save by

the slow and painful process of repentance and atonement. slowly, then,

and with a troubled spirit, this man, who to the world’s eye appear

one of the most favour of Fortune’s adopt darling, proceed on his

way. arrive at the grand spacious house, with its marble portico, its

solid pillar, and its sculptured ornamentation, which he call his

home, he pause for a moment, look up with some feeling of undefined

surprise at the more than usual amount of light which find its way

through the closed shutter of the several window. almost before,

however, he have time to lay his hand on the bell, the door be softly

open by a servant who have evidently be on the watch for his arrival,

and a low voice--the voice of the hall-porter, soften and subdue in

compliment to the momentous occasion--inform the young master of the

house that Mrs. Vavasour have half an hour before give birth to a fine

boy, and be “as well as could” reasonably “be expect.”









CHAPTER XI.



from LIVELY to SEVERE.





on the whole it be a relief to Arthur that _le convenance_, accord

to old Dub’s view of the matter, stand in the way of his be an

eyewitness of Rough Diamond’s capability on the Derby-day. his first

feeling on hear that Sophy’s trial be over, and that he have a

paternal interest in the small pink-face fraction of humanity which the

nurse introduce to he as his son, have be one of unmixed

satisfaction. as he silently kiss the pale but wondrously content

face of the young mother lie so still and motionless on the pillow,

Arthur’s heart be full for the moment of the pure happiness that it

have ever know; but the past--the inexorable and ever-pursue

past--treading on the heel of the present, embitter his transient

joy, and destroy, or at least darken, all his prospect for the

future. almost before he have leave the bedside of his trusting and

silently rejoice wife, the thought of the evil which a few short

hour might bring about strike through he with an icy chill, while

conscience with her probe prick tell he that he be unworthy of

life’s choice blessing. for even then--even at the instant when his

mind and heart should have be wholly occupy with the fair young

mother of his child--a vision of his irish love--of Honor’s sweet

caressing smile, and the exquisitely-mould shoulder that have be,

but one short hour before, so dangerously near to his caressing

hand--rise up before he, and cause the bond which unite both he and

she to object unbeloved to be hateful in his sight. on the follow

morning old Mr. Duberly, in radiant spirit, and rejoice over his

grandson with a delight which strike Arthur as almost puerile in its

character, give his son-in-law plainly to understand that his place, for

that day at least, be one within call of his marital duty. to watch

by Sophy, to be ready if she should perchance express a wish to press

his hand, or gaze lovingly on his face, be privilege which the

affectionate old man would have find it hard to believe that Arthur

might prize less highly than he do himself. the circumstance of that

especial Wednesday be the Derby-day escape his recollection

altogether. be himself totally uninterested in sporting matter, the

idea that Arthur would by any possibility place the result of the great

race side by side as an affair of note with the all-important event of

the previous day, namely, the birth of his son and heir, would have

strike “old Dub” as simply ridiculous, and he be therefore quite

prepare for Arthur’s ready acquiescence in his view. the real truth

be, as we already know, that Vavasour’s interest be far indeed from

be centre on Epsom Downs. to gain _the_ race by mean of his own

good horse, Rough Diamond, be certainly to he an affair of vital

importance; but, unaware of the fact that Honor have be take from

Colonel Norcott’s house, and be already safe under her husband’s

protection, the desire to see she once again, by stealth or otherwise,

be strong than any other feeling, and to remain in the neighbourhood

of the woman he adore be the dear wish of his unregenerate heart.



meanwhile, what be the reality regard Honor Beacham’s whereabouts,

what her feeling, and how have her husband’s sudden exertion of marital

power affect her conduct?



the night-train by which she and John travel homeward be due about

midnight at Leigh, at which town it stop for a few hurry minute

only, and then proceed at express speed on its course south-westward.

happily for Honor, they be not _tête-à-tête_ in their compartment.

Childlike, she catch at any delay, any postponement of the explanation

which be the inevitable consequence of her folly and--in some sort--her

falsehood. to keep back the truth--not to tell that “whole,” when on

that “whole” depend the _spirit_ of the fact leave half undisclosed and

to be guess at--be, disguise it, mystify ourselves with what sophistry

we may, _to lie unto our neighbour_, and to deceive the one who trust

we. it be the consciousness that she have so lie and deceive, together

with a certain amount of uninvestigated self-reproach as regard the

delight which Arthur Vavasour’s society have afford she, that cause

Honor to shrink with nervous trepidation not only from her husband’s

questioning, but from the very sight of the keen-witted and

sharp-tongue old woman who already, as Honor have every reason to

believe, look on she with no favourable eye. under these

circumstance, the presence in the carriage which they occupy of a

sleepy old gentleman and a wideawake young girl, who be in all

probability his daughter, be a relief not only to Honor but to John;

for he too, with all an honest, strong-nerved Englishman’s dislike to

tear and domestic tragedy, recoil from the duty of say harsh

word to the young wife, whose bad offence he feel inclined to

believe have be a love of hitherto undreamt-of gaiety, the

consequence of which very natural taste be the sin--one of omission

rather than commission--of give a false colouring to the state of

affair in Stanwick-street.



already, so kindly be the man’s nature, and so strong be his dislike

to be what he call “ill friend” with those about him,--already have

his displeasure begin to subside, and already have he begin to accuse

himself of harshness in thus summarily deal out hard measure against

his wife. as she sit there silently by his side, the outline of she

perfect profile just visible under the scarlet hood of her opera-cloak,

and her pale lip quiver with the effort to conceal her emotion and

check the tear that from moment to moment be on the point of escape

from their “briny bed,” it would have require but little to persuade

the strong man near she that in his dealing with that frail but fair

flower he have be little well than a brute.



they be within a mile or two only of Leigh before the silence that

reign between they be break, and then it be John’s clear and rather

loud voice that awake the elderly sleeper, and startle Honor from a

very perplexing and wretche train of thought.



“Twelve o’clock, all but two minute,” Mr. Beacham say, replace a

solid silver watch in his waistcoat-pocket. “we shall be at Leigh

directly, and if there don’t happen to be a fly there,” he add,

address himself more particularly to his wife, “we shall have to put

up at the Dragon. the old lady expect _I_, and Simmons will be there,

of course, with the trap; but you’d catch your death o’ cold without

wrap, and--”



“o, I don’t mind! what _do_ it signify?” Honor say impatiently, and

even, as it seem to John, a trifle crossly: whereas the hasty-sound

word be simply the result of the break reverie, the seriousness of

which make the question of a covering more or less upon her shoulder

appear in the light of a very trivial affair indeed. before, however, he

could make any rejoinder to her impetuously-speak reply the speed begin

to slacken, and a loud deafen “whistle” proclaim the fact that

their journey’s end be reach, and that unless something like a

miracle be work in her favour, a very short period of time must in

the common course of thing elapse before poor Honor would find herself

once more in the dreaded presence of her exact and unloving

mother-in-law.



“now, then, my dear,” John say _kindly_, as Honor think and hope,

when he return to the train after a rapid investigation of the

waiting carriage; “now, then, come along! look sharp; there be a

fly--the one from the Dragon--so bundle in. it wouldn’t have do,” he

go on, after they be seat, and the window close to shut out the

night air, “to have keep mother up while I send for this old rattletrap

from the inn. Mother’s put out enough as it be, and I don’t know--upon

my soul, I don’t--how she’ll take our come in upon she like this. I

tell you what it be, Honor, my dear, you must try--indeed you must--to

pull well with the old lady. I think you would at first; but somehow

everything seem to have go wrong; and then this business--this

stay in London--and--”



he stop abruptly at this crisis in his discourse,--stopped because,

his momentary passion be over, the old feeling of inferiority to his

wife, the undefinable consciousness of her refinement, her delicacy, she

“good blood,” her _ladyhood_, as oppose to his roughness and plebeian

birth, gain ground again, and check the well-deserve reproach

that be hover on his lip. have Honor be at that moment clothe in

her customary dress of neatly-make linsey, have there be no blue

flower in her ripple hair, and have there be no “jewelled cross”

glitter on her “snow-white breast,” John would have be twice the

man he be--twice the man, that is, in his power to speak out to his

young giddy wife the truth which it be good for she to know. but this

simple-minded rustic feel, as we all of we more or less have probably

do, the influence of show, of adornment, of superior dress, above all

of a soft, gentle _retenue_ of manner which put to shame and utterly

condemn the violence of the more impulsive and the outspoken. angry,

justly angry as he have so lately feel with Honor, John’s courage fail

he when he commence to reason with she on her shortcoming, and he

pause, not know how to pursue a subject which could not fail to be

displease to the youthful beauty whom he have so lately see the

admire of all beholder in the London playhouse. John little

guess--well would it have be for all party have it be

otherwise--what a very coward be at that moment the woman who, all

unconsciously to herself, be make a poltroon of he. tremble,

shiver inwardly at the thought of the dread interview with her

stern and relentless judge, Honor would have give much at that moment

to have be certain of a friend and ally in her husband. it be her

ignorance on this point, and not, as John suspect, the increase

“fine-ladyism” which, unknown to herself, be evident in her air and

tone, that keep she silent, even from mild word of apology and

self-justification. Ashamed, frighten, and thoroughly detest the

companionship to which her husband be about to condemn she, it be

little to be wonder at that John Beacham, believe she to have take

refuge in a “fit of the sulk,” relapse into a silence which last

till the wheel of the lumbering, misnamed vehicle, after grate for a

few second along the well-know gravel, come to a stand before the

ivy-cover porch of pear-tree House.



if Hannah have see that often-talk-of object of her awe and curiosity,

an actual ghost, she could hardly have be frighten into a more

violent start than that which jerk her stoutly-build person at the

sight of her young mistress.



“my good gracious I! who ever would have think it?” she exclaim, as

she follow Honor’s lag footstep into the little parlour. “why

missus never expect you, mum, not for a moment--and everything go

on so quiet! dear, dear! it be only this very day as missus be a

saying--”



“o, I don’t want to know, Hannah,” say Honor wearily, as she throw

herself on a sofa, a degree hard (if possible) and more comfortless

than the one appertain to the first-floor front in deeply-regret

Stanwick-street. “please not to tell I what Mrs. Beacham say. and

make I a cup of tea, will you? I be very tired, and I shiver so!”



she shudder as she speak, but that she do so be more from inward

cold than from the effect of the outer atmosphere. there be certainly

something terribly chilling to this young and impressionable creature in

the dingy, half-light room, with its dusky curtain, its fade carpet,

and, above all, the work-a-day table cover, as be its wonot, with

evidence of the old lady’s unflagge industry--with pile of

house-linen, place there in readiness for the morrow’s inspection, for

darning, marking, or the like; and with batch of John’s strong gray

sock--article of toilet far more useful than ornamental. on these

uninteresting evidence of an active as well as a frugal mind a solitary

tallow-candle shed its feeble light; and Honor, from whose vivid

imagination the picture of the brilliant theatre with its dazzle

footlight and bright array of meretricious beauty have not altogether

fade away, gaze around with feeling nearly akin to loathe and

disgust.



a momentary gaze almost it be, for before she have time _quite_ to

realise the melancholy truth that she be at home, John have settle

account with the Leigh charioteer, and be once more by her side, and

speak in subdue tone to Hannah, who, after the manner of her kind,

be bustle about, and make as much noise in the doing so as

possible.



“don’t make more row than you can help, there’s a good woman,” John

whisper anxiously; “there’s no use in wake up the missus. bring a

cup of tea, hot and strong, as quick as you can, and then take yourself

off to bed.”



Hannah make no reply to this exhortation, save by throw a knowing

glance at Honor, which that bewildered young person do not even attempt

to comprehend. the mystery, however, do not take long to solve, for ere

another minute have elapse there be the sound of a creak step upon

the stair, and Mrs. Beacham’s chronic cough (a cough which the doctor

say she would never lose but in her grave) herald the approach of

Honor’s enemy.



instinctively the young wife, as the gaunt figure of the old woman, clothe

in the stern of nightcap and the most uncompromising of flannel

gown, make its appearance in the doorway, turn an appeal face to

her husband, thus mutely claim his protection and support.

unfortunately, however, for this weak vessel, whose conscience be

assist to render she a coward, the language of _look_ be an unknown

one to single-eyed John Beacham. in addition also to this ignorance, it

would have be hard to make he understand that it be against his own

mother that Honor, in that piteous glance of her, entreat that he

would array himself. he be experience at that moment one of the

effect of a long habit of filial obedience and respect, and that effect

be a real regret that his aged parent should have her rest disturb,

and her mind harass by his wife’s--to say the least of it--thoughtless

conduct. John’s affection for his mother be too deeply rooted to be

easily shake; and though he have, for a pass moment, be soften,

quell, subdue by his tenderness for his wife--though he have for a

short while forget that Honor have, in more way than one, brave,

disobey, and utterly deceive he--yet, with the presence of the

respectable and unimpeachably virtuous woman who have first open his

unwilling eye to the culprit’s error, the remembrance of those error

crowd once more thick and fast upon he; so thick and fast that his

very face grow dark and more serious, whilst Mrs. Beacham, happily

unconscious that her appearance be not precisely a dignified one,

advanced slowly, candle in hand, into the room.









CHAPTER XII.



MRS. BEACHAM REFUSES to FORGET.





“well, mother,” John say airily, and with the laudable desire of make

thing pass off with ease and comfort to all parties--“well, mother,

we’ve get Honor back again, you see; but I’m sorry you get up. I try

to keep Hannah quiet, but she’s get a foot like a cart-horse, and a

voice like a peacock, hang she!”



“I ben’t asleep, my dear,” sigh the old lady, seat herself with a

dignified air--the effect of which be slightly neutralise by the

above-name dressing-gown and cap--“I ben’t asleep; it ain’t easy to be

with all that be go on;” and she fold her aged hand before she

with an air of patient resignation, which be not without its effect

upon poor John. for that excellent man, at this crisis of his hitherto

unexciting life, be really very greatly to be pity. longing, above

all thing, for peace and quietness--love his young wife with a deep

and passionate fondness, and sincerely wish that his respected parent

might find a dutiful daughter in his precious Honor--it be to he a

terrible thought that a “scene” of some kind must inevitably take place

before matter could run smoothly again between his womankind.



“Mother,” he say desperately, “let bygone be bygone. Honor have be

foolish enough, I know, and she have well not have make thing out

different from what they be; but there’s no manner of use hammer on

about what’s past and over. so, Honor--there’s a good girl--just tell

mother you’re sorry for what’s happen, and let we all be friend

again. it’s the good way, to my thinking, time and over.”



he lay his hand very lightly on his wife’s bare shoulder as he speak,

give the slight of impulse to his touch; but, to his dismay,

Honor, instead of obey that impulse, recoil from the pressure of

his hand, and say in a low tone, but resolutely:



“I have do no harm. I be sorry, of course, if she be angry; but, John,

you do not know--if you do, you would understand it all well--what

your mother write to I. I would do anything for you--I would, indeed,”

she add passionately; “but _she_ hate I--she always do; and I will

not--no, I _will_ not humble myself before she!”



“you _will_ not? there’s for you!” cry the indignant old woman, rouse

to fury by Honor’s resistance to her husband’s wish. “didn’t I tell

you how it would be? don’t I say that you have get rather more than you

could manage in milady there? why, only to look at she be enough, and

more than enough for I. if _you_ call _that_”--and she point with a

fierce trembling finger at Honor’s polish shoulders--“if you call

_that_ the dress of a modest woman, why you be a big fool, John,

than I take you for. I should have like to see _my_ husband’s face if

_i_ have make such a wanton of myself as to--”



“come, come, mother, enough say,” interpose John. “I don’t like the

way that young woman get themselves up nowadays a bit well than you

do; but she’s in the fashion--Honor be, and anyway I willn’t have she

call hard name even by you.--Honey, my dear,” he go on more gently,

as he notice his wife’s quivering lip, “you mustn’t be so foolish as to

think what you say just now. mother don’t hate you; she couldn’t be

so wicked, let alone that you’re not one that the bad woman--which

God know she isn’t--could dislike. so, now _do_, for Heaven’s sake, let

we have do with it all. you’re look as pale and as cold”--wrapping

the opera-cloak round she carefully, in order to conceal the smooth

white shoulder which be so obnoxious in his mother’s sight--“as cold

as death, my dear. here, take a cup of tea; and, mother, suppose you

have a drop of something warm?--Here, Hannah, bring in the

‘matarials’--as Joe Connor call ’em--and let’s make ourselves

comfortable.”



his voice--it be a very pleasant one at all time--sound loud and

cheerful through the ill-light room--it be a voice that his old

mother dearly love to hear; but, just then, so uncongenial be her own

feeling, and so hardened be her heart against the girl whom she

_really_ believe to be “gay and giddy,” if not bad, that she refuse

to be soften by her son’s cordial tone.



“you may do as you please,” she say, rise in what be intend for a

stately manner from her chair, “but _i_ shall not remain in the same

room with Mrs. John. hate she, indeed! I never hear such word. ‘he

that hateth his brother be a murderer!’--and nobody before ever even

I to that. I wish you good-night, John; and I hope that God will give

you both well thought. I may forgive--but it ben’t likely I should

forget.”



the door close behind the jealous wrong-head old woman; and John,

prepare mechanically to mix his nightly jorum of weak

brandy-and-water, heave a more weary sigh than have often escape his

lip. there be something touch in the sound--proceed as it do

from one so habitually (at least to outward semblance) cheerful and

_insouciant_--and Honor, hear it, suddenly feel penitent and

sympathetic.



“I be so sorry,” she say softly. “I know I be wrong--and, John, I

should be so much happy if your mother would be kind to I. it be

more that--I mean more because of she--that I seem to care to stay

away--I--”



“there, there, my dear,” he say, his arm round her waist, and draw

she towards he tenderly, “don’t bother yourself any more about it. we

must all try to bear and forbear; and mother be old now--and old people

have their fancy. you, poor little thing,” gaze pityingly on the wet

eyelash that sweep her pallid cheek, “I would make you happy, God

know, if I could. you be such a child still--and somehow, it seem to

I that you be not make for this rough life of our;” and John,

loosen the hand that press the slender waist, sigh again even

more discontentedly than before.









CHAPTER XIII.



arthur cheer up.





the news that John Beacham have carry his wife into the country,

without even allow that ill-use young woman to return to

Stanwick-street, be communicate on the follow morning by Colonel

Norcott to his young friend, to whom he write a hurried note as follow:



     “only fancy! John Beacham, after behave like a bear, carry off

     my poor girl, just as she be, to Updown. I have half a mind to

     interfere; but the Derby before everything! we shall meet on the

     course, I suppose. if not, at the club afterwards. good luck to

     Rough Diamond, and to we! we be in the same boat. sink or

     swim?--with I, at least.



                                                       “your in haste,



                                                                “F. N.”



many hour speed by after the receipt by Arthur of this note ere the

important telegram arrive which tell the world remain in London

which horse have win “the race.” in spite of his mad love for Honor

Beacham, Arthur Vavasour hear the news with all-absorb rapture.

there be “take-off,” it be true, from his joy. he be deprive of the

pleasure of openly revel in the fact that a horse of his have win the

Derby by a head. Rough Diamond, run in the name of Colonel Norcott,

be generally suppose to be the _bonâ-fide_ property of that fortunate

individual; but although he could not hold his head high as the owner of

a Derby winner, Arthur could, and do, rejoice with exceed joy over

the result of the race. he be, virtually, free from the debt of honour

which have so long oppress and disgrace he. the sale of the winner to

the high bidder would enable he to walk once more with a free step,

and boldly, amongst the young man his fellow. that the heir-apparent of

so fine a property as Gillingham Chace should have be reduce to such

shift, and have suffer from such pecuniary anxiety as have sometimes

render sleepless the luxurious couch of Arthur Vavasour, may seem to

some an abnormal, if not, indeed, an impossible, state of thing; but it

must be remember, in the first place, that the heir to many thousand

per annum have be but for a short period legally “of age;” and in the

next, that the raising of money by that individual would have be at

all time--in consequence of Lady Millicent’s well-know intention to

dispute her father’s will--an affair very difficult of arrangement. ever

since his purchase of John Beacham’s powerful and, as his former

owner--one of the good judge in England--boldly affirm, most

promising colt, Arthur have see, with the confident eye of youth, a

limit to the annoyance which have so long press upon his spirit. they

have be very good-natured to he, those sporting friend of his to whom

he owe some fifty, some a hundred, and _one_ more hundred than it be

pleasant to remember. they have bide their time. Arthur Vavasour have

be such a mere lad when he become their debtor, and the man be,

without an exception, far old, both in year and experience, than Lady

Millicent’s thoughtless son; so, as I say, they have treat the young

man tenderly. no cold shoulder have be turn to he either at the

club or on the racecourse; and Arthur, thankful for the indulgence, be

doubly glad of the opportunity which his success afford he of pay

with grateful thank those who, somewhat singular to say, have not cease

to be his friend.



five minute have scarcely elapse after Arthur read the welcome

telegram, when he betake himself to the gratify business of

prepare for his long-delay settling-day. his first act be to put

himself in indirect communication with the sporting earl who, as all the

world be well aware, possess a purse long enough to gratify his

lordship’s desire to become possessor of the Derby winner; and his next

object of interest be the promise visit of Colonel Norcott, who,

although he do not greatly admire his character, have, both as the

nominal owner of Rough Diamond and the father of Honor Beacham, peculiar

claim on his time and attention. very early on that day, and soon after

receive Fred Norcott’s billet, he have despatch a note to that

gentleman’s abode, and in that note he have inform his friend of the

interesting domestic reason of his absence on the previous day from

Tattenham Corner on that all-important occasion.



“I will call in Stanwick-street about nine <small>P.M.</small>,” so write the

newly-make father, “when I hope to find you at home, and shall be truly

glad if there be good news for we in the interim.” Arthur be well

pleased to escape a meeting at “the club,” _id est_, _his_ club, with

Colonel Norcott. that gentleman be in the habit--a propensity which be

rather annoying to Arthur Vavasour--of show off, at the Travellers’,

his intimacy with the popular young heir of Gillingham, the former being

well aware that he stand on unsafe ground, and that it behove he to

make the most of such respectable acquaintance as fade, or rather

conduct, have leave he. the indomitable Fred, not content with link

his arm within that of Arthur Vavasour, when the two chance to meet in

the haunt of fashionable man and woman, would, whenever he could either

seize or make an opportunity for so doing, parade his acquaintanceship

with his young friend in the most unwarrantable manner. it be in order

to prevent a repetition of this inconvenience that Arthur Vavasour (who

would probably have be more careful of hurt the Colonel’s vanity

have Honor Beacham still remain under his protection) indite the

epistle above allude to, namely, that which appoint Stanwick-street

as a place of rendezvous between himself and the owner of his most

cherish secret. well aware of the fact that Colonel Norcott, who

belong to no regular “club,” but only to a sporting _réunion_ of

doubtful respectability, be in the habit of make the good of his

lodge-house dinner at home, Arthur Vavasour entertain but little

doubt of find his middle-aged friend (whose health, albeit he would

have strenuously deny the fact, be begin to betray some of the

consequence of an ill-spend life) rest from the excitement of the

day in the bosom, so-call by courtesy, of his family.



Sophy--the happy, grateful Sophy--watch over by love eye, and

surround by all the comfort and luxury that wealth could procure,

be “go on,” as the hall-porter be now officially instruct to say,

“as well as could possibly be expect.” Old Duberly, whose heart, in

spite of the strength of his prejudice, have in it some very soft and

tender spot, have as yet only partially recover from the state of

almost frantic ecstasy into which the birth of his grandson and the

certainty of his daughter’s safety have throw he. it be true that he no

long insist upon shake hand (each time that he encounter they

on the stair or in the passage) with Arthur, the doctor, or maybe the

nurse--anyone and everyone, in short, who could by any possibility

sympathise with his grandpaternal joy. he be less demonstrative, and

more quietly thankful to the God of all mercy for the great blessing

that he have bestow upon he; but for all that he be more outwardly

compose; the old man’s inward condition--whether sleep or wake,

alone or in company with his fellow-rejoicer by Sophy’s bedside--be one

of exceed gratitude and bliss.



“I be think of go out for an hour, sir,” Arthur say, suppress

with some difficulty one of the troublesome and desperate yawn which a

lengthen dialogue with his respected father-in-law be apt to induce.

“Sophy be asleep, the nurse say, and I want to stretch my leg and have

a smoke.”



Mr. Duberly, who as a rule be rather an enemy to the favourite vice of

the day, and who have sometimes feel a little jealous when he have see

his “girl’s” white finger busy in Arthur’s tobacco-jar, and press

down with her dainty thumb the _weed_ into her husband’s meerschaum, be

at that especial moment in too good a humour not only with Arthur, but

with the world in general, for any idea of opposition to enter his

brain.



“want a smoke, do you, eh?” he say good-humouredly. “I don’t know what

you young fellow be make of to stand draw so much poison into your

lung. and what you’ll all be like when you come to be my age be more

than I can guess. but get along with you, boy--only don’t be long, for

Sophy may wake up and want to say ‘good-night.’ _I_ shall be in the

_boudore_ though, ready, if anything’s want.” and so say, the

doate old man, gather up his spectacle, and the newspaper which he

be in the habit of digest with his dinner, a meal which at that

moment sit--if the truth must be tell--rather heavily on his stomach,

toddle out of the room, to pass a dozy hour or two within hearing of

his daughter’s gentle voice.



Meanwhile Arthur--his heart, despite of pretty Honor’s absence, light

than it have be for month--wend his way with the brisk step which be

so sure a sign of youth and good spirit to not-far-distant

Stanwick-street. as he approach the house he experience a slight

feeling of depression at the thought that it no long contain the

lovely woman by whom he fondly believe that his passion be more than

begin to be reciprocate. it be a melancholy fact, too, that as

matter at present stand between he and John Beacham, there seem

little hope of resume those _friendly_ relation with the paddock

which have be so fraught with happiness to himself, and, as he hope,

to the wife of his trusting friend. to the chapter of accident only

could Arthur--with the sanguine expectation of youth (of youth

especially when back by good look and a win tongue)--look, with

any well-ground hope, that his luck would in this instance befriend

he, and point the way for further attempt to--what? why to _ruin_,

soul and body, the still innocent creature, the possession of whose

beauty would soon be to he a worthless toy, and who, but for his

selfish pursuit, might still be a value wife and a happy woman in the

sphere in which Providence have place she.



as Arthur Vavasour stand on the doorstep of the house which only a few

short hour before contain the being who possess the terrible power

of induce within he the forgetfulness of his most sacred duty, keen

regret for her loss be within his breast a strong sensation than the

satisfaction with his present lot, as regard the relief from his

dishonour obligation which, in some nature, _might_ have supersede

all other and less commonplace consideration.



“he will know nothing more about _her_,” be the thought that most

occupy Arthur Vavasour when the door open, and Lydia, more off-hand

even and coquettishly dress than usual, stand before he with the

handle in her hand, bar, as it almost seem--though _that_ could

hardly be, so intimate be Arthur in that unaspire lodging-house--his

further passage to the Colonel’s presence.



“there’s a note for you, sir,” the parlour-maid say, in answer to

Arthur’s look of surprised inquiry; “they’ve go out of town, both of

’em, and the Colonel say I be to give you the letter when you come.

I’ll run and fetch it if you’ll be so good as wait.” and so say

Lydia skip away down the “back stair” lead to the region below;

while Arthur, with a vague sense of uneasiness creep slowly over he,

silently, but not over patiently, await her return.









CHAPTER XIV.



arthur find himself do.





the letter produce, after five minute’ delay, by the faithful Lydia,

run as follow:



     “MY DEAR VAVASOUR,--You will be surprised to find that I have

     _absquattulate_. beggar mustn’t be chooser, and I should have

     be only too glad if circumstance have allow of my remain in

     England; but the fact be, I make a bad business of my book--hedge,

     and that kind of thing; so, have no chance leave but to sell Rough

     Diamond, I do it on the nail. my beastly creditor have make

     London too hot to hold I, and as debt be transferable in these

     day, and be hang to they! I must keep dark for the present, or

     they’ll have I in _quod_ in some confound foreign place or

     other. of course you be an exception; and when I be settle

     anywhere you shall hear from I. the missus desire to be kindly

     remember. nothing new about Honor--the man be a brute. Ta-ta, old

     fellow, and believe I yours truly,



                                                          “F. NORCOTT.”



Arthur, after make himself master of the content of this flippant

epistle, stand for a moment like one turn, after the manner of Lot’s

wife of old, into a statue.



“when do they go?” he say at last. “I come by appointment; this must

have be quite a sudden start. G--! I cann’t understand it! gone, do you

say? impossible!”



Miss Lydia snigger conceitedly at this assertion.



“the Colonel never come back at all,” she say; “he send for Mrs.

Norcott--or else they’d settle it between they afore, which missus she

think they do. any way, Mrs. Norcott she pack up, and pay all that

be owe the first thing this morning, and by two o’clock she be off,

and missus, she have the bill put up at onst.”



to this short but lucid explanation Arthur listen as one who heareth

not. the melancholy truth that he have--in vulgar parlance--be _do_

be begin to dawn upon his mind. that Fred Norcott--base and

unprincipled as he suspect he to be--could have the unparalleled

audacity to deny and ignore the fact of his (Arthur’s) ownership of the

Derby winner be, however, almost too wonderful to be true. his estimate

of Honor Beacham’s father, though about as low a one as it be possible

for one person to entertain about another, do nevertheless fall short

of believe this man capable of actual felony. that he have trust he

so completely--have confide so entirely in the honour of his associate,

be alone a sufficient proof that he do not consider Fred Norcott to be

capable of an act of fraud. the transfer of Rough Diamond from Arthur’s

ownership to the nominal possession of the quondam cavalry officer have

be make in a decidedly loose and unbusiness-like manner--the very

nature of the transaction necessitate to a certain extent this

unsatisfactory mode of proceeding. there be a secret to be keep--a

secret which be of vital importance to the well-being of one of the

contracting party--and therefore it follow that “all thing” be

not, on this occasion, “do decently and in order.”



the suspicion, that be destine gradually to become a settle belief in

Arthur’s mind, that the man in whose power he know himself to be be a

villain of the least creditable die, be anything but agreeable.

ponder on this certainty, he, as he saunter with lingering step

towards the splendid home which, in right of his wife, he call his

own, feel about as unhappy a young aristocrat as ever trod the broad

flagstone of the tyburnian pavement. his furious indignation against

the rascal by whom he have be deceive pass the bound of

description. have Fred Norcott chance at that moment to present himself

within his reach, there be no saying to what length the passion of the

young man might have lead he. but happily the Colonel--his faithful

wife by his side, his ill-get gain in his pocket, and his unrepented

sin upon his head--be far away by that time--far away to the land

where roguery be at a premium, and cheating be dignify by the

agreeable name of “smartness”--to the land where to be a villain be no

disgrace, and where every sin save that of failure be condone and

pardon.



       *       *       *       *       *



“now, Atty, let I look at you again--I be sure that something be the

matter--_quite_ sure. daddy dear, don’t Arthur look worried? and he

_will_ go out so early. I think you _would_ stay just a tiny half-hour

till I have have my arrowroot, but--”



“stay, dear--of course I will, if you wish it,” Arthur reply in answer

to his wife’s appeal, speak in the low and feeble voice which make she

faint wish a law.



“I _be_ go out on business, but I can put it off till the

afternoon,” and he try to speak as if the sacrifice be no sacrifice,

and as if act the part of deputy sick-nurse be quite in the usual

course of event for a young man about town, who have but lately

complete his twenty-second year.



Sophy be, as I have say, the least selfish of human being--she would

at all time have be ready to make any sacrifice for those she love;

but a young heiress smile over her first-bear babe may be pardon if

for once in her life she fail to see that her exact wish

militate against those of her husband, and if, while she rejoice over

the happy consciousness of his devotion, she forget that he might have

other duty to perform and other interest at stake than the one to

which her entreaty have devote he.



it be late in the afternoon before Arthur Vavasour, seize the

opportunity of a sound sleep into which the invalid have fall, stole

from the pretty morning-room adjoining that where his wife lay, step

softly; for old Duberly--who dearly love, after the fashion of the

aged, to _talk_--might, have he hear his step upon the stair, have

intercept his departure, and, slip his bald head out of the

half-open study-door, have chain he--an unwilling listener--for an

hour at least, in the close and stuffy atmosphere of his private

sanctum.



at that moment, with his brain positively whirl with suppress

excitement, and with the fever cause by anxiety and suspense boil

in his vein, Arthur feel that, have he be stop by his respect

father on his outward way, he would have be capable of lay violent

hand upon that well-mean but officious personage. to rush into the

fresh air--to throw himself into a pass hansom--to be carry as fast

as wheel could bear he to the first emporium of sporting news where he

be likely to obtain authentic intelligence regard the respective

fate of Rough Diamond and the Colonel--be the end that Arthur

Vavasour have in view while step on tiptoe down the broad stone

staircase, with a flushed face, and a heart that beat fast with

long-control emotion. the heaviness that have endure through the

night (for, for the first time in his life, Arthur have be keep awake

by care) be not succeed by the joy which “cometh in the morning,”

and--during the weary hour that he have pass, book in hand, on the

luxurious sofa, among the pretty and expensive nicknack which adorn

his wife’s boudoir--the heir to countless thousand have give himself up

to the most disastrous conviction regard his future fate. to his

then think--and he too soon discover that his foreboding have not

overstep the truth--it seem the most probable of misfortune that

Frederick Norcott, take advantage of the carelessly-effect contract

regard the Derby colt, have shamelessly appropriate to his own use

the proceed of the sale of that invaluable animal. that the man who have

sink so deep in the mire of infamy would hesitate a moment to make

merchandise of the secret which he be well aware his dupe and victim

be keenly desirous to preserve, Arthur could neither hope nor believe.

he be in the power--poor young fellow!--(and miserably do he shudder

under the disgraceful yoke)--of one of the most unprincipled genteel

villain that ever walk about in well-make boot and broadcloth,

and--a grievance for the moment still more keenly feel--his debt of

honour--those debt which he have hope and intend by the sale of the

Derby winner to discharge--would still remain unpaid, whilst he, under

the cloud which his own folly have gather above his head, must endure,

with such patience as he could muster, the consequence of a bad man’s

guilt.



it take but little time, and a very few inquiry, to make sure of the

fact that Colonel Norcott, with whom no respectable sporting man (a

degradation of which Arthur be ignorant, so blind have his passion for

Honor make he) would bet--it take but little time, I say, to make sure

of the, at first, only float news, to wit, that the nominal owner of

Rough Diamond, after secure the amount pay by Lord Penshanger for

that illustrious animal, have leave England for foreign part. where he

have go, no one appear able to divulge; nor do the ascertaining of

the choose spot to which he have betake himself appear a matter of

importance to the great sufferer by Colonel Norcott’s disappearance.

Arthur know enough of law to be convince that, even be it possible

for he to brave the consequence of irritate Fred’s not-over-placable

disposition, the law could in this case do little or nothing towards the

recovery of the steal cash. it be horribly provoking--annoying to a

scarcely endurable extent, and the more unendurable from the

circumstance that to no human being could he venture to pour forth the

history of his wrong; but there be, alas, no help for it. if it should

ever chance that his lucky star might place he within arm’s-reach of

the “swindler,” whose real character be now lay bare before he, why,

then--and Arthur (who be the man to keep such an oath both to the

letter and in the spirit) swear a vow between his clenched tooth, that

if Frederick Norcott leave his hand alive, it be about as much as that

ignoble personage could reasonably expect.









CHAPTER XV.



MISFORTUNES never COME SINGLY.





on his return home, two hour later, and after glean all the slender

information in his power regard the proceeding of his enemy,

Arthur--his pocket full of certain ugly-look letter which he have

find to his address at the Travellers’--was in anything but a

quietly-domestic frame of mind. with the exception of Honor--whose

lovely eye, as he have last see they, tearful and full of piteous

pleading--the idea of contact with no single human creature with whom he

be connect afford he the slight pleasure. on the contrary, the

thought of his young wife, ready, long even to throw her weak white

arm round his neck, be positively distasteful to he; the prospect of

listen to old Dub’s paternal twaddle he turn from with disgust;

whilst the feeble cry of his one-day old heir-apparent be likely to

awaken no responsive feeling in his agitated breast. on the whole, the

state of feeling in which Arthur Vavasour find himself on that bright

May afternoon may be describe as a reckless one. he be sour,

discontent, almost despairing. line of care be deepen on his

brow, and it need not the fresh blow that await he in

Hyde-park-terrace to convince Arthur Vavasour that he be doom to

misfortune, and mark out for a large share of the misery to which

flesh be heir.



“a letter that look like business,” Mr. Duberly say, as his son-in-law

open a missive of large dimension, seal with a big seal, and

altogether portentous of aspect. “from the lawyer,” continue the old

man, “ain’t it?”



Mr. Duberly take a great and very natural interest in the law-suit which

be in progress between Lady Millicent Vavasour and her next heir. he

do not like, or, rather, he do positively dislike the haughty woman

who have never treat _he_ with the simple civility due from one

educate individual to another, and who now, in old Dub’s opinion, be

conduct herself not only with a very blamable absence of natural

motherly feeling, but with what the good man consider in the light of

something very like dishonesty. accord to his old-fashioned idea,

the will of a dead man be a sacred thing, a document not to be lightly

set aside, and, above all, not to be set aside for reason of cupidity,

self-interest, or love of power on the part of the pleader. in his

opinion there be stringent and reciprocal duty, bind alike the

parent and the child; and that foolish, prejudiced old Dub could as

little understand Lady Millicent’s conduct towards her offspring, as he

could excuse her disrespectful and aggressive act as regard the dead

earl her father.



without be possess of any inordinate fondness for wealth, Andrew

Duberly be nevertheless keenly desirous that Lady Millicent should not

succeed in the difficult and arduous task that she have undertake. he

be entirely ignorant of the point of law which might or might not be

bring to bear favourably on her case, and be well aware that, in the

event of she obtain judgment in her favour, Arthur’s mother would

certainly not be inclined to treat her eld son with any marked

liberality. but it be not for that cause--or, rather, to be entirely

honest--it be not for that cause only, that Andrew Duberly hope and

trust that Earl Gillingham’s will should remain _in statu quo_, and

that milady should, to use his own expression, be pull down a peg from

the high horse she be so fond of mounting. the real reason for the

fervour of zeal into which he have work himself might be seek for,

however, as be so often the case, in personal motive. Lady Millicent

have wound and mortify both himself and the child he love; which

be the case, it be only natural that the old millionaire, excellent

Christian though he be, should have view with complacency the

possible chance of her discomfiture.



“well?” say Mr. Duberly interrogatively, for the term on which he

live with his son-in-law warrant the reality as well as the

appearance of curiosity,--“well, what say the enemy? we’re never go

to say die, eh? I’ll tell you what, Arthur; rather than that, I’d pay

five thousand pound for you to the lawyer--five thousand! I’d pay ten

to help keep your right. it ben’t the money, but the principle that I

think so much of. but, I say, what _do_ the old quill-driver write to

you about? let’s see the letter; or if you’d rather not, I--”



“o no, sir; take it. it ben’t that, but it’s all such a beastly bore.

you see he say that Houndsford’s opinion be against my chance; and if

it be, what’s the use of not give in? I don’t like the scandal of the

thing, fight a case against one’s own mother; and--”



“stuff and nonsense, boy; it’s milady’s doing, and not your. it’s _she_

that’s set it all a-go; and if you’ll take my advice, you’ll not

give in till you’re oblige to. however, there’s time enough to talk of

that by and by. Sophy’s be ask for you more than once, poor girl,

whilst you be away; and as for the boy, he’s be hollore like a good

’un. _his_ lung be sound enough, at any rate, bless he!” and

“grandpapa,” after fix his gold spectacle once more upon his nose,

return to the perusal of the newspaper, in which his soul delight.



perhaps among the minor difficulty of social life there be none which

be more often or more painfully feel than that almost insurmountable

one of conceal from the watchful eye of affection the heavy care

and inward anxiety from which we may be suffer. by the weak sex,

who be train from infancy to the art of hide their feeling under

the cloak of reticence and decorum, the task be comparatively an easy

one. almost unconsciously, and as an affair of habit, they daily

practise it, till practice make perfect, and art become to they a

second, and sometimes a more win and graceful nature. but with man

it be widely different. even the good performer among they be apt to

forget, to stumble over, or to overact their part; and though they may

sometimes succeed in deceive one of their own sex, it rarely happen

that the least observant of the other do not possess the moderate

clear-sightedness requisite to lay a finger on the truth at once.



conscious as he be of this masculine imperfection, and well aware that

he could not keep up before his wife the appearance of a contentment

which he be far from feel, it be a relief to Arthur that the

autocratic guardian of his wife’s health--the stout, somniferous lady,

who look the high order of monthly nurse all over--object strongly

to any conversation take place between her patient and the

inexperienced young husband, who be “so attentive, bless you,” as she

say afterwards to the Mrs. Harris of her elevated sphere, and who be

“one of the good of ’usband to the nice young lady she have ever

nusse.”



nor do Sophy, in her “mother’s prime of bliss,” desire and crave for

more than the privilege of look at her well-love Arthur’s handsome

face, of press very softly and tenderly the dear hand that hold she

own, and of murmur into his bent-down ear that she be very, very

happy.



“ben’t he a darling?” she whisper, allude to the precious object of

her new-find hope; “I be sure--quite sure, though nurse say he

didn’t--that he look at I just now. you can see his dear little face.

there!” and that Arthur might enjoy this privilege, the happy young

creature turn away a few inch of the bedcovering, gaze down the

while with touching fondness on her sleeping treasure.



and Arthur--who really be goodnature, and who, but for the anxiety

and annoyance which be oppress he, would probably have be

almost as content and joyous as herself--do his good to seem

interested in the small atom of humanity which he could hardly bring

himself to believe he have the right to call his son; but smile and

flatter tenderly as he might, Sophy, with the intuitive perception that

love alone can give, hear a something in his voice which tell she that

all be not as it should be with the father of her child.



“now, Atty,” she say, press his hand to her soft lip, “you have

be tease and worry again, I know you have, by something or

somebody. it ben’t poor papa, be it, dear? I daresay he be tiresome,

poor old man, just now; but you musn’t mind. it be all so new to he,

you know, and he think baby such a wonderful thing.”



“well, and so he be,” Arthur say with a smile, which quite reassure

the young mother, who be so willing to see everything _en rise_, “and

your father be a brick, and don’t bore I the least in life. what make

you fancy such nonsense, you foolish child? o, I’m to go, be I? I wish

we have you downstairs again, dear. the governor and I miss you

dreadfully at dinner. by Jove, there’s the bell, and I haven’t even

wash my hand--all your fault, fee,” and he leave she with the memory

of another kiss to brighten her hour of silence.



Poor, gentle, unsuspicious Sophy! she little guess the troubled heart,

the wearisomeness of spirit, on which the door of that spacious chamber

close when Arthur Vavasour go out from her presence. she love the

man who only like, respect, _care_ for she, with a passion almost

equal to _his_ for the beautiful woman of whose very existence the

trusting wife have cease to think; love he with a love which be

rapidly supersede, crush, nay well-nigh annihilate with its rapid

and luxuriant growth the lowly floweret of a daughter’s

tenderness--floweret that have grow with her growth and strengthen

with her strength till such time as the strong seed be sown, the

produce of which be destine, accord to the law of nature, to

suppress, if not indeed actually to destroy, the weak herbage amongst

which it have chance to take root and flourish. already be this girl,

the child of a doting father, apologise for and more than

half-regret the presence of that father in the home which the old

man’s excessive fondness for herself might render less agreeable to her

husband; already she be give to Arthur proof, open and

unrestrained, that he, and he alone, reign paramount in her

affection; and could the love old man, to whom she be all in all,

have look into the young heart he think he know so well, the father

would have learn there some very bitter truth. for the ignorance that

be bliss to he, Andrew duberly pay afterwards a heavy price. the wish

to believe in what render he a happy man be father to the joyful

think that in his daughter’s affection her young and handsome husband

hold but a secondary place, and in that belief old Dub continue to his

die hour. but a day of reckoning--a day which, in the full flush, in

the almost fever of his prime of bliss, the millionaire be far as be

the pole asunder from anticipate--be, alas, very near at hand! the

day of retribution for time misspent and waste, for wealth abuse, for

golden opportunity neglect, for benefit unthankfully enjoy,

for--to sum up all--the myriad sin which render it no easy thing for a

rich man to enter into the kingdom of heaven. yes, the day of

retribution for the minor and unnoticed sin of this “just man” be near

at hand; but in the mean time not a care oppress he, nor do a single

foreboding of evil to come mar his keen enjoyment of the present.



the game at picquet with Arthur, who, poor fellow, be all the while

wish his father-in-law, if not exactly in his grave, at least a

hundred mile away, be play by this light-hearted grandpapa with a

zest and spirit which set Arthur (who be at that time take rather a

gloomy view of human life) wonder how any man in his sense could

have live to the age of three-score year and ten without having

arrive at the conclusion that all thing (include a dull game with

paint pasteboard) here below be, with no single exception, only

vanity and vexation of spirit.









CHAPTER XVI.



OUT AT SEA.





the sun rise bright and cloudless on the day follow Honor’s return;

and John Beacham, whose hand be, as usual, brimful of business, and

who moreover have decide, after a short consultation with himself, that

his womankind be more likely to come to a good understanding without

he, betook himself, immediately after breakfast, to the hay-field,

which be ripe for the scythe, and only wait the master’s fiat to lie

in promise swath upon the rich meadow-land which call John Beacham

owner.



Honor see he depart with a weary sigh. the prospect of a lengthened

_tête-à-tête_ with the stern old lady, whose brow never relax for a

pass moment from its rigidity, and who have not even vouchsafe a

distant “good-morning” in answer to her civil greeting, be a penance

which it almost make her blood run cold to think of. her own

courage--the temporary boldness which be the offspring of hurt feeling

and great but temporary excitement--have ooze out either at the end of

her taper finger, or with the tear with which she have water she

morning pillow. when she find herself alone with her dread foe, poor

Honor have not--as the saying go--a word to throw at a dog; she be in

the mood to cry her eye out, and in the temper to long earnestly for

pity and tenderness. one kind and encouraging word, one look even of

sympathy, would have bring the poor thing on her knee before her

natural enemy, and all might have be well between the pair whom God

have join together in bond that nought save sin could sever.



for three day--three miserable day--during which John, engross by

business care, and hope, as sanguine man in spite of appearance

will, that all would come right at last, appear to take no notice of

the silence only break by sarcastic speech, and by the “talk at”

(which to some woman be a positive accomplishment) on his mother’s part,

which reign between she and Honor--during those three miserable day,

the seed destine to produce very bitter fruit be be sow with

terrible certainty in Honor Beacham’s breast. she be the last woman in

the world to endure without evil consequence the description of torture

to which she be be subject. fond of popularity--eager to be

love--impulsive--passionate if you will, this girl, who could only be

what she call angry for a pass moment, would, for anyone who, to

use her own expression, have be “kind to she,” have be the most

docile and tender of friend and dependent.



but unfortunately--_most_ unfortunately, as the sequel will prove--it

be not in Mrs. Beacham’s nature to forgive. she believe herself to be

a Christian; she think, so little do she know her own feeling, that

she harbour neither malice nor hatred in her heart, but all the while

there be scarcely a hard (and certainly there could scarcely be a

hard _seem_) idiosyncrasy than that which be own by this

_soi-disant_ believer in the christian faith. mercy for Honor--pity for

the wicked wife who have show herself so false and flighty--she have

none. the pale delicate face, bend over her woman’s-work, appeal to

this unrelenting woman’s heart in vain. the day--even suppose they

ever to have exist--when Mrs. Beacham know what temptation be, have

long since pass away, and be forget; all she remember be that

_she_ have through all her married life be blameless, industrious, and

submissive, and that these virtue endow she with the right to be the

judge and condemner of other be neither to be remove nor shake.

Poor Honor, poor little impressionable, impulsive girl! her spirit feel

very heavy, and her heart beat with almost painful quickness when, on

the fourth morning after her compulsory return, Mrs. Beacham bring she

work (it be her first time of do so) and establish herself

alarmingly near to the broad old-fashioned window-seat, Honor’s favorite

and accustomed working-place. drag after she the big sheet on which

she be about to perform the housewifely operation of “turn,” her

tortoiseshell spectacle fix on her keen hawklike nose, John’s mother

do indeed appear in the light of a terrible object to her timid and

easily-subdue daughter-in-law. Honor do not possess (and well she know

her weakness) the courage requisite for self-defence; and during the

short period of silence which follow on Mrs. Beacham’s establishment

of herself in front of her own special little work-table, Honor, have she

dare, would gladly have take flight, and betake herself to her room,

have there wait in silence and solitude for her husband’s return. but

to make this move require an amount of hardihood of which poor Honor

be utterly incapable. she feel entirely subdue--oppress beyond the

power of description, by the very presence of her mother-in-law.

whatever resolution--whatever plan of resistance she might have

form whilst alone, or in the presence only of her husband, fade away

entirely when those light-gray, aged, but still penetrate eye be

fix upon she, and when she know with the intuition of fear that Mrs.

Beacham be about to give she what be vulgarly call a “piece of her

mind.”



the dreaded exordium begin after this fashion:



“when you be a child, Mrs. John,” the old lady say, push up her

spectacle and peer at Honor through her half-close eyelids--“when

you be a child, do you get any Bible learning? and be anybody good

enough to teach you your catechism?”



“they be,” Honor reply, open her large blue eye in wonder, and

use, to the old lady’s disgust, the peculiar irish form of assent

which, singularly enough, seem indigenous in this girl who have have so

little experience of she fatherland--“they be;” and then she stop,

poor child, marvel greatly to what these singular opening question

be about to lead.



“well, then,” continue Mrs. Beacham, spread out two bony hand in

simulate horror, “all I can say be, that _i_ can see _no_ excuse for

you. if, besides be what I willn’t defile my lip by name, you have

be turn out into the street, as many of they creature be, without

eddication, and without know how to read your Bible, I _might_ have,

and so might John have, pass over something; but when a gell have be

teach her dooty, and, more than that, when a gentleman as be

respectable be good enough to make an honest woman of she, all I can say

be, that when she can behave as you have do, when she can lie and

deceive, and act light with other man, why she ought--and there ain’t a

decent person that wouldn’t say as much--she ought to be ashamed of

herself!”



to this coarse attack Honor vouchsafe no reply. the violence of

invective employ by the determined old woman positively stun she.

the only feeling of which she be at all conscious be one of anger, of

anger stir up by grievous word in as gentle a breast as ever

belong to woman. the silence with which her word be receive be

very irritate to the speaker. she have look forward, with very

considerable satisfaction, to the moment when she should overwhelm she

recreant daughter-in-law with a fire of well-merit reproach; and

now, to her infinite annoyance, her shot seem to miss fire, and not a

single one be return as a proof that the volley have in any way be

feel by the enemy.



“if anyone have tell I,” the old lady go on to say, speak very

calmly and deliberately now, and as if determine that every word

should tell--“if anyone have tell I, fifteen month ago, that my son’s

wife would bring his family--_my_ family, that be to say, that have live

respectable time out of mind--to disgrace, I wouldn’t, no, _I wouldn’t_

have believe it! it’s the first time (though I say it, as perhaps

shouldn’t) that a Turton or a Beacham have number such a one as you

among they; and I never think to live to see the day when folk could

point at one as bear my name, and even she to a wanton!”



the word be out at last, the ugly shocking word that strike through

Honor’s brain like a knife, and which, when it have pass the lip that

speak it, the irritated woman, when it be too late, possibly wish

unsaid. in very truth, there be something startling in the sight of

Honor’s livid face and flash eye, something almost painful even to

the unsympathise witness of her agony in the change which a few

outspoken syllable have work in that young girl’s countenance.



rise suddenly from her chair, toss aside with reckless hand the

woman’s-work with which she have be occupy, her pretty taper finger

press against her throat (for there be a tightening there that feel

like suffocation), Honor Beacham stand erect before her stepmother.



“you be wicked!” she stammer forth. “a wicked, cruel woman! John

would not have use I so--John know I do not deserve such word. I

will go to he--to my husband--I will--”



“you will do nothing of the kind. if you do not know your duty, I must

teach it to you,” almost shriek the passionate old woman, lose all

command over herself, as the idea of Honor’s appeal to John against

his mother present itself to her mind. “you think, do you, that

John--that _my_ son be go to indulge you in all your good-for-nothing

way? why, girl, he say to I himself that it be high time something

be do to bring milady to her sense; he said--”



but Honor--nervous, excited, and scarcely mistress of her

action--wait to hear no more. with a cry like that of a hare hard

press by the hound, she rush from the room, leave the startle

old woman to ponder with some trepidation on the mischief she have

work. long, and not very comfortably, do she think over her word;

but after a considerable amount of put two and two together, and no

little lean towards herself as an oracle to be respect, the balance

of opinion be on the whole decidedly in favour of her own

proceeding, Mrs. Beacham arrive at the conclusion that she be fully

justify in speak as she have do to the err Honor. judge that

strong-minded woman accord to the average truthfulness of her sex,

John’s respected parent could not, on the whole, be accuse, while

quote John’s indignant word, of the sin of mendacity. accord to

the letter of those word, she be justify in repeat as a fact she

son’s awful threat--the one which more than any other of her angry

vituperation have tell upon Honor’s feeling--the threat, namely, that

her husband would, instigate thereto by his mother, bring his pretty

young wife “to her sense.”



there be something very vague and terrible in this menace; and Honor,

after lock the door of the pretty bedroom which John, little more

than one short year before, have take such pleasure in make ready for

his darling, brood over they with a sick heart and miserably. she be

utterly in the dark, as I have already and more than once endeavour to

explain, regard her husband’s character generally, and his feeling

towards herself in particular. could anyone at that particular

moment--when she be brood over her wrong--over her husband’s

coldness of heart and heat of temper; over his cruelty in deliver she

over to the tormentor, _id est_, the mother who bear he, and her own

misery in be condemn to live _en tier_ with two people who

dislike and despise she--have anyone, I repeat, at that especial moment

whisper in Honor Beacham’s ear that John the _in-compris_ possess in

reality the very tender of heart; that his apparent coldness towards

herself be the result of a keen sense of personal and educational

inferiority; and that a few sweet smile on her dear lip, and a few

kind love word whisper in his ear, would make poor John not only

the happy, but the most demonstrative of husband, Honor would simply

have tell that well-intentione comforter that he know not what he say,

and, turn on her restless pillow, would have sternly refuse to

credit the fact that she be otherwise than a victim.



I fear I much that the behaviour of Honor at this crisis of her life

will find few to excuse it; and yet to the thinking of the lenient there

will be find some plausible reason for her folly. in the first place,

she be both mentally and bodily out of health. of neither truth,

patent though they be, have she any real or wholesome suspicion. she

be too young, too ignorant of cause and effect, to be aware that the

life she have be lead have throw she into a mental fever, the which,

see that it be a malady of weakness, require the nice care and

the most judicious of treatment in order to effect its cure. neither

could she give a name to the _malaise_, show itself in languor, in

nervous headache, and in occasional heart-palpitation; all of which,

with the carelessness so common to the young, she have hitherto allow

to pass unnoticed. that she be in no frame, either of mind or body, to

do battle successfully against the violence of her own feeling and

foreboding be very certain; and as certain be it that, though she do

not yet what be call _love_ the man who have conspire so selfishly

against her peace, the image and the memory of Arthur Vavasour form no

small portion of her troubled thought, as she lie sob on her bed,

and repeat to herself that she could not, would not bear the lot that

lie before she.



“to the old,” as someone--I know not who--have truthfully say, “sorrow

be sorrow, while to the young it be despair.” despair at least as they

to whom sorrow be new count the extreme of human suffering. the small

insect, as the inspire poet tell we, “feel a pang as great as when a

giant die;” and Honor, frail little vessel as she be, could, she

believe, endure no heavy or more wear woe than that of submit

in her fresh young beauty--the beauty that Arthur Vavasour

worship--to the tyranny of her mother-in-law, and the cold

displeasure of a husband who love she not.



as she dwelt--with the pleasure which under twenty be so often feel in

the indulgence of a mournful self-pity--on her unmitigated woe, the

idea, once before entertain, and never wholly forget, of find a

home for herself--of work for her bread--of escape from the

tyranny, the evil-speak, the taunt and evil suspicion of her

mother-in-law, flash through her mind. at first, with something very

like a shock--for to Honor the leaving of her husband’s house and home

appear (distinction without a difference though it be) a far more

adventurous and desperate act than that which she have before, with

tolerable calmness, contemplate--the act, that be to say, of separate

herself whilst under her father’s roof from the husband who, in her

opinion, neither love, appreciate, nor understand she; from the man

who could see she wrong, insult, and put upon by the hard-temper

old woman, who, from the hour of her introduction to Updown Paddocks,

have never cease to make Honor’s life a misery and a burden to her;--the

act and deed of remain hide in some obscure London lodging, have, as

I say before, seem simple and easy enough to the young wife when,

encourage and buoy-up by the devoted attention of Arthur Vavasour,

she vaguely contemplate a future in which Mrs. Beacham have no share,

but which be to be cheer by the unfailing friendship (Honor know so

little of man’s nature that she have faith in constancy, and dream of

friendship as a delicious possibility) of her kind and disinterested

adviser. but the prospect before she be a trifle change by the point

of view from which she now contemplate it; and far great courage and

strength of mind seem require to induce she to leave her husband’s

home than have be need to enable she to stay away from it. as her

fever of passion cool, so do the power within she to take a step so

decide and so desperate fade away likewise. Honor’s nature be

naturally an indolent one--indolent and yielding. should she be lead, by

the force of her own rebellious temper, to do that which would blight

her name and ruin her hope of future happiness, the guilt of that act

would lie--as such guilt so often do--more at the door of another than

at her own. already the quiet tear of self-pity and womanly submission

be take the place of hysterical sob and passionate ejaculation;

already she be subside into the dull calm which be the natural

consequence of over-excitement, when the voice, harsh-sound and

dread, of the domestic tyrant--whose will have grow to be law, and

whose way be not as the way of her young daughter-in-law--smote

suddenly on Honor’s sensitive ear, and awake again within she the evil

spirit of resistance. Mrs. Beacham be only, at that unlucky moment, in

the exercise of her right; she be but scold the girl-of-all-work,

the female “odd boy” of the establishment, for some trifling neglect of

her multifarious duty; but the evil do by that loud high-pitch

voice be as surely effect, and its baneful influence on the

listener’s mind be as great and fatal, as though the most inexcusable

deed of injustice and cruelty have be then and there by John’s

hasty-temper parent commit. rise in a sit posture on her bed,

Honor, with shake finger, push the hair back from her aching

forehead, and repeat to herself more than once, as if in excuse for

her premeditate sin, that she could not, could not bear her life at

Updown, she slowly slide down her foot upon the floor, and (half

mechanically at first) commence her preparation for departure. for

departure? yes; but to what place, and with what ulterior end, she know

not. all she care for be escape--escape from the sight and sound of

the woman who have always hate she, and who, as Honor firmly believe,

have begin to undermine her husband’s love and trust, and would

eventually succeed in turn his heart against she. to live any long

under the same roof with one who have accuse she of the vile sin--who

have reproach she in the coarse term, for act of which she be

utterly incapable--be, as Honor keep repeat to herself, more than

she could endure. _More_ unhappy, the foolish child believe she could

not be. it might be hard, try at first, and humiliating, to work as a

servant, or in other way, for her bread; but anything, to she then

thinking, be well than her present life; and Arthur Vavasour--(it be

to be fear that, innocent though in truth she be, that young

gentleman play rather a conspicuous part in the programme of her

future plans)--Arthur Vavasour would be ever at hand to aid, advise, and

encourage she. on one subject only do Honor from the first, and wholly

without reservation, make up her disturb and rather bewildered mind.

she would not, under any circumstance, take refuge under her father’s

roof. that John would immediately commence the strict search to

discover her whereabouts Honor be well assure, and therefore it be

above all thing necessary for the preservation of her secret, that in

Stanwick-street they should know positively nothing of her proceeding.



the only individual--alas, for this poor silly girl--this frail, weak

vessel about to put to sea without a pilot, and with no chart or compass

to guide it on its way--the only individual to whom the mystery of she

set sail on her adventurous cruise be to be no mystery, be the

last person in the world to whom she should have confide the secret of

her life. to Arthur Vavasour--to the man whose “brotherly” kindness (he

have be very cautious in his love-making of late, and Honor have in

consequence grow proportionally off her guard)--to Arthur Vavasour only

would she at once apply in this emergency for counsel and support. from

he, she be well assure, she would never fail to meet with gentleness

and respect. when she look back upon his deferential manner--on his

uncease _kindness_, as Honor in her simplicity consider it--above

all, when she compare that kindness and that deference with the

aggressive treatment which from John’s unendurable parent have so greatly

anger she, and also with the absence, for reason which she know not,

of demonstrative affection from her husband--it be scarcely matter for

surprise that Honor Beacham should have love and cherish the man who

give to she--such be her woman’s faith--the offering which she prize

the most; the offering, that be to say, of an affection on which,

through evil report and through good report, and while life should

last, she could confidently rely.



Honor Beacham would have be no true woman if she have not, before

make the first commonplace preparation for flight (which, of course,

she be _pro tem._ a heroine, include count out the money, and

put on the inevitable cloak and bonnet), write a few line to

announce her resolution to the person whom she deem, in her insane

delusion, to be the most deeply interested therein. there be something,

to many of the soft sex, very reassuring in wield that dangerous

instrument of feeble woman, the one to which it be so fatally easy in

moment of passionate excitement to have recourse--to wit, the pen; and

Honor, with the follow note write, stamp, and ready for post

in her pocket, feel far more prepared than she have do (previous to its

production) for the difficulty and danger with which her path be

strew:



     “DEAR MR. VAVASOUR,--I be afraid you will think I foolish” (Honor

     do not entertain any such alarm, but the sentence appear to she

     in the light of the proper thing, so she allow it to stand), “but

     since my return home--which be very sudden, as Mr. Beacham would

     not even allow I to say good-bye to my father--I have be make

     too unhappy and too angry to stay here any long. it be not so

     much because of my husband, who would be good to I if he be

     allow, but on account of old Mrs. Beacham, who have grow crosser

     than ever, and who quite hate I now, I be sure. I would bear it

     if I could, but I cannot; so to-day I go up to London, and shall

     soon, I hope, get a place of some kind through your help. I should

     like to be nursery governess well, as I be before, at the clay’,

     and should like to begin directly, as I have not much money. I

     shall be call Honor Blake, as I be before; and John will know

     nothing, any more than my father or other friend, except you,

     where I be. when I be in London, I will write again to you, to say

     where I be. please to burn this; and believe, with a great many

     thank, that I be your grateful friend,



                                                        “honor BEACHAM.



     “P.S.--I be so sorry to leave the play; you will tell I when we

     meet how it end.”



after write this letter, the child of impulse by whom it be pen

feel, for the time requisite to perfect her arrangement, equal to any

emergency. with the letter direct to Arthur Vavasour in her pocket, a

something of his actual presence seem to support and strengthen she.

that letter, she doubt not, would bring joy--not guilty joy--that, to

do she only justice, Honor never suspect--to the heart that desire

her happiness, and be glad to sun itself in her presence. that any

wrong be do to the trust wife of her friend, by that friend’s

kindly feeling towards herself, Honor be innocent of imagine. she

believe in this young man’s virtuous attachment, and gratefully enjoy

the comfort of her conviction.



the hard task which she have to perform--for she could not wholly

divest herself of the idea that John, in his blunder, unattractive

way, do cherish, and would for a time grieve over her loss--be the

inditing of a farewell missive to her husband. two attempt do she make

ere she could express in a few word the contradictory sentiment which

cause, in spite of herself, the tear to fall over the paper, and which

make the pen with which she write look misty between her agitated

finger. at last the painful duty be over, and the word that be so

soon to shake the frame of the strong man who read they like a reed, run

as follow:



     “DEAR JOHN,--I hope you will forgive I for not be able to stay

     at the paddock any long. I could have live with you, and

     perhaps have be happy; for I know you be good, and you would

     not have be hard upon my silliness. what drive I away I leave

     it to yourself to guess. I have have a good deal to bear; but what

     hurt I the most be your mother tell I that you mean to be

     hard upon I too. do not, please, try to find out where I be. I

     shall go into service, and try to keep an honest name, though your

     mother say I have bring disgrace on her. I should like to think

     that you forgave I, John. perhaps I shall some day; or I may not

     till we be both in another world, where I pray that we may meet,

     and that you may be happy without I than they say I have make

     you here. I cannot keep from cry over this letter; for, John, we

     might have be happy, if only your mother have not have bad thought

     of I from the beginning. God bless you, John; and believe that I

     be your foolish, but not your wicked wife, as your mother say I

     be,



                                                       “honor beacham.”



by the time that this letter be finish it want but an hour of noon

(they keep old farmhouse hour at the Paddocks), and the striking by the

big hall-clock of the time o’ day warn Honor that if she wish to

catch a certain train that touch, on its way to London, for a few

minute at the small station of Switcham, she must waste no more time,

either in think over her plan, or in make ready for her journey.

accordingly, with a steadiness which, under the circumstance, be

surprising, she put together a very few article of dress--and leave

behind she the simple ornament, poor John’s wedding-gift--over which

she be so little of a heroine that she heave a faint sigh of

regret--this wife of little more than a year leave the shelter of her

husband’s roof, and, apparently with the intention of take one of the

quiet country walk to which she be accustom, saunter slowly, till

she be out of sight of the Peartree-house occupant, across the field

that lie between they and the village.



once the station reach, she care little either for notice or

discovery. the desperate step she have take could not long remain a

secret from the neighbourhood at large; but by the time that John

receive her letter, she would--accord to her present

expectation--be already lose to he, and far beyond reach of discovery,

in some well-choose but, of course, very humble retreat, which Arthur

Vavasour’s thoughtful kindness would, she doubt not, speedily provide

for she. with her mind full of these project, but with a heart only

half rejoice over her newly-find freedom, Honor go on her way. she

head ache, and a strange sense of weariness render her step slow and

lag; but, for all that she both feel and look ill, there be about

her air and walk (her face be too hide by a thick veil for stranger’

eye to gaze upon it) that nameless charm which command attention, and

excite the notice of the curious. unconscious of, and at the moment

utterly indifferent to, admiration, Honor turn her eye neither to the

right hand nor to the left as she pass slowly along the

village-street. on her arrival at the post-office, she drop--without

allow herself a moment’s reflection--the two letter she have write

into the box; and then feel a little more frightened and bewilder

than she have do before--for there be a sense of the inexorable in

this apparently unimportant act--she walk forward, erect, and

outwardly with something of defiance in her mien, towards the station.



there may be some among my reader who perhaps will consider that

Honor’s proceeding--her intemperate conduct in thus suddenly give up

home-tie and the respectability attendant thereon, and her apparent

absence of womanly feeling regard her husband--be overstrain and

unnatural. but let it be remember that she be young--young and

inexperienced--impulsive too, as well as a little vain and exact. to

understand the young, however, the investigator into character must be

young himself. when youth have pass, we forget not only the feeling

that dwelt within we in the day of the long-ago past, but the excuse

for our sin and folly, which then seem to we as sand by the

sea-shore in number. we forget the craving after the storm of life, the

desire to be “for ever climb after the climbing wave,” together with

the loathing of sad satiety, the satiety which a quiet and unbroken

existence awaken in the breast of those who be yet idle and untried

enough to talk of indulge in grief, and who have still to learn the

bitter truth that to endure be hard enough. Honor Beacham be so

romantic and simple that she could hug to her breast the discontent

which she have dignify into despair. very like a heroine she feel as

the swift train bear she onwards into the unknown region of the future.

with the sharp and scold voice of her mother-in-law still ring in

her ear, and with the _certainty_ (for Honor be of an age and nature

to believe in every result she wish for) of having escape from Mrs.

Beacham’s tyrannic rule, it be surely natural that she should feel a

keen sense of triumph at her own success, and that an involuntary smile

should flit over her lip as she think of the old woman’s face of

discomfiture when the startling and unwelcome discovery would be make,

that her victim be already far beyond the precinct of her power.



of John--of the husband who, except in rare moment of anger, have

always be kind to she, and considerate, as far as he comprehend

they, of her feeling, it be not quite so pleasant to think; and Honor

endeavour to the good of her ability to put aside the obtrusive

reflection connect with his probable regret by repeat to herself

the scarcely-believe truth that her husband would soon forget she. “his

mother be all in all to he,” the young wife tell herself: “have she not

be, he never would have allow I to be so tormented; and besides, he

be so busy, so always, always busy;” and Honor heave a little sigh over

the enjoyment by honest John of one of the great blessing that can

fall to the lot of any human being, whether he or she be young or old,

rich or poor, gentle or simple. if idleness be, as the Book of book

inform we, the root of all evil, so surely be _work_, wholesome,

needful work, the sure and good safeguard against the ill of life. it

be the idleness of the rich which, more than any other cause, render it

hard for they than for their fellow to “enter into the kingdom of

heaven.”









CHAPTER XVII.



HONOR make a new acquaintance.





“contentment,” to quote the word of the wise of mankind, “be great

gain;” and true enough also be often the converse of the

assertion--namely, that in “discontent there be exceed loss.” in Lady

Millicent Vavasour’s case, however, there seem every chance that an

exception to both rule would be find; for the desire and determination

to reverse a decree which anger she, and which have for year be the

mainspring and motive of one of the most unwomanly of action, seem

likely to be crown with success. very wonderful, as well as

praiseworthy (have her motive be a nobler one), be the exertion

which, quite _sub rosa_, and work like a mole beneath the soil, she

have make to effect that always extremely difficult result--namely, the

set aside of an obnoxious will. the money she have spend--the fee

she have pay--the consultation with eminent lawyer that she have

undergone--the perseverance and clear-sightedness of which she have

give proof, be worthy, one and all, of a well cause. at

last--whether it be that by her continual coming she weary they--or

whether the great law lord do really--partly incite thereto, perhaps,

by the prestige enjoy by the wealth and “standing” of the grandiose

Lady Millicent--consider that she have right and justice on her side,

certain it be that opinion favourable to her cause be place Arthur

Vavasour’s position as heir-apparent of Gillingham in rather a

precarious and unsatisfactory point of view. between himself and his

mother there have never, as we well know, exist, either on this or any

other subject, any great amount either of confidence or affection; nor

be it probable that the small degree of both, that it be only fair to

suppose might be lie latent in those two antagonistic breast, would

be much increase and strengthen by the approach triumph (for such

all visible token announce it to be) of the already vain-glorious Lady

Millicent.



that triumph--for such news ever travel quickly--begin speedily to be

noise abroad, to the annoyance of Arthur, whose creditor grow once

more on the alert, and to the extreme displeasure of Mr. Duberly, whose

usually placid temper would, but for his ever-increase delight in his

new toy, _i.e._ his grandson, have betray outward sign of

discomposure and annoyance.



“I guess how it would be, boy, all along,” he say to Arthur, on the

third morning after the one which have first throw light upon the baby’s

tiny face; “I know how it would be. Milady would never rest, not she,

till she make her father out to be _non compos_, or some such devilment.

well, I thank my star that we old-fashioned folk that you grandee

call snob, would be long enough before they try-on such a thing as

that come to;” and the old man, so say, look as savage as it be

possible for a round-face, kindly, elderly gentleman, who be in

reality brim over with the milk of human kindness, to do.



a little to his surprise, and also, if the truth must be own, to his

disappointment, Arthur appear not nearly so interested in this

all-important matter as might have be reasonably expect. neither

while his father-in-law be give utterance to the above very decide

opinion, nor when the old gentleman, lay down the fork on which he

have fix a tempting morsel of toasted breakfast-bacon, clearly await

a reply, do Arthur think proper to evince any token of a congenial

spirit. the fact be (and surely the cause will be consider a

sufficient one) he have that moment receive the second and promise

note from Honor, inform he of her address, and ask he very

humbly, and with none of the old playfulness and evident sense of

something like equality between they which have characterise her former

proceeding, whether he could in any way assist she to gain her

livelihood. “for I feel very forlorn and helpless,” the poor girl write,

“and almost think that I have well have bear with Mrs. Beacham’s

temper. but it be too late now; and if you can in any way help I, I

shall be very, very grateful for your aid.”



it be with this short missive, touch in its tone of lowliness and

impuissance, safe in his waistcoat-pocket, that Arthur, with an absent

and preoccupied air, listen to the old man’s word. that the sound of

they, however, linger in his ear, and in some sort make their way

through it to his understanding, be evidence by his saying in answer

to Mr. Duberly’s lengthen stare of surprise:



“I beg your pardon, sir; I be think of something else. I ought”--and

his colour rise as he tell the falsehood which Honor’s letter demand

of him--“I have, that be to say, to go out this morning on business

connect with this horrid law-affair. there be a proposal from my man

to settle it amicably, and--”



“amicably be hang!” cry Mr. Duberly, rise from the table in a pet.

“if I be you, I wouldn’t hear of be amicable; and I wonder those

rascally lawyer have the face to propose such a thing.”



“o, _they_ have face enough for anything!” say Arthur, who be

anxiously humour the old gentleman, to keep he in a tolerably

acquiescing mood. “there be nothing, soon or later, that any one of

they, if it suit his book, wouldn’t propose. one have to look deuce

sharp after they, I can tell you, sir; so I be off directly after

breakfast to Lincoln’s Inn. any command?” pause at the door, which,

in his anxiety to escape, he have already reach. “I shall just take a

look at Sophy and the brat, and then I’m off.”



“good young fellow,” Mr. Duberly mutter to himself as the sound of

Arthur’s footstep die away on the marble pavement of the inner hall;

and Arthur, who be well aware of the admirable impression that his last

word have make, feel no shadow of remorse for the deception of which he

have be guilty. nor do his cheek tingle with tardy shame when pretty

Sophy (for she do look really pretty in the delicate paleness of

invalidism) call he her darling Arthur, and whisper half fearfully

(she do not wish, poor child, to be troublesome) that she would not be

quite happy till she see his face again.



Glad to be release, and eager to commence with the least possible delay

his new office of protector and sole friend of his beautiful Honor,

Arthur, who have wait since the previous night in sleepless eagerness

for his summon, bade his wife good-bye with ill-dissemble haste, and

be speedily on his way to the obscure street, somewhere in the

direction of the Strand, where Honor have find a temporary home. it be

a narrow and certainly not an inviting-look place that to which she

in her ignorance have betake herself. she have pass it in a

four-wheel cab on her way from the Waterloo station to--she know not

where; and read on a bill in the front window of what look to she

inexperienced eye a respectable house, that there be lodging to let,

she desire the driver to stop, and forthwith commence inquiry

regard the apartment in question.



the mistress of the house, a rather forbid-look person in a

tumble black-net cap, and just the _soupçon_ of a moustache on her lip,

look slightly surprised at Honor’s appearance; and at her demand

whether she would receive she as an inmate, Mrs. Casey (for so be the

woman call) promptly reply in the affirmative, add irrelevantly,

as Honor think, that though her name be irish, she be English bear

and breed.



“and I be irish too,” Honor say eagerly, “and my name be Blake. I be

just come from the country” (there be little necessity for tell Mrs.

Casey _that_), “and I know nobody--except one person,” she add with a

pretty blush, the suddenness of which be not lose upon she

quick-sighted interlocutor--“one person who will get I a situation,”

she go on hurriedly--“a situation as nursery governess. I be that

before; and till I get a place, I should like very much” (Honor already

begin to dislike the idea of wander far afield in search of a

domicile) “to stay with you.”



to this request, after a slight demur on the part of the owner, or

rather lessee of no. 29 Sussex-street--a demur occasion by her

unwillingness to appear over-anxious to possess her new acquaintance as

a tenant--Mrs. Casey graciously accede. the term be not moderate--a

pound per week for two very small room on the second story; but Honor

make no objection. she be too glad to get over as well as she have do

the awkward question of a reference, for any idea of bargaining to

obtrude itself on her mind; and thus, in the space of little more time

than it have require to scribble down this page, the bargain be

conclude, and Honor Beacham, feel very strange, and not a little

lonesome, take quiet possession of her apartment.



by this time it be nearly two o’clock, and Honor, in a solitude only

break by the ceaseless roll of wheel, and by all the multifarious

uproar of a crowded London thoroughfare, begin, against her will, to

think over what be go on at Peartree House. it be just possible,

see that she and the old lady have part on such extremely bad term,

that the latter, deem it more dignified to leave her adversary to

herself, have never even make any inquiry concern she; and even have

she do so, Honor feel no fear that any inquiry of the enemy would

lead either to curiosity or discovery. there be nothing contrary to her

habit in take an ante-meridian walk, whether to the village for a

skein of wool or other such trifling errand, or simply for the sake of a

stroll to the garden or in the meadow, where the foal be play by

their mother’ foot. Honor felt persuade, therefore, that unless any

chance observer, any officious gossip, after trace she to the station,

return to spread through the village the intelligence of her flight,

that all-important event would not, in all probability for several hour

after, be discover. the return of John Beacham to his dinner, which

he be in the habit of do, unless detain on business, punctually

at four, would of course be the signal for a search after the miss

woman; and Honor, as the hour wear on (and they pass very slowly

after the inditing and take to the near post of her second note to

Arthur Vavasour), could scarcely keep her mind for many minute together

from wander back again to home, and to the imagined scene of grief

and consternation which the certainty of her flight would cause. she

find herself for the first time in her life alone; alone, and leave

solely to her own resource, not only for the support of existence (that

be to be an after and less important consideration), but leave to

provide her own thought, to steady her own nerve--the nerve on which

a few short hour of loneliness be begin to tell; left, in short,

to what be so unnatural a condition for the young and feeble--leave to be

mistress of herself.



two circumstance alone enable Honor in that dreary upper chamber,

smelling of the stale tobacco use by a very inferior class of

“gentleman lodger,” and display in its dingy furniture and generally

shabby gentility unfailing evidence of wear and tear as well as of

slovenly and uncleanly habit--two circumstance alone enable Honor to

bear with tolerable patience the situation in which she have voluntarily

plunge herself. in the first place, so prone be we to judge and draw

our decision from effect without seek after cause, Honor still

take a curious kind of comfort from the conviction that she be, in her

humble way, a martyr and a victim. this belief, which she hug

perseveringly to her heart, be for a time a decided but gradually

lessen set-off against the _ennui_ which, creep gradually over her

spirit, cause she to long exceedingly for the second and more tangible

form of consolation--namely, the advent of the only friend that in that

vast metropolis she could boast of possess. the idea of this young

woman from the country regard the time requisite to convey a letter

from one district to another be somewhat vague and methodless; and

therefore it be that, long before the dainty little epistle, which she

trust would bring Arthur to her side, have (in all probability) be

take from the pillar-box into which she have throw it, Honor have begin

to hope that her friend would ere long be by her side. in thus hope it

never occur to she that she be act wickedly. it be true that

Arthur have, at the commencement of their friendship, utter foolish

word that have startle, if not anger she; but she have give he to

understand plainly, though kindly, that such word be an offence and

an annoyance, and since that he have never--no, _never_, Honor repeat

to herself as the recollection of certain meaning glance and too tender

pressing of her yield hand crowd thick upon she, and give the lie

(deny the impeachment though she might) to her assertion--he have _never_

once appear to view she in any other light than as a value friend. of

the birth of Arthur’s little son, and of the semi-imprisonment to the

house to which Mr. Vavasour have in consequence be condemn, Honor

know nothing. to she the fact of his be a father, one with such a

title to respect and consideration as that name bestow, would, have she

be aware of the event that have occur in Hyde-park-gardens, have

probably check her eagerness to make known her whereabouts to Arthur.

she be one of those woman by whom the possession of a child be look

upon as a very sacred thing--one of the many of her sex be she who be

not and cannot be wholly and completely woman till the ineffable joy,

the pain, and pleasure of maternity, have set their stamp upon the

youthful brow, and call forth the slumbering but good and deepest

feeling of their nature.



strange as it may seem, Honor’s liking--friendship, call it what you

will--be but another phase and form of mother’s love. Arthur

be, or at least he say he be, unhappy; he be in debt and

difficulty--possibly, too, in disgrace; surely these be reason for

the grant he the tender pity that be akin to love--the pity that

every true and devoted mother feel for the helpless child of she

affection.



Thinking of Arthur Vavasour--thinking of he alternately with she

gradually-increase sorrow for the husband she have desert--Honor

pass the hour wearily enough away, and it be something of a relief

when, about five o’clock, Mrs. Casey, slightly improve in appearance by

the afternoon’s “cleaning,” knock at the door, and a good deal more

familiarly than be altogether agreeable to Honor, inquire of that

mysterious young person whether she don’t feel inclined to take

anything.



“only some tea,” Honor say, “and soon, please.”



she be begin to feel rather faint from fast, and the thought of

tea and bread-and-butter, albeit the cate to be provide by Mrs. Casey

be little likely to be tempting, be rather agreeable to her

imagination.



“directly,” be the prompt reply of the woman whom Honor, though she

could not have tell the reason why, like less well every time she see

she. and Mrs. Casey be as good, and indeed, to Honor’s annoyance, even

well than her word; for with “the tea,” which make its appearance in

the form of battered Britannia metal, crack and cement crockery,

damp bread, and sky-blue milk, come in due form, and with a manner that

be decidedly patronising, the landlady herself. seat herself on the

comfortless little sofa by Honor’s side, the Widow Casey (Honor might,

if she have care to listen, have speedily know a good deal concern

that respectable person’s antecedent) commence a series of what _she_

imagine to be highly ingenious and diplomatic query regard her

lodger’s birth and parentage, her education and her antecedent. to the

good of her ability, Honor ward off the danger of make any direct

reply to these troublesome investigation. she have take the precaution

to remove her wedding-ring, and could therefore pass herself off as Miss

Blake, an orphan whose friend be tired of support she, and who be

therefore desirous of find her own living in the good way she could.

the person she be expect be a _married_ gentleman. Honor lay

especial stress on that fact, though it be quite evident that Mrs.

Casey’s “O, indeed!” do not proclaim any very satisfactory effect

produce upon _she_ mind by the knowledge of Mr. Vavasour’s connubial

condition. after that trifling episode, the self-invite visitor

remain for a good hour, as if glue to the piece of furniture of which

she have take uninvited possession; and it be owe to no absence of

loquacity on her part if, before that hour be over, Honor be not well

aware of certain interesting portion of her landlady’s family

history--namely, that she too have the bad luck to be an “orphan;” that

Casey, poor fellow, love his drop, which be often a loss and a

hindrance to _she_ well-do; that her favourite son have be drown

at sea, and her daughter have just five month before marry a gentleman

in the survey line, who have his horse and shay, and could keep she,

bless you! like a lady.









CHAPTER XVIII.



JOHN discover his loss.





four o’clock have long ago struck,--for those be busy time for John,

and people who could not be put off come to he at all hour on matter

connect with his _industrie_,--four o’clock have long ago strike before

John’s hearty voice--it be the kind of voice that send a feeling of

serenity through the whole house in which it have a right to

resound--make itself hear in the hall and passage of pear-tree House.



“Mother! Hallo! o, there you be.” and then it be, “where’s Honor,

mother? Upstairs, eh?”



Mrs. Beacham both look and feel uncomfortable. it be now many hour

since she have see the daughter-in-law whose feeling she be well aware

she have gall and wound to the utmost. where those hour have be

spend by Honor--whether in the solitude of her own room, or wander

out into the field--whether in pay a visit to her friend the Clays

(at which news Mrs. Beacham would have secretly greatly rejoice), the

latter know not. all of which she feel quite certain be, that John

would demand a strict account of his wife’s proceeding, whether those

proceeding be voluntary or otherwise; and if Honor have in very truth

be some seven or eight hour alone and without food, the old lady do

not doubt that he would be very seriously displeased. John be not

habitually an observant man; but there be that in his mother’s face

which make he suspect that something be wrong. that she have be,

during his absence, harsh with, if not, indeed, positively unkind to,

his young wife, be, however, the bad of John Beacham’s fear; but

these be disagreeable and annoying enough; and it be with the evident

irritation of a hasty-temper man that he repeat the word:



“where be Honor? she ben’t ill, mother, be she? or” (more nervously

still) “be anything the matter?”



“nothing, that I know of,” reply Mrs. Beacham ceremoniously. it always

provoke she to see John “fussing,” as she call it, over his wife.

“Honor be in her own room, I suppose, look over her finery, as usual.

if you want she, you have well call she down.”



John wait not to hear this piece of advice. a strange but faint

presentiment of evil--not the evil that _have_ overtake he, that be

too terrible to have enter even the outside confine of his

imagination, but a sense that some annoyance be prepare--oppress

and worry he. mount the stair with hasty footstep, and call

his wife’s name the while, he be very speedily at the chamber-door,

where he tap--as be his wont--very softly for admittance,--softly at

first; and then, receive no reply, he repeat the summon more

noisily; but still without the desire effect. then, and not till then,

he enter, and be surprised--though not yet rouse to a state of

alarm--by the condition in which he find the usually neat and

well-order sleeping-room. on the bed, which, toss and tumble, bore

mark of having be press by the weight of a reclining and very

restless figure, lie near the pillow a handkerchief still wet with

abundant tear; while open drawer, a small, very small, jewel-casket

standing--not its usual place--conspicuously upon the toilet-table, and

a certain general disarray suggestive of departure, make, for a single

moment, John’s heart to stand still within he for fear.



“Mother!” he cry, call loudly from the top of the stair, “for the

love of God come here, and, if you can, tell I,” he go on excitedly,

and lay his hand heavily on the bannister to steady himself (the old

lady, after make what haste she could, stand beside he on the

landing)--“tell I, if you can, what have become of Honor.”



“what have become of she? why, what make you think that anything have

become of she?” retort his mother, endeavour to hide her own alarm

by ill-act bluster. “nothing ever become of anybody that I know of.

what in goodness’ name do you mean?”



but in spite of her attempt to carry off matter with a high hand, Mrs.

Beacham’s courage do begin to fail she at sight of the evidence of a

sudden and desperate resolution with which, to her thinking, the room

abound. John, watch her countenance narrowly, draw his own augury

from what he read there.



“Mother,” he say sternly, “may God forgive I if I be wrong, but I

fear--I cannot help fear--that you have something to do with--with

what Honor--with what my poor wife may have do.”



“I? what should I have to do with it?” she ask; but her voice tremble

as she speak, and sit down hastily on the near chair, she wait

in silence for what be to follow.



“I don’t know--I cann’t tell; my head seem in a whirl; but tell

I--that at any rate you can do, mother--when do you see Honor last?”



“at about ten o’clock, or thereabout. you have be go about half an

hour when she go upstairs.”



“and have none of the servant see she since?”



“I don’t know; you have well ask. I daresay it will turn out that she

be somewhere close by--or go to the Clays perhaps,--and that you have

be make a great deal of fuss about nothing.”



on this hint John at once act. the idea that Honor might be pay a

visit to her old friend be a possible, though scarcely a probable,

solution of his difficulty; and he catch at it with eager hope. from

the servant, when question, he could learn but little. Hannah have

see her young mistress with her hat on walk across the garden

towards the village. she have not notice whether Mrs. John have anything

in her hand or not. she might have, _sure-ly_, for anything that Hannah

know. she don’t take much heed, not she, be busy at the time, and

think the missus be only go for a walk like.



“which I daresay she be,” John say more hopefully; “and, mother, if

you’ll go to your dinner--I be very sorry I keep you so long

wait--I’ll look about a bit for Honor; and if it happen that I don’t

find she, why I’ll ride over to the Clays and bring she back.”



act on this resolution,--for it be a matter of _necessity_ to search

actively for Honor, since sit down quietly under his suspense would

drive he mad he thought,--John hurry away down the sweet-brier hedge

that run at right-angle with the porch--hurry away so quickly that

his mother have no time to reiterate her urgent entreaty that he would

have something to eat before he go.



“just a mouthful, John!” she scream at the very top of her voice, as

she catch a last glimpse of his tall figure turn an angle in the

path.



but her anxiety be entirely throw away. a shake of the head be all

the answer that John vouchsafed; for the miserably anxious man, whose

appetite for his dinner be usually of the healthy and keenest, feel

at that moment that he should not care either to eat or sleep again till

he have find the wife that he have lose.









CHAPTER XIX.



another ESCAPE.





“a gentleman, please, miss, as want to see you.”



such be the announcement, on the morning succeed Honor’s instalment

in her new abode, of the fastidious Arthur Vavasour’s visit to that very

untempte “bower of beauty.”



it be nearly noon, an early hour for _he_ to be abroad; but to

Honor--who have pass a sleepless night, and who have be up and about

for age, as it seem to she--the day appear to be already well-nigh

spend; while as regard he, and her chance of see he in she

wretched home, she have begin almost to despair of any such blissful, and

now apparently improbable, event. when he _do_ appear therefore, when

her hand be clasp in his, and when his kind voice whisper softly,

“I could not come before, dear; and now I _be_ come, what a place I

find you in!” her heart go forth with grateful joy to meet he, for

she feel no long unprotected and alone.



“and so they have be ill-use you, you poor little thing?” he go on

softly, her hand still in his, as they sit side by side on what Mrs.

Casey call the couch. “I guess how it would be; I do not like the

way he look when he take you away that night.”



“o, but it ben’t John--_indeed_ it ben’t!” Honor say eagerly, her sense

of justice rouse to defend her husband; “it be his mother, as I tell

you, who behave so to I. it be she that make I go. I know it be

wrong; but what could I do?”



“what indeed?” stroke tenderly the little hand he hold in his. “but,

Honor, it will never do for you to remain here. the place be not

respectable--I be certain it be not; and the woman look like an ogress.

I think I can manage something well for you than this. there be an old

servant of my father’s--a Swiss--an excellent man, with one of the

clean and most cheerful of little wife; and if he happen to have

room in his house, I be sure he will be only too delighted to devote

himself to make you comfortable. really, the nice of old man. I

will go there this afternoon, and try to make arrangement for the

change.”



“thank you--how good you be!” Honor say fervently; “they certainly do

not seem like nice people here; but I stop at the first place where I

see a bill up. I believe I be afraid to meet my father. what I fear

most now be his see I; for he would perhaps tell John--John would go

to he first, you know, and--”



“your father! why, Honor, haven’t you hear? but I don’t know how you

should. your father be--has--” and then he stop, feel it scarcely

decent to disclose to Honor the fact that proclaim her father to be a

villain.



but his companion, who be _quoad_ curiosity a true daughter of Eve,

refuse on this occasion to allow her filial feeling to be spare. she

insist (and as a natural consequence not only of that insistence, but

of the wrong man’s easily-to-be-comprehend satisfaction in give at

least word to his sorrow) on hear all that Arthur could tell she of

her father. in breathless silence she listen to a detail of his

villany; and deep indeed and painful be her regret at the injury which

have be do to the man who have so blindly trust he.



as Arthur note the quivering lip, the turbulent heaving of the pitying

breast, he could not but feel he be in one respect a gainer by his

loss; for Honor _could_ hardly be hard and distant to the friend who have

fall a victim to the machination of her father. Arthur feel that he

have claim on, an actual right to, her sympathy and kindness now, and

therefore do not hesitate to make the very most of the injury, the

loss, and the embarrassment which the Colonel’s baseness have entail

upon he.



“I be _so_ sorry--so very grieved. be there nothing that I could do?

perhaps if I be to see my father, I might--”



Arthur interrupt she with a laugh. “see he?” he say; “why, it would

require the good detective in London, I suspect, to find he out; and if

we do, there be nothing, not even _your_ persuasion, which would be

likely to work up such a man as Fred Norcott to his duty. but we have

waste time enough over he, dear Honor: and as I be not my own master

just now--since Sophy’s confinement, I mean--”



“since _that_? o, Mr. Vavasour, why _do_ you not tell I before? you

know I should care so much to hear it! think of your have a dear

little child!” and she sigh involuntarily, a faint but very mournful

sigh (which Arthur fancy in his folly that he comprehend), and then

add, with an attempt at playfulness, “perhaps I may be think clever

enough to teach your child some day; but I must learn a great deal

myself first. the Miss Vavasours will want all sort of accomplishment

that a humble nursery governess know nothing about; and that remind

me--” speak very quick, as she note a crimson flush that mount to

her companion’s brow, and a something in his eye which her woman’s

instinct teach she be alarming--“that remind I that I have no time

to lose in look for the mean of provide for myself. I have a good

deal of money” (there be exactly seven pound in her portemonnaie),

“but still I want to begin. it will be no trouble to I to teach and

take care of child. I love they so dearly; and the little thing

always take to I.”



“it would be strange, I think, if they do not,” Arthur venture to say,

as he gaze with such passionate fondness on her face, that Honor be

force to veil her eye with their white lid for very shame.



“o no, it ben’t that,” she say hastily, and hardly know what word

be fall from her lip. “you see, I have be so used to they,

and--and I cannot bear to be idle. if I have nothing to do, I begin to

think--to think of poor John--”



Arthur, at this unexpected mention (a very _mal à propos_ one in his

opinion) of an absent husband’s name, rise abruptly from his place by

Honor’s side. he be very young, very little conversant in the way and

mean of defence of such woman as Honor, or he would have see through

this simple _ruse_. he would have understand that this beautiful and

defenceless creature, with an instinctive dread of her pursuer, have

throw up this rampart against attack, and would have draw, through

that very alarm, good augury for eventual success.



it be fortunate for Honor that no such idea as these enter at that

moment the mind of the man who be gradually come near enough to

be--there be no medium course, let woman believe in its existence if

they will--either accept or deny. it be well, too, that Arthur,

rouse by his own movement from the dream of passion in which he have

be indulge, once more begin to have some thought and memory for

outward thing, and especially for the lapse of time since he have leave

his home.



look hastily at his watch, he perceive to his dismay that it be

four o’clock, so swiftly have time pass--be it not ever so?--while he

have be occupy by talk about himself, and be busy with his own

sentimental interest.



“Four o’clock already!” he exclaim, “and I have so much to do for

you, Honor! it be impossible for you to remain here. I could not answer

for the consequence. I only wish that I have meet you at the Waterloo

station, and prevent your coming here at all. however, I be off now to

see about old Schmidt, and directly I have settle anything, I will

return. in the mean time, do not leave the house, and if you can, avoid

see the woman that it belong to.”



“I can hardly help see she,” Honor say with a smile; for she be

both amuse and flatter by his solicitude on her behalf. “she _will_

bring in the few thing that I want herself, and--”



“your poor little dinner solitary among the rest, I suppose?” say

Arthur pityingly. “o Honor!” he continue--and how at that moment he

long for the hundredth time to take she in his arm and whisper to she

his love, the object of that love be happily never destine to know--“O

Honor!” he say, “my love, my darling! how unfitted you be to do battle

for yourself in this rough, wicked world! it be so hard to leave you, so

hard to think of you, in this sordid miserable place, alone,

unprotected, and--God help both you and me!--so very, very beautiful!”



he draw a long, almost a gasp breath, as the last passionate word

burst from his white quivering lip, and, almost before Honor could

even look her surprise at the utterly unexpected outburst, the door have

close upon his retreating figure, and Honor once more find herself

alone.









CHAPTER XX.



POOR SOPHY!





“I be so glad they have let I see you, though I _be_ only to speak in a

whisper, and to stay just one half-hour and no more. you darle thing!

how pretty you look in that dear little cap!” and Katie Vavasour, who

have be allow, as a great favour, to visit her much-love

sister-in-law, press her fresh young lip to the invalid’s forehead,

and take her seat beside the bed preparatory to a “quiet talk.”



“I be glad you come too, dear,” Sophy rejoin. “it be so dull without

Arthur, and he have be go away so long--many hour, I be sure. what

o’clock be it now? three, I be sure; and he leave I long before twelve.

where do you think he be?”



“o, I don’t know. go somewhere about horse, I daresay,” rejoin

Kate, who be rather glad of Arthur’s absence, since it enable she to

have Sophy to herself. “but tell I, do he love the baby _very_ much?

do he often kiss it?”



“no, not often; indeed, I don’t think he ever have; but I shouldn’t mind

that, if he would but come back,” say poor Sophy, whose nerve be

weak (a malady which her young sister-in-law find it hard to

understand), and whose impatience at her husband’s absence be often a

little try to those about she.



“o, never mind he. there be no use ever in wonder what man be

about,” say unsympathise Kate. “I want to tell you about poor Rhoda.

I be certain she be pine for that stupid Mr. Wallingford. it would not

have be a nice match, of course; but as she like he, that ought to

be enough; and Rhoda be never strong, and now she look like a ghost.”



“poor thing!” murmur Sophy. “but if I remember right, Mr. Wallingford

have straight hair and a long neck, and seem terribly _poky_.”



“exactly; but if Rhoda do not think so, what do it signify?” be

Kate’s somewhat involve rejoinder. “all I know be, that if anything bad

happen, it will be mamma’s fault. o, she be so dreadfully hard and

proud and unfeeling! and she will be bad than ever, if she get the

well of poor Arthur about the property. o, Sophy! be it not too bad

that she should have thing all her own way like this? do you know, I

would give ten year of my life--”



“to be take in your old age, of course,” put in Sophy, with something

of her former girlish playfulness.



“o, yes; that of course,” say Kate; “and besides--”



but the current of her confidence be at that moment check by the

entrance through the adjoining boudoir of Mrs. Vavasour’s maid, who, in

a hesitate voice, make the whisper announcement that a person

call himself Mr. Beacham be below, and be very anxious to have

speech with one of the family. both Mr. Duberly and Mr. Vavasour be

out of the way, the woman say, so she have think it well to come to

Miss Catherine about it.



“I will go down directly,” Kate say; but of this, Sophy, with the

caprice common to invalid, would not hear. she insist, for some

reason well know to herself, on Mr. Beacham be show into the

boudoir.



“you can see he there, dear,” she say to Kate; “he be a sort of

gentleman you know” (poor, _poor_ John!); “and I shall not be leave

alone, which I hate.”



foresee no reason for object to her sister-in-law’s wish, Kate

give the necessary direction, and in a few more moment a man’s

strong, vigorous step be hear tread the Aubusson carpet in Sophy’s

“morning-room.”



“I beg your pardon, Miss Vavasour,” John say aloud--he be totally

ignorant of the fact that within earshot lie the sick and nervous wife

of the man he have come to seek, the man against whom he feel as an enemy

so bitter that blood could neither wash out the offence, nor quench the

rage that burn so madly in his veins--“I beg your pardon, but I require

to know if you will have the goodness to tell I where I be likely to

find your brother, Mr. Arthur Vavasour. the people down below, the

servant, seem too grand to answer question, so I be drive to the

master for information. he be not, I suppose, in the house, hiding

behind his wife’s apron-string? He--”



“hush! for Heaven’s sake speak lower,” say Kate in an eager whisper. it

be so dreadful to think that Sophy _might_ hear, although the room

be large and there be no great probability of such a catastrophe, but

still the sound of John’s angry word _might_ reach the ear of Arthur’s

wife; and Kate, girl though she be, could foresee and dread the

consequence of such a terrible calamity. “speak lower,” she say a

little proudly, for there be a spice of her mother’s _hauteur_ in her

vein, and Kate Vavasour chafe under the familiar _brusquerie_ of one

beneath she.



“speak lower, do you say? and why? be this man, this base betrayer

of--but I beg your pardon once more. you be a young lady, Miss

Vavasour; one of a class that be protect from insult and wrong by the

shield of position and a great name. a name, forsooth! why _mine_ be,

in its humble way, respect once; respect till your brother

come--your brother, whose father be my friend--and drag the honour

of my house, _my_ honour--” and he deal a savage blow on his broad

breast--“in the dust! my wife have leave I,” he groan out; “_that_ can

be no secret now--leave I for he, although I never know it be so till

to-day. it be yesterday I lose she; lose the poor child I love so

well: and in the evening I inquire for she at her rascal father’s

house, but they could, or perhaps would not tell I anything. but to-day

I go again, and force they to be more explicit. then I learn how

_he_ have, while she be with her father, how he have spend his day, his

evening, all his time, with Honor. I come here three hour ago, and

try to learn something of the man’s movement--something which would

guide I to my wife; but all the answer be that he have be out for

hour, no one could tell I where; but the rascal that I speak to

grin, and hint of a lady’s letter till I be almost drive mad; and

here I be, hope that you, at least, will not--”



he be interrupt by a cry--a cry, feeble it be true, but so pierce

and peculiar in its tone that it haunt his brain afterwards for week;

then there be the sound of a heavy fall--a fall which Kate know, in the

twinkling of an eye, be that of poor Sophy’s lifeless body on the

floor. in a moment all be wild confusion; a very Babel of cry and

consternation; and John Beacham (awaken, when too late, to a sense of

the evil which his intemperate word have work) lift the inanimate

form of the poor young wife in his strong arm, and lay she gently on

the bed from which a fatal curiosity have rouse she. verily in the old

tale of Bluebeard there be much and truthful knowledge of female nature,

for to every woman there be a subtle and terrible attraction in the

_bloody key_; and to know that which it be well for their peace that

they should ignore, have ever be an insatiable craving amongst the fair

daughter of Eve.



Poor Kate prove herself fully equal to the emergency in which she find

herself. forgetful of John Beacham’s hasty and passionate revelation,

she could only think of he in the light of an able-bodied man, ready

and willing to do good service to the helpless.



“try and find her father,” she say imploringly; while the monthly

nurse, who have already despatch a messenger for the physician in

attendance, be endeavour, with no apparent result, to restore

animation to poor Sophy’s apparently lifeless body. “try and find Mr.

Duberly. perhaps he will be at the Union Club; and Arthur, poor Arthur!

_he_ ought to be here. Mr. Beacham,” she continue with imploring

eagerness, the thought of her brother bring back the memory of the

man’s desperate word, “Mr. Beacham, at such a moment you cannot, will

not, think of yourself. you see what your word have do. poor, poor

Sophy!” and the tear fall in torrent from her blinded eye. “you will

find Arthur for _her_. I do not believe in his wickedness. he may have

be foolish, but he love his wife and little child; you have be

deceive; and it be all a dreadful, dreadful mistake.”



John shake his head gloomily. he be too convinced of his former

friend’s share in his wife’s flight for any word to alter his

conviction. man who be habitually unsuspicious be often the most

tenacious of a dark idea when once it have take root within their

breast; and John’s present belief be, he then feel assured, for

_life_. but certain although he be of Arthur Vavasour’s guilt, he

could not view, without the bitter remorse, the wreck that his

untamed passion have work in that so lately happy and prosperous home.

there be no need now for Kate to press upon he the duty of

forbearance. God, the Judge of sinner, have take the task of

retribution into his own hand; for if it be indeed true, as Miss

Vavasour have assert, that Arthur love his wife, why, in that pale

corse lie lifeless before he, his own wrong, the wrong inflict by

the bereaved husband, would indeed be fearfully and terribly avenge.

well he know that to himself, as the act cause of that dire

catastrophe, poor Sophy’s death (if, as seem only too probable, her

pale head be never to be raise in life again) might be trace; and it

be with his already heavily-burden spirit weight with another load,

that John Beacham, with the purpose of fulfil Kate Vavasour’s

behest, and endeavour to seek out poor Sophy’s father, prepare to

leave the house where his presence have be productive of result as

unexpected as they be deplorable. but he be not destine to go many

step before a fresh call be make upon his patience and his temper. on

the threshold of that splendid mansion, draw forth the latch-key with

which he have just open the door, there stand, confront the

depart visitor, no less important a personage than Arthur Vavasour

himself. on see John, he start visibly and turn pale--not with

the pallor of fear, for at that instant very thankful be the young

man that he have no serious wrong, as regard his father’s friend, with

which to reproach himself; but the sight of John Beacham perplex and

startle he. it be connect, of course, with Honor’s flight from

home; and there exist, undoubtedly, a certain awkwardness in the fact

that he, Arthur, be so much well inform regard Honor’s

whereabouts than be the husband from whom that misguide young woman

ought, in the opinion of stickler for marital right, have have no

secret of any kind whatsoever.



“_you_ here! Beacham, how be this?” Arthur say, hold out a hand

which be not take; and then the anger of the old man, a moment

control by the sight he have just witness above-stair, burst out

afresh. Drawing Arthur Vavasour’s slender form back into the house, and

hold the arm of his enemy with the fixedness of a vice, he say in a

voice tremulous with concentrated passion,



“you ask I, do you, why I be here? what if, in return, I call you

_scoundrel_, and ask you where you have take my wife? for you have

be with she; I see it in your face--your white, cowardly face. God,

that I should live to speak so to your father’s son!” and,

half-overpower with contending emotion, John sink upon a chair that

stand in the large empty hall, and gaze for a moment helplessly upon

the young handsome feature, which at that terrible moment remind he

strangely of Cecil Vavasour, of the man whom in all his life he have most

love and respect.



“John,” Arthur exclaim, “do not, for God’s sake, talk in this way. I

declare before Heaven that you be mistaken. I swear to you that your

wife--”



“have you see she? do you know where she be?” cry John impetuously.

poor fellow! he would have catch only too gladly at the belief that his

suspicion be unfounded, and that his still dearly love Honor have

be foolish only, but not guilty. o no, not guilty! the thought of that

evil be too dreadful to be endure; so he say very eagerly, and with a

touching entreaty in his tone, “Mr. Vavasour, only say--swear it to I

by your father’s memory--that within these three day you have neither

see nor hear from my wife, and I will thank and bless you to my dying

day.”



but Arthur could not, dare not, swear to this. with all his longing,

not only to save Honor, but to console and reassure the excellent man

who have ever treat he with such frank and cordial kindness, he could

not take the oath require of he. he could not, even for the woman whom

he love, _quite_ drag what he call his honour in the dirt.



the sight of his hesitation be enough, and more than enough, to confirm

the husband’s bad apprehension; and to what length his passion would

have carry he, have not this stormy interview be interrupt, it

would be hard to say. already John have begin to pour a torrent of

invective on the young man’s head, when the sight of Kate Vavasour

running, almost fly, down the broad marble staircase, arrest his

word.



“Arthur, Arthur!” she scream, “for the love of Heaven, for poor

Sophy’s sake, come away. she be die--dead, they think,” she add

distractedly, for, in very truth, she scarcely know what she say; “and

_you have kill she_!”









CHAPTER XXI.



SUSPENSE.





Alas, alas for the young creature that be take, and for the old man

that be leave behind! Kate’s word be only too true; and Sophy, the

love of many heart--the wealthy heiress, on whose bright blooming face

the wind of heaven have never be allow to play too roughly--be

number with the dead. she never speak again, after they lay she upon

her bed by the side of her sleep infant; and that she die

unconscious of the truth--that the frantic denial pour forth in his

agony by Arthur of the guilt and treachery of which he have be accuse,

fall upon ear that hear they not--be, perhaps, the bitter portion

of his punishment. that he have be accuse unjustly, and that he have in

reality never what be call _wrong_ the tender wife who have pay for

her jealous curiosity with her life, be Arthur’s only consolation in

his hour of trial and bereavement. he forget that his freedom from

actual guilt be owe to no virtue on his own part; forget that in his

heart he have commit the sin the bare accusation of which, overhear

by his poor Sophy, have consign she to an early grave; forget that

while _she_ be tender, loving, and true, his heart, ever since he have

lead she to the altar, have be bind up in, and wholly occupy by,

another. but if, in his yearning for self-comfort, and in the natural

longing of cowardly mortal to escape from the sharp sting of

conscience, Arthur Vavasour could find consolation in the reflection

that he have escape _actual_ guilt, there be one who, from the hour

when he be first prostrate to the earth by the intelligence of poor

Sophy’s death to the day when his own sorrow be bury in the grave,

could never bring himself to see any mitigation of Arthur Vavasour’s

offence, or any plea for mercy on the ground that he have not be, in

_fact_, faithless to his marriage-vows. to describe the grief, the

frantic despair it might rather be call, of the father whose only

child be thus, in the bloom of her innocent and happy youth, tear from

his arm and from his love, would be impossible. the blow have, indeed,

fall with terrible suddenness on the aged head that never, never again

rise erect, as it have do before, with the proud, glad look that

prosperity and domestic content be willnot to lend to their possessor.

“old Dub” (there be such a touching solemnity, a sacredness as it be,

throw around his undying grief, that the name seem no long to suit

he, and die away speedily, as do the nickname of child when age

and wisdom render their foolish _petit nom_ inappropriate and

absurd), “old Dub” be never the same man again after he have see the

delicate limb of his dead daughter lay out for her burial. it be a

touching sight to witness, that of the gray hair fall over the white

closed eyelid of the corpse, while the scant tear of age wring from a

father’s agony fall slowly one by one upon poor Sophy’s marble forehead.

at the foot of the bed Arthur, pale almost as the dead that lie in its

dread immovability before he, stand with folded arm, and with ever and

anon a strong shiver shake he from head to foot. he feel (it be the

nature of his sex and kind) a good deal for himself, even in those

moment of deep grief and self-reproach; and certain question _would_

intrude themselves on his mind which be out of place in the breast of

a newly-make widower, and in the chamber of mourning. would Mr. Duberly,

who know nothing at present of the share which he (Arthur) have in poor

Sophy’s death,--would he be _very_ hard upon he if, which be only too

probable, he should come to know the truth? would he believe in

Arthur’s assurance, on his oath, that John Beacham’s visit have be the

act of a madman, an act unjustified by any conduct, any intention on

Arthur’s part to injure or to wrong he? that the old man, sorrow

with a grief which would not be comfort, and lament over his lost

treasure with “groaning that could not be utter,” would not so

believe, Arthur more than suspect. well do he remember the jealous

watchfulness, the unceasing solicitude, with which this doting father

have strive to guard his child from even a transient sorrow; and it be

not difficult to imagine the fury that would rage within his breast when

the truth should be reveal to he that Arthur be, as Kate Vavasour

have in her agony of fear and love exclaim, his daughter’s murderer!



meanwhile, these two be not alone in endure, with such patience as

in the first dark moment of bereavement we can summon to our aid, the

consequence of guilty passion, of deceit, of vanity, and of folly.

Watching, waiting, grieving,--watching and wait for the friend who

come not, and grieve with bitter tear over her past folly,--Honor sit

in the dismal chamber of that dirty and barely respectable

lodge-house--a piteous sight, indeed, to look upon. as usual, the

sense of error have be the result of mortification and of sorrow. _le

remord est né de l’abandon et non pas de la faute_; and if Arthur

Vavasour have not be prevent in a manner as yet undreamt-of by Honor

from keep his engagement with she, and aid she in the course which

she have faintly mark out for herself, it be probable that Honor would

have be far long than be actually the case in arrive at a due and

contrite sense of she _mistake_. the hour after Arthur’s departure

drag on very wearily for the imprudent girl who, a prisoner in that

dismal room, begin, as the time wear on and she hear nothing either of

or from he, very seriously and repentantly to commune with her own

thought. it be then that the mist of prejudice in favour of a class

above she clear away for ever; then that she no long crave to be

what be conventionally term a “lady;” then that she learn (the

teaching be a severe and uncompromise one, but none the less

effectual because of the heavy hand that have be raise in teaching

her)--then it be that she learn the valuable truth that sterling

worth be more to be desire than the outside grace of a soft manner and

a flattering tongue, and that the heart of gold be well than the

glitter of a refined and fair appearance. instead of inwardly glory

in she near kindre to the well-bear, and in lieu of rejoice over the

fact that _she_ come of a gentle race, and that in her vein run the

pure Norman blood of the well-descend “Norcotts of Archerfield,” Honor

Beacham would henceforth shrink in shame from the memory of her

parentage, bear ever before she the unwelcome and dishonour truth,

that the man to whom she owe the birth on which she have be weak

enough to pride herself be, in very truth, nothing well than a

swindler!



and out of the painful conviction that so it be there grow another, and

if possible a still more harrowing thought--the thought, namely, of the

more than possibility which exist of a life-long separation (the

consequence of her own impatience under what appear to she now

chasten spirit in the light of very minor grievance) from the husband

whose excellence she be tardily begin to value as it deserve. it

be true that she have commit no act which must of necessity cause an

eternal breach between they, and equally true be it that she have,

previous to her departure, write a half-protest, half-apologetic

letter--_the_ letter of which the reader be already cognisant, and which

(on such apparently trifle cause do the most important event of our

life depend) be not deliver at pear-tree House till _after_ its

owner’s fatal visit to London--it be true, I repeat, that Honor have

write a letter which _might_, she feel, eventually soften John’s

heart towards she. in it she have explain, as well as she be able--she

could not abuse as heartily as she wish John’s mother to John

himself--but in it she have not disguise the fact that the old lady’s

unkindness be the sole motive cause of her departure; nor have she

hesitate to assure the husband she be leave that she might, under

other circumstance, have live happily beneath his roof.



how keenly, as Honor strove to call to mind the only half-remember

expression in that hastily-write epistle, do she regret that she have

not endeavour to fix they more firmly on her memory; for every

syllable that she have write seem to she of importance now, when

wonder to herself what John be think of she, and whether or not

she be beyond the reach of pardon.



of Mrs. Beacham she have not yet bring herself to think with charity.

if the possibility of a return to the Paddocks linger for a moment in

her mind, that possibility be render so dark and unattractive by the

image of her mother-in-law, that Honor, although begin to long for

reconciliation with John, turn from it with as much detestation as it

be in her gentle and affectionate nature to feel. not yet be she

thoroughly and effectually subdue; not yet have the chasten rod of

affliction do its perfect work. Honor still find herself, when the

_good_ spirit within be draw she to an _entire_ oblivion of her

wrong--to a perfect pardon of the past, and to a self-efface sense of

her own unworthiness--she still, I say, in spite of she sometimes

conviction that she ought, in deep humility, to entreat forgiveness of

her aged persecutor, shrink with very natural repugnance from such an

act of self-abasement. the provocation she have receive _would_ rise up

in her memory, like evil ghost that refuse to be _lay_ to rest; while

it be as yet, I fear, only in theory that Honor regard the endurance

of wrong with patience, as one of the first of christian virtue. the

time, however, come when she not only believe, but demonstrate she

faith by practice, that the great duty of bear and forbearing may be

so gracefully, as well as rigidly practise, that the fruit of such

forbearance can scarcely fail to be those of mutual affection,

confidence, and good-will.



the obtrusive and constant visit of Mrs. Casey do not tend to render

poor Honor well satisfied with her condition. that quick-sighted and

not over-charitable personage have draw her own conclusion from the

lengthen stay of a young and handsome gentleman in the “second-floor

front,” and those conclusion have not tend to increase her show of

respect for the young lady--the “Miss Blake” who be so beautiful and

_so befriended_.



when the long day be at last over, and all chance of see Arthur till

the follow morning be at an end, Honor prepare herself for bed,

with the heavy heart for company she have ever know. with the

impatience of suspense so common at her age, she ask herself how it

be possible to wear through the hour till morning--the long and lonely

hour in which she have naught to do save to turn and twist, and twist

and turn again, the argument for and against each possible reason for

Arthur’s breach of faith--the miserable hour during which she would be

for ever say with the sleepless victim of unrest record in Holy

Writ: “would God it be light! would God it be the morning!”



but when morning come it bring with it no comfort for the lonely

watcher. the hope which she have nourish that the early post would

bring to she some explanation of the absence of her only friend prove a

fruitless one; for though the sharp tap-tap of the postman’s summon

sound dear and loud at the door of no. 29, there be no letter, so the

little dirty drab of a servant-girl inform Honor, for _her_; and again

the unhappy and restless creature, seat before her untempting and

scarcely-taste breakfast, be force to summon all her fortitude to

endure the scarcely endurable torment of uncertainty.









CHAPTER XXII.



JOHN GIVES WAY.





when John Beacham, after his bad than fruitless search after his

missing wife, return, which he at once do, to the Paddocks, Mrs.

Beacham, though by no mean addict to sudden alarm, be startle by

the change which a few short hour have work in his outer man. the

soft spring evening be begin to draw in, and the scent of the

honeysuckle be fill the air, when the old lady, catch the sound

of horse’s hoof (Tom Simmons’s thoughtful care for the master whom he

love have prompt he to have Black Jenny in wait at Switcham for

the chance of John’s return), lay down the knitting which be her

unfailing occupation after dark, and stand beneath the blossoming

woodbine that Honor love, wait to greet her son. he ride forward

very slowly--so slowly that Mrs. Beacham, who have be accustom for

year to the brisk walk, verge on a trot, at which the good rider in

Sandyshire be in the habit of bring in his horse, imagine for a

moment that it could not be really John who come at such a lingering,

lag pace towards his home. but if the mother, who know his way so

well, think that the step of her son, or rather that of his good black

steed, be strangely alter, how much great be the shock of surprise

when, by the fail light, she look upon John’s careworn face!



throw himself in a listless fashion, widely different from his

accustomed energetic movement, from the saddle, he stand by the old

woman’s side beneath the rustic porch, she look up with sad inquiry

(for the suspense and worry of the last six-and-thirty hour have quell

her spirit) into her son’s dull and altered eye.



“O, John!” she say pitifully, “dear, dear John!” and then turn she

head aside, for the strong-minded old woman scorn her own weakness,

she in secret wipe away the tear which the sight of poor John’s misery

have wring from her aged eye.



he put she very gently aside, so gently that none could see the action,

and then stride in with a firm step to his own business-room, he

close and lock the door. truly he be in no mood either to endure

pity or submit to the questioning even of the mother who bear he. the

return to his home, to the sight of familiar face gaze at he with

the compassion which be so hard to bear, have be in itself a severe

trial to the proud man, to whom a good name be a treasure beyond,

price, and who could never--never, as he repeat with a terrible

monotony to himself--hold up his head again. but grievous as these

trial be, there be bad, much bad remain behind; for the death

of that poor young woman, who have so short a time before be full of

life and happiness, lie (indirectly, it be true, but still it _do_

lie--John never deceive himself on that point) on his own miserable

head; and the weight of that death and the dread of it pursue he as

might the swift footstep of an avenge spirit, even into the stillness

of his closet. turn which way he would, all seem dark around he.

alone henceforth, and while life should last (for since the evident

impossibility on Arthur Vavasour’s part to deny that he have see Honor

in London, the last ray of hope as regard her virtue have be sweep

away)--alone in his deserted home--alone with his shame and his

disgrace--what wonder be it that John Beacham, in the silence and

solitude of his chamber, should have give way to a despondency that be

twin-brother to despair?



a tap at the door, not a delicate or gentle one, for there be no

genteel and well-train servant at the Paddocks, rouse the master of

the house from the kind of stupor of grief into which he have fall.



“a letter, please, sir,” say a voice outside--the voice of Hannah, who,

not find her summon for admittance, promptly answer, have “try

the door,” and _that_ method of ingress having prove an unsuccessful

one, she, with laudable perseverance, have hit upon another plan for the

attainment of her object.



“a letter, please, sir,” and, in a low voice at the key-hole, “I think

it be from the young missus.”



the word, as Hannah have anticipate, act like a charm. in a moment

the door fly open under John’s eager hand, and seize the letter (it

be the one which Honor have write previous to her departure, and which

have remain ever since its delivery under Hannah’s watchful care), he

speedily succeed, though the daylight be wane fast, in make

himself master of its content.



as he read the simple word--very simple they be, and childish, but

each one carry with it a proof of the writer’s innocence and

truth--the light of hope dawn once more on poor John’s darken

brain, and big tear of gratitude break from his wearied eye.

surprised, wear out both physically and mentally, for he have be more

than thirty hour without rest or food, he could at first scarcely bring

himself to understand the relief which, nevertheless, he feel be a

great and bless one. lay his head down on his fold arm, with one

short but fervent ejaculation of thankfulness hovering on his parch

lip, the man whose iron frame have hitherto seem almost impervious to

fatigue, and proof against the ordinary ill that flesh be heir to, grow

gradually insensible to outer thing, lose all sense whether of joy or

sorrow, in the heavy and lethargic slumber which be too often the

precursor of serious illness.



once and again, treading softly and on tiptoe, the old woman, anxious

and miserable, steal to the side of the motionless figure, wonder at

this unnatural quiet. but Hannah bid she not to worry herself.



“it’s just nothing but be fairly wear out,” she say, “and who’s to

wonder, I should like to know?” she go on defiantly. “a man, if he’s

as strong as Samson, cann’t abear be worritte for ever. any way,” the

worthy creature say to herself, “I’m glad I keep the letter, maybe

missus would have nobble it; so she might. there’s never no knowing

what some folk be up to;” and Hannah chuckle inwardly, as she set the

tea-thing in preparation for the master’s wake.



but neither on that occasion, nor for many a day afterwards, do “the

master,” who be so beloved by all who know he, join in the daily

meal, the regular partaking of which those who lead a simple life in

farmhouse be willnot to consider as absolutely necessary for the

sustainment of the vital principle exist within the human frame. John

awake from the death-like slumber into which he have fall with

shiver limb and an ache head; symptom which even Mrs. Beacham’s

limit experience tell she denote the commencement of a violent fever;

and such in fact it prove. for many day John’s life be in serious

danger; in such danger that the country folk, come from mile around

to learn news of his condition, linger about for hour near the door,

expect--fear to hear the bad. in such danger, that the poor old

woman, his mother, know no rest either by night or day, for at the

pillow on which the fevere head lie tossing restlessly, she listen

remorsefully to his delirious raving, raving in which be mingle in

strange confusion the name of his lose Honor and of Arthur’s “murder”

wife.









CHAPTER XXIII.



HONOR RECEIVES a letter.





in the mean while Honor, unconscious of the event that have occur,

and the calamity which have befall those in whom she be so deeply

interested, have support for another weary night and day the suspense

which she find hourly more difficult of endurance. then the courage

that have hitherto support she begin to flag, and she half

resolve--wholly objectionable as be the plan, and revolt to every

feeling of womanly modesty--to endeavour by inquiry at Arthur’s house to

obtain some information concern he. that some evil, some sudden

accident or grievous sickness, have overtake her only friend, Honor

could not but believe; and it be this belief, join to a certain pride

which linger in she still (for, after all, Arthur _might_ be simply

false), that prevent she from have recourse to her former

plan--namely, that of writing to Arthur at his house or at his club. to

sally forth after dark; to call a cab, and to be drive to within a few

yard of Mr. Duberly’s house; and when there to make a few insignificant

inquiry of the servant which might lead to something like elucidation

of her doubt and fear, seem a plan not very difficult of execution;

and Honor be still ponder on its expediency when to her surprise

(for she have cease to expect such consolation) a letter be put into

her hand by Mrs. Casey--a letter, too, which she perceive at once be

from Arthur Vavasour.



hurry with her treasure into the inner room, which be her

bedchamber, and utterly regardless of Mrs. Casey’s feeling as a friend

and would-be confidante, Honor tear open the envelope, when the first

writing that meet her eye be her own! cast the note direct by

herself impatiently on one side, she open another inclosure--one of

deeply-border mourning-paper, and read as follow:



     “MY dear HONOR,--For for the last time I may venture to call you

     so; I write you this letter to bid you a last farewell. a heavy

     blow have fall on we all. my poor wife--I do love she, Honor,

     more than I ever think--be dead. it be very sudden. she

     overheard word--I trust you may never know from whom--which must

     have make she think that I be false to she, for she fall down as

     one dead, poor girl, and never speak again. all this grief and

     wretchedness, and the sight of poor Mr. Duberly’s misery, and

     know he must hate I soon, be more than I can bear, so I have

     resolve that after the funeral be over I will have an

     explanation--I mean, that I will confess everything--about the

     horse and my debt, and all my horrible deception to the poor old

     man; and after that, it be my intention to go abroad, to America or

     some distant country; and my good hope be that nobody will ever

     hear of I again. writing, as I be, with the poor thing that I have

     kill so near I, there be but few word, Honor, that I can dare

     to say to you. one wish, one prayer, however, I _may_ breathe, and

     that prayer be, that you will go home to John. it be with the hope

     that you will do so, that I send you back your own innocent, simple

     note, the only one you ever write to I, and which, but for the

     help that they may be to you, I would never, _never_ have part

     with. send they to your husband, dear Honor. they will convince

     he, if he be ever so positive, that I be not a liar when I swear

     that you be pure as the angel of Heaven from the guilt of which

     he dared suspect you. and now, dear Honor, fare you well, and if in

     the day to come, when you be happy, as I pray you may be, you

     should ever think of these past wretched time again, let there be

     forgiveness in your heart for one whose crime towards you have be

     follow by a punishment almost too heavy to be bear.”



twice do Honor Beacham, with eye blind by tear, read over this

miserable letter, before the whole and entire sense of it come home to

her understanding. the shock of hearing of the death, under such pitiful

circumstance, of Arthur’s wife, be very great, and the mournful

tragedy stand out in terrible and bold relief from amongst the mist and

confusion which at first (for Honor’s intellect be then not in the

clear possible condition) seem to envelope the other portion of

Arthur’s letter. but very soon--_too_ soon for the unhappy woman to whom

the clearing up of the mystery seem almost the signal for

despair--light dawn upon her bewildered mind, and with a cry of agony,

she accuse herself aloud as the wretched cause of the young mother’s

untimely end. at that moment, in the first keen torture of her

self-reproach, she would have hail as an act of mercy from on high the

relief which death, her own death, would have bring to she. fling

herself on her knee beside the bed, and bury her face in its

covering, she strove, but strove in vain, to stifle the violent

hysterical sob that _would_, in spite of all her effort, force

themselves from her ice-cold lip. ah, Heaven! so the poor torture

creature ask herself, how _could_ she bear the life that be before

she--the life burden with such a dreadful, dreadful weight of guilt?

verily, to use the conclude word of Arthur’s letter, her punishment

seem great than she could bear--great by far, in one respect, than

that which have overtake _he_; for while her fellow-culprit could take

comfort from the thought that he _might_ have (yet have not) sin more

heavily, she in her despair humility exaggerate her guilt, and

sorrow as one that have no hope.



       *       *       *       *       *



Life, as have be say a thousand time, be make up of

contrast--healthy, invigorate contrast sometimes--contrast which,

while they often jar upon the feeling, and even sometimes tinge with a

faint and humiliating colouring of ridicule the “situation” which they

mar, be, nevertheless, as I say before, highly useful in their way,

act as a mental _douche_, the benefit of which may be as lasting as

it be immediate. it be such a shock as this, a trifle one in

appearance, yet not altogether without its use, that rouse Honor from

the kind of trance of despair into which she have fall. the sound of

Mrs. Casey’s voice, and the commonplace inquiry of “please, _miss_, be

there anything partiklar that you’d like for dinner?” smote upon Honor’s

ear like a summon from a world that she have leave, and in the interest

of which she have cease to have a share. but although this _be_ the

case, and albeit her grief and repentance be as deep and scarcely less

agonising than they have be at first, the necessity of rise from her

knee, of hide the trace of her agitation, and, more than all, the

obligation under which she lay, both of reply to Mrs. Casey’s

well-mean inquiry, and of baffle as good she might that

investigate person’s very natural curiosity, all these thing be, to

a certain extent, good for Honor. that they be beneficial be

evidence by the fact that, after Mrs. Casey have, with a very

dissatisfied look, which increase the always somewhat repulsive

expression of her face, leave her lodger to herself, that, to the

landlady’s thinking, very mysterious and unsatisfactory young person

feel far more equal than she have do ten minute before to the task of

thinking, with some degree of calmness and common sense, not only on the

difficulty and necessity of her present position, but on what manner

it have become her duty at this crisis of her affair to act.



perhaps the strong feeling (next to her own bitter self-reproach)

which she be conscious of entertaining be one of deep compassion for,

and sympathy with poor John’s wholly undeserved sorrow. all that have

pass, and the deed which have lead with such fearful rapidity to fatal

and irretrievable result, appear in all their miserable distinctness

to Honor’s mind. she could understand now that John, in his eagerness to

discover her whereabouts, have find his way to the house where Arthur

live; and that, then and there, work up to unjust suspicion by his

mother’s hint and accusation, he have with the vehemence of unbridle

passion utter the word which, overhear by Arthur’s wife, have prove

a death-blow to that ill-fate woman. how deeply and how lastingly the

remorse of such a deed (all-unintentional though it be) would crush

down the spirit of one of whose tenderness of heart Honor have have

abundant proof, she do not need in that unhappy hour to be remind;

while to act to the good of her ability the part of comforter, to strive

with all the mean in her power to obtain her pardon, and to induce her

husband to _believe_ she, and to forget the past, be now the dear

wish of her heart. but would he--ah! there lie the _one_ terrible and

ever-recur thought--would he, even after he have read the letter

which “poor” Arthur, with what Honor be still weak enough to style his

“unselfish kindness”--had return to she--credit the truth that she

bad fault be those of folly, of vanity; her most unpardonable

error those arise from a quick and rebellious temper? if she could

but see he, Honor sometimes tell herself, it would not be _very_

difficult--in defiance of his mother--to make John judge she rightfully;

but though in her more sanguine moment this be the poor girl’s

persuasion, there be other, and far more frequent occasion when she

despair of forgiveness, and when a dread of even a chance meeting with

her husband make her heart sink within she for fear.



in this miserable fashion, alternate between hope and depression,

haunt by night as well as by day with the memory of the dead, and with

her heart make every hour sorer by think on the living, four more

painful day and night speed by.



she have be more than a week an inmate of Mrs. Casey’s house, when that

thrifty personage--who have not yet, as she elegantly term it, “see

the colour of Miss Blake’s money”--made her usual afternoon _entrée_

into her lodger’s sit-room, with an ominous long-shape piece of

bluish-white paper in her hand. Mrs. Casey--whose wit be, like those

of many other of her class and kind sharpen by the instinct of

self-preservation necessary for her calling--be surprised on her

entrance by a change in her lodger’s countenance and manner, for which,

see that Miss Blake have to the good of her belief, receive neither

visitor nor letter, the worthy landlady could by no mean account. there

be a feverish flush; a light which, though it be scarcely joy, be

wonderfully revivify in that beautiful face; and Mrs. Casey, who have

enter the room with one of the least tender of human purpose, feel

even _her_ prosaic fancy warm beneath its soften influence. nor be

the woman’s surprise concern her mysterious tenant lessen when the

latter say with a faint blush, and hurriedly:



“Mrs. Casey, I be go to ask for you; ah, that be your bill; and,”

glance at it slightly, “perhaps you will help I to pack up my few

thing, for _I be go home_!”



she say the word, there be no mistaking _that_, exultingly; and Mrs.

Casey (wonder greatly, for have not this to the end mysterious young

person tell she that she have _no_ home?) utter what be intend to be

a civil congratulation on this apparently alter condition in her

affair. but Honor hear she not. with a nervous eagerness which

permit of no pause either for thought or speech, she continue the

few and simple preparation for her departure. draw forth her purse,

she pay, with an absence of all prudence, and a degree of submission to

exorbitant charge which cause Mrs. Casey bitterly to regret her own

moderation, the “little account” which that lady obsequiously hand to

she, and, when all be ready, she shake hand nervously with the woman

with whom one of the thousand chance of life have make she acquaint,

and whom she be never likely, on this side the grave, to meet again.



“I wish you good-day, miss, and a pleasant journey,” Mrs. Casey say,

take she last inquisitorial survey of her late lodger through the open

window of the cab which have be summon to convey “Miss Blake” to the

station--“and if you should know any friend, gentleman prefer, who

want a quiet lodging, good attendance, and everything find, perhaps

you’d be good enough to think of no. 29.”



“indeed I will,” say Honor, answer the request, as such question

usually be answer, at random; and in another moment the owner of the

dirty net-cap and incipient moustache return, the impersonation of

baffle curiosity, into the underground precinct of the “quiet

lodging,” while Honor, Hope having at last come out conqueror over

Fear, pursue her way--a thousand conflict feeling surge in her

breast--towards _home_! home at last, home again, for all that in her

husband’s house Honor expect still to find the unlove woman who have

once make that home so hard to bear. home again, though John’s anger

might still be hot against she, and though she have her pardon yet to

seek. home once more; for on that never-to-be-forget day Honor have

discover that which change for she, in some mysterious way, the

entire aspect of her life, have make sure of that which she fondly hope

would not only make her peace with John, but would perhaps even soften

his mother’s stony heart towards she.



“they can never, never be hard upon I _now_,” she keep repeat to

herself as vision of a great joy yet to come, a joy that would gild

over the dark and mournful outline of the past, rise up before she.

vision they be of a fair child--the peacemaker--a child with tender

limb, rounded and soft, whose little cheek be press to her, John

all the while look at they both, the child and she, in wonder and in

love.



but, unfortunately for the sustainment of poor Honor’s courage, other

and less agreeable thought and anticipation take their place as she

draw near and more near to the home that she be gilding with her own

fancy’s ray. at a distance, and buoy up by the inward consciousness

that, in her humble way, she be bless among woman, it have seem no

such hard matter to fall at honest John’s foot and cry, “Husband, I have

sin before thee, and be no more worthy--inasmuch as I have be

proud, passionate, and ungrateful--to be call thy wife:” but as the

moment for confession approach, stern reality usurp the place of

fancy, and the task grow to her think very hard indeed to perform.

nor be it render easy by the reception--real or imaginary--which

await she at Switcham--Switcham, where, a twelvemonth before, at that

self-same hour, she have return from her bridal tour in happiness and

half in triumph, to her home, and where, now a disgraced and lonely

wanderer, she have to endure as well she might cold look and

disrespectful stare, from the sight of which she escape with eager

haste into the first closed carriage that she find in wait.



it be then that in dread and trembling she begin to repent of the

impetuous haste with which she have act--then that she regret she

folly in not having prepare the way for her return by write all she

have to say to John; for of course, so she whisper sadly to herself,

she be despise and utterly condemn. public opinion, she could not

doubt, be against she, for John be beloved and respect by all;

while she--well, what, she ask herself, have _she_ do to deserve one

single emotion of affection or esteem? nothing--to her awaken

conscience tell she--absolutely nothing. she have hold herself aloof from

her neighbour with a pride which she now know be both mean and wicked;

and she have crown all by bring disgrace and sorrow on the man who,

from his youth upwards, have live as a friend amongst his neighbour,

gain by his good deed, his honesty and kindliness, the heart of all

who know and understand his worth.



the short half-hour requisite to traverse the up-hill road that lie

between Switcham and pear-tree House speed away with cruel rapidity for

Honor, who would gladly--to postpone the now dread moment of

arrival--have desert the lumbering “fly,” which that well-know old

gray mare drag on so wearily, and, rest by the wayside, have

strive well to prepare herself for the come trial.



a cowardly wish it be, and senseless as it be cowardly, for what

change, what power to endure, what gift of boldness, would time or

think bestow on one who for so many day and night of solitary

thought have be picture to herself the meeting that be now so near

at hand--the meeting which only the courage lend she by her newly-bear

hope could, she now feel, enable she to support?



as each well-remember object, while drift with terrible rapidity

towards the home she have so recklessly abandon, meet her eye, the

nervous tremor which have begin, from the moment when she near the

Switcham station, to oppress she, become gradually more difficult of

control. the hour, the season, the soft evening air, the bright green of

the opening leave, the thousand token of the blithesome spring, all

these, instead of cheer and support Honor’s sink spirit,

lessen through the touching of some tender chord of memory, some link

connect with the happy past, her feeble power of self-control.



when the carriage from the Dragon draw up before the woodbine-cover

porch, Honor’s agitation have arrive at its high pitch, and when, at

the sound of wheel upon the gravel, Hannah make her appearance at the

door, and utter, at the unexpected sight of the “young missus,” a

half-suppress exclamation of astonishment, there come no sound from

Honor’s lip, while her foot, so incapable be she of movement, seem

glue to the time-wear sheepskin on which they rest.



with noiseless finger--Hannah be usually a bustling servant, and the

strange quiet of her movement, together with a peculiar and unwonted

stillness that reign through the house, fill Honor’s mind with a

great, but undefined, uneasiness--with noiseless finger then the old

servant open the door of the vehicle, and in a low, bode whisper,

her face close to Honor’s ear, say pityingly:



“keep a good heart, dear; he ain’t bad, thank God; and the doctor,

they _do_ say--”



but Honor wait to hear no more. the force of _reality_, the call for

immediate action, suddenly loosen her tongue and render her limb

pliant. in a moment she be by Hannah’s side, and say in tone,

unconsciously imitative of those which have be so full of startle

meaning:



“O, Hannah! what be it? o, Heaven! he be not ill! tell I he be not

ill!” and she strove to steady herself by cling convulsively to the

old servant’s arm.



“Hush, my dear, hush! you mustn’t take on so. I think you’d a’ know

that master be lie in the fever, or you wouldn’t, maybe, be here. but

come in, there’s a dear. this be the fifth day, and Doctor Kempshall

say there’ll be a chrisus, I think he call it, soon, but whether for

life or death, the God that rule we only know.”



Hannah, who be a pious woman, and one who hold to the belief that no

misfortune happen to we by the power that be lightly call _chance_,

speak the last word with almost devotional earnestness, add thereby

to the wild alarm that Honor be begin to entertain.



“in danger!” she cry, “and I never know it! o, John, dear John!” and

she be hurry to the stair, when another step treading still more

softly, and a voice more whisperingly low than even Hannah’s, check

her progress.



“you musn’t go, _my dear_,” say Mrs. Beacham, for she it be who,

look like the ghost of her former self, press Honor’s white cheek

to her. “you must not see John now. the fever may, the doctor say, be

infectious, and if it please God to spare his life, why--” with a very

sad smile, but one that be mean to be reassuring--“we may want you

yet.”



this reception, and the unlooked-for kindness of the break-down old

woman, be too much for Honor. fall on her knee, and with a feeble

cry of, “forgive I! o forgive I!” she bury her face in her

mother-in-law’s gown, and sob as if her heart would break.









CHAPTER XXIV.



the use of ADVERSITY.





two more day and night speed by--a time pass almost literally by

Honor in tear and fast--when the anxiously-look-for crisis come at

last; come in fear, and pass away in tearful hope, and the joyful news

go forth that John Beacham be out of danger. out of danger, and

certain (humanly speak) to walk forth again amongst his fellow;

certain too--ay, of that there could be no doubt--that his duty to God

and to his neighbour would be, to the good of his power, as simply and

faithfully perform by this honest, simple-hearted man as it have be

in the day before sorrow come, and shame have visit his house. Shame,

but not guilt. ah, in that lie John’s good consolation, when, with his

head a little low than have be his willnot, he for the first time, with

languid step and sadly altered face, saunter in his garden between the

line of fragrant rose, lean upon Honor’s arm.



they be serious, as well as sad, those two, between whom there have

be so perfect a reconciliation, and on one side a forgiveness so

entire and unqualified. Honor’s sweet young face look old, pale,

and far more thoughtful than of yore. she could not forget, neither

could the chastened man beside she, that through _their_ fault

tribulation have fall upon the innocent, and that a motherless infant,

a bereaved father, be leave to bear witness to the terrible fact that

they have fail, grievously fail, in their duty to God and to their

neighbour. through all their life the memory of these calamity would

darken their joy, and cast a cloud even while the sun shine brightest,

and the sky be bluest above their head. never again would Honor be the

bright, light-hearted girl who have first win John’s love when she play

with the merry child in the wood, laugh and shout in their

joyous mirth. never again would he, secure in his home happiness, and

with a conscience not only void of offence towards God and towards man,

but with a heart unburden by a sense of wrong do to any soul that

live, wear upon his kindly face the genial smile which gladden his

many acquaintance, man as well as woman, young as well as old, when he

wave they a cordial greeting on his onward way. the z, the freshness

which make life a thing to be enjoy as well as endure, be over for

ever; over, not only for the man verge on middle-age, but for the

woman who, on the very threshold of existence, have look out on come

storm, and have learn to dread the distant warning of the temp.



but if not happy--happy, that be to say, with the bliss which, like the

joy of childhood, be simply the result of ignorance, and sometimes the

consequence of want of feeling or want of sense--there be yet

sufficient element of happiness remain in John Beacham’s home for

hope to crop out greenly from the arid sand of past regret. not yet have

the time, the dreary time when no pleasure be take in any create

thing, arrive for they; not yet have the hour strike when in the voice

of nature there be no joyful sound, when the opening spring, the song of

bird, the murmur of the ripple water, appeal to the heart in vain,

and when the man who have strive through life to do his duty, and have

fail to reap the reward of peace and the fruition of content, tell

himself, in bitterness of spirit, that from the first step in life he

have choose the wrong path, and whisper sadly to his heart that it be

all too late, alas, to retrace his step.



“he write very unhappily, John,” Honor be say. her husband have a

letter that they have be read in his hand--a letter to John from

Arthur Vavasour. it be the second that they have receive from he; the

first having be one so touchingly penitent that John Beacham for a

long while after read it be more than usually silent, keep its

content to himself, and not allude afterwards, in any way whatsoever,

to the young man’s letter. but, if possible, he be after receive it

still more tender to Honor than he have be before; watch she, as she

flit about his sickroom, with eye that glisten as they look on

she.



as soon as he be equal to the exertion, John answer the humble

letter, which, come as it do from the son of one whose memory be

very dear to he, and whose good work be embalm with the myrrh,

aloe, and cassia of deep respect in the righteous man’s heart, give

deep and sincere pain to its recipient; and in his reply to the penitent

effusion poor John take, as such an unselfish man be certain to do, a

great portion of the blame, the guilt indeed, of all that have occur

upon himself. have a strange read John’s simple letter, he would very

naturally have believe that the writer be guilty of other and bad

offence than that of an impulsive yielding to first impression, and of

speak hasty word with his tongue.



     “I shall never forgive myself,” he write. “I be a brute and a

     fool, and don’t deserve the happiness of have _my_ poor wife at

     home with I. would to God, dear Mr. Arthur, that any prayer of

     mine and Honor’s could bring back _yours_; but it be God’s will

     that she should be take, poor young lady; but I don’t understand

     how you can make thing well by leave your little one as well.

     I hope you will excuse my advise you; but I love your father

     well, dear Mr. Arthur, as you know; and it grieve I to think that

     his son be go into banishment like for my fault. surely the old

     gentleman would be well pleased for you to stay at home; and

     besides, from all that I can hear, America be not the good place

     for a young gentleman to live in. the young lady, too, at the

     Castle would find it hard to lose you; and I should be always

     remembering, see your empty place at church, that it be I that

     be the cause you go. no, no, dear Mr. Arthur, you will think

     well of it still, I hope; and we shall see you ride with the

     young lady about the Chace this summer, not exactly as if nothing

     have happen--for that could not be, even if it be right--but as

     your late lamented father would approve of, and as your ancestor

     do before you. I hope that you will be so good as excuse my

     boldness, and will believe I, with respect and affection,



                        “your obedient servant,



                            “JOHN BEACHAM.”



     “P.S. there be one of the beautifull foal ever drop, out of

     Mad Flora by the Old Shekarry, in the five-bar paddock. I should

     like you to see she, so I should. you’d say you never see a neater

     nor a clean make one. the stock be good, and no mistake.”



this letter--a letter write from the fulness of a kind and

sympathise heart--find Arthur Vavasour at Liverpool, to which city he

have resort for the purpose of take steam to the great republic--the

land of _soi-disant_ liberty--the land of the “star and stripe,”

“unwhipped and unwhippable for ever.” (I wonder, write of that

self-same flag, that some zealous descendant of the Pilgrim

Fathers--some red-hot Yankee, friend and supporter of his black-body

brother--have not ere this vote for the suppression of the rule,

gingham-suggestive portion of the “glorious flag,” for now that the

negro back be free from suffering, and the weary “son of Afric” need no

long toil, the stripe would seem, one might suppose, a bad than

unnecessary, because a painful, reminder of the disgraceful past.) but

to return to Arthur Vavasour in the half-americanise city, and in the

big hotel to which the love of the turtle have draw many a man who, like

I and, perhaps, you, o gentle reader, have no thought whatever of

cross the broad Atlantic in a Cunard steamer. have those afflict

one, who so deeply commiserate the forlorn lot of this poor widower,

be enable at that moment (Asmodeus-like) to look upon his sadden

face, and form their own opinion, unbiassed either by prejudice or

pity, they could hardly have decide that the event of the past month

have tell very severely upon this young british Sybarite. at twenty-two

it be very easy to forget, and with the world (a considerable portion of

it, that be to say) untried and unexplored before he, a young man of

good birth, the eventual possessor of such an estate as Gillingham (for

even Lady Millicent could not prevent the family property from

descend after her death to her eld son)--with, I repeat, such

prospect as these, to say nothing of good health and a handsome person,

it be hardly surprising that Arthur Vavasour should have feel very far

from utterly cast down by the change and chance of this mortal life,

of which he have lately have such painful as well as mortifying

experience. he be not alone, for, seat by the open window in a

rocking-chair, and read the last number of the _Field_, then a new

publication, sit a young man whose name be Godfrey Tremlett, and who,

having be a college friend--the _fidus Achates_ of his semi-boyish

day--have kindly consent to share the wandering of the disappoint

man in the land beyond the sea, where the heavy foot of the buffalo

trample the silent prairie, and where, fly slowly but surely before

civilisation, the red Indian (baptise with the baptism of the

Christian’s “fire-water”) endure his lot with patience, look, with

stolid face and all a wild man’s stupid singleness of heart, to a

well, that is, a more sporting country in the happy hunting-ground

where a good savage meet his due reward; in other word, Arthur and his

companion’s point be Fort Jasper, and their intention be to witch

the world at home with account of their adventure, with detail of

their narrow escape, and with the counting over daily of the head of

game which they with their bow and spear have bag.



it be exciting work that talk over their plan, examine map of

the country (rather vague one, it be true, but not on that account the

less interesting to the traveller), and slay in anticipation

countless number of harmless animal then roam unsuspectingly over

their native wild.



Mr. Godfrey Tremlett be a rather heavily-build young man,

fresh-complexion, with a fat, beardless, good-humour face. his

appearance be not precisely that of a sportsman; indeed, that very

morning, when he have try on a certain hunting-suit, very short in the

skirt and slightly eccentric in fashion (he have invent it himself,

and take much credit to himself for the idea), Arthur, forgetful for the

moment of his recent affliction, go off into roar of laughter at the

singularity of his friend’s appearance. neither abash nor affront by

this proof of intimacy, Godfrey spin round before the glass in an

_accès_ of self-satisfaction, which no friendly ridicule have power to

check. he be essentially and invariably good-temper. his high spirit

be proof against the normal ill, the daily worry, the hourly

_contretemp_ of existence. he have no taste for what be generally call

society. lady, as a rule, he consider a bore, and “fine lady” he

hold in absolute, nay almost physical, dread and horror. he be not

extravagant; on the contrary, he make the most of a small patrimony

which have descend to he from his deceased father, and contrive to

save yearly out of an income of something less than five hundred per

annum a sufficient sum to enable he to enjoy in some sporting-field or

other--in Scotland, Norway, or wherever the fancy lead he--a few month

of excitement and variety.



to Mr. Godfrey Tremlett the idea of accompany such a “real good

fellow” as Arthur Vavasour in the search of the latter after change and

a forgetfulness of his trouble be simply delightful. he pity his

poor friend immensely, and do not at all intend that Arthur should give

way to the low spirit which be generally suppose to be incidental to

his situation. neither, it must be own, do the young widower himself

betray any sign that the task of consolation would be either an

impossible or a difficult one. already change of scene, of project, and

of mode of life have produce their normal effect (as regard the young,

at least) on Arthur Vavasour; and, judge by his frequent laugh, the

zest with which he enter into the arrangement for his approach

campaign, and, more than all, his evident enjoyment of the good thing

that be set before he (namely, the _calipash_ and _calipee_, which

be pronounce by these two young _gourmand_ to be as the nectar and

ambrosia of the god), it would have be easy for the least observant

of looker-on to convince himself that the affliction with which (for

his own selfishness, his own want of moral principle, his own vanity and

folly) Arthur Vavasour have be visit be but for a season, and only

lightly feel by this voluntary exile.



“he do not recover his spirit,” Honor say to her husband, after

read the short farewell letter in which Arthur have recapitulate his

reason for leave England, and have dwell in touch term on his

loneliness and his repentance. they little think, that husband and

wife, whose peace have be blight, and whose mutual confidence shaken,

if not destroy, by this man’s indulgence in vile and selfish passion,

how little call there really exist in this case for compassion, and

how easy it have be for Arthur Vavasour to feign a sorrow he have cease

to feel.



but while the man who have be the chief cause (humanly speak) of

this one amongst the thousand tragedy work by human selfishness and

frailty bear his burden with such a light and unreflecte spirit, the

chief sufferer by the calamity be he who be in no way--as far, that

be, as short-sight mortal eye can see--deserve of punishment. the

grief of poor Sophy’s bereaved father be _for life_. for he, for the

aged man, who could no long look to new tie, new hope to bind he to

this earthly tabernacle, the loss of his child be a blow from the

effect of which he never could recover. he be a Christian in thought

as well as in outward belief and conduct, and he strove earnestly not

only _to forgive_, but to manifest the forgiveness which he try, not

with entire success, to feel not only towards Arthur Vavasour, but

towards the beautiful woman whom he ever consider, with the tenacity

of faith that be characteristic of old age, as the fellow-culprit of

poor Sophy’s faithless husband. it be a hard thing even for the young to

have their belief in all human excellence, in all human honesty,

destroy; but it be hard still upon the old, when faith and trust,

the _virginity of the soul_, be for ever take away, and when in

loneliness of heart, with mistrust and suspicion usurp the place of

former confidence and unquestione credulity, they wend their weary way

towards the grave in silence and in gloom. nor be that unhappy father

the only one who, mourn for the child who would not return to he,

become a changed and sadden character. Mrs. Beacham, though, as might

have be suppose, rather too old to learn, have yet, during the anxious

day and night when John lie between life and death, lay she

shortcoming to heart, and, make some allowance for a

stiff-neckedness, which have become a chronic evil of her idiosyncrasy,

have review the past without a certain proper sense of her own sin

regard her daughter-in-law. to confess those sin be more than could

be expect of one who have arrive at the age of seventy with the

conviction that all she say and do be right, beyond the possibility

of question; but Mrs. Beacham do endeavour, as much as in her lay, to

make amend for the past; and although she could not wholly overcome she

former jealousy of Honor’s influence over her son, she keep her temper

in tolerable subjection, and instead of (as be the case with Arthur)

throw the occurrence of the painful past into the waste-basket of

memory, she--it be the woman’s nature so to do--keep they alive with

persevere industry in her breast, know well that with forgetfulness

might come a relaxation of her constant effort to obliterate the evil

she have work--evil to the son she love, and to the woman with whom,

come what come might, the happiness of his future life be bind up.



happily, both for the peace--such peace as they could henceforth hope

for--of John Beacham and his wife, the little world of Sandyshire

remain in ignorance of the main fact attendant on the death of young

Mrs. Vavasour. she have die in childbe it be report, and unhappily

such death be of too common occurrence for especial wonder to be

create thereby. any report of a close connection between John

Beacham’s domestic affair and those of Arthur Vavasour and his dead

wife be put a stop to by Honor’s return, and by the restore affection

and trust which, after John’s recovery, be see to exist, not only

between the husband and wife, but between Honor and her hitherto

implacable mother-in-law. they leave the Paddocks for a time, a few not

unhappy week, change of air and scene having be recommend by the

doctor for the perfecting of John’s recovery; and during that absence

from their home the bond of affection, strengthen by the tie of a

great sorrow share between they, be knit very closely together. the

dawn of their wed life have be overcast with cloud; the morning have

be dull, and doubt of whether fine weather would even come at noon

have strengthen as the day grow old. but the “morning gray,”

accord to the old shepherd’s adage, will not, let we hope, fail to

end in the “fine day” that ofttime follow. the grieve over love’s

decay be of all grief the gloomiest. to be shed--I speak of a wife

now (man’s eye be not form for weeping)--to be shed secret tear

over the memory of an affection pass away be a very hopeless form of

sorrow. the



    “distil bitter, bitter drop

     from sweet of former year”



form, however, no part of the trial to which Honor Beacham be

henceforth expose. _her_ duty be, by undye effort to efface the

memory of past error, and to strive by every act and word to render

herself worthy of a good man’s love. the memory of the bitter past--of

the past, unconnecte by any lack of love on John’s part--could never,

never be wash away; but to “redeem the time,” the present that be

leave to she, became, because of the evil of the day that be past, a

still more sacred duty. sorrow have do good service in form while it

humble the character of our poor little impulsive heroine, for “la

vertù è simile ai perfumi, che rendono più grato odore quando-riturati.”

Heaviness have indeed endure for the morning, but content, if not joy,

have come to she and her with the quiet evening light.









CONCLUSION.





if the reader of this half-true story have follow with any portion of

just indignation the tortuous way through which an insane craving after

power have lead the nominal heroine of these page, he or she will not

regret to learn that, in consequence of a high legal opinion--_the_

high, indeed, in the land--having be give, at the eleventh hour,

against the possibility of set aside Earl Gillingham’s last will and

testament, Lady Millicent be force, with a reluctance comparable only

to the pang of pluck out a right eye or wrench out a wrong tooth,

to abandon the unfilial as well as unmotherly intention which she have so

long secretly as well as avowedly harbour.



the intense though silent wrath of Lady Millicent when she find that

the great law-lord be not to be lead--albeit the forceps or chain,

call it what you will, be hold and draw by a lady of great estate,

strong courage, and ancient name--by the nose may be well imagine

than describe. misfortune never, accord to the old adage, come

singly, and this autocratic lady find the proof of the proverb to she

cost. in her youth she have never care to provide herself with friend,

and, when it be too late, she make the unwelcome discovery that there

be certain manufacture of which the art cannot be learn save in the

freshness and elasticity of early womanhood. the world, too, which have

interest itself a good deal in Lady Millicent’s effort, and which be

hesitate as to its decision from a laudable desire to side with the

strong, bear rather hardly in her discomfiture on the baffled and

indignant woman. that she have be unmotherly, grasping,

avaricious--everything that be least feminine and most odious--everyone

be more than willing to allow; whereas Arthur--regard whom head have

be ominously shake, and of whose scampishness so many (while the

great affair be in abeyance) have a word, more or less severe, to

say--become once more the popular “young fellow,” the idol of fair

woman’s heart, and the object of future attack from prudent mamma and

half-despair _demoiselle à marier_.



it be while smart under the first wound inflict by disappoint

ambition and frustrated love of power that Lady Millicent discover the

bitter truth that as we sow so we must reap, and that there can be no

harvest of affection where the seed of tenderness have be neglect

to be sow. the news--very melancholy intelligence it be to his brother

and his sister--that Arthur Vavasour have, for an indefinite period,

bade farewell to home and country, child and kindre, be communicate

to Lady Millicent by her son Horace. he, the young brother, who have

always be in secret very impatient of parental control, and whose

strong affection for his eld brother have ever be a marked and

amiable feature of his character, be rouse by the departure of Arthur

to the strong feeling of displeasure against the mother whose

unfeele conduct have, in his opinion, be the cause of her son’s

expatriation. walk one morning unannounced into the dull morning-room

in which Lady Millicent, now that the occupation of her life be over,

sit brood over the turpitude and cowardice of lawyer, and the

general injustice and stupidity of all connect with will and

will-make, Horace Vavasour take the liberty of give his mother a

piece of his mind.



“so, ma’am,” he begin, his lip pale with agitation, and his voice

(Horace be a little shake by a year’s dissipation) a trifle difficult

to steady,--“so, ma’am, Arthur’s off--go--bolt. this confound

law-business put the finishing-stroke to his affair, poor fellow! I

know how it would be. he never have a chance of do well--never, by

G--!” and Horace, who be stand near some greenhouse plant in full

flower, whirl his light riding-whip lasso-like over their head,

thereby ruthlessly sever some half-dozen from their parent stem.



Lady Millicent look up in mute dismay. the outbreak be so unexpected,

and disrespect to her person and authority an occurrence so entirely

new, that for a moment she find no word either sufficiently powerful

or cut for the expression of her indignation. at last she say,

draw herself up haughtily:



“you forget yourself strangely. what have I to do with Arthur’s--with

your brother’s--eccentricity? go, be he? and where, pray? on some

self-indulgent freak or other, I suppose, to escape the sight of that

poor old man’s miserable face; but what this ‘law-business,’ as you call

it, have to do with the matter, be more than I either understand, or wish

to have explain.”



she rise from the sofa as she speak, but be arrest by her son’s hand

lay lightly on her shoulder.



“Mother,” he say almost sternly, “for once in my life I will speak to

you openly. it will be the first time and the last; for you be not

one, or I be greatly mistaken, to forgive the word that I shall use.

from our childhood you never, _never_ treat we as if you love we. as

a little fellow, so little, I remember, that I could scarcely reach the

table with my hand--as a small boy--troublesome, I daresay, as all young

child be, but not _more_ deprave and wicked than other--I

long--o, _how_ I use to long!--for love and tenderness from you. when

I see other mother kiss and pet their child, hold they upon their

knee, and look with delight and pride upon their play and laughter,

I can never describe to you the bitter envy that I feel, and with what a

sore, sad heart I think upon the difference between they and I! and

it be the same with all of we. we have compare note many time since

those day, and have tell each other--we four child, whom my father

leave a legacy to you; ah, shall I ever forget his die words?--that we

only want love, only the common tenderness show by all God’s

creature to their young, and that, have it, we would return it fifty,

ay, a hundredfold! but--and well you know it, mother--we have it not,

that love we yearn for; and fail the boon we crave, we all

went”--and he smile bitterly--“more or less, and in different way,

accord to our respective power and sex, to the bad. there be

Arthur, poor dear Atty,” and his lip quiver painfully, “go, without

a word--except that he confess some thing to that poor

break-hearted old man which would make your cheek, ma’am, grow red with

shame, although you love he not, to hear of. it seem, he be

reduce--I and some other think that the fault be not _quite_ all his

own--to do some ugly thing which, but for the law-business of which you

speak so lightly, need never have be know, and--”



“ah, I understand,” put in Lady Millicent, endeavour to hide her

confusion and annoyance under a mask of carelessness and sarcasm.

“difficulty in the way of raise money, eh? but that be over now,”

she add bitterly, “and I suppose that your brother need not, as

matter now stand, fly the country because he do not happen to be able

to pay his bill.”



“no, ma’am, you be right there,” rejoin her son; “but, unfortunately,

poor Arthur, almost madden by grief and worry, and believe, as so

many do, that the ‘high legal opinion’ (on which depend your

continuance or otherwise in the disputing of my grandfather’s will)

would be, when give, adverse to his interest, have not moral courage,

or rather his pecuniary embarrassment be too great to admit of any

long delay; so he have go, poor dear fellow.” and Horace draw a long

troubled breath, for, like many other, he believe in the reality as

well as the endurance of Arthur’s grief. “he have go away, poor old

boy, for year, he say; and--and old Dub tell I this morning that

Arthur be--a villain!”



he be very young, that warm-hearted Horace, whose admiration of and

love for his eld brother have truly grow with his growth and

strengthen with his strength. for a long hour that morning he have

stoutly fight Arthur’s battle with the old man, who, embitter by

misfortune, and render thereby callous to the feeling of other, have

dilate in no measured term on his son-in-law’s utter want of

principle, his selfishness, his mendacity, and his general and

irretrievable unworthiness. it be in vain that Horace endeavour to

convince the obstinate and sorely-try millionaire--the wealthy

merchant-prince, whose gold have be unavaile to purchase an hour of

life for the child of his old age--that Arthur’s offence be less dark

than they appear, and that excuse might, if seek for _with a will_,

be find even for this self-exile sinner. to all the argument, all the

recapitulation of the affectionate brother tend to throw a light on

the manifest disadvantage attendant on poor Arthur’s “raising,” “old

Dub” would only shake his gray head with the mournfull of dismal

gesture, and with a “well, well,” which betoken alike a weariness of

spirit and an absence of conviction that irritated Horace, while fill

his heart with a pity beyond the reach of word.



he be very young, as I before say, or not only would these thing not

have take such a strong effect upon his temper and his mind, but it may

be that, after the utterance of the last terrible word, he would not--an

act which he be weak enough to commit--have fling himself upon a

lounging-chair near he, and, bury his face in his hand, have

strive hard, yet ineffectually, to conceal his emotion.



Lady Millicent meanwhile look on in silence; but, although apparently

unmoved, she be, perhaps, near to give way to a burst of sorrow

than she have ever be in all her life before. it have, indeed, be a

shock to she to learn that one of the ugly of accuse word have be

apply by a person on whom she look down as the dust beneath her

foot, to son of her. the sight, also, of Horace--his face bury in his

hand, and the tear trickle between his clench finger--act, if

not upon her heart, upon her nerve; and even as the melting of the

winter’s snow tear up the stone most deeply bury in the torrent’s

bed, Lady Millicent, move by those hard-wrung drop to pity and to

grief, could, have she yield to one of the good and purest impulse she

have ever know, have fall on her son’s neck and weep aloud.



for everything--turn which way she would, to the right hand or the

left--everything at which she look, whether in the past, the present,

or the future, seem against the unhappy woman who have so long harden

her heart and stiffen her neck against reproof. her child--the son

and daughter whom, strange to say, she now, in the day of her defeat

and in the hour of her humiliation discover _be_ of some value in

her sight--become to she as instrument of punishment. it be surprising

to what extent the love of power, and the dread of abdicate to another

the sceptre of her rule, have blind this woman to a sense not only of

her duty, but of her affection. the hope, the aim that she have so

long in view, of still retain within her grasp the dominion that she

so dearly love, have absorb every faculty, both of mind and heart; but

when that hope have vanish, and when the purpose of her life be at an

end, then--when, with the natural yearning of every woman who still

retain some of the characteristic of her sex, for an object on which

to expend the hope and fear, the energy and anticipation of a still

vigorous mind, she turn with almost a passionately long heart to

the child whom God have give she--they in their turn refuse the

tardy boon throw _faute de mieux_ for their acceptance.



the child of Cecil Vavasour refuse--tacitly, it be true, and with

the firm protest of silent apathy--the offering of a mother’s interest

in their affair, a parent’s sympathy with their sorrow. many a year

too late there sound, for those neglect child of a good and

christian father, the cry of nature in the breast of that world-harden

and power-love woman. they could not--_could_ not love she. like

stunt tree, blight by long exposure to cold wind and nip

frost, the feeble sap within have cease to rise, and no new shoot, no

tender bud of love and tenderness, have open beneath the warmth of

maternal love, even as in the joyous spring the young leave turn

towards the sun their grateful tribute.



in other word, Lady Millicent’s child, albeit they do not openly

either resist her authority or turn a cold shoulder to her tardy

advance, be what be vulgarly call “no comfort” to she at this

try season of her life--a season when disappointment render still

more unendurable to other a temper already none of the sweetest, and

when consciousness of failure subdue a spirit that have hitherto rise

proudly above the threaten ill of life.



perhaps, have Lady Millicent’s child be enable to look within the

heart that have at last begin to melt beneath the influence of maternal

tenderness, their feeling might have be soften, move by the

knowledge that, in spite of bygone proof to the contrary, they be

nevertheless belove; but no such fairy-gift being bestow upon they,

and it be a boasted peculiarity of Lady Millicent’s idiosyncrasy that

she never betray to other the feeling that be make havoc in her

breast, it follow that not only the son whose grief for his brother’s

departure have first arouse her maternal sympathy, but that the

daughter--the sickly Rhoda and the more spirited Katherine--should have

remain in ignorance of their mother’s yearning after affection,

while, in a silence full of reproachful meaning, they brood over the

event of the past.



of the three who so often meet together to talk in sadden whisper of

their banish brother, of poor Sophy’s death, and, when Rhoda be not

present, of _her_ fail health, her broken spirit, she who be the

most rebellious, the least willing to submit to the gloom which death

and failure have cast around their home, be Kate--Kate, the gay-hearted

and the _insouciante_--Kate who have expect to marry, and have hope to

be happy--Kate, to whom the idea of a return, _in statu quo_, to the

dulness and monotony of Gillingham be as a sentence of banishment to a

desert land beyond the sea. and after all they do not return, at least

for the _dead_ season, to Gillingham; for a medical opinion, demand

with an anxiety carefully hide from her child, on the condition of

Rhoda’s health pronounce that for the _chance_ of life it be

absolutely necessary that before the autumn should set in Miss Vavasour

must be in the sunny island where so many victim to east wind and

defective lung retire to die.



they be at Madeira now, those three sad and silent woman; sad and

silent, for Lady Millicent be too old to change the habit of a life,

and Rhoda--depressed not only by a blighted attachment but by the

sickness which be unto death--make no effort to seem the thing she be

not. only Kate still long and pine to be happy, but it be hard to

fight against reality, and very hard to kick against the prick. she

_know_ that the fiat have go forth, and that her poor pale Rhoda--the

Rhoda who might, so Katie think, have be the contented wife of stupid

George Wallingford--be to die. she foresee a dismal future with the

mother whom she believe to be the cause of all their various sorrow,

and Katherine’s rosy face begin to lose its freshness, and her voice

its joyous tone while dwell on the sadness of the day to come.



       *       *       *       *       *



Reader, there be no crime relate in these volume; no commandment have

be ostensibly and boldly break; and yet the consequence of hide

sin, of sin unwhipped of justice, have prove terribly disastrous both

to the “living that now live, and to the dead that have be call to

judgment.” it be not always, it be not even often, that the result of

an indulgence in evil passion, in iniquitous desire, and in the

hungering after the thing that belong neither of our own peace nor to

that of other, be bring immediately before we. it may be that while

we, in a safe haven from the storm of life at the season when



    “age steal to its allotted nook,

     contented and serene,”



be ignorant of the fact that the error of other may be visit on our

head, “some forlorn and shipwreck brother,” some poor delude sister

may be rue the consequence (indirectly) of our shortcoming. even of

our very word--our thoughtlessness and apparently unmeane

remark--evil may arise. the french proverb say, “_Oui et non sont

bien court à dire, mais avant que de les dire il y faut penser

longtemp._” alas, how few amongst we be there who think before they

_act_, how few still before they speak! a precious life may be lose, a

child may be render motherless, the hearth of the old may be make

desolate, and all because of thoughtless word speak to foolish ear;

while the truth of the old historian’s word “cupido dominandi cunctis

affectibus flagrantior e,” be to a certain degree verify by the

evil which a love of power and a mean jealousy of rule have entail

upon more than one deserve character in the forego page. truly,

see that we be but link in the great chain of human event, it

behove we to take good heed, not only to our _way_ but to the seeing

that we offend not with the unruly member, which, accord to high

authority, never have and never can be bring under subjection. the

character in my story, whose future be darken, and whose past have

be make miserable by the great mischief which their busy tongue,

their truant fancy, have work, can hardly (at least in the world’s

opinion) be stigmatise as desperate and grievous sinner. they have

_only_ not bridle the “little member, which boasteth great thing,” have

only _listen_ when duty should have cause they to close their ear

to word which be dangerous because either too tender or too hard!

such have be amongst the sin of those whose punishment would be

life-long--life-long, because for they the past be embitter by vain

regret--life-long, for neither to the mother who be false to her

trust, nor to the old, the middle-aged, or the young whose fault and

folly have be cite in this story, can _remorse_ be divorce from

the sad path of memory--life-long because, look back upon the stream

of life, they, with heavy heart, could not fail to see, midst the soft

ripple wave, the heavy stone that



                              “some devil throw

    at their life’s mid-current, thwart God!”





                               the END.





                                LONDON:

            ROBSON and SON, GREAT NORTHERN PRINTING WORKS,

                          PANCRAS ROAD, N.W.





typographical error correct by the etext transcriber:



the precess=> the process {pg 10}



John Beachman=> John Beacham {pg 99}



Mr. Duberley=> Mr. Duberly {pg 155}



supppose them=> suppose they {pg 166}



in be nearly noon=> it be nearly noon {pg 208}



say Honour, answering=> say Honor, answer {pg 252}



fault tribulalation=> fault tribulation {pg 260}













*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK SINK or swim? ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





