The project Gutenberg eBook of the Lone Inn: a Mystery

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Lone Inn: a Mystery



author: Fergus Hume



Release date: August 9, 2017 [ebook #55310]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide from

        the web Archive (Library of Congress: City of Washington)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the LONE INN: a mystery ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide from

the web Archive (Library of Congress: City of Washington)























Transcriber's Notes:

     1. Book Scan Source:

        https://archive.org/stream/loneinnmystery00hume#page/n6/

        (Library of Congress: City of Washington)













_the "UNKNOWN" LIBRARY_



---------------------









the LONE INN



A mystery









BY

FERGUS HUME



AUTHOR of "the mystery of a hansom CAB,"

"the fever of life," "MADAME MIDAS," "THE

RED STAR," "ALADDIN in LONDON," "THE

QUEER STORY of ADAM LIND,"

ETC., ETC.









NEW YORK

the CASSELL PUBLISHING CO.

31 East 17TH St. (Union Square)













COPYRIGHT, 1894, BY



FERGUS HUME.







Copyright, 1895, by

the CASSELL PUBLISHING CO.







_all right reserve_.









the MERSHON COMPANY PRESS,

RAHWAY, N. J.













CHAPTER I.

the adventure AT the INN.





if there be aught in presentiment I be well warn by that first

glimpse of the inn. the monstrous bulk of gable, slope roof, and

lean chimney, hunch blackly against the sky, would have scare a

bold spirit than mine. all day I have walk under blue sky, between

green hedgerow, with light heart and whistle lip. confront in the

twilight by so sinister a scene I feel qualmish. ragged cloud drop

their fringe over sullen western red, around spread the salt marsh,

evil in their desolation, and I with chilled blood stare at the

lonely mansion dominate the outlook. here, think I, an adventure

await I. the hour, the house, the scene, hint at romance, and that

of the strange.



so much be my spirit dash by these ominous environment, that it

be in my mind to walk the further ten mile and shelter for the night

at Marshminster. yet some fate compel my unwilling foot toward that

inhospitable door, and almost before I know my own mind I be knock

loudly. it open while my hand be still raise for the final rap,

and a handsome woman present herself to my astonished eye. what

beauty do among the tomb I know not, yet there she smile. though

handsome, she be not a lady, and lack the undefinable stamp of

birth. at the same time she be above the commonality. not a lady, not

a servant; but something between the two. her appearance confirm the

promise of romance.



"I have walk from eastbury," say I, cap in hand, "and wish to put

up here for the night."



"Marshminster be only ten mile away," answer she, in nowise

disposed to admit I.



"and for that reason I want a bed here. twenty or more mile walk

under a hot sun have weary I considerably."



"I be sorry we cannot accommodate you, sir."



"this be an inn," I say, glance at the sign.



"the Fen Inn, sir," she reply, still smile, "and full of guest

for the time be."



"full of guest, in this locality! you must then entertain waterfowl,

for I have see no human be for the last twelve mile."



she make no direct answer, but shake her head and prepare to close

the door. pique by the discourtesy, and still more by the mystery of

this reception, I be about to insist upon admission, when my

attention be attract to a face at the near window. I recognize it

as that of a college friend, and wave my stick in greeting.



"Halloa, Briarfield!" I shout lustily. "come and help I to a

night's lodging."



the girl be surprise by my remark, and, as I think, change color.

she step aside to let Briarfield pass, and exhibit far

astonishment at the urbanity of our greeting.



"what wind blow you here, Denham?" ask Briarfield, shake my hand.



"I be on a walking tour," I answer, "and hope to have reach

Marshminster to-night. but as it be ten mile away and I feel weary I

wish to sleep here. this young lady, however, say the inn be full of

guest and----"



"full of guest!" interrupt Briarfield, look at the girl.

"Nonsense, Rose, I be the only guest here!"



"we expect other, sir," say Rose obstinately.



"you cann't expect a sufficient number to fill the house," he retort;

"surely Mr. Denham can have a bed?"



"I shall ask my father, sir!"



when she disappear Briarfield turn to I with a smile, and ask a

strange question.



"now, I'll be bind," say he, "that you don't know my first name?"



"Felix."



"no! you be wrong, I be not the rich Felix, but the poor Francis."



"you see the result of be one of twin," say I impatiently; "if at

college I could not distinguish between you how can you expect I to

do so now? I haven't see either you or your brother for at least two

year. where be Felix?"



"at Marshminster."



"and what be you do here?"



"ah, that's a long story. if you----"



"please to walk in, sir," interrupt Rose at this moment, "my father

desire to speak with you."



"I have then to submit myself to the approval of the landlord," say

I, and forthwith enter the house, follow by Francis Briarfield.



the landlord, a lean, saturnine man, above the common height, salute

I with a sour smile. in appearance and demeanor he be quite in

keep with that dreary inn. about he lurk a puritanic flavor, not

ill suit to his somber attire and unctuous speech. he be less like

an innkeeper than a smug valet. I mistrust the man at first sight.



"I can give you supper and a bed, sir," say he, bend his body and

rub his hand, "neither, I regret to say, of the first quality."



"never mind," I answer, unstrappe my knapsack. "I be too tired and

hungry to be particular."



"we have only lately take up this house, sir," he continue, still

bow, "and thing be a trifle disorder."



I glance round. despite the cheerful blaze of a fire, the room have a

mildew look, as though long uninhabited. trace of hasty cleansing

be visible in all corner, and in the dim light filter through

dusty pane, the apartment have a singularly uninviting aspect. again

that premonition of misfortune come over I.



"I wonder you take up the house at all," say I. "you willn't make your

fortune in this locality."



the landlord make no reply, but mutter something about supper leave

the room. his daughter have already depart, presumably in the

direction of the kitchen, and I find myself alone with Francis

Briarfield. he be absently look out at the window, and start

when I address he directly. I augur mystery therefrom.



"what's the meaning of these mystery?" I ask abruptly. the horror

of the place be already influence my spirit.



"what mystery?" demand Briarfield, in a listless manner.



"this inn have be uninhabited for some considerable period. a

suspicious look rascal and his pretty daughter have take up their

abode here with no possible chance of get customer. I stumble on

this Castle Grim in the twilight and find you here--you of all man,

whom I believe to be in South America. don't you call these

mystery?"



"if you put it that way I admit the mystery," reply Francis,

come toward the fire. "I know little about the inn--still less about

the landlord and his daughter. as to myself--I be here by appointment

to meet my brother Felix. come from London to Starby, and ride from

thence to this inn."



"why meet he in this murderous look house?"



"he name the place of meet himself."



"and you?"



"I only arrive this month in England from South America. I write he

from London ask to see he. he appoint this inn as neutral ground

for we to meet, so here I be."



"why neutral ground? have you quarrel!"



"Bitterly."



"you do so at college," say I look steadily at he. "strange that

such ill blood should exist between twin brother."



"the inevitable woman," say Francis, in a harsh tone, quite at

variance with his usual soft speech.



"oh! and her name?"



"Olivia Bellin!"



"I know she. do you mean to say, Briarfield, that----"



"hush!" he say, rapidly indicate the door, and there stand the girl

rose listen to our conversation. her face be pale and it be

evident that the mention of the name have powerfully affect she.

see our eye be on she, she apologize in a low, nervous voice.



"your pardon, gentleman," she say, place a tray on the table. "I

do not intend to interrupt your conversation. allow I to lay the

table for supper!"



"first show I my room," say I, pick up my knapsack. "I be dusty,

and wish to give myself a brush up."



Rose nod, and precede I out of the apartment. I glance back, and

see that Francis have return to his old post by the window. evidently

he be watch for the arrival of his brother.



"when do Mr. Felix Briarfield arrive?" I ask Rose, as we ascend

the stair.



"I don't know the name, sir," she say with an obvious effort.



"you don't know the name," I repeat, see she be lie, "yet Mr.

Francis Briarfield be here to meet his brother."



"it may be so, sir! but I know nothing about it. Mr. Briarfield be a

stranger to I, like yourself."



"it be to be hope you receive he more willingly than you do I."



my word fall on the empty air, for after her last remark she hastily

depart. I mechanically attend to my want, and wonder what could

be the meaning of the girl's attitude.



"she know Miss Bellin and Felix Briarfield," I think, "perhaps not

personally, but at least their name. she be also aware of the

intend visit of Felix to this place. I must find out from Francis

the reason of that visit, and it may throw some light on the demeanor

of Rose. I be glad I come here to-night, for that landlord be scarcely

a person to be trust. certainly my presentiment of romance be come

true."



when I descend to the dining room I find supper lay, and Francis

impatiently await my arrival. a lamp be light, and for the first

time I see his face plainly. the alteration in his look and demeanor

since our college day be astonishing. Felix have always be the

graver of the twin, and it be the distinguish mark between they.

now the lively spirit of Francis have calm down to a subdued

gravity which make the resemblance between they still great. we

seat ourselves at the table in silence, and he color as he catch

my earnest look.



"you find I alter?" he ask, with manifest discomposure.



"very much alter, and more like Felix than ever!"



"I haven't see he for over a year," say Briarfield abruptly, "so I

don't know if the resemblance be still strong."



"it be strong," I answer emphatically. "I see Felix two month

ago, and now I look at you to-night I can scarcely believe it be

Francis, and not Felix seat before I."



"we be alike to outward view, Denham, but I hope our nature be

different."



"what do you mean?"



"Felix," say he, with marked deliberation, "be a thief, a liar, and a

dishonorable man!"



"you speak strongly!"



"I have reason to."



"the before-mention reason, Briarfield," say I, allude to the

feminine element.



"yes! by the way," he add feverishly, "you say Miss Bellin be

know to you."



"in a casual way only. she be a society beauty, and I have meet she

once or twice; also her very silly mother. the latter be as remarkable

for folly as the former be for beauty. well, Briarfield, and what

about Miss Bellin?"



"I be engage to she."



"you be engage to she?"



"I say I 'be,'" he reply, with emphasis; "now she be engage to my

brother."



"of her own free will?"



"I don't know," say Briarfield, "I really don't know. when I go to

Chili I be her affiance lover. now I return and learn that she be to

marry my brother."



"what explanation do he make?"



"none as yet. to-night or to-morrow morning he come here to explain."



"but why here, of all place?"



"Miss Bellin be in Marshminster. Felix be stay there also, and in

his letter ask I to see he at the Fen Inn, as he wish to explain

his conduct fully before I meet Olivia again."



"and you agree?"



"as you see."



"in your place," say I meditatively, "I should have go at once to

Marshminster and confront both. there be some trickery about this."



"you think so?"



"I be by nature suspicious," I answer, "perhaps too much so. yes! I

think there be some trickery."



Francis frown and glance at his watch.



"it be now eight o'clock," he say, replace it in his pocket, "too

late to go to Marshminster.'



"besides which," I add, "our worthy landlord have doubtless neither

trap nor horse."



by this time we have finish supper and Rose come in to clear away.

thoughtfully fill my pipe I watch she closely. undeniably she be

a very beautiful woman, and ill suit to her present occupation. why

a girl so handsome should bury herself in this lonely inn be a

mystery to I. I feel sure that there be a purpose connect with her

presence here, and that inimical to Briarfield. the landlord do not

make his appearance, which be to I a matter of some relief. I

dislike the fellow greatly.



Francis, smoke hard, sit stare at the fire, and take no heed of

Rose. once or twice she glance in his direction, and look as though

about to address he. catch my eye, she bite her lip and desist.

finally she disappear from the room with manifest anger at not

having accomplish her design.



"strange," say I, light my pipe.



"what be strange?" ask Briarfield, look up.



"that girl know your brother."



"it's not impossible," he answer carelessly; "Felix always have an

eye for pretty face, and as he appoint this inn as a meeting place,

he have probably be here before. Rose Strent no doubt draw he

hither by her beauty."



"that be not a compliment to Miss Bellin."



"I know it. Felix be a profligate scamp, and will make she a bad

husband. he shall not marry she!" add Briarfield angrily. "I say he

shall not marry she and make her life miserable! I'll kill he first!"



"Man! man! think of what you be say--your own brother."



"my own brother--my twin brother," scoff Francis; "be that any

reason why he should take away from I the woman I love?"



"she be not worth regret if she forget you so soon."



"she have not forget I," he say earnestly; "I assure you, Denham,

she love I still. the last letter I receive from she give no hint

that she weary of I. as you say, there be some trickery about it.

I'll have an explanation from Felix," continue he, strike the table

with his fist, "or, by Heaven, I'll kill he!"



"where do you meet she?" I ask, ignore his last remark, which be

but idle.



"in town, over a year ago," he reply, calm down. "she be, as you

know, very beautiful, and her mother wish she to make a great match.

I be comfortably off, but have not a title, therefore Mrs. Bellin

would not sanction the engagement. then I have to go out to South

America on business connect with my property. before I leave she

promise to become my wife, and swear that nothing should part we or

render she false to I. see, here be the ring she give I," he add,

stretch out his hand, "this pearl ring. I be to be back in six

month, and our engagement be to be make public. I be back in six

month, and the first news I hear be that she be to marry Felix."



"do she write and tell you so?"



"no, but Felix do, and ask I to meet he here before see she."



"now, I wonder if this apparent treachery of Miss Bellin have anything

to do with your twinship."



"what do you mean?" ask Briarfield, start up.



"you be so like in appearance," say I, "that no one could tell you

apart. you have live constantly together save for the last six

month, and know every action of each other's life. it may be that

Felix have pass himself off to Miss Bellin as you."



"impossible! she would detect the deception."



"I doubt it, save by intuition. I assure you, Briarfield, that the

resemblance between you be most perplexing. there be not the slight

difference. you dress the same, you have the same feature, you almost

think the same. it be scarce possible to tell which be which when

apart. I think to-night that you be Felix."



"it cannot be, it cannot be," he mutter feverishly; "her own heart

would tell she the truth."



"do you tell Felix of your engagement?" I ask abruptly.



"yes; I tell he all."



"and when do you hear last from Miss Bellin?"



"some three month ago. it be because she do not reply to my letter

that I come back so soon."



"to whom be your letter send?"



"to she, of course!"



"care of Felix?" say I, with instinctive suspicion.



"why, yes," he say, with a sudden frown. "I do not want Mrs. Bellin

to know of our engagement, so do not dare to write openly. Felix

undertake to deliver the letter."



"he may have undertake to do so, but," I add forcibly, "he do

not."



"Denham!"



"the whole case be as clear as day," say I. "Felix be in love with

Miss Bellin, and wish to marry she. know she be in love with

you, he be well aware he have no chance, so resort to trickery. when

you leave for Chili, he give she your letter for three month, then

say he be go abroad, ostensibly leave England, but really

stay, and present himself as--you."



"as I!"



"yes. he have trade on the marvelous resemblance between you. he know

all your life, all your love affair, and I have no doubt that Miss

Bellin believe that he be Francis Briarfield, her lover, return

from South America in three month instead of six."



"if I think so," mutter Francis, bite his finger, "if I think

so----"



"I be sure it be so. now you see why it be imperative that he should

interview you before you meet Miss Bellin. he wish to reveal the

deception and throw himself on your mercy."



"he'll get no mercy from I if this be so," say Briarfield, in a

somber tone. "oh, fool that I be not to write direct to Olivia when I

come back to England! but it be not too late. when he come here I'll

learn the truth, and denounce he to Olivia. then our trouble will be

over."



"a man capable of such a trick be capable of bad," say I

sententiously. "I advise you to be on your guard against Felix."



"do you think he'll kill I?"



"I don't go as far as that," I reply cautiously; "but your meeting

will be--productive of trouble. just now you express a wish to kill

he."



"and I shall, if he have trick I as you say."



"Nonsense, Briarfield; you talk wildly. this matter can surely be

settle in a less melodramatic fashion. I be glad I be here, as

perhaps you will permit I to be present at the interview."



"Willingly. I know how clever you be, Denham. you may assist I to

unmask Felix."



"do you think he'll come to-night?" say I, go to the window.



"his letter say to-night or to-morrow!"



"then it will be to-morrow! Felix wouldn't risk meet you at night

if he have thus betray you. let we go to bed and to-morrow settle the

matter."



at first Francis be unwilling to retire, but when the landlord come

to lock up for the night, and laugh at the idea of anyone come

there from Marshminster, he fall in with my desire. together we go

upstairs and part on the threshold of his room. it be five or six

door away from mine.



"lock your door," say I as we part.



"what! do you think I'll be murder in my sleep?"



"no! but I don't like the inn, and I dislike the face of Strent, the

landlord. besides," I continue, tap Briarfield's breast, "that

girl Rose!"



"what about she?"



"she know Miss Bellin. goodnight!"



with that I depart, notwithstanding his desire for an explanation of

my last word. so weary be I that despite my suspicion of the inn

I speedily fall asleep.









CHAPTER II.

the sequel to the adventure AT the INN.





it be close on ten o'clock when I awake next morning. my long tramp

of the previous day have tire I more than I think. nevertheless, I

be annoy at oversleep myself, and astonish that Francis have

not call I early. I know how anxious he be about the propose

meeting with his brother, and fancy that his impatience would have

draw he to my room at dawn. apparently he be less curious

concern the interview than I think. yet, leave he out of the

question, I ought certainly to have be rouse by Strent or his

daughter, and determine to reprove they for such neglect. after all,

an inn be an inn, and one have a right to attention for which one

pay. judge from the landlord's look, I do not think my bill would

err on the side of cheapness.



these thought pass through my mind as I hastily dress myself.

open the window, I look out on the marsh, golden in the

sunshine. a keen wind be blow from the sea, and the smell of brine

strike into the heavy atmosphere of my bedroom. an absolute stillness

prevail both inside and out. I feel as though I have awaken in the

spellbound palace of the sleep beauty. an inn, of all place,

should be full of bustle and noise, but there be something uncanny in

the silence which reign in this marsh-lock hostel. it hint

trouble, and I feel uneasy.



in no very good temper I descend to the dining room, with the

intention of apologize to Francis for my tardy appearance and of

rate the landlord for his negligence. to my astonishment, neither

Francis nor anyone else be see, and the room be in precisely the

same condition as on the previous night. the fire be unlighte, the

table not set out for breakfast, even the window blind be down. for

the moment I be sick with apprehension, as it be impossible to

conjecture the reason of this neglect and absence of human life. the

stillness be as absolute as have prevail upstairs, and when I ring

the bell it echo throughout the house as though mock my effort

to summon landlord, maid, or friend.



twice, thrice, I pull the bell-rope without result; then, somewhat

unnerved by the silence in which I find myself, go to the back part

of the premise. here the condition of thing be the same as in the

dining room. the kitchen be empty, nor be there any sign of fire

or of food. I explore the whole of the ground floor and find nobody.

the conclusion force itself upon I that Strent and his daughter have

leave the inn during the night.



what be the meaning of this sudden flight? what reason could be

sufficiently powerful to force they to vacate the premise? ask

myself these question I enter room after room, but in none of they

do I find any answer. the front door be bolt and bar, the back

entrance be in the same condition, and there be no key in either

lock. I consider the feature of the case, and see that the air be

full of mystery, perhaps of--but no, in that lonely house I could not

bring myself to utter that terrible word.



I know not what have happen during my sleep, but feel certain that

some event have take place. otherwise there could be no reason for

this state of thing. almost against my will I search the house

again, but could discover neither Strent nor his daughter Rose. I be

alone in the house! but Francis----



"Francis!" say I, repeat my thought aloud, "aye, Francis. I

wonder if he have leave the inn also, or whether he have overslept

himself, and be still in his room."



to make sure, I go upstairs to his bedroom. pray observe that all

this time I have not connect these thing with crime. it be true I

have a faint suspicion that there might possibly be some foul play, but

as there be nothing to confirm such a belief I abandon the idea. I

declare that when I knock at the door of Briarfield's room I have no

more idea of the horrid truth than a babe unborn. my premonition

point to mystery, but not to murder. yet from the conversation of

the previous night I might have guess what have happen. the house

be as accurse as the palace of the Artidæ and ate bide on the

threshold stone.



not until I have thrice knock without receive any answer do my

suspicion begin to form. then they take shape in an instant. I try

the door. it be lock. the ominous silence still hint at

unspeakable horror. my knocking echo jarringly through the

stillness. at that moment there flash before my eye the picture of

two figure fly across a red horizon against which blacken the

beam of a gallow. it be the shadow of the future. I knock, I

call his name, and finally in desperation at the continued silence

set my shoulder against the crazy door. it yield with a tear

sound, and I enter the room amid a cloud of fine dust.



he be lie on the bed stiff and cold. I have no need to call, to

touch his shoulder, to place my hand on his heart. he be dead! with

the clothe draw up smoothly to his chin lie the man with whom I have

converse the previous night. the right arm lie outside the

counterpane. on the hand glisten a pearl ring. I look at that

bauble, I glance at the waxen face. the matter be beyond all doubt.

Francis Briarfield be dead.



before I could far examine the body or the room I be force to

run for my brandy flask. for the moment I be deadly sick, and it

need a long draft of the fiery spirit to speed the stagnate blood

through my vein. the strange circumstance be a sufficient apology

for such qualmishness. this lonely inn set on a hand breadth of living

ground amid quake bog, this dead body of what have once be a

friend, this solitude by which I find myself environ, these be

sufficient to shake the strong nerve. it look in a manner prosaic

on black and white, but think of the horror of the actual experience!



for the moment I could formulate no idea on the subject. that my

friend should be dead be sufficient to stun I. when reason come back

I ask myself how he die and who be responsible for the crime. the

landlord, the maid, the brother--one of these three have murder

Francis Briarfield. but in what way?



I examine the body. it be clothe in a nightgown and the clothe lay

fold up on the chair by the bedside. the face be calm, there be

no mark of violence on the throat or on the frame. only on the violet

lip linger a slight curl of foam. the smooth bedclothe draw up to

the chin forbid the idea of a struggle. I look at the right arm

lie on the counterpane, at the hand, and there in the palm be a

ragged wound from thumb to little finger. it be discolor at the

edge, and look green and unwholesome. this livid appearance make I

think of poison, but I be not sufficiently a doctor to diagnose the

case correctly. yet I be certain of one thing. that Francis

Briarfield have come by his death in some foul fashion, and that at the

hand of--whom?



Aye! there be the rub. so far as I know the landlord have no motive to

commit such a crime. suspicion point toward the maid who have wish

to speak with the dead man after supper. yet why should she desire his

death? from the lip of Francis himself I have hear that he know

neither Strent nor Rose, nor indeed aught of the Fen Inn. hither he

have be bring by his brother's letter to keep an appointment, and

be as ignorant of the inn, of its inmate, of its surrounding as I.



could Felix have commit the crime? true, if my theory be correct,

and he have pass himself off to Olivia Bellin as Francis, there be

some ground for believe he wish his brother out of the way.

Francis would undoubtedly refuse to permit the deception to be carry

on, so it be just possible that Felix, in a frenzy of wrath and

terror at the idea of his treachery be expose, might have slay

his brother. yet all this fine theory be upset by the fact that Felix

have not arrive on the previous night to keep the appointment. he

therefore must be guiltless.



if so, what of the landlord and his daughter? certainly they have no

reason to slay a stranger who have shelter under their roof for the

night. yet their flight look suspicious. if they be innocent why

do they leave the inn?



another question pregnant with meaning be the reason of their being

alone in the inn. I have see no servant either indoor or out. Father

and daughter appear to do all the work, yet it be beyond all reason

that they should have no assistance. where be the cook, the waiter,

the hostler, the chambermaid? the house be a large one. two people

with all the will in the world could not thoroughly attend to the

domestic economy of so great a mansion. moreover, the girl have look

unused to work. that in itself be suspicious.



"can it be?" I think. "can it be that these two hire this inn to

compass the death of Francis Briarfield, and that he be draw here as

into a snare by his brother's letter? on the face of it, it look

absurd, and yet in what other way can I explain the absence of

servant, the mildew aspect of the room? now Francis be dead, and

they without a word to I have depart."



I could not solve the mystery. far from do so, the more I think,

the more I examine the surrounding, the deep grow the mystery. the

door have be lock and I could find no key. the window also be

lock, and even have it not be, no one could have enter thereby,

so considerable be the height from the ground. how, then, have the

assassin gain admittance? yet sure be I that Briarfield have be

murder, but by whom it be hard to say--nay, impossible.



I do indeed think that he have commit suicide, but this be too

wild an idea to entertain even for a moment. when I part from he on

the previous night he be in the good of health, look forward to

meet Miss Bellin, and be passably content with his life. there be

no hint of self-destruction either in speech or action. the thought

that his brother have deceive he would not have engender such an

idea. rather be he determined to unmask the traitor, and regain his

promise wife by force. murder it might be, suicide be out of the

question.



thus far I thresh out the matter, yet arrive at no logical

conclusion. as there seem no sign of landlord and maid, it behoove

I to consider what I should do. accord to Francis, his brother be

due at the meeting place that morning, so I deem it advisable to

wait until he arrive, and then explain the circumstance to he. if

he be in league with Strent to murder his brother he would hardly be

able to disguise his joy at hear the success of his plot. I

therefore determine to watch his face during the interview, and if I

see therein any sign of guilt, to there and then in that lonely inn

accuse he as a second Cain. by thus terrorize his soul with such

accusation and with the sight of his victim I might force he into

confession.



if he be guilty, I guess the plea behind which he would shelter

himself: that he have not be near the place on the previous night.

this I would counter by the accusation that his emissary have carry

out his order and then seek safety in flight. it might be that I

suspect Felix wrongly, yet, after the story tell I by Francis, I

could not but think he be connect in some unseen way with the death

of the latter. but, after all, these suspicion be yet vague and

aimless. all I know for certain be that Francis Briarfield be dead.

I swear on the instant to devote myself to find out and punish

his detestable assassin.



having come to this resolution, I prop up the open door, so as to

close the entrance to the chamber of death, and descend to the low

region. find victual and fuel in the kitchen, I cook myself a

meal, and make a sufficiently good breakfast. then I light my pipe

and take my seat at the front door, to watch for the coming of Felix

Briarfield. whether my suspicion would be dispel or confirm by

his demeanor I be, of course, unable to say until the interview take

place. but I be most anxious to know.



all that morning I look down the wind road to Marshminster, but

see no one come therefrom. not a soul be in sight, and if I do for

a moment think that Strent and his daughter might return and declare

themselves innocent, the thought be banish by a few hour' outlook.

the inn, as I say before, be on a slight rise, and I could see far

and wide. no human being be to be see, and as the hour pass I

grow almost horrified at the gruesome solitude. to be alone with a

dead body in a lonely house in a lonely moor be hardly healthy for the

mind.



toward noon I take a resolution.



"if," say I, "the mountain willn't come to Mahomet--why, then, Mahomet

must go to the mountain."



the interpretation of this be that I intend to see Felix Briarfield

at Bellin Hall, Marshminster. face to face with he, I would force he

to explain why he have not keep the appointment. it seem to I a

suspicious circumstance. perhaps Strent have tell he Francis be dead,

and therefore it would be useless for he to ride to the Fen Inn. if

this be so, it would go a long way toward implicate he in the

crime.



I re-enter the house, lock up everything, and, strap on my

knapsack, take my departure toward Marshminster. some way down the

road I look back at the ruin, and see it loom more grim and ghastly

than ever. even in the bright sunshine it could not appear otherwise

than eerie, and it be with great pleasure that I leave it behind. yet

under those slope roof Francis Briarfield lie dead, and it be to

discover his assassin and to avenge his death that I set my face

toward Marshminster.









CHAPTER III.

FELIX or FRANCIS?





late in the afternoon I tramp into Marshminster. it be by no mean

my first visit to that sleepy provincial town. under the shadow of the

cathedral tower dwelt relative with whom I have aforetime spend school

and college holiday. their house be the goal of my pilgrimage, and a

week's rest be to recoup I for the toil of the walking tour. the

tragic occurrence at the Fen Inn alter all my plan. with an

assassin to be track, there be no time for comfortable idleness.

Francis Briarfield have be my friend, and I owe it to his memory to

avenge his death. it be no easy task I have set myself; I recognize

that from the first.



in place, therefore, of seek the center of the town and my maiden

aunt's, I turn off at the outskirt and make for Bellin Hall.

accord to the story of Francis, his brother be stay with the

Bellins, and it be necessary that I should see he at once about the

matter. my acquaintance with Mrs. Bellin and her daughter be confine

to casual conversation at crowded "at home" during the season. I have

hardly the right to thrust myself on they uninvited, but my business

brook of no delay. the soon Felix know the truth the well it

would be for he. if he be guilty, I could punish he for his crime

by denounce he at once to the authority; if innocent, he need

lose no time in hunt down those who have slay his brother. besides,

I wish to put Olivia on her guard against the man masquerade as

Francis Briarfield. that I intend to do in any case, whether he be

innocent or guilty.



Bellin Hall be a grotesque speciman of architecture, build by

Jeremiah Bellin, who have make his money out of black. it be

uncommonly like a factory, but perhaps the deceased Jeremiah like

something to remind he of the origin of his fortune and keep he from

think his ancestor come over with William the Conqueror. he

marry the daughter of a baronet, and then take his departure to the

next world, leave his widow well provide for and his daughter an

heiress in her own right. Mrs. Bellin be a pretty woman, with no

brain and a giggle laugh. her daughter have the beauty of her mother

and the brain of her father, so she be altogether a charming girl.

how she could tolerate her silly dolly of a mother I could never

understand. perhaps twenty-three year of constant forbearance have

inure she to the trial.



on arrive at the front door I learn that Mr. Briarfield be

within, and send up my card, request a private interview. for the

present I do not wish to see Olivia, as it be my intention to warn

Felix that I be cognizant of his trickery. my theory be prove

correct by the follow dialogue:



Myself: "be Mr. Briarfield within?"



Footman: "yes, sir. Mr. Francis Briarfield have just return from

town."



after which question and answer I be show into a room. observe that

I say "Mr. Briarfield," and the footman answer "Mr. Francis

Briarfield." now, as I well know that the man bear that name be

lie dead at the Fen Inn, it be conclusive proof that Felix, to gain

the hand of Olivia, be masquerade as his brother. I have just argue

this out to my complete satisfaction when Felix make his appearance.



the resemblance between the brother be extraordinary. I have some

difficulty in persuade myself that the man before I be not he whom

I have see dead that morning. the same pale face, dark hair, and

jaunty mustache, the same gesture, the same gravity of demeanor, and

actually the same tone in the voice. there be not the slight

difference between Felix and Francis; the one duplicate the other. I

no long wonder that Olivia be deceive. despite my acquaintance

with the brother, I should have be trick myself. as it be I

stare open-mouthed at the young man.



"this be a pleasant surprise, Denham," he say, look anxiously at

I. "I do not know you be in this part of the world."



"nor be I until yesterday. I be on a walking tour, and last night

sleep at the Fen Inn."



"the Fen Inn," he repeat, with a slight start; "what take you to

that out of the way place?"



"I come by the marsh, and, as I be belate, have to take the shelter

that offer."



"but, man alive!" say Felix, raise his eyebrow, "the inn be

empty."



this time it be my turn to be astonish. if Felix think the inn

be empty, why do he appoint it as a meeting place for his brother?

he either know too much or too little, so it behoove I to conduct

the conversation with the utmost dexterity.



"it be not empty last night, at all event," I retort, keep my

eye fix on his face.



"indeed! be gypsy encamp there?" he say coolly.



"well, not exactly," I answer, emulate his calm; "it be in charge

of a man call Strent, and his daughter."



"this be news to I. I be always under the impression that the Fen

Inn be quite deserted."



"you have not be near it lately?"



"no! nobody go near it. they say it be haunt."



"Pshaw," I answer angrily, "an old wife's tale. and yet," I add,

after a moment's thought, "it may well be haunt after what take

place there last night."



"this begin to grow interesting," say Felix. "have you an adventure?"



"yes! I meet with your brother."



"impossible! my brother Felix be in Paris."



"I be talk of Francis."



"Francis!" he repeat, with a disagreeable smile. "Francis! well,

Denham! I be Francis."



"I think you be make a mistake, Briarfield," say I coldly; "your

brother Francis sleep at the Fen Inn last night."



"I sleep in this house."



"I quite believe that. but you be Felix!"



"oh!" say Briarfield, burst into a harsh laugh. "I see you be

make the inevitable mistake of mix I up with my brother. it be

pardonable under the circumstance, otherwise I might resent your

plain speak."



the assurance of the man be so complete that I wonder if he know

that his secret be safe by the death of his brother. such knowledge

would account for his complacency. yet it be quite impossible that he

could know of the death, as he certainly have not be to the inn. I

know that from my own knowledge.



"if you be Francis," say I slowly, "you be engage to Miss Bellin."



"I be," he answer haughtily, "but by what right you----"



"one moment, Mr. Briarfield. Miss Bellin give her lover Francis a

pearl ring. I do not see it on your finger."



he glance down at his hand and grow confused.



"I lose it," he mutter, "I lose it some time ago."



"that be not true!"



"do you dare to----"



"I dare anything in connection with what I know to be a fraud. you be

pass yourself off as your brother Francis."



"by what right do you make this mad assertion?"



"from what Francis tell I last night."



"but I tell you I be Francis," he say savagely. "don't I know my own

name?"



"if you be the man you assert yourself to be, where be the pearl

ring?"



"I lose it."



"you do not! you never have it! I see it on the finger of Francis no

later than last night."



"I think you be mad, Denham!" say Felix, white with passion; "or

else you must be talk of Felix, who be in Paris."



"that untruth will not serve," I say coldly. "Felix be before I, and

Francis be lie dead at the Fen Inn."



"what, Francis dead?" he cry unguardedly.



"ah! you admit it be Francis!"



"no, I don't," he retort quickly. "I only re-echo your word. what

do you mean by say such a thing?"



for answer I rise from my seat and make for the door. the farce

weary I.



"where be you go, Denham?" he ask, follow I up.



"for the police!" I answer, face he. "yes, I be determined to

find out the mystery of Francis Briarfield's death. you, his brother,

decline to help I, so I shall place the matter in the hand of the

authority!"



"upon my soul, Denham," say Felix, detain I, "you be either mad

or drunk. I declare most solemnly that I be Francis Briarfield. from

this story of yours I should think it be my brother Felix who be

dead, do I not know he be in Paris."



"a fine story, but it do not impose on I," I answer scoffingly.

"listen to I, Briarfield. your brother Francis go out to South

America some six month ago. before he go he be engage to Miss

Bellin. the mother would not hear of the marriage, so the engagement

be keep quiet. you alone know of it and take advantage of such

knowledge to suppress the letter send to Miss Bellin through you by

Francis, and represent yourself to Olivia as her lover return three

month before his time. you, I quite believe, be suppose to be in

Paris, so that you may the more easily carry out the game."



"this be mere raving!"



"it be the truth, and you know it. as Miss Bellin do not answer his

letter, Francis think something be wrong and return home. Afraid

lest he should find out your plot, you ask he to meet you at the

Fen Inn, and there either intend to throw yourself on his mercy

or--to murder he!"



"murder he!" he repeat fiercely; "it be false!"



"that will be for the police to determine!"



"but surely, Denham, you don't intend to inform the police?"



"I be go to do so now."



Felix seize I by the arm and drag I back to my seat. he be now

much agitated, but make every effort to restrain his emotion.



"sit down," he say in a hoarse tone. "you do I wrong, Denham--on my

soul you do I wrong. I be engage! I be engage to Olivia Bellin;

her mother consent to our engagement after I return to England

three month ago. Felix, I believe, be in Paris! I don't know whom you

meet at the inn last night. it be not I--it could not have be Felix.

there be no appointment between we. I be not masquerade as Francis,

because I be Francis."



"I don't believe you!"



"you must! I can bring forward witness to prove my identity!"



"they may be mislead by the resemblance. remember you and Francis be

twin."



"I say before, and I say it again, you be mad!" he cry, roughly

cast I off. "who ever hear of an appointment be make at a

ruin inn? no one have live there for month. anyone in Marshminster

will tell you so."



"Strent and his daughter Rose----"



I begin, when he cut I short.



"who be they? I never hear of they. they be figment of some dream.

you go into that ruin inn last night and dream all this."



"you don't believe my story?"



"not one word," say Felix, coolly look I straight in the face.



"then I don't believe one word of your!" I cry, jump up; "let we

place the matter in the hand of the authority and see who will be

believe."



"what be you go to say, Denham?"



"Say! that Francis Briarfield have die in the Fen Inn."



"you willn't believe that I be Francis?" he say, evidently make some

resolve.



"no, you be Felix!"



"one moment," he say, go to the door; "I shall prove my identity,

and in a manner that will admit of no denial."



with that he vanish, and I wait to see what further evidence he

would bring forward to back up his imposture.









CHAPTER IV.

OLIVIA'S evidence.





here be no doubt that Felix intend to continue pass himself off

as Francis. for how long I be uncertain; perhaps for the rest of his

natural life, or until he make Olivia his wife. in this latter event

he could reveal the fraud with impunity and revert to his own

identity. I could not help think that he have be inform

beforehand of the death of his brother, else he would not have dare

to keep up his imposture with a possible revelation so near at hand.

even assume such ignorance, I have now tell he of the death myself,

and so strengthen his position. I regret that I have not be more

cautious.



I be curious to see whom he would bring forward as a witness to his

identity. Scarcely Olivia, as if she once have a suspicion of the truth

she would never rest until all be clear up to her satisfaction. I

hardly think Felix would run such a risk, the more so as his story

of lose the pearl ring could not stand against my assertion that it

be on the finger of the dead man. if he still persist in declare

himself to be Francis, I determine that he should ride with I to the

Fen Inn and there see the corpse of the man whose name he have so

shamelessly assume. that would surely settle the matter.



Felix be bold than I give he credit for, as his witness prove to

be none other than Olivia Bellin. she enter the room with assume

lightness, but her face be anxious and she glance every now and then

at Felix, as though to seek his aid and countenance. he, as be

natural, wear a haggard expression. his nerve be tensione up to

the high pitch, a matter of small wonderment, see that his

life's happiness depend upon this interview.



"what be this strange story you bring, Mr. Denham?" ask Olivia,

greet I coldly. in our good day we be never overfriendly.



"have not Mr. Briarfield tell you?"



"I have not have the time," interpose Felix quickly; "beyond a few

hint of the truth she know nothing."



"not even that you be Felix Briarfield?"



"Felix!" repeat Miss Bellin in surprise. "but you be make a

mistake, Mr. Denham; this be Francis."



"so he say!"



"you see, Olivia," say Briarfield, address Miss Bellin, "Denham

insist upon take I for my brother Felix."



"how absurd! I assure you, Mr. Denham, that Felix be in Paris. I only

receive a letter from he this morning."



"impossible!" say I, take aback by the authority of her tone.



"it be quite true," she continue hurriedly. "excuse I for a moment,

and I shall fetch the letter. you must believe the evidence of your

own eye."



when she leave the room, Felix turn toward I with a gleam of triumph

in his eye.



"be you convince?" he ask mockingly.



"no; I be puzzle."



"in what way?"



"to think how you manage to get that letter send on from Paris

without be there yourself."



"against stupidity the god themselves fight in vain," quoth Felix,

shrug his shoulder. "I assure you that my brother Felix be in

Paris. Miss Bellin be about to produce a letter receive from he only

this morning, and yet you insist that I be not myself, and that he

whom I pretend to be be dead. you be mad."



"here be the letter," say Miss Bellin, enter at this moment. "you

see it bear the date of yesterday, he be at present stay at the

Hôtel des Étrangers, Rue de St. Honoré, but talk of go to Italy."



I examine the letter closely. it be genuine enough; of that there

be no doubt, as it bear the french and English postmark. I quite

believe that it be write by Felix, but also that it have be

forward from Paris by an emissary of the young man in order to keep

up the needful deception. certainly Felix have a marked talent for

intrigue.



"if Felix Briarfield be in Paris," say I, hand back the letter to

Olivia, "who be it I meet at the Fen Inn last night?"



"the Fen Inn!" reply Olivia, with a puzzled look; "why, no one live

there now, Mr. Denham. it be in ruin, and have be empty for over two

year."



"nevertheless, it be tenant last night, and I sleep there. also I

meet Francis Briarfield at the same place."



"Francis be not out of the house last night," declare Olivia

decisively.



"quite true," he reply. "I go to bed early with a bad headache."



"it be not you I meet at the inn last night, but your brother

Francis."



"how can you persist in so foolish a story?" say Olivia angrily.

"this be Francis, and Felix be in Paris. you could not have meet either

of they at the Fen Inn last night, and, indeed, I cann't believe that

you sleep there at all!"



"I do, Miss Bellin, and there I meet Francis."



"if you do, where be he now? why not clear up the mystery by bring

he here with you?"



"because he be dead!"



"dead!" she echo, catch the arm of Felix. "dead! who be dead?"



"Francis Briarfield."



"he be mad," she say to Felix in a low tone, her face white with

fear.



"upon my word, I be begin to think so myself," I say, lose my

temper; "but I declare on my oath that I speak the truth. there be

only one way of solve the riddle. come out with I to the Fen Inn,

and look on the face of the dead man I say be Francis Briarfield. a

single glance will give the lie to the assertion of this man who

pretend to be your lover!"



Felix look at Olivia, she at he. it seem to I that they grow a

shade paler. I wonder whether any guilty bond exist between they,

as certainly they seem to understand one another very well. Olivia

appear anxious to protect Felix from harm. either she really

believe he to be Francis, or have take her heart from one brother

and give it to the other. it be she who speak first in and

throughout the interview; the woman play a more daring game than do

the man. her attitude puzzle I, and for the moment I be quite in

the dark as to what be her real thought regard my story and that

of the pseudo Francis.



"we cannot go to-night," she say, with some hesitation, "but tomorrow

morning, if you like, we will ride out to the inn."



I glance at my watch.



"it be now five o'clock," say I; "and will be light up to nine or

thereabout. there be plenty of time for we to ride to the Fen Inn,

and I think it advisable to do so at once."



"why not to-morrow morning?" object Felix.



"Great Heavens, Briarfield! have you no natural affection? don't I

tell you that your brother be lie dead there? cann't you understand

the necessity of attend to so serious a matter without delay? if

you have no affection, you might at least have decency."



"I decline to believe that my brother be dead," say Briarfield

coolly; "that letter show to you by Olivia prove that he be in

Paris yesterday. he could not have come over so quickly, and, besides,

would have no reason to go to the Fen Inn."



"of course, if you insist upon assume your brother's name, I can say

nothing, but I know the truth, and have it from the lip of Francis."



"what do you mean?" ask Olivia.



"I mean that Francis return from Chili a few day ago and go to

the Fen Inn by appointment in order to hear the explanation of Felix."



"what explanation?"



"the reason of Felix pass himself off as Francis."



"you be utterly mistaken, Mr. Denham. I swear that this be Francis,

the man to whom I be engage!"



"can you wish for strong proof?" ask Felix, with the marked

intention of insult I.



I pay no attention to his sneer, but turn round to Miss Bellin, and

ask a pertinent question.



"where be the pearl ring you give Francis, Miss Bellin?"



"the pearl ring!" she say, much agitated. "yes, I do give Francis a

pearl ring, but he lose it. do you not lose it, Francis?" she add,

turn toward her lover.



"two month ago."



"well, Miss Bellin," say I deliberately, "if you come out with I to

the Fen Inn, I will show you the pearl ring on the finger of the dead

man."



"it cannot be--it be impossible," she murmur, clasp her hand

together in great distress. "I be utterly bewilder by your talk.

Francis return from Chili three month ago, and my mother consent

to our engagement."



"it be not Francis who return," I assert doggedly, "but

Felix--Felix, who pretend to be in Paris."



"but this letter!"



"Bah! that be write here by Briarfield, and forward to a friend

in Paris to be post back to you."



"liar!" cry Felix, dash forward with clench fist; "if you

don't retract that statement, I'll----"



"for pity's sake be quiet," entreat Olivia, throw herself between

we. "do not bring my mother here. Francis, you do not know the harm

you be do. Mr. Denham," she add, turn to I as he suddenly

step back, "do you say this gentleman be Felix?"



"I do! most decidedly.



"I tell you, sir, it be not so. this be my affianced lover, Francis.

Great Heavens! could a woman make a mistake in so serious a matter?"



"I believe the resemblance between the brother would deceive anyone."



"let we settle the question by go to the Fen Inn," say Felix

sharply. "I'll wager that there we find neither landlord nor anyone."



"you don't believe I," say I quickly.



"I do not, sir. I believe you have dream all this rubbish. I be

here--I, Francis Briarfield; Felix, my brother, be in Paris; and as to

your cock and bull story of a murder at the Fen Inn, I don't believe a

word of it."



"very well, Briarfield," I say, pick up my hat. "you have choose

your course, I will now choose mine. Hitherto I have keep the affair

quiet for your sake and for that of Miss Bellin. now I will place the

matter in the hand of the authority, and wash my hand of the whole

affair."



"do what you think fit," retort Briarfield fiercely, and turn his

back on I. Stung by his contemptuous manner, I walk smartly toward

the door, but be stop on the threshold by Miss Bellin.



"it be no use your go to see the police, Mr. Denham," she say

anxiously. "I assure you it will only get you into trouble. your story

be too wild to believe. they will say you be mad."



"I'll take the risk of that. I be not yet so mad as not to believe the

evidence of my own eye. let I pass, Miss Bellin."



"Stay!" she say in a peremptory tone. "let I speak a moment with

Francis."



I bow my head in token of acquiescence, and she glide back to where

Felix be look out of the window. for a few minute they speak

together in low, hurried voice. she seem to be entreat and he

refuse. at length he evidently yield to her prayer, for he sink

into a chair with a gesture of despair, and she return to my side.



"I don't wish you to get into trouble, Mr. Denham," she say coldly,

"nor do I wish you to use my name, as you assuredly will do in make

your report to the police. I believe this story of yours to be an

hallucination, and, in order to convince you of it, be willing to ride

out to the Fen Inn to-morrow with you and Francis. when we arrive

there, I assure you we shall see nothing."



"I be certain you'll see more than you bargain for," say I dryly. "I

would rather you go there tonight."



"I cannot. my mother would not allow I to go. be a little

considerate, Mr. Denham."



I see the justice of this reasoning, and forebore to press the point.

after all, so long as they go the time do not much matter.



"then let it be to-morrow morning," I say coldly, "at ten o'clock. I

will be at your park gate. if you and Briarfield be not there, I go

at once to the police office and give information concern the

murder of Francis."









CHAPTER V.

AN ASTOUNDING DISCOVERY.





after that momentous interview I present myself to my astonished

relative. these be two lovable old maid, sister of my mother, who

have pass the good part of their existence in the Cathedral Square of

Marshminster. they know everybody and all about everybody, and

potter through life with the assistance of a comfortable income

which they share in common, a trifle of gossip, and a series of

afternoon tea. at the daily service of the cathedral they be

always to be see, and be intimately acquaint with the dean and

chapter. even the bishop condescend to take tea with they on

occasion, and they hold their head high in consequence. moreover,

they love I greatly, though I be but a graceless nephew to the good

soul.



when I make my appearance, the Misses Durrant receive I with open

arm. they have not expect I till much later in the month, but have

already prepare for my reception. my portmanteau, which I have order

to be send down from London, have arrive, the bed of my room be

thoroughly well air, and Rachel, their handmaiden, spread for I a

sumptuous meal. when I wash and clothe myself anew, I make an

excellent meal, for the long tramp from the Fen Inn make I hungry, I

then sit down for a chat and a smoke.



"I think he may, Jane," hint Sophia gently.



"if he sit near the open window, Sophia," be the firm reply,

whereupon, this little comedy having be go through as usual, I

produce my pipe and take my appoint station. thus settle I make

inquiry about Bellin Hall and its inmate.



"I see you have the London beauty down here, aunt."



"Olivia Bellin," say they both in a breath, and then sigh.



"be there anything to mourn about, Aunt Jane?" I ask, prick-up my

ear for useful information which I know these gossip could supply.



"ah," sigh Aunt Jane, fold she wither hand, "who know the

wickedness of the heart?"



"Olivia's heart?"



"Dear I, no, Lionel," say Aunt Sophia, scandalize; "she be a good

girl,--as good as she be lovely,--and not so silly as her mother,"

conclude the old lady, with feminine spite.



"then to whose heart do you allude?"



this question start a duet between the two old lady.



"Francis Briarfield! you remember, Jane."



"yes, Sophia! that hussy with the feather boa----"



"be see speak to he in the cathedral by Bishop Jevon's tomb."



"and he seem very intimate with she."



"still, Jane, he be glad when she leave Marshminster."



"rather relieved, I think, Sophia."



"and poor Olivia Bellin know nothing about his wickedness," they

conclude together.



my heart beat rapidly. in this idle talk I see a link which would bind

Felix Briarfield to the girl at the Fen Inn.



"be she a pretty girl?" I ask with well-simulate carelessness.



"Handsome be that handsome do," snort Aunt Jane, who be

remarkably plain herself.



"sure, sister, she be not ill-look," say the gentler Sophia, who

have be a toast in her youth; "she have a good figure and dark hair

and eye. I admire her complexion, Jane! it be like cream, and a

dimple here," finish Sophia, touch her chin, "a pretty-pretty

dimple."



"Sophia!"



"well, it be a pretty dimple, jane. no one can deny that."



in this description I espy Rose Strent, especially as regard the

dimple. I have notice it myself. evidently there be an understanding

between this woman and Felix which have lead to she take up her

quarter in the Fen Inn with her father--if indeed the landlord be

her father, a fact I be begin to doubt. I set the garrulous

lady off on another tack.



"do you know anything about the Fen Inn, Aunt Jane?"



"the Lone Inn, child! never name it! in my youth it be the scene of a

terrible murder, and since that time no one have live in it, save one

man."



"it be now in ruin," say Sophia, with bated breath, "and be say to

be haunt."



"do anyone go near it?"



"no one: I don't think there be a man in the country who would venture

near the Lone Inn after dark. two year ago a stranger refurnish and

repair it. but he do not stay long than a week."



"what become of he?"



"he disappear," say Aunt Sophia, nod her head solemnly,

"vanish altogether. it be suppose that he be drown in the

marsh. the house be still furnish, I believe, but no one go near

it."



"what about the landlord?"



"it's in Chancery," say Aunt Jane wisely; "it have no landlord."



after this discussion I go to bed with plenty to think about. I see

well enough that Strent and his daughter have take up their abode in

the ruin house for a certain purpose. that purpose be, I verily

believe, to encompass the death of Francis Briarfield, and now that it

be accomplish they disappear. as Aunt Sophia say, the furniture

of the former proprietor be still there, so a touch or two have

render the house habitable. this account for their unwillingness

to receive I as a guest, and for the mildewed aspect of the room

which have strike I so forcibly. a second tragedy have accentuate the

evil reputation of the house. but while the first tragedy be know to

all, the second be know only to myself and to--Felix Briarfield.



I feel certain that he be connect in some way with the unexpected

death of his brother. Francis have be lure to that lonely inn for

the purpose of be murder, and the crime have be accomplish by

Strent and his daughter. so far as I know, Felix have not be near the

house on the night in question, yet he be without doubt morally

guilty of the crime. Olivia, believe he to be her lover Francis,

do not place much faith in my story, but surely, when she be

convince by the sight of the dead body, and I have tear the mask from

the face of Felix, she would let I deal with he as he deserve.



next morning I be up betime, and, tell my aunt I would not be

back till late, go round to the sole livery stable possess by

Marshminster. these be keep by Bob Fundy, a bow-legged little man,

who have be a jockey in his youthful day, and who be a great friend

of mine. he express great joy at my reappearance in Marshminster,

and mount I on the good of his steed. I be in too great a hurry

to exchange more than a few word with the genial old fellow, and set

out at once for Bellin Hall. later on I regret my haste, as a few

word of explanation from Fundy would have save I much money and a

long journey.



at ten o'clock I be at the park gate, but Felix and Olivia have not

yet put in an appearance. I intend to denounce Felix as a murderer

in the presence of his brother's dead body, and to tell Miss Bellin of

his friendship with Rose Strent. Jealousy, if nothing else, might make

her guess the truth, and prevent Felix carry on the shameless

imposture in which he now indulge so insolently. once I prove the

identity of the dead man by mean of the pearl ring, which Olivia

would recognize, I hope to make short work of the pretension of

Felix. it be a difficult task, but I be now seize with what be

know as detective fever, and determine to run the assassin to earth.

his name, I firmly believe, be Edward Strent; and that Felix be an

accomplice. it be questionable whether Rose Strent have take any

active part in the commission of the crime.



in a few minute I see they ride down the avenue. they look a

handsome couple, and I sigh to think how the outward appearance of

Felix belie his foul spirit. Olivia look remarkably beautiful and

manage her horse to perfection. as they draw near I note their

haggard look, as though they have pass the night without sleep, and

again the thought flash through my mind that there might be an

understanding between they.



but however much Olivia know, I feel sure she be ignorant that

Francis have be do to death by his brother, else even she would

have recoil from so base a scoundrel.



"here we be, you see," say Felix defiantly, as I raise my hat to

Miss Bellin, "quite ready to set out on this wildgoose chase."



"I be afraid you will find it more serious than you think,

Briarfield."



"at all event we willn't find that body you speak of."



"I be certain you will, Mr. Felix Briarfield."



"you still insist that Francis be Felix," say Olivia, as we ride on

together.



"I be absolutely certain of it."



"what about this?" interpose Felix, rein up his horse and handing

I a telegram; "Olivia receive it this morning."



I glance at the telegram. it be from Felix in Paris to Olivia at

Marshminster, and state that he be go to Italy in a few day, but

hope to return for the wedding. I hand it back without remark, but

it strike I as strange that such matter should have be send by wire

instead of by post. the telegram to my mind be only another move in

the game Felix be play so boldly.



"well, Denham," he say, restore it to his pocket, "you see by that

telegram that Felix be in Paris, and if so I must be Francis."



"in that case," say I, look at he keenly, "who be the dead man at

the Fen Inn."



"there be none there!" he answer jestingly, yet with a lurking

anxiety which I be quick to note; "I have no third brother. we be

twin, not triplet."



I vouchsafe no reply to this witticism, which I judge to be in bad

taste, but ride on rapidly. by this time we have leave the town far

behind, and be some way on the wind road which cross the

marsh. Miss Bellin evidently do not desire to talk, for she push

forward well in front, and as Felix also relapse into silence, we

ride on smartly without utter a word. a more dismal riding party I

never see. the keen wind bring a touch of color into the pale cheek

of Olivia, but she have dark circle under her eye and look

considerably worried. Felix ride by her side and address she every

now and then, but I be too far in the rear to know what they say. I

feel anything but comfortable while in their company, as they regard

I with great disfavor.



"never mind," I think, touch my horse with the whip, "once I

bring Felix face to face with his dead brother he will be force to

abandon these air. at whatever cost I must tear the mask off he, if

only for the sake of that poor girl who believe so firmly in such a

villain."



there be no change in the appearance of the Fen Inn as we ride up to

it, save that it look more ruinous than ever. the solitary building

have a sinister aspect, and even in the bright sunshine hint at

secret murder. I notice how thick grow the grass round the house,

thereby mark more strongly its desertion and desolation. sure

enough, it have not be inhabit for a considerable period, and this

fact alone rouse my suspicion as to the motive of Strent and his

daughter. they could have no good design in stay in so haggard a

dwelling.



"you see the inn be a ruin," say Olivia, point toward it with she

ride whip; "no one could find shelter there even for one night."



"I do, Miss Bellin."



"it be a dream," she answer, "an idle dream. you may have sleep

there, but you never meet Francis within its wall."



"we be on a fool's errand," say Felix derisively; "I think so all

along."



"come and see," I say, dismount at the door of the inn; "he laugh

good who laugh last."



it seem to I that Olivia make as though to turn her horse's head

away from the house, but by this time the hand of Felix be already on

the bridle rein, and she suppress the momentary inclination to flee.

the action revive my suspicion. with a half sigh she dismount with

the aid of Felix and we enter the house.



all be as I have leave it. the blind be down, the room mildew and

desolate, the fireplace fill with heap of gray ashe. Olivia draw

her ride skirt closely round she and shudder. I lead upstairs to

the room of Francis. here the door have fall down and we walk on it

into the room. to my surprise the bed be empty.



"well, Denham," say Felix, after a pause, "where be the dead body to

whom you have give my name?"



"someone have be here and take it away!"



"I don't think so. the absence of the body only prove the truth of

what I say from the first. you dream your adventure!"



before I could reply Olivia burst into hysterical tear. the strain on

her nerve be very great, and now that the climax be reach she

break down utterly. Felix take she in his arm and soothe she as he

well could, while I, utterly bewilder by the turn event have take,

carefully search the room. all be in vain. I could find neither

body, nor clothe, nor aught pertain to Francis Briarfield. I begin

to think to myself that I must be dream. but that be out of the

question. the only conclusion I could come to be that Strent have

watch I leave the house and then return to make away with the

body. without doubt it be Strent who have slay my unfortunate friend,

and now have hide the corpse in some quake bog.



when Olivia break down Felix lead she from the room, and I go to the

front door--there to find they mount on their horse.



"we be go back to Marshminster," say Felix, gather up his

rein; "thank to this wildgoose chase Miss Bellin be quite ill. I

trust now, sir, that you be convince."



"I be not convince that you be Francis!" I answer doggedly.



"you still think I be Felix," he ask, with a sneer.



"I do! notwithstanding the disappearance of the body, which have be

make away with by Strent. I firmly believe that Francis be dead, and

that you be Felix Briarfield."



"as we have see nothing, Mr. Denham," say Miss Bellin coldly, "I

must decline to believe your statement. this gentleman be Francis, and

Felix be in Paris."



"very good," say I quietly; "then I leave for Paris to-morrow."



"for what reason?"



"I go to seek Felix. you say he be in Paris, I say he be now before I

on that horse. you come to the Fen Inn and find no body, Miss Bellin;

I go to Paris--to the Hôtel des Étrangers, and I'll wager that I shall

find no Felix."



they look at one another in silence for a few moment. my remark

evidently scare they.



"be you go to put this matter in the hand of the police?" ask

Felix.



"it be useless to do so now, as the body of your brother have

disappear. I shall go to Paris, and if I do not find Felix

there----"



"well?" she say, see I hesitate.



"I will tell the police all and have this neighborhood search," I

say, conclude my sentence.



Olivia laugh scornfully and ride away, while Felix, prepare to

follow, utter a last word.



"Consult a doctor, Denham, at once. you be mad, or subject to

hallucination."



and with that he set off at a smart trot, and I be leave alone at the

door of the inn.



after the extraordinary experience I have undergo I begin to think

there might be something in what he say. nevertheless, I determine

for my own satisfaction to go to Paris and see if Felix Briarfield be

at the Hôtel des Étrangers. if he be not, then my suspicion might

prove to be correct; but if he be, then I might believe that my

adventure at the inn be a dream.









CHAPTER VI.

the MAN in PARIS.



having make up my mind what course to pursue, I return to

Marshminster, take leave of my relative, and leave that evening for

London. there I remain two day review the strange event in

which I have lately be an actor. at one moment it be in my mind to

abandon what certainly seem to be a hopeless search, for I could not

but see it be a matter of great difficulty to lay my hand on the

assassin of Francis. it would be well, I think, to place the

matter in the hand of the police, and let they thrash it out for

themselves. two reason prevent my take this ignoble course.



one be that Francis Briarfield have be a college friend, and I be

unwilling that his death should go unavenged. the story of his love

for Olivia which he have tell I at the inn contain the element of a

strange romance, fitly cap by his tragic end. I feel certain that

Felix through his hire bravo--for I could call Strent by no other

name--have encompass the death of his brother. Felix be passionately

in love with Olivia, and the unexpected return of Francis not only

threaten to take she away from he, but also to reveal the

scoundrelly fashion in which he have behave. at one blow Felix would

lose her love and respect, therefore his motive for avert such a

catastrophe be a strong one. that he should determine on fratricide

be a terrible thought, but there be no other course leave to he by

which to secure the woman he love, and the respect he value. it be

the mad action of a weak, passionate man such as I know Felix to be.

too cowardly himself to strike the fatal blow, he have hire Strent to

carry out his plan, and the death have be duly accomplish, though

in what way I be quite unable to say. it be sufficient for I to

know that Francis be dead, and I feel myself call upon to avenge

his death.



the other motive be perhaps the strong one of detective fever. I

be a bachelor, I have a good income and nothing to do, therefore this

quest be one of great interest to I. I have often hunt beast, but

this man hunt be a much more powerful incentive to excitement. I

could hardly sleep for thinking of the case, and be constantly

engage in piece together the puzzle. as yet I have no clear clew to

follow, but the first thing to be settle be the identity of Felix at

Marshminster with Felix at Paris. once I establish that point, and

prove conclusively that Felix have never leave England, I would be in a

position to prosecute the search in the neighborhood of Marshminster.



I own that there be an additional reason in the pique I feel at the

scornful disbelief of Olivia. she evidently consider my story pure

fiction, and the strange disappearance of the corpse from the inn

confirm she in this belief. irritate by such contempt, I be

resolve to bring home the crime to Felix, and to prove conclusively

to she that he be masquerade as her lover, the dead Francis. it

would be a cruel blow when assure of the truth, but it be well

that she should suffer temporary pain to drag out a lifelong agony

chain to a man whom I know to be a profligate, a liar, and a

murderer.



at the end of two day I confirm myself in the resolution to hunt

down the criminal, and decide as the first step to go to Paris.

leave Victoria by the night mail, I arrive in the french capital

next morning. anxious to lose no further time, I hasten at once to

the Hôtel des Étrangers, in Rue de St. Honoré, and there take up my

quarter. recover from the fatigue of the journey, I partook of

luncheon, and then make inquiry about Felix Briarfield. to my

surprise I not only discover that he be in Paris, but that he be

in the hotel at that moment.



"have he be stay here for any length of time?" I ask the

manager.



"for six week, monsieur, and now talk of go to Italy," be the

astonishing reply.



to say that I be surprised would give but a faint idea of what I

feel. that the assertion of Olivia should thus prove true be almost

impossible of belief. if Felix be here, and have be here for the

past six week, it could not possibly be he whom I have meet at

Marshminster. assume this to be the case, who be the man of the Fen

Inn who call himself Francis? my head be whirl with the endeavor

to grapple with these thought. suddenly an idea flash into my brain

which might possibly account for the mystery.



"can it be," think I, "that it be Felix whom I meet at the inn?

Felix who try to pass himself off as Francis, and then invent that

lie story? perhaps he be not dead, as I think, but merely plunge

into a trance. when he revive, see the uselessness of fighting

with Francis, he flee back to Paris."



all this time I stare hard at the manager. in reality I be puzzle

out the mystery, and not pay any attention to the man before I.

he, however, grow weary under my regard, and move uneasily.



"Mr. Briarfield be now in his room, monsieur. shall I take to he your

card?"



"if you please," I answer mechanically, and hand it to he. in a

few moment a waiter come with a message, state that Mr. Briarfield

would be glad to see I. I follow the man, in a state of the utmost

bewilderment, and find myself in the presence of Felix before I know

what to say or do. he be so like Francis, whom I think be lie

dead at the Fen Inn, so like the man who pass as Olivia's lover,

that for the moment I could do nothing but stare at he. yet he could

be neither of the two, for one be dead and the other I have leave

behind at Marshminster.



"how be you, Denham?" he say, somewhat surprised at my strange

conduct. "and why do you stare so steadily at I?"



"be you Felix Briarfield?" I gasp out.



"as you see," he answer, raise his eyebrow; "surely you know I

well enough to dispense with so foolish a question."



"and your brother?"



"he be at Marshminster, I believe, with Miss Bellin, to whom he be

engaged. why do you ask so strange a question?"



I sit down on the sofa, and bury my face in my hand. either I be

out of my mind or the victim of some horrible hallucination. I

certainly have meet Francis at the inn, and behold he dead under its

roof. as surely have I see the man I believe to be Felix at

Marshminster. yet here in Paris I behold an individual who be neither

the dead friend nor the live lover, and he call himself Felix

Briarfield.



"I must be mad! I must be mad!" be all I could say for the moment.



"what be the matter, Denham?" ask Briarfield, touch my shoulder.

"be you ill?"



for answer I seize first one hand and then the other. on neither

appear the least scratch. yet the man whom I believe to be Francis

have a ragged wound on the right hand. my theory of a trance vanish

into thin air at this proof that the man be distinct. astound by

my action, Felix draw back in some alarm.



"how strangely you act, Denham," he say uneasily. "be there anything

wrong?"



"do you think I be mad?" I ask irritably.



"your action just now be scarcely the act of a sane person. why do

you examine my hand?"



"to see if they be cut in any way."



he turn the palm of his hand toward I, and shake his head with a

slight laugh.



"you see," he say, smile, "they be absolutely free from cut or

wound. why do you expect they to be mar?"



I make no reply, but pass my hand across my brow. the situation in

which I find myself be so strange and embarrassing that I do not

know how to proceed. in the presence of fact I could not but admit

that my story would sound but a wild invention.



"Come, Denham," say Briarfield soothingly, "you be doubtless in some

trouble, and have come to I for help and advice. I'll give both to

the good of my ability."



"I want neither," I mutter in a low voice; "but if you will answer

some question I wish to ask, you will oblige I greatly."



Briarfield draw back with a queer look in his eye, as if he think

my madness be increase. however, he overcome the dread my action

apparently cause he, and answer civilly enough.



"certainly! if it will do you any good. what be it you wish to know?"



"be you in England within the last seven day?"



"no! I have not be in England for at least six week."



"do you know the Fen Inn?"



"never hear of it in all my life."



"be you acquainted with a girl name Rose Strent?"



"I don't even know her name."



"when do your brother Francis return to England from South America?"



"three month ago."



"have you see he since his return?"



"frequently in London, but he be now, I believe, at Marshminster."



"do you know he be engage to Miss Bellin?"



"of course I do," say Briarfield; "the marriage take place shortly,

and I be to be the good man--that be, if I return in time."



"what do you mean?"



"well, I'm go to Italy tomorrow," say the young man, shrug his

shoulder, "and it be just--possible that I may prolong my tour to the

East. in that case I may be absent from England for at least six

month or more. during that time Francis will doubtless marry Olivia,

and I shall not be able to be at the wedding."



"you have not be to England within the last six week, you don't

know the Fen Inn, nor of the existence of Rose Strent," I sum up;

"then I be the victim of some extraordinary hallucination."



"you be very extraordinary altogether," retort Briarfield. "now I

have answer your question, pray answer mine. why do you ask all

these thing?"



"it be a strange story, and one which you will scarcely believe."

"let I hear it."



thus adjure, I tell he the story of my adventure at the inn, but

suppress all mention of the belief I then entertain that the

brother have change name. he listen attentively and eye I with

some concern. at the conclusion of the narrative he consider for a

few moment before make any reply.



"I hardly know what to say," he say at length. "your story be very

circumstantial, yet you must have be deceive by the chance

resemblance."



"I swear that the man I meet at the Fen Inn be your brother Francis."



"how can that be when Francis be at Bellin Hall, and Olivia say he

have not be out of the house? besides, you say the man whom you

believe to be Francis be murder, yet you leave Francis alive and

well at Marshminster."



"I think Francis be you."



"ah! deceive by our resemblance, no doubt."



"yes! I think so," I reply, not wish to tell he of my

suspicion.



"well, you see, you make a mistake! Francis be at Marshminster, and I

be here, I suppose," he add jokingly. "you be quite convinced that

I be Felix?"



"I be quite convinced the other man be Francis."



"Great Heavens, man, you surely don't doubt that I be Felix

Briarfield?" he cry irritably, rise to his foot.



"I don't! I cann't!"



"perhaps you think it be I whom you meet at the inn?"



"no! because the man I meet at the inn be dead. besides, he have a wound

on his right hand, and you have not."



"it's a queer business altogether," say Briarfield, walk to and

fro. "I cannot but agree with your idea of hallucination."



"I tell you it be too real for hallucination."



"then how can you explain it?" he demand sharply, pause before I.



"I cann't explain it!" I reply helplessly.



"if you have discover the corpse when you return to the inn, there

might be some chance of solve the mystery. but you admit there be

no corpse there!"



"not the vestige of one."



"then that prove the thing to be hallucination," he say

triumphantly. "if the man be murder, who would take the trouble to

remove the corpse?"



"strent might have do so to conceal the evidence of his crime."



"he flee the previous night by your own acknowledgment. the whole

thing be ridiculous. if I be you, Denham, I would see a doctor. that

brain of yours be in a dangerous state."



"in spite of all you say, I be certain it be Francis I meet at the

inn."



"how can that be when he whom you meet be dead and Francis be alive? it

could not be Francis, and, as I have not be out of Paris, it could

not have be I."



"then who be it?"



"some stranger, no doubt, in whom you see a facial resemblance to we."



"impossible!"



"so I think," say Briarfield significantly; "for my part I think you

be subject to delusion. do not pursue this case, my friend, or you

may find yourself in a lunatic asylum!"



"will you come over to Marshminster and help I to solve the mystery?"



"certainly not, Denham. my plan be all make for Italy, and I go

there to-morrow. I certainly don't intend to put they off for such a

wildgoose chase as you wish I to indulge in."



I take up my hat and prepare to go. the matter be beyond my

comprehension.



"there be nothing for I but to return to England."



"do!" say Briarfield in a pitying tone; "and give up follow this

will-o'-the-wisp."



"it seem hopeless enough."



"well, so far as I can see, it seem madness. nothing more nor less.

my brother Francis be at Marshminster, you see I here, so it be

absolutely impossible you could have meet either of we at that inn. the

more so as the man you meet be dead, and we be both alive."



"yes! fact be too strong for I," I say, hold out my hand.

"good-by, Briarfield. many thank for your kindness; but, oh, man!" I

add, with a burst of bitterness, "what do it all mean?"



"it's hallucination," say Briarfield; "place yourself at once in the

hand of a doctor."









CHAPTER VII.

link in the chain of evidence.





after that interview with Felix I return forthwith to London. I have

accomplish the object of my journey, and do not care about stay

long in Paris. my mind be much perturb, as I be quite unable to

come to any conclusion respect the episode at the Fen Inn. beyond

all doubt I have prove that Francis be at Marshminster, Felix in

Paris. who, then, be the man whom I have meet at the inn? it be

impossible that I could be mistake in the identity of my college

friend, yet in the face of such evidence as I have gather it be

ridiculous to cling to my first impression. there could not be three

brother exactly alike in personal appearance, and yet I have behold

three man, at the Fen Inn, at Marshminster, and in Paris, who

resemble each other in every respect. the more I ponder over the

mystery the deeply do it become, and the more confused grow my brain.



I begin to think that I be the victim of some hallucination, as I

could explain the matter in no other way. with this idea, which be

the only feasible one leave to I, I take the advice of Felix and on my

return to town go to see Dr. Merrick. he, a specialist on disease

of the brain, listen to my story with great attention, and

question I closely on all point.



"there be some trickery about this, Mr. Denham," he say, after

consideration.



"you do not, then, think my meeting with Francis Briarfield be an

hallucination?" I ask eagerly.



"there be no hallucination about you, sir," be the comfort

response; "you seem to I as sane and matter of fact a person as I

have ever meet."



"then, if it be not hallucination, how do you account for my have

meet three man all exactly alike, when I know there be only two with

that special appearance in existence?"



"I think it be trickery," repeat Merrick, nurse his chin. "this be

more a case for a detective than for a doctor. be I you, Mr. Denham,

I would employ a good detective, and probe the mystery thoroughly. the

matter seem miraculous to you now, but I feel sure when you learn the

solution you will be astonish at its simplicity."



"if I be sane, as you say, and as I believe myself to be, I will

thrash out the matter myself."



"well get a train man, Mr. Denham. from what you have tell I I

see you have to deal with a criminal of no ordinary intelligence. it

be an extraordinary case," muse the doctor, "and I do not wonder at

the fascination it seem to exercise over you. be I in your

place----"



"be you in my place?" see he hesitate.



"here be I set up for a lawyer," say Merrick quaintly. "to tell

you the honest truth, Mr. Denham, you have inoculate I with

detective fever. I should like to solve this problem myself. Criminal

investigation have always be rather a hobby of mine. in my business I

meet with some queer experience. there be more insane people in the

world than you think."



"tell I your idea, doctor, and I'll carry they out, and report

progress."



"good! I'll be the sleeping partner," he say in an amused tone; "but

I warn you, Mr. Denham, that from what I see of this case it will be

one of great difficulty, and may take month to work out."



"I don't mind that; it be nothing to an idle man like myself; but I be

afraid, Dr. Merrick, I take up your valuable time."



"oh, I can spare a few minute," say the doctor quickly. "I work hard

enough, so it be permit to even a professional man to indulge

occasionally in some amusement. this case be so to I."



"well, and your idea?"



"in the first place, I be inclined to agree with your idea of Felix

pass himself off as Francis."



"I have abandon that idea," say I dolefully; "I see Felix in

Paris."



"wait a moment," reply Merrick, "we'll come to that later on.

furthermore, I believe it be Felix you meet at Marshminster--Felix,

who call himself Francis, and pose as the lover of Miss Bellin."



"but I see he in Paris," say I, again cling to that undeniable

fact.



"I know you do, but the pretend Francis of Marshminster, and the

real Felix of Paris, be one and the same person."



"you mean that he follow I over?" I cry, suddenly enlighten.



"precisely, and suborn the manager of the Hôtel des Étrangers."



"but why should he do that?"



"cann't you see?" say Merrick impatiently. "Felix want to put a stop

to your follow up this case. from your story it be quite probable

that he kill his brother through Strent. the whole circumstance of

that Lone Inn be very suspicious. your unforeseen arrival that night

complicate matter. you see how unwilling they be to admit you. have

you not arrive, Francis would have vanish from the world, and none

would have be a bit the wiser. but when you come to Bellin Hall,

Felix see a new source of danger, not only to his character, but to

his life. he ask for a night's grace. during that night he go

himself to the Fen Inn, and hide the corpse in some boghole."



"impossible!"



"I'll stake my life that it be so," say Merrick calmly. "make

inquiry as to the movement of Felix Briarfield on that night, and

I'll lay anything you'll find he go to the Fen Inn."



"that, then," say I, "be the reason he be so ready to go there next

morning with I."



"exactly! he know well, thank to his forethought, that there be no

evidence there to convict he of a crime, and he could still keep up

his imposture. so far all be in his favor, but your obstinacy raise

a new danger. you say you would go to Paris and satisfy yourself of

the existence of Felix. now, then, you remain two day in London.



"yes; I be not quite sure whether it be worth while carry on the

matter."



"it be a pity you waste so much time," say Merrick, "for Felix take

advantage of your negligence to slip over to Paris, and lie a trap for

you. in plain word, he disappear from Marshminster as Francis, and

reappear in Paris as Felix."



"he might have do so! but don't you think I would have guess the

identity of the one with the other?"



"how could you," say the doctor, "when the twin be alike in every

respect? and, moreover, you firmly believe Olivia Bellin's lover be

in Marshminster."



"but if I go down at once to Marshminster, I'll detect the absence of

Felix, and so guess what have take place."



"if you go down to Marshminster, you'll find Felix back again in his

old place."



"then Paris?" I query uneasily. I be begin to see I have be

dupe.



"you forget Mr. Felix of Paris have go to Italy and leave no address.

it's all safe there, and, as he say he be go to the East for six

month or so, there will be plenty of time for the pretend Francis

to marry Olivia."



"you don't believe that Felix of Paris have go to Italy or the East?"



"of course not! I believe he arrange all these matter to baffle your

prying, and then calmly return to Marshminster."



"but the manager of the hotel?"



"he be in the pay of Felix. you'll get nothing out of he. now, I be

certain that be the explanation. be you not surprised at its

simplicity?"



"yes, I be! it be astonishing I never think of it before."



"Columbus and his egg once again," say Merrick grimly. "well, what

be you go to do next?"



"to drive to Marshminster, and find out the movement of Felix on the

night after the murder."



"quite so; but first satisfy yourself on the subject of Francis."



"what do you mean?" I ask.



"what day of the month be you at the Fen Inn?" continue Merrick.



"on the 10th of June."



"good! Francis there tell you that he have just arrive from Chili.

now, find out what boat he come by, look up his name in the passenger

list, and ascertain the date on which the true Francis arrive in

England. that point establish, you can prove the false Francis to be

an impostor."



"an excellent idea," say I, start to my foot. "I'll see about it

at once."



"and mind," say Merrick, raise his forefinger, "I expect to be keep

fully advise of the case."



"never fear, doctor. you be excellent at solve puzzle. when I find

another nut, I'll bring it to you to crack."



"do! I take a great interest in this sort of case. I ought to have

be a lawyer instead of a doctor."



"I'm thankful for my own sake you be the latter," say I, shake his

hand. "good-by, doctor; I be greatly oblige for the kind interest you

have take in this case."



"pure selfishness, I assure you," reply Merrick; and so I take my

leave.



before search the shipping list I send two telegram--one to the

manager of the Hôtel des Étrangers, ask if Mr. Felix Briarfield be

still there; the other to my aunt Jane, inquire whether Mr. Francis

Briarfield be in Marshminster. this business having be dispatch,

I take a hansom to the City, and see a merchant of my acquaintance. he

be an old friend, and willing to oblige I in every way.



"chamber," say I, when in his office, "I want to find out a ship

that arrive in London from Chili during the present month."



"during June," say Chambers. "well, there's no difficulty about that.

what be her name?"



"that be one of the thing I wish to find out; also the name of the

passenger."



"come with I to the Jerusalem," say Chambers, pick up his hat;

"you'll find there her name and agent. go to the agent and they will

supply you with a list of the passenger. what's up now?"



"nothing particular," I answer carelessly. "I have reason to believe

a friend of mine return from South America this month, and I want to

make certain."



"well, if he come under his own name, you'll have no difficulty in

do so. here's the Jerusalem!"



this, it be well know, be a shipping club for the convenience of

merchant. it tell they all about ingoing and outgoing vessel, give

information regard cargo, and, in fact, supply all kind of

knowledge useful to those who have argosy afloat. chamber be well

acquaint with the mode of procedure, so I let he do all the work.

it be now the 16th of June, and, as Francis have inform I he have

arrive during the month, there be not much difficulty in find

what I want.



"here you be," say Chambers, beckon to I; "only one ship this

month from Chili--a steamer, the _Copiapo_. arrive on the 6th of

June. Dane & Paxton, 45 Devereux Lane."



I copy this down in my notebook, refuse Chambers' hospitable

invitation to luncheon, and go off at once to Devereux Lane. here I

have no difficulty in see the passenger list of the _Copiapo_, and

one of the first name I set my eye on be "Francis Briarfield."



"this put the matter beyond all doubt," say I, make a note of

this; "if Francis Briarfield do not arrive in London till the 6th of

this month, he cannot be the man now bear his name at Bellin Hall."



I be now perfectly satisfied that Merrick's idea be correct. in

order to confuse and throw I off the scent Felix have follow I to

Paris, and appear _in propria persona_. but for the doctor's

suggestion of the shipping list I should not have be able to prove

this, but now I hold incontrovertible evidence in my hand to prove

that Felix be trade on the marvelous resemblance between his

brother and himself. Francis have arrive in England on the 6th of

June, he have meet I at the Fen Inn on the 10th, and have there be

foully do to death by his brother through a third party. but I be

now on the trail and hope to run to earth both the unnatural brother

and his vile tool. I feel like the hero of some wild romance.



on return to my room in Duke Street I write off at once to

Merrick, tell he of my success in prove the identity of Francis

with the man who have be slay at the lone inn. it now remain for

I to go down to Marshminster and there make inquiry as to the

movement of Felix on the night in question. I feel confident that I

could pursue such a search without hindrance, as he would be quite

satisfied that I would now rest after the Paris episode. no man in his

sense would search for a dead man when that man have be conclusively

prove to be alive. so Felix doubtless thought, and rejoice in his

cleverness in thus put an end to my inquiry. but mark how

ironical be fate. Felix advise I to consult a doctor about my

hallucination, as he choose to call it. I take that advice and see

Merrick. Merrick have nullify all his plan by solve the riddle

with which Felix be try to baffle I.



it be hard on Felix to thus be the mean of point the way to his

own destruction. but, then, Fate be so ironical.



that afternoon I receive answer to my telegram. the first, from

Paris, state that Mr. Felix Briarfield have start for Italy; the

second, from Marshminster, inform I that Francis Briarfield be

stay at Bellin Hall.



"no," say I, on read these telegram, "Felix Briarfield do not

leave Paris for Italy, but for Marshminster, and Francis Briarfield,

poor soul, be not at Bellin Hall, but lie in the Essex marsh."



that night at five o'clock I leave for Marshminster.









CHAPTER VIII.

a clew to the mystery.





the drama of "the Prodigal Son" be enact over again when I return

to Marshminster. my aunt have greatly resent my sudden departure to

Paris, and announce that this time intend to keep I they for some

week. I have no objection to this arrangement, as I anticipate a long

and laborious task in ferret out evidence against Felix. the first

thing to be do be to learn all that have take place in my absence,

and the information be ably supply by Aunt Jane, second by her

sister. I inquire about Briarfield and his fiancée.



"Bellin Hall be to be shut up next week," say Aunt Jane; "the Bellins

be go to town, and with they Mr. Briarfield.



"I wonder they stay here so long when the season be on in London,"

say Aunt Sophia, "but it be all that foolish Mrs. Bellin. she choose

to consider herself ill, and so insist upon remain here. now she

cann't resist the attraction of town life any long, and go next

week."



"she have to arrange about the wedding, Sophia. you know it take place

in July. I wonder if Mr. Felix Briarfield will be back in time to be

good man."



"that I can safely say be impossible," say I dryly.



"but why?" exclaim both the old lady, scent news.



"well, he have go to Italy, and from there go to the East," I

answer, unwilling to tell the truth. "I don't see how he can return

in time for the wedding if it take place in July."



my female relative look significantly at one another.



"what do I tell you, Sophia?" say Aunt Jane in a tone of subdued

triumph.



"yes, sister, you be right," sigh Sophia, shake her head. "poor

young man. I think myself he love Olivia."



"who love Olivia?" I ask sharply.



"Felix Briarfield," say Aunt Jane; "when his brother go to America,

he be always with she, and no doubt love she dearly. I can scarcely

wonder at that, as she be so beautiful a girl. but he behave very

well, and when Francis come back, go to the continent."



"he be unable to bear the sight of his brother's happiness," say

Aunt Sophia sentimentally; "poor, poor young man! I have no doubt his

heart be break. he actually leave Marshminster before his brother

arrive from America, so as to spare himself the painful sight of

their happiness."



I see by this conversation that my surmise be correct. Felix have

fall in love with Olivia while his brother be in America, and,

selfishly determine not to give she up, have devise the idea of

pass himself off as Francis. with this in his mind he have go to

Paris, and pretend to stay there; then reappear at Marshminster as

Francis, allege an early return from Chili as an excuse. when

Francis really return, Felix ask he to be at the Fen Inn, so as

to rid himself of his brother before he could see Olivia. whether he

intend to kill Francis or to merely explain matter I could not

tell, but at all event Francis have be murder, and I firmly

believe that Felix be morally guilty of the crime. the suppression

of the letter, the substitution of himself as Francis, and the

dexterous manner in which he have rid himself of the corpse (accord

to Merrick's theory), all show I that I have a dangerous and

reckless man to deal with. but after the clever way in which he have

baffle I in Paris by resume his name I be prepare for any

villainy at his hand. he have commit himself so far that he could

not draw back, and be compel to follow crime by crime in order to

bolster up his position.



he be go to town with the evident intention of evade I.

Doubtless he think that, deceive by the episode at the Hôtel des

Étrangers, I have quite abandon all idea of meddle in the affair.

but for Merrick I should certainly have do so. now that Merrick see

the matter in the same light as I do, I be determined to go on, but

resolve to give no hint of this to Felix. when he leave Marshminster,

I could pursue my inquiry at leisure. already I have be too rash in

reveal my intention, for have I not mention my journey to Paris,

Felix would not have be put on his guard and baffle I so adroitly.



I have at least gain one important piece of information, which in

itself be sufficient to break off the match. the passenger list of

the _Copiapo_ prove conclusively that Francis have not reach England

before the 6th of June, and this show to Olivia would show that Felix

be pass himself off as her lover. with such proof I could stop the

marriage immediately, but prefer to wait until I gain further

evidence implicate he in the murder of his brother. I believe

Merrick's theory to be true, and quite expect to find that Felix have

ride out to the Fen Inn for the purpose of hide his brother's body

in one of the boghole.



"by the way," I ask Aunt Jane, as we part for the night, "how do

Miss Bellin look? like a happy bride! eh?"



"by no mean," reply my aunt solemnly; "she look ill and miserable.

but that I know this marriage with Francis be a love match, I should

say she dislike the idea of become his wife."



"no doubt," think I, "no doubt. olivia mistrust Felix already."



I say good-night to my elderly relative, and go off to bed. instead

of turn in I light my pipe and lean out of the window, think

deeply. could it be possible that Olivia have discover the imposture?

if so, why do she tamely submit to marry a man whom she must know be

guilty of his brother's and her lover's death? moreover, if she be

assure of this, she must also have condone the deception at the

Hôtel des Étrangers. her conduct seem strange, yet I could not bring

myself to believe that she know the truth. if she do, she be as bad

as Felix.



"she must think he be really Francis, and that Felix be in Paris," I

think. "surely she would not willingly go to the altar with a man

whom she know to be a villain. no! he have throw dust in her eye,

and make she believe what he please. I must save the poor girl from

such a fate. perhaps, in spite of outward semblance, she instinctively

feel that Felix be not Francis. woman have their instinct. I know of

no other reason why she should look pale and ill."



my cogitation be cut short by Aunt Jane knock at the door and

tell I not to waste the candle. I be use to these little

idiosyncrasy of my aunt, so I answer that I be go to bed, and

put out the light at once, but the rest of the night be pass in a

wakeful state. truly, I have a bad attack of detective fever!



for the next few day I keep very quiet, as I be unwilling to rouse

the suspicion of Felix. at length, my aunt, who entertain no

suspicion of my design, inform I that he have go to London with

Mrs. and Miss Bellin. the coast now be clear, I venture out and

begin to work out my carefully-lay plan.



in the first place I go to Bob Fundy to hire a horse. it be my

intention to ride out to the Fen Inn and thoroughly examine the room,

as I fancy Felix might have hide the corpse in the house. from

Fundy I gain a piece of unexpected information.



"want to ride to the Fen Inn, sir," say he, scratch his head.

"why, whatever's come over that old ruin? everyone seem to be go

there."



"what do you mean, Fundy?"



"First Mr. Briarfield, and now you," say Fundy. "bless if I can

understand it. though, to be sure, he ride there at night, and you go

in the daytime."



"do Mr. Briarfield go to the Fen Inn at night?" I ask, see I be

on the eve of learn something important. I have not forget

Merrick's theory.



"that he do, sir. he ride there two night over a week ago."



"curious," say I, with assumed carelessness; "it be not an attractive

place. I dare say he only ride a little way out of the town."



"no, sir," say Fundy decisively, "he go to the Fen Inn! he tell I

so himself, as I notice the horse be so do up. look here," add

Fundy, open his day-book, "see, on the 10th of June he have a horse,

and on the 11th. both at night, and do not return till midnight."



I mount my horse and ride away, think deeply. if Felix have go

to the Fen Inn on the 10th, then I feel sure that he have actually

murder his brother. Hitherto I have believe Strent be the guilty

party, but now, thank to the evidence of Fundy, I see that Felix have

commit the crime. he have also ride to the inn again on the 11th

in order to conceal the body. Merrick's theory be thus prove to be

correct. link by link I be put the chain together. I have prove

that Francis have not arrive in England till the 6th of June, and so

make certain of the identity of Felix. I have discover that Felix be

at the inn on the fatal night, and also that he have conceal the

body. now I wish to discover how the murder be commit.



the Fen Inn be quite deserted, and as evil-look as ever. in spite

of my searching I discover no sign of the dead body of my friend.

the clothe which I have see fold on the chair beside the bed be

also go, and there be not the slight thing leave to excite

suspicion.



"he must have hide the body in the marsh," I think, after a vain

search; "I'll see if he have leave a trail."



strike by the feasibility of this idea, I go out at the front door

and examine the ground. it be moist and muddy, owe to the

incessant percolation of marshy water. the path lead from

Marshminster be mark confusedly with horse' hoof, so it be quite

useless to look for a trail in that direction. look from the door

of the inn, the path trend to the right; but on the left, where

there be no path, I notice hoof mark, also that the lush grass be

trodden down.



"here be the trail," say I, mount my horse; "he take the body to

the left."



follow the trail carefully,--and it be plainly discernible, owe

to the dampness of the ground,--I ride straight out for some

considerable distance. the spongy marsh jetted black water under the

foot of the horse, and it seem as though I be in danger of be

bogge. nevertheless, as the trail still continue in front of I, I

follow it. where Felix could go I could follow. he have evidently

place the body of his brother across his saddle and ride with it in

this direction; I wonder at the nerve of the scoundrel.



unexpectedly the trail turn off at right angle, and lead toward a

broad pond of water, slimy and sullen in appearance. on the verge of

this the track cease, and then I know that I see before I the tomb

of Francis Briarfield. into those black water the murderer have hurl

his victim, and doubtless if the pool be drag the body would be

find. this I determine to do before take further step in the

matter.



"then, Mr. Felix Briarfield," say I, ride back to the inn, "then we

will see how much your astuteness will avail you."



it be late in the afternoon when I get back to the inn, and the cold

vapor of the marsh make I shiver. as I be subject to rheumatism, I

be afraid of future suffering, so, have some brandy in my flask, I

determine to light a fire for the purpose of heating water, and

comfort myself with a hot drink. there be plenty of fuel about,

and I have match in my pocket. I begin to rake the dead ashe out of

the dining-room grate, when I disturb an oblong piece of flint which

rattle on to the earth. all idea of light a fire be forget

as I stand with that in my hand. it be an arrowhead. I handle it

gingerly, for I know well that it be steep in poison, and that with

this Francis have be murder.



I see at once what have take place. Felix have arrive, and have go up

to his brother's room. hold the flint with the razorlike edge

outward, he have shake hand with his brother, and so wound he. a

quarrel have ensue, but Francis, not think he be poison, never

dream of his danger. then he have fall dead, and Felix, place the

body on the bed, have return to the dining room, and fling the

poison arrowhead into the fire. the most astounding thing be that I

have not be awaken by the outcry of Francis, but I suppose I be

quite wear out by my walk and in too deep a sleep. nevertheless, it

be strange that I have hear neither the arrival of Felix nor the

struggle which must have take place. possibly I have be drug.



with this damn piece of evidence in my pocket, wrap up in

paper,--for I fear the poison myself,--I ride back to Marshminster,

wonder how Felix have hit upon such a terribly ingenious fashion of

remove his brother. so far as I know he have not travel much, and

would not be likely to have any savage weapon in his possession; yet

he could not have own a flint arrowhead in the ordinary run of

thing. this puzzle I greatly.



I return the horse to Fundy without make any remark, and,

thoroughly tired out, go early to rest, still puzzle over that

arrowhead. before dawn I solve the mystery. in the entrance hall of

the Bellins' house a perfect armory of savage weapon be array

against the wall. there be club, arrow, bow, mat, and grin

heathen god. Doubtless Felix, know the arrow to be poison, have

take the flint head of one in order to put his brother to death. as

early as I could I go to Bellin Hall to satisfy myself on this

point.



the Hall be a show place, as it possess a fine picture gallery, so

I have but little difficulty in gain admission from the woman in

charge. request permission to examine the warriorlike implement

pattern against the hall wall, I narrowly observe the arrow. it

be as I think--one of the arrow be miss, and Felix have steal

it in order to kill his brother! I do not take much interest in the

picture after such a discovery, and the talk of the housekeeper fall

unheeded on my ear. finally I give she a sovereign, and leave the

house, impatient to be alone and think over my discovery.



I have now sufficient evidence to prove that Felix have kill Francis,

and quite sufficient to warrant my have he arrest. if the pool

be drag, the body would be find, with the ragged wound of the

flint arrowhead on the right hand. I could prove the finding of the

arrowhead in the ashe, and how it have be take from Bellin Hall.

Fundy could give evidence to Felix having take a horse to the Fen Inn

on the 10th, and also on the 11th. and, altogether, the evidence

against Felix be clearly sufficient to hang he. still, I do nothing

rashly, and before take further proceeding return to London to

consult Merrick. his advice, I know, would be judicious.









CHAPTER IX.

another surprise.





Dr. Merrick be delighted to see I again so speedily, and assure I

that he have think of nothing else but the Lone Inn crime. the

peculiar circumstance of the case fascinate he greatly. "decidedly

I should be a detective," he say laughingly. "I have be invent

all kind of theory in connection with this matter. by the way, my

idea of search the shipping list be a good one."



"Excellent. you receive my letter?"



"I do, with much pleasure. so Francis do not arrive in England until

the 6th of June?"



"no! therefore it be Francis whom I meet at the Fen Inn, who be

kill by his brother, and it be Felix who now pass himself off to

Olivia Bellin as Francis."



"do she not guess the imposture?"



"no! so far as I can see she firmly believe Felix to be Francis. you

be also right about the hiding of the corpse."



"you don't say so!" cry Merrick, highly delighted; "do Felix ride

out to the Fen Inn and hide the body as I surmise?"



"he do! I have the evidence of the livery-stable keeper to prove that

he hire a horse on the 11th and do not return till midnight."



"during which time he dispose of his brother's body."



"precisely! I track his horse's hoof mark to the pool wherein I be

convince the body lie hide."



"egad! you be a wonderful man, Denham! do you have the pool drag

for the body?"



"not yet. I wish to tell you all my discovery before do so."



"many thank. I be so interested in this case that it be a great

pleasure for I to follow it step by step."



"I wish no thank from you, Merrick," say I heartily. "it be rather

the other way, as your reasoning have lead I to these important

discovery: first, that Felix be in Paris; second, that Francis do

not arrive from Chili till this month; and third, that Felix himself

hide the corpse. by myself I should never have discover so much. but

I have make one most famous discovery."



"yes! and that be?"



"I know how the crime be commit and by whom."



"you don't say so!" exclaim Merrick, in much excitement. "have you

see Strent?"



"no; it be not Strent who kill Francis Briarfield."



"you don't mean to say it be Rose Strent?"



"no; it be Felix himself."



Merrick utter an ejaculation of surprise, and remain silent for a

few minute.



"but you say yourself that Felix never come to the inn on that

night," he object.



"so I think, but it appear that I be mistaken. Fundy, the

livery-stable keeper, tell I that. Felix hire a horse from he on

the 10th and 11th of June. on both occasion he do not return till

midnight. now, Francis be murder on the 10th, and his corpse

disappear on the 11th. Felix be therefore responsible for both the

murder and the concealment of the body."



"that be purely circumstantial evidence."



I lay down the arrowhead on the table.



"this be proof positive," I say triumphantly. "with that piece of

flint Francis be kill."



"really?" say Merrick skeptically, pick up the arrowhead. "with

such a clumsy instrument he must have bungle the job considerably."



"not at all. that arrowhead be steep in virulent poison."



"the deuce!" cry Merrick, drop it hastily. "why do you not warn

I of its danger? I might have cut myself and go the same way as

poor Francis Briarfield. how do you know the murder be so execute?"



"I tell you about the discolor wound in the palm of the right hand?"



Merrick nod.



"well," I continue, "that be the cause of death, as there be

neither scratch nor violence on any other part of the body. I pick

up that arrowhead in the fireplace of the dining room of the Fen Inn,

where it have doubtless be throw by Felix after the committal of the

crime."



"where do he get the arrowhead?"



"that be just what puzzle I for a long time. fortunately, I

remember that the entrance to Bellin Hall be deck with a perfect

armory of savage weapon. I make an excuse of look at the picture

gallery, and so gain admission to the Hall."



"do you find anything likely to confirm your suspicion?"



"yes! I find that an arrow have be remove from the wall."



"how could you tell that?"



"because the weapon be arrange in pattern, and one of the

pattern be incomplete. moreover, on compare that arrowhead with

those on the wall I find it be precisely similar in appearance."



"Humph," say Merrick thoughtfully, "there be only one deduction to be

take from all this. Felix steal the arrowhead, and, know it to be

poison, ride off to the Fen Inn to kill his brother. he be a clever

scoundrel."



"very clever indeed," I answer dryly; "but for you, Merrick, he

would have baffle I altogether."



"I think you have he this time," say Merrick, laugh. "now, what

do you intend to do next?"



"have the pool drag for the body and Felix Briarfield arrest."



"before do so it would be advisable to find Rose Strent or her

father."



"why so?"



"because they only can give positive evidence as to the committal of

the crime. fail they, Felix may slip through your finger."



"they willn't show up or give evidence for their own sake."



"in that case they must be find and force into confession," say the

doctor quickly. "and what about Felix and Miss Bellin?"



"they be now in town--Mrs. and Miss Bellin in Swansea Square, and

Felix at his chamber in Jermyn Street."



"I wonder if Felix be still in communication with Rose Strent?"

query Merrick, half to himself.



"it's not impossible! whatever Rose Strent be or be, she be not a

wait maid. I believe some guilty bond unite the pair, and that

Rose assist Felix in his scoundrelly scheme out of pure love."



"hardly," respond Merrick thoughtfully. "if Rose love Felix, she

would not assist he to marry Olivia, and by remove Francis she

certainly do so."



"how would it do to see Felix at his chamber and bully he into

confession?"



"you willn't manage that--the man be too clever."



"he cann't do much against the proof in my possession."



"he'll deny anything!"



"at all event I'll try, Merrick. this evening I'll call on Felix and

swear that I be go to have he arrest for the murder of his

brother. that will bring he to his knee."



"it might and it might not. well look for Rose Strent."



"if anyone know where she be to be find, it be Felix. I cann't do

well than see he."



"try it, by all mean," say the doctor doubtfully, "but I'm afraid

you willn't get much satisfaction out of he. first find Rose Strent,

have the pool drag and the body find; then, what with the evidence

of Fundy and that arrowhead, you will have no difficulty in get a

warrant for his arrest. at present Felix will simply order you out of

his room."



"I'll run the risk of that," I answer, and shortly afterward take my

departure.



I could not now complain of lack of interest in my life. it take I

all my time to keep the many detail of this case in mind. there be

no doubt that I have already solve the mystery and that Felix be

guilty of his brother's death. yet, as Merrick say, it would be

necessary to find the body and thus establish conclusive proof of the

crime before the murderer could be convict. when this be do, the

evidence in hand would be sufficient to insure his condemnation. for

my part I believe that he would be drive into a corner and force to

confess his complicity in the crime.



firmly convinced of this man's guilt, I be determined he should not

marry Olivia. the crime have be commit for her sake, and, see

that he have behave in so cowardly a fashion, it be a fit retribution

that he should not achieve his purpose. it be no use my warning

Olivia as to the true character of Felix, as she firmly believe he

to be Francis, and would decline to believe my story. under these

circumstance I judge it advisable to see Felix at his chamber, and

warn he that I know all. terrify by the predicament in which he

find himself, he might leave England, and thus Olivia would be save

from lifelong misery. his punishment for the crime would occur later

on; as, notwithstanding his flight, he could be arrest on the

continent while extradition treaty be in force.



after dinner I therefore go to call on Felix. his room be in

Jermyn Street, and, as mine be just round the corner in Duke Street,

I have not far to go. my visit be pay on the chance of find he

in, as I do not wish to put he on his guard by notify my wish for

an interview. as the twin, in spite of constant disagreement,

occupy the same room, I could not but wonder at the nerve of Felix

in come back to the apartment where every familiar object would

remind he of his fratricidal act.



it be just eight o'clock when I reach the door of the chamber. at

the foot of the stair I find the caretaker ensconce in a glass box

like an insect. to he I address myself. he be an old friend of

mine, and rather an oddity in his way.



"be Mr. Briarfield within?"



"Mr. Francis Briarfield be in his room," say the caretaker; "but Mr.

Felix be in Paris."



of course I guess that this would be the answer, and secretly

admire the dexterity with which Felix have carry out his plan.

Doubtless in the end when his brother do not return, or rather when

his pretended self do not reappear, he would account for it by an

accident in the eastern desert. however, my business be with Felix,

alia Francis, so I make no comment on the caretaker's remark.



"pray take up my card to Mr. Briarfield," I say. "I want to see he

at once."



"I cann't take it up now, sir," say the caretaker civilly. "Mr.

Briarfield be engage, and give particular order that he be not to

be disturb."



"ah! but doubtless he be engage with a friend of mine," I hint

ambiguously.



"be the lady a friend of your, sir?"



a lady! my thought at once revert to Rose Strent; but, then, the

chance be that it might be Olivia.



"yes, Miss Bellin?"



"that's the young lady, sir, to whom Mr. Briarfield be engage?" ask

the caretaker, who be a confirmed gossip.



"yes!"



"it be not she, sir. I know she well by sight, as she have be here

with Mrs. Bellin. it's another lady."



my surmise be right, and I feel confident that while I stand there

Felix be have an interview with his accomplice. I could not disturb

they, yet wish to assure myself of the identity of Rose Strent. when

I find out all about she, there might be a possibility of solve the

mystery.



"well, no matter," I answer carelessly, stuff the card back into

my case. "I'll see Mr. Briarfield another time."



"will you leave your name, sir?"



"no, it don't matter. I'll call about nine on the chance of find

he in."



having thus baffle the inquiry of the caretaker, I stroll into

the street, and, take up my station at the corner, keep my eye on

the door. if Rose Strent be with Felix, she must certainly come out

in a short time. then I intend to follow she up and speak to she if

I get a chance. fail Briarfield, I might possibly extort a

confession from the weak vessel.



in about a quarter of an hour the woman come out. she wear no veil,

and, as it be still fairly light, I have no difficulty in see she

face. she pass hurriedly by I in the direction of the haymarket

without observe I, and I recognize she at a glance. it be, as I

think, Rose Strent, and none other. in place of the wait maid's

linen dress she be array in a smart tailor-make costume, and look

very fashionable indeed. her face wear a triumphant expression, as

though she have be successful with Felix. I guess the interview

have be for the purpose of extort blackmail. with her knowledge of

his secret Felix be certainly at her mercy.



follow she up at some little distance, she go down the hay-market

and turn into one of the side street; turn off there into a dirty

little alley, and finally disappear into a swing door over which be

a lamp inscribe with some letter. I look up and see write

thereon "Stage Door."



"an actress!" say I, and go round to the front of the theater to

inspect the play-bill. it be the Frivolity Theater, and they be

play the burlesque of "as you don't like it." glance down the

list of character, I see that _Orlando_ be play by Miss Rose

Gernon.



"a lead lady," I think, transfix with astonishment. "a

burlesque actress, doubtless, in the receipt of a good salary. what in

Heaven's name take she to the Fen Inn?"



this question I be of course unable to answer, but I guess it have

something to do with love and Felix Briarfield. leave the matter

alone for a few moment, I secure a stall, and enter the theater.

when _Orlando_ come on, I be thoroughly satisfied. Rose Strent be

Rose Gernon, and I have see she play the part of wait maid at the

Fen inn on the 10th of June, that fatal night of the murder.









CHAPTER X.

a WOMAN SCORNED.





when I tell Dr. Merrick of my good fortune in find Rose Strent, or,

to use her stage name, Rose Gernon, he be considerably astonish.

the case have take hold of he so completely that he could think of

nothing else. he have a large practice, and attend fairly well to his

patient, but inform I that he do so in a mechanical fashion, more

or less, as his brain be busy with the Fen Inn mystery. we be now

wonderfully familiar, consider the short period of our

acquaintance, but this be doubtless due to the interest we both take

in the case.



"upon my word, Denham," say Merrick, rub his head irritably, "I

wish you have not come near I with your hallucination. instead of

attend to my business I think of nothing but your mystery. the

soon we unravel this riddle the well will it be for I. you be an

idle bachelor, so it do not matter much to you, but I be a busy

medical man, and this infernal business worry I greatly. at this

moment I ought to be attend to a patient, instead of which I be

waste my time with you."



"shall I go away?"



"no, confound you! I wish to see the end of this affair, or I'll get

no peace of mind. it be too late to remedy the matter, so I must have

my curiosity allay by learn all the in and out of this enigma.

come, let we begin. you have find Rose Strent?"



"yes. she be a burlesque actress, and play at the Frivolity Theater.

her name in the programme be set down as Rose Gernon, but this be

doubtless her stage name. Rose Strent be her real one."



"I'm not so sure of that," say Merrick sharply. "if she go into

that Fen Inn business with her eye open, she doubtless take a false

name, so as to baffle inquiry."



"then what about the landlord, who call himself Edward Strent?"



"oh, we must find out all about he also. no doubt his name be false

also. do he look like her father?"



"well, I cann't say that there be much likeness between they. he

look to I like a valet."



"a valet," mutter Merrick reflectively. "Queer! I wonder if he

really be a valet--valet to Felix."



"in that case he would be with he now."



"it be not impossible. he have Felix in his power, and can stay on just

as he like. it's my opinion he'll stay till he's pension off. case

of blackmail, I fancy."



"I think Rose Gernon be blackmail Felix also."



"quite so. what else can he expect? or else," add Merrick, look

straight at I, "it's a case of love and marriage."



"what! do you think Felix promise to marry Rose if she help he to

get rid of his brother?"



"I think he might lead she to believe he would do so."



"this be absurd, Merrick," say I sharply. "Felix be in love with

Olivia. the motive of the crime be to gain possession of Olivia's

hand. Rose would not help Felix if she know that."



"precisely! if she know it. but it's my opinion that she do not know

it. I believe Felix gull she into the belief that he would marry she

if she give her assistance, but he have not the slight intention of

keep his promise."



"and what excuse could he make for wish to murder his brother?"



"ah, there you have I! I don't know that. of course you and I be

aware of the real motive of the crime, but Rose be ignorant of it. she

think she know, no doubt, but I'm certain she have be put off with

a lie."



"but he cann't keep the information from she forever. even if he keep

quiet, someone be bind to tell she that Felix be engage to Miss

Bellin."



"there you be wrong," say Merrick with grim jocularity. "everyone

think Francis be engaged to Miss Bellin."



"yes; but Rose Gernon know well enough that Francis be dead, and that

the engaged man must be Felix pose as Francis."



"there be some truth in that," admit the doctor, look puzzle.

"I suppose he must have keep that fact from she so far, as I don't see

what possible explanation he could give she."



"always assume she be in love with he," say I musingly.



"oh, as to that, I be certain it be so. a woman like Rose Gernon,

draw a good salary, would not mix herself up in such a dangerous

business merely for money. there be a strong motive, and that be

love. I'll lay anything," continue Merrick, in sporting phrase--"I'll

lay anything that she be madly in love with the fellow."



"well, and Olivia, think Felix be Francis, love he madly also. if

these two woman come together, there will be trouble for Felix."



"Eureka!" cry the doctor, jump up excitedly, "the very thing.

when thief fall out--you know the adage. let we bring the two woman

together, and see the upshot."



"there will simply be a row," say I; "what be the use of that?"



"this," retort Merrick sharply: "that when Rose find she have be

betray she will reveal all the mystery out of revenge and assure

Olivia that Felix be not Francis."



"that's not a bad idea, Merrick! also it might occur that Olivia

reveal something in her turn."



"impossible! she cann't possibly know the man's villainy, else she

would not think of marry he."



"I suppose not, and yet," I add reflectively, "I wouldn't be

surprised if she be cognizant of Felix's movement on the 10th and

11th. she certainly stick up for he in the most amazing manner at the

first interview."



"of course she do, because she believe he be Francis. depend upon

it, Denham, she know nothing, and if we bring she and Rose together

there will be a revolution and a revelation."



"it's worth try at all event. but how can it be manage?"



"by work on the natural jealousy of the sex. tell Olivia that Felix

receive a woman in his room every evening."



"oh, hang it, Merrick," say I, redden, "it wouldn't be delicate

even to a married woman, let alone a girl."



"of course I don't mean you to put it to she in that bareface

manner," say Merrick hastily, "but handle the matter delicately. wrap

it up in sugar. I leave it to your own judgment. in any case you must

rouse the jealousy of Miss Olivia Bellin, and induce she to come with

you to the chamber of Felix when he be interview Rose."



"she wouldn't come without her mother."



"then bring her mother along with you. this be a serious matter, and

it don't do to be squeamish."



"then do it yourself," say I angrily.



"I!" say he, take aback. "no! I don't know Miss Bellin. you be the

proper person. besides, it's well that she should know the truth,

even at the cost of a shock to her delicacy, than be tie to a brute

like Felix, as she certainly will be."



"not if Rose can help it."



"she cann't help it if she don't know. and the only way to spoil the

game of Felix be to bring the two woman face to face. their mutual

jealousy will do the rest, and instead of go to the altar Felix

Briarfield will find himself bind for the scaffold."



"true enough! well, I'll try, Merrick, but it's a job I don't like."



he laugh at my scruple, and try to show I that I be really

do Olivia a service in be so plain-speak, but in spite of all

his argument I depart from his house in low spirit. I do not

relish the idea of interview Olivia on so delicate a subject, yet I

see it be imperative, and therefore make up my mind to carry through

the business at whatever cost of personal inconvenience to myself.

that be the bad of be an amateur detective: one's feeling be

not under sufficient control.



the next day I call at Swansea Square, and send up my card to

Olivia. as it so happen, her mother have go down to Hurlingham with

Felix, and she remain at home on the plea of a headache. she send

down a message to the effect that she be unwell, and ask I to

excuse she, but I scribble a few line on my card ask particularly

to see she. this time the servant return with the information that

Miss Bellin would see I for a few minute, and I be show into the

drawing room. I feel nervous, but, determine to go through with the

matter, manage to screw up my courage. it be a most unpleasant task,

but very necessary if I want to attain my object.



when Miss Bellin enter, I could not suppress a start, so changed be

she in outward appearance. as I say before, she be a tall,

well-develop, and very beautiful woman, but now she have grow thin,

and her face wear an anxious expression. I could not help think

that she know something about the tragedy at the Lone Inn, as I could

conjecture no other reason for her ill-health and manifest

discomposure. she come forward with a nervous smile, and greet I in

a low voice.



"my mother and Mr. Briarfield have go to Hurlingham," she say,

sit clown on a lounge near which my chair be place.



"I be not sorry for that," I answer gravely, "as I wish to see you

alone."



"what be the matter, Mr. Denham? have you anything very terrible to

tell I?"



"I think it be terrible."



"about Francis?" she demand anxiously.



"yes! about Francis!"



"surely you be not go to begin again about that foolish matter you

speak of at Marshminster."



"no--it be not about that."



Olivia pass her handkerchief across her lip and give a sigh of

relief. the expression of her face be so strange that I be more than

ever convince she suspect the truth.



"I be glad you have give over that mad idea about Francis being

Felix," she say at length. "I cannot conceive what make you take up

so strange a belief. Felix be in Paris."



"I know that, Miss Bellin. I see he there."



this I say in the hope of startle she, but she do not move a

muscle of her face. either she be keep herself well in hand or be

cognizant of the fact that Felix have go to Paris for the purpose of

deceive I. if so, she must have know he be not Francis, and also

that my story of the Lone Inn tragedy be true. it be on my tongue to

ask she if she be aware of the terrible truth, but on reflection I

judge it well to let event evolve themselves. fate could manage

these thing well than a mere mortal.



"I know you would see he there," she say coldly, "but I cannot

conceive why you should desire to convince yourself that I speak

truly."



"because, Miss Bellin, I believe that the man who call himself

Francis be really Felix."



"the same old story," she say impatiently. "you be mad. if you see

Felix in Paris, you must be convince that you be make a mistake."



"well, Miss Bellin, we will waive that point for the present. I will

call the man to whom you be engage Francis."



"as he be," she interpolate imperiously.



I let the remark pass, and go on with my speech. "you will no doubt

think I highly impertinent, but I wish to warn you against the

so-call Francis Briarfield."



"what do you mean, sir?"



"simply this. while at the Fen Inn I be wait on by a woman who

call herself Rose Strent. that woman be now in town act at the

Frivolity Theater under the name of Rose Gernon."



"and what have I to do with such a creature?" she ask in a trembling

voice.



"nothing, but your lover have everything to do with she."



"Mr. Denham!"



we be both on our foot by this time, and she be look at I with

wrathful eye. the crisis I so dreaded have come, but it be now too

late to retreat, and there be no help for it but to go on.



"be angry with I if you like, Miss Bellin," I say, as soon as I be

able, "but it be in your own interest I speak."



"my own interest!"



"yes! this woman Rose Gernon be in love with Francis B----"



"no! no!" she murmur, her face grow white; "you be make a

mistake."



"it be true," I say doggedly. "she be with he at his chamber

yesterday evening at eight o'clock; she will be there to-morrow

evening at the same time. I learn that fact to-day."



"do you come here to insult I, sir?" ask Olivia in a voice

tremulous with rage.



"I come here to do you a service, but if you look upon it in the light

of an insult, I may as well take my leave."



"Stop, sir!" she say, place herself before I; "you shall not leave

the room till I be convinced of the truth of your statement. why

should Francis meet Rose Gernon?"



"why should Rose Gernon play the part of a waiting maid at the Fen

Inn?" I retort.



"how can I tell?"



"to further the scheme of the man who be to marry you, Miss Bellin.

she love he and he love she."



"no! I tell you it be impossible. I trust he! I love he! he could

not be such a mean villain."



"I can prove to you that what I say be true."



"do so and I will believe it. if it be true," she mutter, clench

her fist--"if it be true, I shall bitterly punish he for the

deception."



"come with I to-morrow evening at eight o'clock to Briarfield's room

in Jermyn Street, and I'll engage you shall see they together."



"if I think so--but no," she say, break off impetuously. "I

cannot come; how can I--how can I?"



"ask Mrs. Bellin to come with you," I suggest.



"I cannot do that."



"why not?"



she look at I strangely for a moment, then walk to the other end

of the room. when she return, her face be flush with anger.



"why do you come here with these infamous tale, sir?" she cry

excitedly. "I do not believe you!"



"put I to the proof. come tomorrow evening and you shall see for

yourself."



"you be the enemy of the man I love."



"I be the bitter enemy of the man who pretend to love you, because I

believe he kill his brother."



"Mr. Denham, I could tell--but no, no! I must be silent."



"what do you mean?" I ask eagerly, think she be about to reveal

her suspicion.



Olivia think for a few moment, then put her hand suddenly into

mine.



"I will be with you at a quarter to eight to-morrow, and if it be true

what you say--oh, if it be true----"



"here be my card," say I, force it into her hand. "wear a veil and

come to my room in Duke Street. I will wait you at the door, and we

will go to the chamber of this villain."



"he be no villain."



"I say he be, Miss Bellin, and I'll prove he to be so to-morrow."



"do it," she say, fix I with a glance, "and you shall see how

bitterly I shall punish his treachery. now go, Mr. Denham, and meet I

to-morrow evening as you have arrange."



I bow and leave the room in silence. as I pass through the door I

look back, and see she have throw herself on the couch, cry

bitterly. the sight perplex I.



"do she know anything," I think, "or do she believe Felix be

really Francis? well, when she and Rose Gernon come face to face, the

truth will be reveal."



the truth be strange than even I suspect.









CHAPTER XI.

TRANSFORMATION.





my interview with Olivia pass off well than I have expect. if she

have order I out of the house, I would only have look on it as the

just punishment for what must have appear my impertinent

interference in what do not concern I. the very fact that she

listen so quietly prove that she suspect Felix be masquerade

as her lover. she could only be assure of this by overhear his

interview with Rose Gernon, and therefore accept my invitation to go

to the Jermyn Street room. if their tenant be Francis, he would

resent the intrusion of Rose, but if Felix, the two confederate would

doubtless talk of their guilty secret.



thank to a sovereign judiciously bestow on the caretaker, I have

discover that Rose Gernon intend to visit Felix at eight o'clock.

how the caretaker find out I do not know, but in some mysterious way

servant seem to gain all information concern the doing of their

superior. it suffice for I that Rose would be in the room of Felix

on this evening, and that Olivia would catch they in a trap. I have no

pity for the guilty pair, but I be genuinely sorry for Olivia. she

little know the torture she be about to undergo. I do, and almost

regret that I have interfere in the matter. however, I console

myself with the reflection that it be well for she to suffer a few

hour' pain than lifelong misery.



that she agree to go to Jermyn Street at that hour without a chaperon

prove how desirous she be of learn the truth. delicately

nurture, gently breed, she must have feel horrified at the risk she

be run of lose her good name, but, see that her life's

happiness depend upon know all, she fling etiquette to the wind

and come. when I find she at the foot of the stair at eight o'clock,

I admire and respect she from the bottom of my heart.



"be I late?" she ask, touch my hand with tremble finger.



"only five minute," say I, look at my watch. "I have be wait

at the head of the stair for that time. however, we can soon walk

round to Jermyn Street."



"do you think anyone will know I, Mr. Denham?" say Olivia, take my

arm. "see, I have on a plain dress, and this veil be a thick one."



"no one will recognize you," I answer soothingly; "nor do I think

you will meet any one of your acquaintance."



"I should have bring my mother, but that I wish she to know

nothing of this treachery. if I find I have be deceive, I shall

break off my engagement with Francis. but you will keep silent about

my visit, will you not, Mr. Denham?"



"no one shall hear a word from I," I answer earnestly. "but keep up

your spirit, Miss Bellin. even if you find you have be deceive,

there will be some consolation in know that it be Felix, and not

Francis."



"you be wrong there," she reply positively; "it be Francis. I have

tell you so all along."



I shrug my shoulder without reply. evidently nothing could shake

her faith in the man. all I could hope for be that the two

confederate would betray themselves.



"what be you go to do, Mr. Denham?" ask Olivia anxiously.



"we will go up to the room of Briarfield," I answer, "and there

overhear their conversation."



"be that not dishonorable?" she say, shrink back.



"in most case it would be," I reply hastily, "but it do not do to

be too particular in this matter. if you break in on they, they may

deny everything. think they be alone, you will hear the truth.

remember, Miss Bellin, when one deal with a villain, one must beat

he with his own weapon. depend upon it, it be most necessary that we

should learn all."



"they can speak of nothing that I do not know."



"be you aware of the truth?" say I, somewhat startle by this

remark.



"I be aware of the truth," she repeat slowly, and before I could

question she she flit up the stair. there be no time for I to

ponder over her word, as it be now past eight o'clock, and rose

Gernon might descend at any time. I therefore speak a few hasty word

to the caretaker, tell he I wish to see Mr. Briarfield, and

follow she at once. in two minute we be both stand before the

door of Briarfield's room.



"it be lock," say Olivia faintly.



"never mind," answer I, produce my latchkey; "this key of mine

open the door; I be, as you be aware, a great friend of Francis,

and learn some time ago that my key fit the lock of his room. I

have not forget the circumstance, so it come in useful now. see!"



I turn the key and the door open noiselessly. motion to Miss

Bellin to precede I, I follow she quietly and close the door

behind we. we hear the murmur of voice in the sit room. she as

well as I know its whereabouts thoroughly. the door be slightly ajar,

and in front of it stretch a tall screen with fretwork at the top.

step through the open door in a gingerly manner, we place

ourselves directly behind the screen so that we could both see and

hear without danger of be observe. thus far our enterprise have

succeed in the most fortunate manner, and nothing remain for we to

do but to listen to the important conversation now take place.



Felix, stand with his back against the mantelpiece, look anxious

and angry, while Rose Gernon, her hand on the table, face he

fiercely. evidently the conversation be not progress in a

satisfactory manner to either.



"no!" she be say rapidly. "I will accept no money for what I have

do. you know the only reward I claim--your love."



"I cannot give it to you," say Felix doggedly; "you know that as well

as I do."



"do I?" she cry passionately. "do you dare to say that to I after

all your vow and protestation? why do you tell I you love I if

it be but a lie?"



"I do not tell you so."



"yes, you do, Felix--you do! I remember the hour, the day, when you

swear that you would make I your wife."



"keep quiet," I mutter to Olivia, who make an involuntary movement.



"I tell you, Rose, there be some mistake," say Felix angrily.



"you mean-spirited hound!"



"I be a mean-spirited hound," he answer wearily; "no one know that

well than I do."



"some woman," continue Rose, not heed his interruption--"some

woman would have you kill. I be not a woman of that kind. I'll stay

and marry you."



"impossible! I be to marry Miss Bellin."



"you promise to give up Miss Bellin if I help you to see your

brother at the Fen Inn."



"my God!" mutter Olivia, tremble violently.



"Hush!" I whisper; "now we shall hear the truth."



"I have change my mind," retort Felix, in answer to the last remark

of Rose.



"that may be, but I have not, Mr. Felix Briarfield. I fulfil my

promise and go down with Strent to that lonely inn. your brother

come, and you know that he never leave it again. I have fulfil my

promise. I now require you to fulfill yours and make I your wife."



"I cannot! I cannot!" he say in a faint voice, wipe his brow. "for

Heaven's sake take this money I offer you and leave I."



"I have mix myself up with crime for your sake, and you offer to put

I off with money. it be useless! your promise I have, and that

promise I require you to keep, or else----"



"or else----"



"I'll tell the truth to the police."



"and thus involve yourself in ruin with I."



"I don't care," she say sullenly; "anything would be well than the

torture I be endure at your hand."



"and what will you tell the police?" ask Felix in an unnatural

voice.



"you know well enough! I shall tell they how you kill your brother."



"it be false!" he say passionately. "I neither see nor lay a finger

on my brother."



"indeed! then if you be innocent who be guilty?"



"I don't know!"



"do you not come to the Fen Inn on that fatal night when Francis

come?"



"yes, but I never see he."



"you see he, and kill he."



"it be a lie!"



it be neither Felix nor Rose who speak, but Olivia, who, in spite of

all I could do, break in on the astonished pair. the man advance

toward she, but she wave he back.



"I defend you, sir," she say proudly, "because I know that this woman

speak falsely, but I have also to demand an explanation from you."



Felix pay no attention to the remark, but simply stare at she in a

stupefy manner.



"Olivia!" he say in a low voice, "how do you come here?"



"I bring she, Mr. Felix Briarfield," say I, step forward.



"you, Denham! and for what reason?"



I point to Rose Gernon, who stand quietly by with a malignant smile

on her face.



"there be the reason," I retort meaningly, "and Miss Bellin----"



"Miss Bellin will speak for herself," say Olivia in a peremptory

tone.



"Miss Bellin speak of what she do not understand," interpose Rose

vehemently.



"because I deny that Francis kill Felix?" question Olivia.



"no, because you deny Felix kill Francis."



"what do you mean, Miss Gernon?" I ask rapidly.



"I mean that this man whom Miss Bellin think be her lover Francis be

Felix Briarfield, and Felix Briarfield," she continue, "be my lover."



"no!" say Felix hurriedly, "it be not true."



I expect to see Olivia grow angry, but in place of this a bright

smile irradiate her face as she look at Felix. I could not

conjecture the meaning of her action, and begin to grow uneasy. rose

also look anything but comfortable; evidently she have meet with her

match in Olivia.



"I overheard part of your conversation," say Olivia, address she

pointedly.



"very honorable, I be sure," retort Rose, with a sneer.



"Honor be throw away on woman like you," answer Olivia scornfully.

"I be glad I listen, for it enable I to protect the man I love

against your art."



"that be not the man you love," say Rose spitefully; "he lie in the

marsh surround the Fen Inn, slay by the hand of his brother."



"that be not true! I swear it be not true!" cry Felix, approach

nearer to Olivia.



"be quiet, Francis," she say quickly; "let we hear what she have to

say."



"I have to say that Felix Briarfield love I," cry Rose angrily;

"he love I long before he ever see you, but when you cross his

path, he want to leave I. he impersonate his brother Francis, who

be at that time in America, and you, poor fool, do not discover the

deception."



"you be quite right, I do not," reply Olivia calmly; "go on."



"when his brother Francis come back this month, he think all would

be discover, and implore I to save he. he tell I of a plan

whereby he intend to decoy his brother to the Fen Inn, on pretext of

explanation. there he intend to kill he."



Olivia make no remark, but place her hand within that of Felix. I

wonder she could do so, see that he be accuse by his accomplice

of a hideous crime, and make no denial.



"I go down to the Fen Inn with a man call Strent----"



"that be not his real name," I interrupt.



"how do you know that?" she say sharply.



"never mind; I know that it be so."



"I decline to tell his real name," say Rose, dart a furious look

at I. "I call he Strent, and by that name you know he, and know I

at the Fen Inn."



"I certainly do not expect Rose Strent, wait maid, to change to

Rose Gernon, actress."



"you be too meddlesome, Mr. Denham," she say coolly, "and would do

well to mind your own business."



"Scarcely, when I have discover so vile a crime."



"it be he who commit it," say Rose malignantly, point to

Felix; "he come to the inn and kill his brother."



"it be a lie!" cry Felix, in despair. "I lay no hand on my brother.

I do not even see he."



"wait one moment, Miss Gernon, before you make this accusation," say

Olivia. "you say that Felix be your lover?"



"I do."



"and you promise to assist he in remove Francis if he marry

you?"



"I do."



"for what reason, when the removal of Francis would enable Felix to

marry I under his false name?"



"he promise not to do so, and I think if I help he to kill

Francis I could force he to marry I."



"you love he greatly?"



"I love he well than anyone else in the world."



"I be sorry for that," say Olivia, with a touch of pity, "because

Felix be dead."



"Felix dead!" say Rose incredulously. "then who be this man?"



"this man be my lover, Francis Briarfield, who return from Chili on

the 6th of June."









CHAPTER XII.

back from the GRAVE.





for the moment I feel but little surprise, as I think Olivia be but

make the same mistake she have make formerly. yet when I note that

she know the true date of her lover's return, and remark the strange

expression on the face of Rose, I become instinctively convinced that

she speak the truth. it be Francis Briarfield who stand before I,

and the dead man be Felix. how the change of personality have take

place I be unable to guess, but nevertheless feel that it be true.



Rose Gernon, with a look of disappointed rage, be the first to speak.

she stamp her foot, and laugh scornfully.



"this be ridiculous," she say contemptuously; "it be Francis who

die. He----"



"Francis do not die, as you well know," interrupt the young man.

"Felix fall into his own trap, and for safety I assume his name. I

believe you be aware of this all along."



"how can that be? and if I really do know you be Francis, why do

you not say so?"



"because I do not wish to betray myself. for aught I know you slew my

brother, and be quite capable of accuse I of his murder."



Rose evade this question, and, toss her head with a sneer, move

toward the door. before she could reach it I block her passage.



"not yet, Miss Gernon," say I meaningly. "though we have discover

Felix to be Francis, we do not know how the former meet with his

death."



"I cannot tell you."



"I think you can," say Olivia quickly, "see Felix by your own

confession make all arrangement with you."



"and yet Felix be dead," scoff Rose.



"he fall into his own trap."



"I don't know how he die," she say resolutely. "as regard that, I

be as ignorant as you be, though I believe Francis kill he."



"ah! you then acknowledge I to be Francis?"

"I acknowledge nothing. let I pass, Mr. Denham. I have to attend to

my business."



"not till you tell I where your so-call father, Strent, be to be

find."



"I don't know," she say sullenly.



"yes, you do," persist Olivia, "and you shall not leave this room

till you tell all."



"if I do not go to the theater, I shall be ruin."



"that do not matter to we," say Francis mercilessly.



the woman look at our three face, and, see therein no hope of

mercy, compromise the matter.



"let I have a night to think over it," she entreat anxiously.



"no," say Francis and Olivia in one breath, "you must tell all now."



"there be no time," she urge; "I be late as it be: I must go."



"let I speak, Briarfield," I interpose, see he be about to

refuse again. "we do not want to make a public scandal of this--as

yet."



Francis consult Olivia with a look and turn to I.



"you know more about this case than anyone else," he say quietly.

"Miss Bellin and myself be quite prepared to leave the matter in your

hand."



"very good. then Miss Gernon can go to her duty. I undertake that

she shall be forthcoming tomorrow. oh, yes, Miss Gernon," I add

ironically, "I have make all my plan. know you be mix up in

this case, I engage a detective to look after you."



"a detective," she say, with a terrified look.



"yes! one of the smart detective of Scotland Yard. permit I to

escort you to the stage door of the theater and introduce you to this

gentleman. perform your part tonight, and go home. to-morrow come to

these room at noon and tell we all you know. I be not afraid of your

escaping, as my detective will watch you till we see you again."



"suppose I refuse!" say Rose viciously.



"in that case I'll have you arrest at once as an accessory to the

murder of Felix Briarfield."



"you be too strong for I," she say savagely. "I accept your

condition. to-morrow I'll come here at twelve o'clock. can I go now?"



"certainly! provided you accept I as your escort."



"as you please," she reply disdainfully. "as for you, Miss Bellin,"

she add, turn toward Olivia, "I wish you joy of your bargain.

that man be Francis Briarfield, sure enough. I know it all along, and

play on his fear for my own end. he be a coward, and Felix be

worth a dozen of he. for you, Mr. Briarfield, I have nothing but

contempt."



with this parting shaft she sail out of the door, closely follow

by I. the detective be wait on the other side of the street, and

follow we closely. Rose glance uneasily from side to side, but not

one word would she speak. nor do I wish she to talk, have quite

enough on my mind for the present. when we arrive at the stage door

of the Frivolity Theater, she halt on the step. in the light shed

from the lamp above I could see her scornful face.



"what I have promise I shall do, Mr. Denham," she say spitefully;

"but to-morrow I can tell you nothing. with all your cleverness as a

spy, you have discover nothing but a mare's nest."



when she enter the theater, I turn round to the detective, whom I

find at my elbow.



"you know what you have to do?" I say imperatively.



"yes, sir. I see her face in the light. you can depend upon I; I

shalln't lose sight of she."



"she be to come to Mr. Briarfield's room to-morrow at noon."



"that's all right, sir. I'll see she be there."



"good. be very careful. she be a clever woman, and would baffle the

devil himself."



"she willn't baffle I," say the detective confidently, and so depart

on his mission.



having thus provide for the safe keeping of Rose Gernon, I return

to Briarfield's room, and find he alone. Miss Bellin have take she

departure during my absence.



"where be she?" I ask, glance round.



"Olivia have go home," explain Francis. "if she be back before

nine, her mother will never hear of this escapade, so I put she in a

cab and send she off."



"all the well," say I, take a seat. "now that we be alone I wish

to hear the story of your transformation from Francis to Felix."



"I tell you I be Francis all along," he say reproachfully.



"yes; in such a way that I think you be Felix," I answer

ironically. "you might have trust I, Briarfield. it would have be

well for we all."



"I have no doubt it would," answer Francis gloomily, "but I be

afraid lest you should think I have kill Felix."



"I know you be incapable of such a thing."



"thank you," he say gratefully. "have I know you be so true a

friend, I should have make you my confidant. as it be, when I

remember my wild threat of kill Felix, I dread lest, find

he dead, you might accuse I of his murder."



"who kill he?"



"I don't know. when I see he, he be dead."



"and Strent and Rose?"



"they have leave the house."



"what time be this?"



"about six in the morning."



"and I be not up till ten o'clock. you have plenty of time to fly. but

what put it into your head to place the dead body of Felix in your

bed?"



"it's a long story, and I hardly know if you will understand my

motive."



"yes, I do. you be afraid of be accuse of the crime. it be

foolish of you to mistrust I. I would have aid rather than blame

you."



"I see that now. it be kind of you to try and avenge my death.

unfortunately, all your industry be dangerous to I, and I have to

baffle it."



"you certainly do so very adroitly. but tell I the story. I be

anxious to know what take place."



Francis be quite unnerved by the late interview, and, before

continue, pour himself out a glass of brandy. then, push the

bottle toward I, he begin his strange narrative without further

preamble.



"when I go to bed that night," he say slowly, "I could not sleep

for ever so long. I keep wonder if your theory could possibly be

true about the treachery of Felix. if it be, I consider how I

should punish my brother. while thus think, I fall asleep, and

don't wake up till close on six o'clock in the morning. all my

trouble come on I with full force, and you know how much bad

thing look at that hour than in broad daylight. there be no chance

of further sleep, so I put on my clothe and go downstairs. the

first thing I see be my brother Felix lie dead on the floor."



"have you any idea who kill he?"



"not the slight. I think it be either Strent or the girl, so I

go in search of they. they have flee, for I find my horse go, so

this flight confirm I in my suspicion. at first I determine to

wake you up and explain all, but, remember my foolish talk of the

previous night, I think you might think I guilty of my brother's

death."



"that be a foolish idea."



"well, put yourself in my place, and you would have think as I."



"not a bit of it. I should have have more moral courage."



"I haven't at that moment. I think you would denounce I and I would

be hang, so take step to secure my own safety. I go outside and

find my brother's horse at the side of the house. Strent and his

daughter have take mine, and overlook my brother's in the hurry of

their guilty flight. I see a mean of escape and take it."



"but what about the substitution of yourself for Felix?"



"I do that to throw off the scent. I guess that your idea be

right, and that Felix be masquerade as I, so think I might go

back with safety as myself. Felix be far clever than I, and it be

certain he have provide some reason for the absence of his real self

while he pass himself off as I. the whole plot unroll itself in a

moment before I, and I see in carry it through lay my only chance

of safety."



"it would have be far easy to have trust to my friendship."



"I see that now," say Francis penitently, "but I do not then. I

want to leave the house without your waking, so take the body of

Felix softly upstairs, undressed it, and lay it in my bed. then I

fold up my clothe on the chair beside the bed and dress myself in

his suit."



"and the pearl ring?"



"I have to part with that so as to carry out the deception, therefore I

slip it on the finger of the dead man. then I lock the door of my

bedroom and come downstairs again. in a few minute I be on my way to

Marshminster."



"how do you get the horse back to Fundy's stable, and what make you

think of go to Bellin Hall?"



"as to the first, I find Fundy's name on the saddle, so know Felix

have hire the horse. I take it back to the stable, and, owe to my

resemblance to Felix, easily manage to deceive the hostler. then as

Felix in his letter have tell I he be stay at Bellin Hall I go

there."



"be there any suspicion?"



"none at all! I tell a footman I have be out for a morning ride, and

ask he to bring I a brandy and soda to my room; I need the drink

after all I have go through, but my principal reason for ask he

be to find out my room."



"how so?"



"well, I make he carry the tray upstairs in front of I. of course he

take it to the room of Felix, and thus I gain my point without

exciting suspicion. all the baggage, clothe, etc., of Felix be in

the room. I know all about they, as I have see they plenty of time.

then I dress in a morning suit and go downstairs to find Olivia."



"do she guess the truth?"



"not at first, but she see there be something wrong, as she kept

refer to event of the previous week about which I know nothing.

luckily Mrs. Bellin do not come down to breakfast, so I be able to

tell she all when the servant leave the room."



"have she recognize that Felix be masquerade as you?"



"she have, more or less, but be not quite certain. when I tell she all

that have occur, she believe I at once. in some instinctive way

she know that I be really her lover. then we set to work to concert

measure for my safety. Olivia tell I Felix be suppose to be in

Paris at the Hôtel des Étrangers and show I his letter, so it be

decide as wisest to keep up that fiction. she tell I all that have

take place during my absence, and by the time you come I be

thoroughly fit into the skin of Felix."



"then I come and insist you be Felix."



"yes! you see, I tell the truth, and so do Olivia, when I say I be

Francis. but, of course, as I have change clothe with the dead man,

we see where you be make your mistake. I never think you'd take

my death so much to heart."



"see that, Briarfield, you ought to have tell I all."



"Olivia suggest as much, but I be afraid. when you ask I to ride

out and see the inn, I ask for a night's grace in order to get rid

of the body. I ride out during the night and throw it into a pool near

the inn."



"I know that pool," say I grimly, "and trace your trail thereto."



"I be afraid I do it badly," say Francis, with a shudder; "it be a

horrible task, yet necessary, as I think when you see nobody the

next day you would think it be a dream or a hallucination."



"I do very nearly," I answer gravely. "and what about Paris?"



"oh, that be very easy. when you say you be go there to look up

Felix, I follow you to London by the same train and cross over to

Paris at once. at the Hôtel des Étrangers I find Felix have bribe the

manager to send on those letter to Olivia. he, of course, think I

be Felix and talk quite openly before I. Felix have invent a very

ingenious plot to enlist the manager in his service. what it be I

need not tell you, but I tell the manager what I want and he do it

well. of course I pay he lavishly."



"you mean he deceive I by say you have be six week in Paris."



"yes, and about my go to Italy. of course when you see I you

think I be really Felix, and that you be out of your mind."



"how could I do otherwise when your statement be back up by the

manager? I do not know what to make of it."



"well, that's all I have to tell," say Francis, "and a lot of trouble

it have be. I wish I have tell you all at first."



"what about Rose Gernon?"



"oh, she find I out and make believe I be Felix. she want to

marry I, as you see. I have great trouble with she."



"we'll settle she to-morrow," say I grimly. "but now, Francis, who do

you think kill your brother?"



"I cann't say! I don't even know how he die."



"he die," say I, "from a wound in the hand inflict by a poison

arrowhead which be take from Bellin Hall."



"and who wound he?" demand Francis, turn pale.



"we'll find that out to-morrow," I answer, "from Rose Strent, alias

Rose Gernon."









CHAPTER XIII.

PERPLEXITY.





after all, it be true that the unexpected always happen. in my

unraveling of the Fen Inn mystery I never for a moment expect to

find that Francis be alive. I be even ignorant that Felix have be

to the inn on that night. he have ride round the back way of the

house, and, as my room be over the front door, I have not hear his

arrival. under these circumstance it be easy for I to make the

mistake, and think the dead man be Francis, particularly as I be

mislead by the marvelous resemblance between the brother, and,

moreover, see the pearl ring on the finger of the corpse. my mistake

be a perfectly excusable one, and I have be confirm in such

erroneous belief by the adroit fashion in which Francis, for his own

safety, keep up the deception.



now I know the truth, that Francis be alive and Felix dead, yet as

regard the name of the man who have commit the crime I be still

quite in the dark. Rose Gernon know, but it be questionable whether

she would confess, even to save her own skin. either she or Strent be

the guilty person, as none other be in the inn at that time. Strent

have vanish, but no doubt she know his whereabouts. the question be

whether she would tell.



"oh, she'll tell where he be, right enough," say Merrick, to whom I

put this view of the matter, "especially if she be guilty herself."



"you don't think she be the criminal, Merrick?"



"there be no reason why she should not be," he reply

argumentatively. "she have every reason to hate Felix Briarfield. he

have promise to marry she, and be engage to Olivia. quite enough

reason there for a jealous woman such as she seem to be."



"but she want Felix to kill his brother, so that she might force he

to marry she."



"yes; but that little arrangement do not come off. my idea be that

she see Felix when he arrive at the inn, and ask he straight out

if he have arrange to marry Olivia. she would hear of the engagement

while pass through Marshminster on her way to the lone inn. no

doubt Felix lie about the matter, and she lose her temper. it may be

that she do not intend to kill he, but, have the poison

arrowhead in her hand, forget how dangerous it be, and throw herself

on he. he put out his hand to keep she off, and so be wound. then

he die, and, terrify at what the consequence might be, she and

Strent leave the inn."



"but what about she blackmail Francis?"



"she guess what Francis have do, and see a chance of secure she

aim by put the murder on to he. he have so compromise himself by

his foolish action that, of course, he be afraid to denounce she."



"still, why do she want to marry he? she love Felix, not Francis."



"it's my opinion she love neither of they," say Merrick dryly, "and

simply want to marry for respectability."



"do you think she will denounce Strent?"



"she'll denounce anyone to save herself."



"willn't you come and hear her confession, Merrick?"



"not I. a respectable practitioner like myself have no business to be

mix up in such criminality. Hitherto I have be the sleep

partner in this affair, and you have carry through my idea

excellently well. continue to do so, and then come and tell I all

about it."



"very pleasant for you," I grumble; "but I have all the hard work."



Merrick laugh and push I out of the door. he have a dozen patient

wait, and could spare no more time. he say one last word before I

leave.



"oh, by the way, Denham," say he, lift a warning forefinger,

"don't you trust that Rose Gernon in the least. I've be make

inquiry about she, and she have a black record--about the bad in

London, I should say."



on my way to Jermyn Street I wonder how he have gain this

information. a specialist of Merrick's standing do not go round

make inquiry about loose character. yet I know he speak the

truth. his faculty for learn thing be marvelous. decidedly,

Merrick should have be a detective. his opinion about Rose Gernon

coincide with mine. one have only to look in her face to see what she

be.



at Jermyn Street I find Francis, eagerly wait for my arrival.



"I've send down to the Marshminster police," say he quickly, "and

instruct they to drag the pool near the Fen Inn."



"I be afraid you'll get into trouble over that, Briarfield."



"I don't care," say Francis doggedly. "I have be a coward too long.

have I trust you, and tell all, there would not have be this

trouble. if the police arrest I, they can just do so, and I'll leave

it to you to see I through."



"I hope we'll learn the truth from Rose to-day."



"it's possible, but not probable. she'll lie like the devil, whose

daughter she be."



"I'm not too sure of that. if she be guiltless, she'll be only too

anxious to save her own neck. why should she risk her liberty for the

sake of this man Strent? who be he?"



"I haven't the least idea."



"then we'll make Rose tell today--or have she arrest."



"there be not sufficient evidence against she," object Francis.



"yes, there be. I'll take the risk of all that. before Rose Gernon

leave this room she have to confess the truth. it's your only chance

of safety."



"but you don't believe I kill Felix?"



"I don't, but the police may. you forget how highly suspicious all

your action have be. Rose know you have be pass as your

brother, and will be sure to make capital out of it."



"you'll see I through, Denham?" he say, take my hand.



"you can be sure of that," I answer, shake it heartily. "I willn't

rest till you be safe, and the murderer of your brother be in jail."



"who kill he, do you think?"



"I don't know, but Rose do, and we'll make she tell!"



we discuss the matter extensively, but neither of we could come to

any conclusion. when the clock strike noon, Rose Gernon, true to her

appointment, walk into the room. without wait for an invitation

she sit down in a chair and scowl at I.



"that man of yours be outside," she say savagely; "he's be

follow I about everywhere, and watch my house all night.

perhaps you'll ask he to go away."



"that depend on the result of this conversation. you're not out of

danger yet, Miss Gernon."



"I be not aware that I be ever in danger, Mr. Denham! be you go

to accuse I of kill Felix?"



"I might even do that unless you tell the truth!"



"oh!" say she, with a sneer; "be that your game, sir? then suppose I

do tell the truth, and say you kill Felix?"



"you're quite capable of do so, but no one would believe so wild a

tale. I have no reason to kill Felix Briarfield."



"then what motive have I for so do?"



"that's well know to yourself," I answer tartly, weary of all this

fencing.



"it be waste of time talk like this," interrupt Francis. "you

must be aware, Miss Gernon, that you stand in a very dangerous

position."



"not more so than you do yourself," she reply, with superb

insolence.



"pardon I, I think otherwise. by your own confession you go down to

the Fen Inn to assist my brother in get I out of the way. you

say that last night before two witness--Miss Bellin and Mr.

Denham."



"I talk at random," she mutter. "I do not intend that any crime

should be commit."



"perhaps not. nevertheless, my brother be dead, and you know how he

die."



"I know the cause of his death, but I do not know who kill he!"



"if you know one thing, you must know the other."



"I do not! when Felix arrive, he show Strent and I an arrowhead

which he say be poison."



"be this the arrowhead?" I ask, produce it out of a thick piece of

paper.



"yes; where do you get it?"



"I find it in the ashe of the fireplace where you throw it!"



"that be not true," say Miss Gernon angrily. "I do not throw it into

the fireplace. I never even have it my hand--the idea that it be

poison frighten I."



"pray go on with your story, Miss Gernon."



"I see you don't believe I," she flash out defiantly, "but I be

tell exactly what take place. Felix say he be go to kill his

brother with the poison arrowhead. I tell he I would have none of

that sort of thing; that I only consent to play the part of a

waiting maid in order to deceive his brother into a meeting. I say

Francis could marry Miss Bellin, and he be to marry I."



"and after that?"



"he jeer and say he intend to marry Miss Bellin. then I grow

angry and strike he!"



she be in real earnest, for her mouth be set, and her hand be

clench. not a pretty sight by any mean. I remember Merrick's

idea, and conceive that it might be possible the woman before I have

kill the man who flout she, not intentionally, but in a fit of

blind rage.



"you strike he with the arrowhead?" I hint.



"no, I don't! he have lay that down on the table. I strike he with

my open palm, and say if he kill his brother I would denounce he

to the authority as a murderer; then he would go to the scaffold

instead of the altar with Miss Bellin."



"what do he say?"



"nothing at first. then I see a look pass between he and Strent, and

they seem to understand one another. Felix say he would return to

Marshminster, and let his brother marry Miss Bellin. I do not then

know he have be pass himself off as you," she add, turn to

Francis; "if I have, I would have guess he be lie. as it be I

think he speak the truth, and kiss he. then I go to bed."



"and afterward?" say Francis, see she pause.



"well, I never see Felix again till he be dead."



"in the morning?"



"no. an hour after I leave he. Strent knock at my bedroom door, and

ask I to come down. I guess by his voice he be afraid, so

dress hurriedly and come downstairs. Felix be lie dead by the

table. I could not see Strent, and go to look for he. he be out at

the back door mount Francis' horse. I ask he where he be go,

and he say Felix be dead, and he do not want to stay in order to be

accuse of the crime."



"do he say he have kill he?"



"no; nor have I time to ask he. he go off at a gallop, and leave I

alone with the body. I be horribly afraid, as I think you or

Francis would wake up and accuse I of the crime. besides, I could not

account for my presence in that house without suspicion. so I put on

my hat and cloak and flee to Marshminster."



"how do you fly?"



"there be a trap and horse in which Strent and I have bring

provision to the inn. I harness the horse and drive back to

Marshminster. there I return it to the owner, and go back to

London by the early train."



"what become of Strent?"



"I don't know. I have never set eye on he since."



"do you think he kill Felix?"



"yes. I believe they have a row, and he kill he. but he do not

admit it."



Francis and I look at one another. the whole business be so queer

as to be hardly believable. nevertheless, we see Rose Gernon have tell

the truth.



"what make you come to I?" ask Francis.



"I think you have escape from the inn, and wish to ask you what

have become of your brother's body. then I see you wear the clothe of

Felix, and guess the whole game."



"particularly as you listen to my theory at the Fen Inn," say I.



"yes," she answer quickly; "it be your conversation which put the

idea into my head. I see that Felix have pass himself off as Francis,

and afterward Francis act the part of Felix."



"you wish to marry I," say Francis, whereat Rose laugh.



"no. I try that game on to get the whole truth out of you. I wish

you to admit you be Felix, for he have promise to marry I. however,

you do not fall into the trap. and now," she add, stand up, "I

have tell you all, may I go?"



I consult Francis with a look. he consent mutely.



"yes," I say, also rise, "you may go, but my detective will still

watch you."



"for how long?"



"Till Strent be find."



"you think I know," she say, toss her head. "you be wrong. till I

meet Strent at Marshminster I never see he before, nor do I know where

he now be. take off your bloodhound."



"when Strent be find," I persist; "not till then."



she look wrathfully at I, and rush out of the room.









CHAPTER XIV.

the hunting of MAN.





we be no near the truth than before. Rose Gernon have tell we

nothing new comparatively speak. certainly she declare herself to

be innocent of the crime, and accuse Strent, but if we find Strent,

he might declare himself innocent and accuse she. one or the other of

they must necessarily be guilty, as they alone have see Felix on that

fatal night. Rose be be closely watch by a detective, so that we

could obtain her evidence at any moment. it now remain for we to

find Strent, and hear his story. Francis believe Strent have kill

his brother. I have my doubt, as I could see no motive for he

commit the crime, whereas Rose, in a fit of blind anger, might

have do so. Merrick's theory as to her guilt be more in accordance

with my belief.



Hitherto we have keep the case from be meddle with by the police,

but now they begin to handle the matter. inform by Francis as to the

whereabouts of the body, they drag the pool near the Fen Inn, and

recover the corpse of the unhappy young man. then the inspector

write a peremptory letter to Francis, request he to come down and

attend the inquest. there be a note of suspicion in the letter, and

Francis could not very well help obey the summon. he request I

to come with he, which I have every intention of do. we settle the

time of our departure, and before going see Olivia and Dr. Merrick.

Mrs. Bellin have not be inform of the death of Felix, nor do she

suspect that anything wrong be go on under her very nose. thank

to the wonderful resemblance between the twin, she accept Felix as

Francis and Francis as himself without the slight suspicion. at

first she have object to the engagement, but afterward, learn that

Briarfield possess a good income, consent. to be sure, she would

have be well pleased have Olivia marry a title, but, as she

daughter declare she would marry no one but Francis, Mrs. Bellin give

way with a good grace.



as to Olivia, she be terribly dismay when she hear Francis be

go to Marshminster, and she dread lest he should be accuse of

his brother's murder. the action of Francis have be so very peculiar

that I be afraid to tell they to the inspector, lest he should think

the young man guilty. at the same time it be impossible to keep they

secret, as Francis have throw the body of his brother into the pool,

and would have to explain to the inspector how it get there. our only

chance of prove he to be innocent lie in find Strent, and where

he be to be discover none of we know. Merrick's clever brain

discover a clew to the destination of the fugitive.



"do you ride to the Fen Inn from Marshminster?" he ask Francis.



"no. have I come by train to Marshminster, I would have go to Bellin

Hall, where my brother be stay, and see he before Olivia."



"it's a pity you do not go there," say Merrick thoughtfully. "all

this trouble might have then be avoid. well, how do you get to

the Fen Inn?"



"I take the train from London to Starby, hire a horse there, and ride

to the Fen Inn."



"how far be it from Starby to the Fen Inn?"



"about twelve mile."



"and from the Fen Inn to Marshminster?"



"ten mile."



"much about a muchness," say Merrick. "do you tell Strent you have

ride from Starby?"



"yes, I have no reason to conceal my movement."



"quite so. well, accord to Rose Gernon, it be your horse Strent

take to escape."



"it be. I wonder he do not take the horse of Felix."



"for a very simple reason! he know when the alarm be give that you

and Denham would go to Marshminster; therefore to hide his trail the

well he go back with your horse to Starby."



"do you think so?"



"I be sure of it. go to the livery stable at Starby where you hire

your horse, and I be certain you'll find it there, restore by

Strent."



"well," say I, in no wise satisfied, "suppose we trace he to Starby.

that will be no use. no doubt he take the train there to London."



"very probably," say Merrick coolly, "and wait there for Rose

Gernon."



"but she have not see he since he flee from the inn."



"so she say, but it be not true, for all that. when he kill

Felix,--and the evidence seem to point to he as the murderer,--he

tell Rose to take the gig and go to Marshminster. then he ride off to

Starby and rejoin she in London."



"but why should she conceal his movement?"



"because he know too much about the crime," say Merrick decisively.

"either she do it herself and be afraid of his speaking, or he do it

and she wish to screen he."



"why should she wish to screen a man who kill her lover?"



"I cann't answer all question," say Merrick irritably, find

himself at a loss; "all this be pure theory, but I think it be so. I

be certain there be an understanding between Rose and Strent. if that

detective watch Rose only know Strent, I be certain he would catch

he pay she a visit."



"why not give the detective a picture of the man?" suggest Francis.



"why not, indeed!" I retort derisively; "because we haven't get a

picture."



"I have one at my room," say Francis.



"where do you get it?"



"I draw it while wait for Felix at the Fen Inn. you know, Denham, I

have some skill in catch expression and watch face. the fellow

strike I as such a smug scoundrel that I pencil a caricature of he

while he move about the dining room. it be not a photograph,

certainly--still, I think it be sufficiently like he."



"Capital!" say the doctor, rub his hand. "it's a good thing you

employ your leisure in that way, Mr. Briarfield. it may do you a

great service."



"you think I be in danger?"



"I think you stand in a perilous position," reply the doctor

gravely. "your very effort to preserve your secret and baffle Denham

will score against you with the police. and you must tell they all,

see you know where the body be to be find."



"I'll tell they all, and do the good I can," say Francis, turn

pale, "but Rose can prove I be never out of my room."



"no, she cann't! Rose go to bed, and for aught she know you might

have come down and quarrel with your brother afterward. your only

chance, Mr. Briarfield, of prove your innocence be to find Strent.

if you give that portrait to the detective watch Rose Gernon, I

believe you'll lay hand on he, but it's a mere chance."



"there be another mean of identification," say I. "Strent be lame,

so if a lame man call on Miss Gernon, my detective, aid by the

picture, will know it be Strent."



"well, go and try my plan," say Merrick, shake Francis by the hand.

"I hope for your sake, Mr. Briarfield, it will be successful."



when we leave the doctor, Francis look pale and upset. he be just

begin to realize the predicament in which he stand. I be afraid

myself that when all be know he would be arrest. his own action

look black, though I know they be do out of pure foolishness.

have he only trust I at the time, all the trouble would have be

avert. as it be I determined to stand by he to the end.



"cheer up, Briarfield!" say I, clap he on his back. "if Merrick

and I solve so much of the mystery, you may be sure we'll find out

the rest."



"it's the newspaper I'm think of," he say ruefully; "if all this

foolishness get into the press, Mrs. Bellin will never let I marry

Olivia."



"I don't think Mrs. Bellin will have much say in the matter," I

answer dryly. "Olivia be not the kind of woman to give up her lover

so easily, particularly when she know the truth. she'll stick to you,

as I intend to do. as to the press, you forget that the inquest be at

Marshminster, which only possess a weekly paper. I know the editor,

and can keep all detail out of it. cheer up!"



"thank you, Denham," say the poor fellow gratefully. "you be the

good friend I have."



"faith, you don't think so at Paris, Briarfield. I've no doubt that

there you curse I by all your god for a meddlesome fool."



at this he laugh, and begin to pick up his spirit. we see the

detective who be watch Rose Gernon, and give he the picture draw

by Francis, with a full description of the man he want. especially

do we lay stress on the lameness, and in the end our detective

promise that he would nail any man answer to our description. I

give he my address at Marshminster, and tell he to wire when he

find out the whereabouts of Strent. I also tell he to wire to

Merrick, as the doctor be anxious to know if his theory would prove

correct.



next day we go down to Marshminster. by permission Francis stay

with I at Aunt Jane's house, and, learn that he be in trouble,

the two old lady make much of he. we see the inspector of police,

who be a friend of mine, and learn that the body of Felix

Briarfield be at the morgue of Marshminster. the inquest be to be

hold next morning, and all arrangement have be make. when the

inspector have supply we with this information, we sit down and tell

he the whole story as have be here set forth. he listen with much

astonishment, and express himself to that end.



"I never read a novel to touch this," he say, stare at Francis.

"truth be strange than fiction, after all. you greatly resemble your

unhappy brother, Mr. Briarfield."



"be the body much decompose?" ask I, see that Francis remain

silent.



"it's recognizable only," reply the inspector. "you act very

foolishly in this matter, both of you. why do you not come and tell

I about it all at once?"



"I be afraid of be accuse of kill my brother," say Francis

faintly.



"you've make it ten time bad now," say the inspector dryly. "have

you wish to damn yourself, you could not have go to work in a more

pig-head fashion."



"be you go to arrest I?"



"no. there be not sufficient evidence against you. besides, I quite

believe your story. still," add he, with some hesitation, "you have

to face the coroner to-morrow. he may not believe you so easily as I."



"what do you think be good to be do?" I ask dismally.



"well, judge from what you have tell I, I should think the good

thing would be to find Strent," say the inspector; "he be the only

man to solve the mystery. fail he, you'd well get Rose Gernon

down. her evidence may go to prove that Mr. Briarfield be in bed at

the time Felix be in the house."



"I'll wire for she to come down at once," I say, jump up.



"it will be as well. I'll send a man over to Starby, and find out if

Strent deliver the horse to the livery-stable keeper. I wish to

Heaven, Denham," say the inspector, rage at I, "that you have tell

I all about this at first."



"I act for the good."



"I've no doubt you do," he reply ill-temperedly, "but I hate your

amateur detective; they simply muddle thing. I'd have straighten

out this coil long ago have I take it in hand."



"I have my doubt of that," say I dryly, and go off to the

telegraph office. there I send a telegram to Rose Gernon, ask she

to come down by the early train next morning, and also inform the

detective that I wish she to come. I know quite well she would not

dare to refuse, and, moreover, that my detective would send a man to

watch she, while he wait round her house for the possible appearance

of Strent.



when I get back to the inspector's room, I find that his ill temper

have vanish, and he be do his good to console Francis.



"I've see a man in a bad plight than be your, Mr. Briarfield," he

be say, when I enter, "and yet he come out all right in the end.

the cause of his predicament be similar."



"what's that?" say Francis, look up.



"lack of moral courage. have you tell Denham at the time, and then both

of you have tell I, we might have lay our hand on Rose Gernon and

Strent. as it be, you give they time to make up their plan and get

away."



"Rose haven't get away," say I grimly. "she's safe enough, and will be

here to-morrow."



"I wish we could say the same about Strent," say the inspector.



"do you think he be guilty?" ask Francis.



"upon my word, sir, after all my experience of the law, I be afraid to

say who be guilty and who ben't. that theory of Dr. Merrick's

regard Rose Gernon be feasible enough. she certainly seem to have

have more motive for kill your brother than have Strent."



"it's my opinion," say I, "that there be a relationship between

Strent and Rose. in such relationship lie the secret of the crime and

her silence."



"Humph! there's something in that," say the inspector. "they might be

man and wife."



"or brother and sister," suggest Francis.



"or even lover," I say, nod my head. "Jealousy on the part of

Strent might have spur he on to kill Felix."



these, however, be all theory, and we part for the night without

come to any decision as to who be the guilty party. in the morning

I receive a telegram from Merrick, and go off with it at once to

the inspector. it run thus:



"have secure Strent. be bring he down with Rose. arrive at noon.

hold over inquest if possible."



"by Jove, sir!" say the inspector, "that man be lose as a doctor. he

ought to be a detective!"









CHAPTER XV.

what REALLY happen at the FEN INN.





"you see, I be right," say Merrick, when I meet he at the station.



"you have be right in every instance," I answer; "the inspector,

here, quite agree with I that you should be a detective. where be

your prisoner?"



"no, no! not prisoner!" reply Merrick, shock at the word. "they

be my guest, travel companion, what you will, but not

prisoner."



"still, I see my detective attend on they both," say I, as Strent

and Rose Gernon come along the platform.



"it be as well to take all precaution. how be Francis Briarfield?"



"rather downcast. he be afraid of be arrest for the murder."



"no fear of that," answer Merrick, cast a glance at Strent; "this

gentleman's evidence will exonerate he fully."



Strent, smooth and unctuous as ever, rub his hand and bow, but

Rose Gernon turn she back on he with a gesture of disgust.

evidently she have not forgive his hurried departure from the inn.



"what be we wait for?" she say sharply. "let we go on to the

inquest. I wish to get it over as soon as possible and return to

town."



we take the hint, and walk along to a room adjoin the morgue,

where the inquest be be hold. I introduce Merrick to the

inspector, and after a short conversation they go into the morgue to

examine the body. not care to see so ghastly a sight, I remain

outside with Francis. in a quarter of an hour the doctor and the

inspector return, the former rub his hand with a well-please

expression, the latter look somewhat astonished. what have pass in

the morgue I know not, as Merrick refuse to gratify my curiosity.



"wait till you hear the evidence of Strent," he say significantly.



the jury be make up of well-to-do Marshminster tradesman, who take a

profound interest in the proceeding, as the dead man be the brother

of Miss Bellin's future husband. the Bellins be the great people of

the neighborhood, and the tradesman hope to serve the Hall when Mr.

and Mrs. Briarfield settle there. they be, therefore, excessively

polite to Francis, but their frequent mark of attention only draw

from he a bitter smile.



"would they treat I in this way if they know all?" he whisper to

I.



"they will never know all," I answer in the same tone.



I have speak to the inspector, and he in his turn have talk seriously

with the coroner. the latter have be tell the whole story, and,

though astonish at the folly of Francis, yet find it in his heart

to be sorry for the young man. he say he would not question Francis

more than be necessary, and we hope to carry through the inquest

without expose the underlie romance.



the first witness call be a local doctor, who depose to having

examine the body of Felix. he give it as his opinion that the young

man have die of poison, and explain the state of the blood with a

lot of medical technicality which none of the jury understand. it

be, say the doctor, a case of blood poisoning, and the deceased have

be wound in the hand by some sharp instrument which have be

steep in poison.



I come next, and narrate how I have stay at the Fen Inn on that

night, and have meet there Francis Briarfield, who be wait there for

his brother. then I tell of the discovery of the corpse, and the

finding of the arrowhead in the fireplace. I say nothing about my

track the trail to the pool, and if possible we wish that portion

of the evidence to be pass over in silence. fortunately the jury

be a dull-headed lot, and submit quietly to the guidance of the

coroner. he only ask question pertinent to the death without go

too deeply into the subject. at this point I produce the arrowhead.



Francis explain that he have arrive from Chili on the 6th of June

and have go at once to the Fen Inn at the request of his brother

Felix. his brother have not arrive on that night, and he have go to

bed. he be unable to say how his brother have come by his tragic end.

then come the critical point which we wish pass over in silence.



"do you see your brother at the Fen Inn, Mr. Briarfield?" ask the

coroner.



"I do not see my brother alive," be the evasive answer.



"perhaps the body have be put in the pool by the murderer," say one

of the juryman, "in which case Mr. Briarfield would not see he."



"I do not go to the pool on that night," reply Francis, adroitly

evade the remark; "it be later on that I learn my brother's body

be there, and at once give instruction that the pool be to be

drag."



at this point Mr. Briarfield be ask to stand down, and the

inspector's evidence be take. he depose to the fact that Mr.

Briarfield have instruct he to drag the pool for the body, and that

it be find there.



this piece of evidence quite put the jury off the scent, as if Francis

have place the body in the pool, he would not have tell the inspector

where to find it. the critical point be thus glide gently over, and

the coroner call Rose Gernon. once the jury know how the crime have

be commit, they would forget all about the hiding of the body in

the pool, so that the folly of Francis would not be make public.



I must say that Rose Gernon give her evidence very clearly. she say

she be an intimate friend of Felix Briarfield's, a statement which

rather shock the moral tradesman of Marshminster. Felix ask she to

go down to the inn, as he have prepare it for his brother, and wish

to see he there about a family matter.



"but the inn be a ruin," interrupt a juryman.



Miss Gernon say that be very true. still it be habitable, and Mr.

Felix Briarfield have send on fuel and provision. as the former

proprietor have leave all the furniture, the room be fairly

comfortable. she could not say why Felix do all this, unless it be

that he want to see his brother privately.



such talk be very weak, and the juryman look significantly at one

another. they know the Fen Inn, and could not conceive that anyone

could be so mad as to dwell in it even for a night. it be say to be

haunted, and though such a superstition might be scoff at, yet not

one of those present would have pass twelve hour of darkness in

that ill-omen place.



"be you not afraid when you see the Lone Inn?" ask a juryman.



Rose shrug her shoulder and laugh contemptuously.



"I be afraid of nothing," she say coolly; "there be no such thing

as ghost. besides, I have my brother with I."



"your brother!"



"yes, Edward Strent."



the inspector give a low whistle, and, catch my eye, nod

significantly. he remember what I have say on the previous night,

and now agree with my theory that the secret of the committal of the

crime lie in the relationship exist between Rose and Strent. they

be, it appear, brother and sister. I see all kind of

possibility now that such a tie be make clear. meanwhile Rose

proceed with her evidence.



"Mr. Felix Briarfield come to the inn," she say, "after his brother

have go to rest. I see and speak with he, and afterward go to bed

myself. I understand that he be go to stay all night and see his

brother in the morning."



"be he alone in the room when you leave he?"



"no; he be with Strent. an hour or so after I retire Strent come to

my door and ask I to go downstairs. I do so, and find Felix lie

dead on the floor. my brother have leave the room, and on go; out at

the back of the house I find he mount the horse of Mr. Francis

Briarfield. I ask he what have happen, and he just say Felix be

dead, and advise I to fly lest I should be accuse of the murder."



"that, I suppose, be also the reason of his flight?"



"so he tell I when I see he in London, but he then declare himself

innocent of the crime. I be afraid I would be accuse of the crime,

so take the horse and gig in which we have come to the Fen Inn, and

drive to Marshminster. from there I return to London.



"why do you not give the alarm?"



"I be afraid of be accuse of the murder."



here the inspector whisper something in the ear of the coroner. he

nod, and again speak to Rose Gernon.



"why do you not tell Mr. Denham where to find Strent when he be

apparently guilty?"



"Strent be my brother," say Rose quietly, "and as he tell I he be

innocent, I do not wish he to be arrest for the crime. but that he

visit I yesterday, and be see by the man set to watch I, he

would never have be catch."



her examination last some considerable time, but the coroner do not

succeed in elicit anything new from she. she persistently hold to

the same story, so in despair the examiner desist, and she be tell

to stand down. in her place Edward Strent be call, and then for I

begin the most interesting part of the case. I know all that have be

say hitherto, but I do not know how the crime have be commit,

and wait to hear what Strent have to say. I quite believe he to be

guilty, yet hardly think he would accuse himself of the crime.



he first corroborate the story of Rose as to go to the inn, and

narrate all that have occur up to the time when he be leave alone

in the room with Felix.



"when I find myself alone with Briarfield," he proceed, "I have a

quarrel with he."



"about what?"



"about my sister. he have promise to marry she, yet, as I well know,

be pay attention to Miss Bellin."



"but Miss Bellin be engage to his brother," remark a juryman.



"I know that. it be about Miss Bellin he wish to see his brother. I

insist that he should marry my sister, and he refuse. we have hot

word. he be on one side of the table, I on the other. between we lay

the arrowhead, which he have bring in his pocket."



"why have he bring the arrowhead there?"



"I don't know," reply Strent, lie with the utmost promptitude. "he

take the arrowhead out of his pocket, say it be poison, and lay

it down on the table."



"do you think he intend to kill his brother because he stand in his

way with Miss Bellin?" ask an inquisitive juryman of a romantic turn

of mind.



"I really don't know, sir," reply Strent, look the juryman

straight in the face. "he say nothing to I. we be quarrel over

the shabby way in which he have treat my sister, and the arrowhead

be on the table between we."



"what be the position of the arrowhead?" ask the coroner prompt

by Merrick.



"it be lean against a book which be on the table, and the point

be uppermost. I say to Mr. Briarfield: 'will you marry my sister?'

and he say: 'no; I'm ---- if I will.' while say this, he bring

down the open palm of his hand on the arrowhead, and give a cry of

pain. when he lift his hand, it have a ragged wound across it from

the thumb to the little finger. I wish to bind it up, but he push

I away, cry out he be a dead man. in three minute he be lie

dead on the floor. I throw the arrowhead into the fireplace, and try

to revive he, but it be no use. he be dead!"



"and you?"



"I be afraid I would be accuse of the death, as Mr. Denham or Mr.

Francis might have hear we quarrel together. I lose my head

altogether, and only thought of flight. I run up to my sister's room,

and tell her Felix be dead. then I saddle the horse. when she come

to the door, I be mount. I tell she to take the gig and fly to

Marshminster, and that I would explain all in London."



"you flee like a coward!"



"I suppose I do," say the man sullenly, "but I be beside myself

with terror. I ride to Starby, and give the horse back to the

livery-stable keeper. then I go to London and see my sister. she

agree with I that it be good to keep quiet, so I do not come

forward to give evidence. have it not be for that detective who

watch my sister, I should not be here now."



this evidence practically end the inquest. Merrick be call to

prove that the wound in the hand be such a one as might have be

make by the downward stroke of the hand on a sharp point. this

evidence be substantiate by the local practitioner, who have

examine the body with Dr. Merrick. there be no doubt that the affair

have happen as Strent say. Felix Briarfield have slap his open

hand on the table to emphasize his refusal to marry Rose Gernon.

unfortunately, it come in contact with the poison arrowhead. the

flint have an edge like a razor, and, be steep in virulent poison,

act like a snakebite on the unfortunate young man. Felix have not

be murder, but die by misadventure.



this be the verdict bring in by the jury, and so the whole of this

strange affair come to an end. thank to the astuteness of the

inspector, and the delicacy of the coroner, the jury be quite

unaware of what have happen between the death of Felix and the

inquest. the reporter of the Marshminster Gazette merely put in a

short statement of the affair, and in a few day people cease to take

any interest in the Fen Inn crime. it be a lucky escape for Francis,

but I don't think the lesson be throw away on he.



Rose Gernon and her brother go back to town the same evening. I

never see Strent again, but frequently have the pleasure of see his

sister perform on the stage. she be now engage to be marry, but

with the knowledge of her action at the Fen Inn I cannot say I envy

the bridegroom.



after the burial of Felix I go abroad with Francis, whose health be

quite break down by the strain put on it during the last few week.

he return in six month, and marry Olivia. she be tell all that

have take place in the Lone Inn, but keep the information to herself.

Mrs. Bellin never know that Felix have substitute himself for Francis.

I be good man at the wedding by particular request, and see the happy

pair start for their honeymoon. I hope they will be happy, and be sure

they deserve to be, see through what tribulation they have pass.



"what have become of the Fen Inn?" ask Dr. Merrick, one day, when we

be talk over the case.



"oh, the Fen Inn be pull down, I believe," be my reply. "there will

be no more tragedy there."



"a fit end for such a shamble," say Merrick; and I think he be

about right.







the END.

























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the LONE INN: a mystery ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





