The project Gutenberg eBook of whom God Hath join: a question of Marriage

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: whom God Hath join: a question of marriage



author: Fergus Hume



Release date: September 17, 2017 [ebook #55571]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

        Google Books (University of Illinois Library)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK whom GOD HATH JOINED: a question of marriage ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by

Google Books (University of Illinois Library)























Transcriber's Notes:

   1. page scan source: Google Books, https://books.google.com/books/

      about/whom_god_hath_joined.html?id=qaJBAQAAMAAJ.

      [University of Illinois Library]



   2. low left corner of page 144 (start of chapter XVIII.) be tear

      off, partially affect three line of text. Lacunae indicate

      by [* * *].













[illustration: Front Cover]













whom GOD HATH JOINED.

a question of marriage.







BY

FERGUS HUME,



AUTHOR of

"the mystery of a hansom CAB," "the man with

a secret," "MONSIEUR JUDAS," ETC., ETC.





the saying that no one can serve two master have its exception in the

case of a wife and mother, who be bind by her marriage vow and

maternal instinct to love in equal measure her husband and child;

but alas for the happiness of the family should she love one to the

exclusion of the other, for from such exclusion arise many domestic

heart burning.





_THIRD EDITION_.







LONDON:

F. V. WHITE & CO.,

14, BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.

1894.













print BY

KELLY and CO. LIMITED, 182, 183 and 184, HIGH HOLBORN. W.C.,

and KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.













content



CHAP.



I.         two Friends

II.        an Incomplete Madonna

III.       the Waning of the Honeymoon

IV.        the Art of Conversation

V.         an australian Girl

VI.        a Day's Shopping

VII.       Lady Errington's Little Dinner

VIII.      eustace examine his mind

IX.        "oh, Wilt Thou be my Bride, Kathleen?"

X.         Auf Wiedersehn

XI.        a Maiden Lady

XII.       Aunt Jelly's opinion

xiii.      bring Home the Bride

XIV.       an Undesirable Acquaintance

XV.        a Woman Scorned

XVI.       the event of Eighteen month

XVII.      Gossip

xviii.     from Foreign Parts

XIX.       Aunt Jelly discuss Family Affairs

XX.        the Old House by the Sea

XXI.       from the Husband's Point of View

XXII.      from the Wife's Point of View

XXIII.     Mrs. Veilsturm's "at home"

XXIV.      "on Revient Tojours à ses première Amours"

XXV.       Fascination

XXVI.      Aunt Jelly Interferes

XXVII.     the Deity call Fate

XXVIII.    Husband and Wife

XXIX.      the Question of Marriage

XXX.       Cleopatra Victrix

XXXI.      in the Coils of the Serpent

XXXII.     what make the Ball sae Fine?

XXXIII.    Pallida Mors

XXXIV.     the assault of the evil One

xxxv.      for my child's sake

xxxvi.     the death of the first-bear

XXXVII.    the Truth about Mrs. Veilsturm

XXXVIII.   the last temptation

XXXIX.     "and Kissed again with Tears"

XL.        a Letter from home













to

MY CRITICS,

in APPRECIATION

of the KIND MANNER

in which they have review

MY former book,

I dedicate

this work.













     if marriage be make above,

       they're oft unmade by man below,

     there should be trust, and joy, and love,

       if marriage be make above;

     but should Heav'n mate a hawk and dove,

       such match unequal breed but woe,

     if marriage be make above,

      they're oft unmade by man below.













whom GOD HATH JOINED.









CHAPTER I.

two friend.



"like doth not always draw to like--in truth

 old age be ever worshipful of youth,

 see in boyish dream with daring rife,

 a reflex of the spring time of its life,

 when sword in hand with Hope's brave flag unfurl,

 it sally forth to fight the blust'ring world."





it be about mid-day, and the train having emerge from the darkness

of the St. Gothard tunnel, be now steam rapidly on its winding

line through the precipitous ravine of the Alps, under the hot glare

of an August sun. on either side tower the mountain, their rugged

side of grey chaotic stone show bare and bleak at interval amid

the dense masse of dark green foliage.



sometimes a red-roof châlet would appear cling swallow-like to

the steep hill-side--then the sudden flash of a waterfall tumbling in

sheet of shattered foam from craggy height: high above, fantastic

peak swathe in wreath of pale mist, and now and then the glimpse of

a white Alpine summit, milky against the clear blue of the sky.



on speed the engine with its long train of carriage, as though anxious

to leave the inhospitable mountain land for the fertile plain of

Italy--now crawl fly-like round the giant flank of a hill--anon

plunge into the cool gloom of a tunnel--once more pant into the

feverish heat--sweep across slender viaduct hang perilously

over foam torrent--glide like a snake under tower masse of

rock--and run dangerously along the verge of dizzy precipice,

while white-wall, red-roof, green-shutter village, shapeless

rock, delicately green forest, snow-clothe peak, and thread-like

waterfall flash past the tired eye of the passenger in the train

with the rapidity of a kaleidoscope.



and it be hot--the insufferable radiance of the southern sun, blaze

down from a cloudless sky, beat pitilessly on the roof of the railway

carriage, until the occupant be quite wear out with the heat and

glare from which they could not escape.



in one of the first-class carriage two man be endeavour to

alleviate the discomfort in some measure, and have succeed in

obtain a partial twilight by draw down the dark blue curtain,

but the attempt be hardly successful, as through every chink and

cranny leave uncover, shoot the blind white arrow of the sun-god,

telling of the intolerable brilliance without.



one of the individual in question be lie full length on the

cushion, his head rest on a dressing-bag, and his eye half

close, while the other be curl up in a corner on the opposite

side, with his hand in his pocket, his head throw back, and a

discontent look on his boyish face, as he stare upward. both

gentleman have their coat off, their waistcoat unbuttoned and their

collar loose, try to make themselves as comfortable as possible in

the swelter heat.



on the seat and floor of the carriage a litter of book and paper

show how they have be strive to beguile the time, but human

nature have give in at last, and they be now reduce to a state of

exhaustion, to get through the next few hour as good they could until

their arrival at Chiasso, where they intend to leave the train and

drive over to their destination at Cernobbio, on Lake Como.



"oh Jove!" groan the lad in the corner, settle himself into a more

comfortable position, "what a devil of a day."



"the first oath," murmur the recumbent man lazily, with his eye

still close, "be apt, and smack of classic culture suitable to the

land of Italy, but the latter be english and barbaric."



"oh, bother," retort his friend impatiently, "I cann't do the subject

justice in the way of swearing."



"then don't try; the torture of Hades be bad enough without the

language thereof."



"you seem comfortable at all event, Gartney," say the boy crossly.



"St. Lawrence," observe Mr. Gartney, open his eye, "have a bed of

rose on his gridiron compare with this eider-down cushion on which I

lie--the saint roast, I simmer--I'll be quite do by the time we

reach Chiasso."



"I'm do now," groan his companion. "do shut up, Gartney, and I'll

try and get some sleep."



Gartney laugh softly at the resigned manner in which the other

speak, and once more close his eye while his friend, follow his

example, fall into an uneasy slumber interrupt by frequent sigh and

groan.



he be a pleasant enough looking boy, but not what would be call

handsome, with his merry grey eye, his rather wide mouth, his

well-cut nose with sensitive nostril, and his wavy auburn hair

suit his fair freckled skin; all these take individually be by

no mean faultless, yet altogether they make up a countenance which

most people like. then he have a tall, well-knit figure, and as he

dress well, ride well, be an adept in all kind of athletic sport,

with exuberant animal spirit and a title, Angus Macjean, Master of

Otterburn, be a general favourite with his own sex, and a particular

favourite with the other.



what wit and humour the lad possess come from his irish mother, who

die, poor soul, shortly after he be bear, and be not sorry to leave

the world either, see it be render so unpleasant by her stern

presbyterian husband. why she marry Lord Dunkeld when, as a Dublin

belle, she could have do so much well, be a mystery to everyone,

but at all event marry he she do with the aforesaid result, death

for herself after a year of unhappy married life, and an heir to the

Macjean title.



Lord Dunkeld be sincerely sorry in his own cold way when she die,

never dream, narrow-minded bigot as he be, that life in the gloomy

Border castle be unsuited to the brilliant, impulsive Irishwoman, and

after place she remain in the family vault, he proceed to apply

to his son's life the same rule that finish Lady Dunkeld's

existence. the boy, however, have Scotch grit in he as well as celtic

brilliance, and as he grow up under his father's eye, give promise

both intellectually and physically of future excellence, so that when

he reach the age of nineteen, he be the pride of the old lord, and

of the endless macjean clan, who be very proud, very poor, and very

numerous.



but whatever pride Dunkeld feel in the perfection of his heir he take

care never to show it to the lad on the principle that it would make

he vain, and vanity, accord to Mr. Mactab, the minister who look

after the spiritual welfare of the family, "be a snare o' the auld

enemy wha gaes roar up an' doon the warld." so Angus be never

pander to in that way, but lead a studious, joyless existence, his

only pleasure be shoot and fishing, while occasionally Dunkeld

entertain a few of his friend who be of the same way of thinking

as himself, and make merry in a decorous, dreary fashion.



at the age of nineteen, however, the lad rebel against the dismal

life to which his father condemn he, for as the princess in the

brazen castle, despite all precaution, find out about the prince

come to release she, so Angus Macjean, from various source, learn

fact about a pleasant life in the outside world, which make he long

to leave the cheerless castle and rainy northern sky for a place

more congenial to the irish side of his character. with such idea, it

be scarcely to be wonder at that he become more unmanageable every

day, until Lord Dunkeld with many misgiving send he to Oxford to

finish his education, but as a safeguard place by his side as servant

one Johnnie Armstrong, a middle-aged Scotchman of severe tendency,

who be suppose to be "strong in the spirit."



so to this seat of learning, Otterburn go, as his progenitor have

go before he, and fall in by some trick of fate with a somewhat

fast set, indulge his irish love for pleasure to the utmost. not that

he do anything wrong, or behave bad than the general run of young

man, but his 'varsity life be hardly one which would have be

approve of by his severe parent or the upright minister who have

nurture his young intellect on the psalm of David.



still Johnnie Armstrong!



Alas, for the frailty of human nature, Johnnie Armstrong, the strong

in spirit, the guardian of morality, the prop of a waver faith,

yield to the temptation of the world, and hold only too readily

that tongue which should have warn Otterburn against the snare of

Belial, for, truth to tell, Johnnie make as complaisant a guardian as

the most dissipate rake could have desire. the world, the flesh, and

the devil be too strong a trinity for Johnnie to stand against, so he

surrender himself to the temptation of this life in the most

pusillanimous manner, aid and abet his young master with

misdirect zeal. behold then, Angus Macjean and his leal henchman

both fall away from grace and have a good time of it at Oxford, so

much so, indeed, that otterburn be quite sorry when his father, after

two year' absence, summon he to Dunkeld Castle to grace the

ceremony of his come of age.



that come of age be a severe trial to Angus, as the guest be

mostly Free Kirk minister and their spouse, the minister in lengthy

speech, exhort he to follow in the footstep of his father,

_i.e_., support the Free Kirk, make large donation to the fund

thereof, and entertain minister of that follow on all possible

occasion. otterburn having learn considerable craft at Oxford, make

suitable reply, promise all kind of thing which he have not the

slight idea of fulfil, and altogether produce a favourable

impression both by such guile and by a display of those educational

grace with which Alma Mater have endow he. it be needless to say

that, aid by the faithful Johnnie Angus do not tell either his

father or Mactab of his gay life at the University, and the result of

this reticence be that the old lord, bestow on he a small income

out of the somewhat straiten finance of the Macjeans, bade he

enjoy himself in London for a year, and then return to marry.



to marry! Poor Angus be horror-strike at such a prospect, the more so

when his father introduce he to the lady select to be his bride, a

certain Miss Cranstoun who have a good income, but nothing else to

recommend she to his fastidious taste.



however, be a somewhat philosophical youth, he accept the

inevitable, for he know it would be easy to move Ben Nevis than his

father, and trust to the intervention of a kind providence to avert

his matrimonial fate, he go up to London with Johnnie to enjoy

himself, which he do, but hardly in the way anticipate by Lord

Dunkeld.



think his marriage with the plain-look Miss Cranstoun be

unavoidable, he make up his mind to see as much of life as he could

during his day of freedom, and proceed to do so to his own

detriment, morally, physically and pecuniarily, when he chance to

meet with Eustace Gartney.



Eustace Gartney, whimsical in his fancy, take a liking to the lonely

lad, leave to his own device in such a dangerous place as London, and

persuade he to come to Italy hope to acquire an influence over the

young man and keep he on the right path until his return to Dunkeld

Castle.



there be certainly a spice of selfishness in this arrangement, as

Eustace be attract by the exuberant animal spirit and irish wit of

the lad, which form a contrast to the general run of young man of

to-day, and to his own pessimistic view of life, so, much as he

dislike put himself out in any way, he determine to stand by the

inexperienced youth, and save he from his impulsive good nature and

love of pleasure.



Lord Dunkeld, deem it wise that Angus should see something of

continental life, and have full confidence in the

straightforwardness of Johnnie Armstrong, agree to the journey, much

to his son's surprise, and this be how the Hon. Angus Macjean, in

company with Eustace Gartney, be in a railway train midway between

St. Gothard and Chiasso.



and Eustace Gartney, poet, visionary, philosopher, pessimist--what of

he? well, it be rather difficult to say. his friend call he mad,

but then one's friend always say that of anyone whose character they

find it difficult to understand. he be eminently a child of the

latter half of this curious century, the outcome of an over-refine

civilization, the last expression of an artificial existence, and a

riddle hard and unguessable to himself and everyone around he.



for one thing, he always speak the truth, and that in itself be

sufficient to stamp he as an eccentric individual, who have no motive

for existence in a society where the friendship of its member depend

in a great measure on their dexterity in evade it. again Gartney be

iconoclastic in his tendency, and love to knock down, break up, and

otherwise maltreat the idol which Society have set up in high place

for the purpose of daily worship. the Goddess of Fashion, the Idol of

Sport, the Deity of Conventionalism, all these and their kind be

abomination to this disrespectful young man, who display a lack of

reverence for such thing which be truly appalling.



it be not as though he have emerge from that unseen world of the

low class, of which the upper ten know nothing, to denounce the

folly and fashion of the hour; no, indeed, Eustace Gartney have be

bear in the purple, inherit plenty of money, be bring up in a

conventional manner, and the astonishing idea he possess, so

destructive to the well-being of Society, be certainly not derive

from his parent. both his father and mother have be of the most

orthodox type, and would doubtless have look upon their son's

eccentricity with dismay have they live, but as they both

finish with the thing of this life shortly after he be bear,

they be mercifully spare the misery of reflect that they have

produce such a firebrand. indeed they might have check his

radical-iconoclastic-pessimistic folly at their birth have they

live, but Fate will it otherwise, and in addition to rob

Eustace of his parent have give he careless guardian, who rarely

trouble their head about he, so that he grow up without discipline

or guidance, and even at the age of thirty-eight year be still under

the control of an extremely ill-regulated mind.



tall, heavily-build, loose-limbe, with a massive head, leonine masse

of dark hair, roughly-cut feature, and keen grey eye, he give the

casual observer an idea that he possess a fund of latent strength,

both intellectual and physical, but he rarely indulge the former, and

never by any chance display the latter. clean-shaven, with a

peculiarly sensitive mouth, his smile--when he do smile, which be

seldom--be wonderfully fascinating, and completely change the

somewhat sombre character of his face. he usually dress in a

careless, shabby fashion, though particular about the spotlessness of

his linen, roll in his gait as if he have be all his life at sea,

look generally half asleep, and, despite the little trouble he take

with his outward appearance, be a very noticeable figure. when he

choose, he could talk admirably, play the piano in the most brilliant

fashion, write charming verse and fantastic essay, and altogether

be very much like in London Society, when he choose to put in an

appearance at the few house whose inmate do not bore he.



without doubt a singularly loveable man; child adore he, animal

fawn on he, and friend, ah--that be the rub, see that he

deny the existence of such thing, class they in the category of

rocs, sea-serpent, hippogriff, and such-like strange beast.

therefore dismiss the word friend, which only apply to uncreated

being, and substitute the word acquaintance, which be good enough

to ticket one's fellow creature with, the acquaintance of Mr.

Gartney like he--or say they like he--very much.



absence in this case doubtless make their heart grow fonder, as

Eustace be rarely in England, prefer to travel in the most

outlandish region, his usual address be either timbuctoo, the

Mountains of the Moon, or the dominion of Prester John. he have

explore most of this small planet of ours, and have write book in

the Arabian Nights vein about thing which people say never exist,

and talk vaguely of yacht in the Polar sea, explore the bury

city of Central America, or do something equally original. at

present, however, he have dismiss these whimsical project for an

indefinite period, as the marriage of his cousin Guy Errington and the

friendship of Angus Macjean now occupy his attention.



then again his last book of paradoxical essay have be a great

success, as everybody of his acquaintance, both friend and foe,

abuse it--and read it. the critic, who know everything, have

denounce the book as blasphemous, horrible, coarse, drivel, with

the pleasing result that it have an exceptionally large sale; and

although most people, guide by the big daily, say they be

shock at the publication of such a book, yet they secretly like the

brilliant incisive writing, and want to lionise the author, but

eustace get wind of the idea promptly betook himself to the

Continent in order to escape such an infliction.



it be impossible that such a peculiar personage could be happy, and

Eustace certainly be not, as his fame, his money and his prosperity

be all so much Dead Sea fruit to his discontented mind. and why?

simply because he be one of those exact man who demand from the

world more than the world, which be selfish in the extreme, be

prepared to give, and because he could not obtain the moon sulk like

a naughty child at his failure to attain the impossible.



if he make a friend, he then and there demand more than the most

complaisant friend could give, so his friendship always end in

quarrel, and he would then inveigh against the heartlessness of human

nature simply because he could not make his friend a slave to his

whim and fancy.



he have be in love, or think so, many time, but without any

definite result, as he have a disagreeable habit of analyse womankind

too closely; and as they never by any chance come up to the impossible

standard of perfection he desire, the result be invariably the same,

irritation on his side, pique on the woman's, and ultimate parting in

mutual disgust. then he would retire from the world for a time, nurse

his disappointment in solitude, and emerge at length with a series of

bitter poem or a volume of cynical essay, in which he summarise his

opinion regard his last failure in love or friendship. a bitter

man, a discontent man, absurdly exact, intolerant of all thing

that be not to his liking, yet withal--strange contrast--a loveable

character.



Angus Macjean therefore be his late friend, but it be not

altogether a selfish feeling, as he be genuinely anxious to save the

friendless lad from the dangerous tendency of an impulsive nature;

nevertheless, his liking be not entirely disintereste, see that

he enjoy the bright boyish nature of Otterburn, with his impossible

longing, and his enthusiastic hero-worship of himself. so this spoilt

child, please with his new toy, see the world and his fellow man in a

more kindly light than usual, and, provide the mood last, there be

a chance that the happy disposition of Macjean might ameliorate to

some extent the gloom of his own temperament.



on his part, Angus be flatter by the friendship of such a clever

man, and moreover secretly admire the cynicism of his companion,

though, truth to tell, he do not always understand the vague

utterance of his oracle, for Gartney be somewhat enigmatic at time.

still on the whole Angus like he, and his enthusiastic nature lead

he to enuow his idol with many perfection which it certainly do

not possess.



thus these two incongruous nature have come together, but how long

such an amicable state of thing would last be questionable. there

be always the fatal rock of boredom ahead, upon which their

friendship might be wreck, and if Gartney grow weary of Otterburn or

Otterburn of Gartney, the result would be--well the result be still

to come.









CHAPTER II.

an INCOMPLETE MADONNA.



                           "she be a maid

     who hath a look prophetic in her eye,

     a longing for--she know not what herself;

     yet if by chance when kneeling rapt in prayer,

     she raise her eye to Mother Mary's face,

     within her breast a thought--till then unguessed,

     Amazing all her dreaming virginal,

     would show she, by that vision motherly,

     the something need to complete her life."





"then what be she?"



"she be an Incomplete Madonna."



they be near the end of their journey when Gartney make this reply,

and having reduce the chaos of book and paper into something like

order, they be both sit up with their garment in a more

presentable condition, smoke cigarette, and talk about the

Erringtons.



this family, consist of two people, male and female, bride and

bridegroom, be stay at the Villa Tagni on Lake Como, and Sir Guy

Errington, be a cousin of Gartney's, have ask his eccentric

relative to pay they a visit while in the vicinity, which he have

consent to do. this be the case, Otterburn, who, unacquainted

with the happy pair, except as to their name and relationship to his

friend, be cross-examine Eustace with a view to find out as much

as he could about they before be introduce.



Sir Guy, accord to his cynical cousin, be a handsome young fellow,

with three idea of primitive simplicity in his head, namely,

shooting, hunting, and dining. quite of the orthodox English type,

accord to the Gallic "it's-a-fine-day-let-we-go-and-kill-something"

idea, so otterburn, having meet many such hero of sporting instinct,

ask no more question regard the gentleman, but be move by

the inevitable curiosity of man concern woman, put the three

orthodox question which form a social trinity of perfection in

masculine eye.



"be she pretty?"



silence on the part of Mr. Eustace Gartney.



"be she young?"



still silence, but the ghost of a smile on the thin lip.



"be she rich?"



oracle again mute, whereupon the exasperate worshipper query more

comprehensively:



"then what be she?"



vague, enigmatic answer of the oracle:



"she be an Incomplete Madonna."



otterburn stare in puzzled surprise at this epigrammatic response to

his boyish cross-examination, and after a bewildered pause burst out

laugh.



"you're too deep for I, Gartney," he say at length, blow a cloud

of thin blue smoke. "I don't understand that intellectual extract of

beef wherein the quality of one's friend be boil down into a

single witty phrase."



this reply please Eustace, especially as he be conscious of having

say rather a neat thing, so glance out into the brilliant world of

sunshine to see how far they be from their destination, he light

another cigarette and explain himself gravely:



"I be very fond of ticket my friend in that way, as it save such

a lot of trouble in answer question; if you ask I what I should

like in my tea, I should not answer 'the sweet juice of cane

crystallize into white grain.' no! I should simply say 'sugar,'

which include all the foregoing; therefore when you ask I to

describe Lady Errington, I say she be an incomplete Madonna, which be

an admirable description of she in two word."



"this," remark Otterburn, somewhat annoyed, "be a lecture on the use

and abuse of epigram. I don't want to know about epigram, but I do

want to know about Lady Errington. your two-word description be no

doubt witty, but it don't answer any of my question."



"Pardon I, it answer the whole three."



"I don't see it."



"listen then, oh groper in cimmerian gloom. you ask if Lady Errington

be young--of course, the Madonna be always paint young. be she

pretty? the Madonna, as you will see in italian picture, be

absolutely lovely. be she rich? my dear lad, we well know Mary be the

wife of a carpenter, and therefore poor in worldly wealth. Ergo, I

have answer all your question by the use of the phrase incomplete

Madonna."



"a very whimsical explanation at well, besides, you have answer more

than I ask by the use of the word incomplete--why be Lady Errington

incomplete?"



"because she be not yet a mother."



"oh, confound your mystic utterance," cry the Master, comically,

"do descend from your cloudy height and tell I what you mean. I

gather from your extremely hazy explanation that Lady Errington be

young, pretty, and poor, also that she be not a mother. so far so

good. proceed, but for heaven's sake no more epigrams."



"I'm afraid the beauty of an epigram be lose on you Macjean?"



"entirely! I  be neither a poet nor a student, so don't waste your

eloquence on I."



"well, I willn't," answer Gartney, smile. "I'll have pity on your

limited understanding and tell you all about Alizon Errington's

marriage in plain English."



"do, it will pass the time delightfully until we leave this infernal

train.'



"Lady Errington, my young friend," say Eustace leisurely, "be what

you, with your sinful misuse of the Queen's English, would call 'a

jolly pretty woman,' of the age of twenty-five, but I may as well say

that she look much old than that--this be no doubt the peculiar

effect of the life she lead before her marriage."



"on the racket," interpose Otterburn, scent a scandal.



"nothing of the sort," retort Gartney, severely. "Lady Errington have

lead the life of a Saint Elizabeth."



"never hear of she. the worthy Mactab don't approve of saint, as

they savour too much of the Scarlet Woman."



"at present I will not enlighten your ignorance," say Eustace drily,

"it would take too long and I might subvert the training of the

excellent Mactab which have be such a signal success with you."



Otterburn grin at this fine piece of irony, but offer no far

interruption, so Eustace go on with his story.



"I know Lady Errington first--by the way, in say I know she, I

don't mean personally. I have see she, hear she speak and meet she at

the house of friend, but I have never be introduce to she."



"why not?"



"I don't know if I can give any particular explanation; she don't

attract I much as Alizon Mostyn, so I do not seek to know she, nor

do she ever show any desire to make my acquaintance, so beyond

know each other by sight we remain stranger, a trick of Fate, I

suppose--that deity be fond of irony."



"you're become epigrammatic again," say otterburn, warningly,

"proceed with the narrative."



Eustace laugh, and take up the thread of his discourse without

further preamble.



"Lady Errington be the daughter of the late Gabriel Mostyn, who be

without doubt one of the big scoundrel who ever infest the

earth, that be say a great deal consider what I know of my

friend, but I don't think it be exaggerated. he be a man of good

family, and be a young son, be, in conformity with that

ridiculous law of english primogeniture, send out into the world with

a young son's portion to make his way, which he do, and a very

black way it be. why a man with a handsome exterior, a clever brain,

and a consummate knowledge of human nature, should have devote all

those advantage to lead a bad life I don't know, but the wicked

fairy who come to Gabriel Mostyn's cradle, have neutralise all the

gift of her sister by the bestowal of an evil soul, for his career,

from the time he leave the family roof until the time he die under it,

be one long infamy.



"he be a diplomatist first, and be get on capitally, be

attaché at the Embassy at Constantinople, when he be catch sell

state secret to the russian Government somewhere about the time of

the Crimean War, and as the affair be too glaring to be hush up, he

be kick out in disgrace. after this disagreeable episode he lead a

desultory sort of existence, wander about the continent. he be

well know at the gambling hell, and his compatriot generally give

he a pretty wide berth when they chance to meet he. in Germany he

marry a charming woman, a daughter of a Baron Von Something, and

settle down for a time. however, to keep his hand in, he worry his

poor wife into her grave, and she die three year after the marriage,

leave he two child--a son and the present Lady Errington.



"Mrs. Mostyn have some property of her own, which she leave to her son,

and in the event of the son's death the husband be to inherit. it be

a foolish will to make, know as she must have do her husband's

disposition, and it be rather a heartless thing for the mother to

leave her daughter out in the cold. no doubt, however, the astute

Gabriel have something to do with it. at all event he do not trouble

much about his child, but leave they to the care of their german

relative, go off to Spain, where he be mix up in the Carlist

war, much to the delight of everyone, for they think he might be

kill.



"the devil look after his own, however, and Mostyn turn up at the

conclusion of the war minus an arm, but as bad as ever. then he go

off to South America, take his son with he."



"there be nothing very bad in that, at all event," say Otterburn,

who be listen with keen interest.



"shortly after he arrive at Lima the son disappear."



"the devil!" interrupt Angus, sit up quickly; "he surely don't

kill the boy?"



"that be the question," say Eustace grimly, "nobody know what he do

with he, but at all event the boy disappear and be never hear of

again. there be some of that eternal fighting go on between the

South American Republics, and Mostyn say the lad have be shoot, but

if he be," pursue Gartney slowly, "I believe his father do it."



"surely not--he have no reason."



"you forget," observe Eustace sardonically, "I tell you the boy

inherit his mother's money, that be, no doubt, the reason, for

Mostyn come back to Europe alone, claim the money, and after

obtain it with some difficulty, soon squander it on his own

vicious pleasure. then, as a reward for such conduct, his elder

brother die without issue, and Mr. Gabriel Mostyn, blackguard,

Bohemian and suspect murderer, come in for the family estate."



"the wicked flourish like a green bay tree," observe Angus,

remember the worthy Mactab's biblical reading in a hazy kind of

way, and misquote scripture.



"the wicked man don't flourish in this case," retort Eustace,

promptly. "nemesis be on his track although he little know it. he

take his daughter back with he to England, duly come into possession

of the estate, and try to white-wash his character with society. his

reputation, however, be too unsavoury for anyone to have anything to

do with he, so in a rage he return to his old way and outdo in

infamy all his previous life. no one be cruel enough to enlighten his

daughter, whom he have leave in seclusion at the family seat, and she

remain quite ignorant of her father's conduct, which be a good

thing for her peace of mind.



"for some year Mostyn, defy God and man, pursue his evil career,

but at length Nature, generous in lending but cruel in exact,

demand back all she have lend, and he be strike down in the full

tide of his evil prosperity by a stroke of paralysis."



"serve he jolly well right," observe Otterburn heartily.



"so everybody think. well, he be take down to his country house,

and there for four terrible year Alizon Mostyn devote herself to

nurse he. what that poor girl suffer during those four year no

one know nor ever will know, for despite the blow which have fall on

he, Gabriel Mostyn be as wicked as ever, and I believe his curse

and blasphemy against his punishment be something awful. no one ever

come to see he but the doctor, although I be tell a clergyman do

attempt to make some enquiry after his soul, but retreat in dismay

before the foul language use by the old reprobate. his daughter put

up with all this, and in spite of the persuasion of her friend, who

try to take she away from that terrible bed-side, she attend he

to the end with devoted affection. she see he die, and from all

account his death-bed be enough to have give she the horror for

the rest of her life, for only his low extremity be paralyse,

they say he tear the bedclothe to ribbon in his last paroxysm,

curse like a fiend the whole time."



"and do she stay through it all?"



"yes! till the breath be out of his wicked old body. I believe his

last breath be a curse, and just before he die it take two man to

hold he down by main force in the bed."



"great heaven! how awful," ejaculate Otterburn in a shocked tone;

"what a terrible scene for that poor girl to witness--and afterwards?"



"oh, afterwards she come up to London," reply Gartney, after a

pause; "the old man have got rid of all the property, and even the Hall

be so heavily mortgaged that it have to be sell. she stay with some

relative, and there be some talk of she become a Sister of Mercy.

I dare say she would have do so, her vocation evidently be in the

Florence Nightingale line, have she not meet with my cousin Errington,

who fall in love with she, and three month ago marry she."



"curious history," comment Angus idly. "I don't wonder she look

old than she be, after come through all that misery, but I hope

she don't make she past life a text upon which to prose about

religion."



"no, I don't think she do. I have be tell she be somewhat serious,

but a charming woman to talk to."



"not the sort of woman likely to be attract by a sporting blade like

Errington."



Gartney hold his peace at this remark and look thoughtfully at his

cigarette.



"do she love he?" ask the Master, notice the silence of his

companion.



"do she love he?" reply Gartney, meditatively. "I hardly know.

Guy ben't a bad sort of fellow as man go, he's a straightforward,

athletic, stupid young Englishman."



"married to a saint."



"oh, I assure you he admire and love the saint immensely, judge

from his enthusiastic letter to I about her perfection. she be fair

to look on, she be a thoroughly pure, good woman, and will, without

doubt, make an excellent mother. what more can a man desire?



"I'm afraid you'd desire a good deal more."



"ah but then you see I'm not a man, but a combination of

circumstance."



"I don't understand."



"no? it be rather difficult of comprehension, I admit. what I mean be,

that the circumstance of my having be an orphan of my bring up,

my command of money, and above all the circumstance of the age I live

in, have all make I the curious creature I be."



"oh I you admit then that you be curious."



"so much so that I doubt if any woman in existence would satisfy I as

a companion for more than a few day. a fast woman irritate I, a

clever woman enrage I, and a good one bore I."



"and Lady Errington?"



"be happy with her stupid adore husband than she would be with a

bundle of contradiction like myself."



"yet she do not love this stupid adore husband."



"I never say that," observe Eustace hastily.



"not in word, certainly, but you hinted----



"I hint nothing, because I'm not sure--how can I be when I tell you

I don't know Lady Errington?"



"you appear to have study she pretty closely at all event."



"a mere whim on my part, I assure you; besides, Guy have write to I

about his wife, and I--well I've gather a lot of nonsensical idea

from his letter."



"then there be a possibility that she do not love he," persist

Otterburn, a trifle maliciously.



"how annoying you be, Macjean," say Eustace in a vexed tone. "of

course there be always possibility. in this case, however, I can

only refer you to Heine, 'there be always one who love and one who be

love."



Otterburn see that Eustace be rather annoyed at his persistency, so

do not press the point, but content himself with observe:



"well, I think I know Lady Errington's character pretty well by this

time. she be a charming woman with a bad history, a serious face, and

a wifely regard for an adore husband. be I right?"



"well, yes--to a certain extent."



"still, all this do not explain the whole of your incomplete Madonna

phrase. tell I exactly what you mean."



Eustace think for a moment, and then begin to speak in his slow

languid voice.



"last time I be in Italy," he say dreamily, "I one day stroll into

a village church build on the side of a hill above the blue water of

a still lake. outside it be a hot, brilliant day, something like

this, but within all be coolness and dim twilight.



"at a side altar tall candle glimmer before a shrine of the Virgin,

and cast their pale glow on a large picture of the Madonna which be

hang upon the wall of the chapel. I don't know the name of the

artist who paint the figure, but it make a great impression upon I.

I'm afraid I be impressionable in those day. we all lose our fine

feeling as the year go by.



"well, the painter have depict the Mother stand alone, with sombre

cloud beneath her white foot, her hand, long and pale, fold across

her breast, and her face with a yearn expression lift to a ray of

light from the mystic dove of the Holy Ghost, which pierce the

darkness of the sky. there be no infant Jesus in her arm, such as we

generally see in altar-piece, and I fancy the idea of the artist be

to depict Mary as a pure solitary woman, before the announcement of

the Conception. in her eye, sad and deep, dwelt an expression of

intense yearning, and on her beautiful face the look of a woman

longing for the pleasure of maternity.



"I never forget the hopeless craving of that gaze, the hungry longing

for the fondling arm and inarticulate cry of a child. only once

have I see such a look on a human countenance, and that be on Lady

Errington's before her marriage; she have the same hungry look in her

eye which can only be appease by the birth of a child, and which

will give she that special love and affection need to complete her

life. therefore I call she an incomplete Madonna, for when she become

a mother that yearning gaze will pass away for ever, and be succeed

by the serene beatitude that painter give the face of the Virgin when

she clasp the child Jesus to her breast, encircle by the adoring

host of heaven."



"that be a very poetical interpretation of a picture," say Otterburn

when Eustace have end. "I doubt however if I should draw the same

conclusion be I to see the picture."



"you will not see the picture I refer to but you will meet Lady

Errington, then you can give I your opinion."



"I'm afraid it will not coincide with your. but if all her love be

thus centre on the coming of a child, when it be bear she will love

it passionately to the exclusion of her husband."



"perhaps!" reply Eustace calmly. "however we shall see. it be a

curious study of a woman's character, and I be anxious to see if my

idea be a correct one. of this, however, I be certain, that the day a

child be bear to Alizon Errington will be a sad day for her husband if

he worship she over much, for he will have to be satisfied with the

crumb of love that fall from the child's table."



"ah! that be one of those thing yet to be prove," say otterburn

rise, as the train, approach Chiasso, slow gradually down. "but

here we be at the end of our journey."



"for which the Lord be thank," reply Eustace, and jump out on to

the platform.









CHAPTER III.

the waning of the HONEYMOON.



     "ah, love how quickly fade the rose,

      when after sunshine come the snow,

      so joy may change to cruel woe

                  Thro' Cupid's treason.

      but rose will their bloom renew,

      and snow fall not from heavens blue,

      so heart like our will still be true,

                  through every season."





it certainly would be difficult to find a more charming residence than

the Villa Tagni. stand on the extreme verge of a low rocky

promontory, which run out some distance into the tideless water of

Lake Como, it appear like some fairy palace as it nestle amid the

cool green of its surround tree and reflect its delicately

ornate façade in the still mirror of the water.



like most italian house it have a somewhat theatrical appearance, with

its bright pink-colour wall and vividly green shutter, set in

broad frame of snow-white stone. then again, these wall be

decorate with arabesque design in various brilliant tint, the

general effect at a distance be that of cunningly work mosaic,

while above this bizarre combination of colour slope the roof of

dull-hue red tile; the picturesque whole stand out in glow

relief from the emerald background of heavily-foliage tree of ilex,

tamarisk, chestnut and cypress. high above tower a great mountain,

with its grey scarred peak show suddenly through its green forest

against the clear blue of an italian sky. More than half-way down, the

highway run along the slope like a sinuous white serpent, and below

nestle the villa by the water's edge. bright, fanciful, jewel-like,

it be the very realization of a poet's dream, the magic outcome of

some oriental phantasy, such as we read of in those strange arabian

tale where the genius rear visionary palace under the powerful spell

of Solomon ben Daoud.



a broad stone terrace run along the front of the villa, on to which

admission be give from the house by wide french window, generally

mask by their venetian shutter, which exclude the glare of the sun

from the inner apartment. a double flight of step descend from

this terrace sheer into the cool water upon which float the graceful

pleasure boat belong to the villa, and on either side grow dense

masse of sycamore, fir, oak and laurel slope down to the verge of

the lake, their uniform tint break at interval by the pale grey

foliage of olive tree. radiant in the sunlight glow the rosy

blossom of the oleander, sudden amid the shadow flash the golden

trail of droop laburnam--here, like the fabled fruit of

Hesperides, hang golden orange, there the pallid yellow oval of

scented lemon, and deep in the faint twilight of glossy leave

glimmer the warm white blossom of the magnolia tree, ivory censer

from whence breathe those voluptuous perfume which confuse the brain

like the fume of opium smoke.



and then the flower! surely this be the paradise of flower, which

here grow in a prodigal profusion unknown in the carefully-culture

garden of chill northern land where the fruitful footstep of Flora

pause but a moment. in this favoured clime, however, the goddess ever

remain, and adorn her rest place with lavish bounty of her

fast-fade treasure.



here deeply-flush rose scatter their shower of fragrant leave,

yonder bloom the pale amethystine heliotrope, fiercely amid the

verdure burn the scarlet blossom of the geranium, and, in seclude

corner, slender virginal lily hint at the pale mysticism of the

cloister, while red anemone, grey-green rosemary, blue violet, still

bluer gentian, many-tint azalea, snowy asphodel, and yellow

hawkweed all grow together in a confused mass of brilliant colour,

and every vagrant wind ruffle the still surface of the lake send a

rich breath of fragrance through the drowsy air. over all, the deep

azure of the cloudless sky, from whence shine the fierce sun on the

lofty encircle mountain, the arid plain, the cluster village

huddle round the slender white _campanili_ of their church, the

glitter water of the lake, the brightly coloured villa, and on

the brilliant profusion of flower which almost hide the teem bosom

of the green earth in this garden of the world.



it be late in the afternoon, and the cool breeze of the come night

be already commence to make its welcome presence feel, when Guy

Errington and his wife, the present occupant of Villa Tagni, come out

on to the terrace to enjoy this most delightful hour of the italian

day. the servant arrange some turkish rug on the tesselate

pavement, place thereon three or four comfortable lounge chair of

wicker work, and set forth a small round table, on the white cloth of

which stand a tea service, with a small silver kettle hiss merrily

over a spirit lamp, some plate of cake and fruit, a few tall

thin-stem glass, and a straw-cover flask of red Chianti wine.



these arrangement be complete they retire, and Lady Errington

make her appearance sit down in one of the chair, while Sir Guy,

look cool and comfortable in his white flannel, perch himself

perilously on the balustrade of the terrace with a cigarette between

his lip. and surely nothing could be more charming than this peaceful

scene, with the exquisite view of the lake, the fragrant coolness of

the breeze, the romantic-look terrace, the pleasant evidence of

hospitality, and this young Adam and Eve to give life to the whole.



age twenty-eight, with a sunburnt face, a fair moustache, merry blue

eye and a stalwart figure, Sir Guy be certainly a very handsome

young man, the very type of a well-bear, well-breed Englishman, and a

great contrast to his lusty physique could hardly have be find

than that of his wife, with her fragile frame, her pale serious face,

and smooth coil of lustrous golden hair. in her loose tea-gown of

dead white chinese silk unrelieve by any tint, she look almost as

wan and colourless as the perfume knot of snowy lily at her breast,

and the great fan of white ostrich feather she wield in her slender

hand be rival by the pallor of her face. the dream look in her

calm, blue eye, the slight droop of the thin red lip which give a

touch of sadness to her mobile mouth, and the exquisite transparency

of her complexion, all add to the fragile look of this fair pale

woman, whose spirituality be enhance by the faint shadow which now

begin to fill the warm air.



Guy Errington, sturdy and practical, do not as a rule indulge in any

fanciful musing, but something in the peculiar delicacy of her

expression seem to strike he suddenly, and throw away his

cigarette he bend over his pale wife with an air of the utmost

solicitude.



"I hope you have not feel the heat too much, dear," he say, anxiously

touch the faint rose tint of her cheek with a gentle finger, "you

look as white as a ghost."



Lady Errington smile languidly and put she fan up to her lip with a

low laugh.



"I'm afraid I must be a very deceptive person," she reply lightly,

"for I feel perfectly well. I be always pale, and I obtain a great

deal of undeserved sympathy under false pretence."



"do you mind my smoking?"



"not in the least. why do you throw away your cigarette?"



"I think it annoy you."



his wife look at he with a slightly mock smile on her lip.



"I wonder if you will always be so ready to sacrifice your pleasure

to my unexpressed desire."



"always! always!" reply Guy fervently, kneel beside her chair.

"your slight wish will always be my law, Alizon."



"till the honeymoon be over, I suppose," say Alizon a trifle sadly,

as she pass her finger through his hair.



"I'm afraid the honeymoon be over--in the eye of the world at least,"

respond Errington ruefully. "we've be three month marry, you

know, and to-day be our last one of solitude, for Eustace and his

friend will soon be here--be you sorry?"



"oh, yes, very sorry," she reply, indifferently, suppress a yawn;

"these last three month have be charming."



Errington look slightly disappointed at her lack of fervour, and to

make up for it commence to vehemently declare that he do not want to

see anyone, that he could live for the next century with she alone,

she be all the world to he, the one thing he live for, etc., etc.

in fact give glib utterance to all the fond rhapsody which

constantly pour from the mouth of adore lover and newly-marry

man.



kneeling beside she, his face glow with passionate feeling and his

blue eye fix adoringly on the face of his divinity, Guy Errington

look gallant, handsome and fervid enough to have satisfy the most

exact woman. yet, strange to say, for some inexplicable reason,

this wife of three month appear slightly bore by his erotic

enthusiasm.



"you be the pearl of husband, my dear Guy," she observe idly when

he cease his protestation, "but confess now, on your knee as you

be, that you feel a trifle weary of this perfect bliss--this society

of two--and long for your dog, your horse, and your covert."



at this accurate divination of his real feeling, Errington look

somewhat disconcert, for despite the ardour of his protestation he

do feel slightly weary of this monotonous tranquillity, and in his

secret heart long for the thing she mention.



"well, you know I'm not a bit romantic," he say apologetically, as if

he be confess to some crime, "and I be a little tired of church

and picture. besides, I be anxious for you to see the Hall, and

there's such a lot of thing to be look after, and--and----"



"and this be somewhere about the twelfth of August," say Lady

Errington slily, cut short his excuse, whereat he laugh in a

somewhat embarrassed manner.



"ah, you've find I out," he observe with a smile. "well, yes, dear,

I confess it be true, I be think about the covert--it ought to be

a good year for the bird. besides there be the stable, you know. I

be go to get a new hunter for next season. Baffles tell I

there's a good one to be pick up--belong to some Major Griff or

Groff--don't know the name--and I've get my eye--good gracious,

Alizon," he add, break off--"What be the matter?"



"nothing, nothing!" she reply, try to smile although she look

singularly disturbed, "only that name you mention, Major Griff."



"yes, what about he?"



"nothing at all--only he be--I believe, a friend of my father's."



"oh! don't trouble your head about those thing, dear, all that sort

of thing be past and do with," say Guy fondly, who know what she

have suffer at the hand of her father, "your life will be all

sunshine--if I can make it so."



Alizon bend forward and kiss he tenderly on the forehead.



"you're a good, dear fellow, Guy," she say softly, "and if I do

sometimes remember the bitterness of the past, I always thank God for

the sweetness of the present, and for the husband he have give I. we

will go back to Errington Hall whenever you like. I be anxious to see

our home."



this last phrase sound delightful to the ear of Guy, and in a

sudden access of tenderness he bend his head and kiss the cool slim

hand which lie so confidingly in his own. Alizon's momentary fit of

emotion be past, she withdraw her hand with a slight laugh at his

action.



"how foolish you be, Guy," she say gaily, "you must have graduate

at the court of Versailles, but do something more sensible and tell I

all about the Hall, so that I may not be too ignorant on my arrival."



he have do so hundred of time before, but the recital never lose

its charm for he, and he thereupon enter into a long and minute

description of his ancestral home with the great zest. he describe

the quaint old building where so many generation of Erringtons have

be bear, live and die, the well-timbere park with its mighty

oak, ferny glade and ancient beech-tree, the shooting, which be

say to be the good in the county, the characteristic of the

different people who live around, to all of which Alizon listen

with praiseworthy attention, although truth to tell her thought be

far away and she be in her own mind contrast this gallant, tender

husband, with her selfish, vicious father.



Gabriel Mostyn have be a thorough Bohemian in every way, regard

the world at large as his special property, and always at home

wherever he choose to pitch his tent. some unknown strain of gipsy

blood which have be in abeyance for several generation, have suddenly

develop in he with overpowering force, and impel he to restless

wandering which he be quite unable to withstand. the semi-barbaric

life of Russia have be as well-know to he as the refine

civilization of London, and it be all the same to he whether he

winter at Rome, pass the summer in Norway, or explore the wild

recess of the Andes. owe to this indulgence of his nomadic

instinct he have develop within himself all the vice inseparable

from such a primeval existence, and become a man accustomed to exist

by the law of might against right, take as his own whatever come to

his hand, prey on the weakness of his fellow creature, and

bind himself by no law of honour or kindness so long as his own

selfish desire be gratify.



with such a father it be hardly to be wonder at that Alizon have

small respect for the masculine sex, and, foolishly no doubt, judge

everyone else by the only standard she have know. during those four

terrible year when her father have be die inch by inch, and

dispute every inch with the inexorable Angel of Death, she have

learn a great deal of his previous existence, and the knowledge of

such a foul life have appal her gentle soul. the idea of marriage

with a man resemble her father even in the most distant manner be

repellent to all her idea, and she certainly would never have become

the wife of Guy Errington, have not her position with her relative

be make so disagreeable in every way that with many misgiving she

consent to marry a possible Caliban.



to her surprise, however, she be agreeably disappoint in find in

her husband a straightforward, honourable man, with the true

instinct of a gentleman. he do not pass his life like a modern Cain

in restless wandering round the world, at war with society and

shun by all as an outcast, a pariah, a leper, beyond the pale of

human love and companionship. no, he love his birth-place, his

position, his good name, and know that he have duty to fulfil in

life, both towards himself, his friend and his tenant. remembering

the vice of her father, Errington's every-day virtue seem those of

an angel, and although she do not love he when she become his wife,

yet it be possible that love might be bear of genuine admiration and

respect, and subsequently develop into the strong passion.



at present, however, she have not get beyond her first stage of

surprise, but simply admire, respect, and honour Errington as a

man possess of a just, kind, straightforward nature, and who be

anxious to make she happy by every mean in his power. there have be

bad marriage than this consist of love on one side and

admiration of good quality on the other, therefore Guy have every

prospect of be happy in such a union as he deserve to be by his

inherent good quality and his honourable desire to do right in every

way.



while Alizon be let her thought run on in this fashion, Guy have

become so excited in his narration concern Errington Hall and their

future life of happiness, that he have rise to his foot, and be now

stride up and down the terrace give full rein to his imagination.



"we'll have an awfully jolly time of it," he say blithely, "and

you'll soon forget all your past worry in look after thing;

there's everything to make life happy at the Hall, only I do wish

there be a little more money."



"Money's the root of all evil," observe Alizon smile.



"and the want of it's the whole tree," retort Guy, laugh at his

own mild witticism. "you see, my father haven't much idea about thing,

and muddle a good deal, so the consequence be that there be a

mortgage on the estate which I must pay off, so we'll have to live

quietly for some year."



"I'm sure I don't mind."



"but I do. I'm not go to have you waste your sweetness on the

desert air," reply Errington vehemently, "but at present I don't see

how it can be help. I need a large sum of ready money, but willn't get

it, unless--unless Aunt Jelly die."



"I don't think that probable," say Alizon lightly, "Miss Corbin look

strong enough to outlive Methusaleh."



"and I daresay she will, the tough old party, but if she do die I'm

sure to come in for her money unless she leave it to Eustace."



"well, why shouldn't she?"



"because in the first place she don't like he as much as she do

I, and in the second he's get lot of money already, and no wife to

support."



"lucky man," observe Lady Errington mischievously.



"lucky woman to have escape he, you mean," retort Guy sagely;

"he's the most exact man you ever meet."



"I've never meet he to speak to, but I do know he by sight."



"and that's quite enough. he's such a fastidious chap--an angel out of

Heaven wouldn't satisfy he."



"probably not. I don't think angel be desirable wife as a rule."



"oh, yes they be, dear," say Errington fondly, pause near she,

"you be an angel."



"a very prosaic angel, I'm afraid."



"good enough for I anyhow."



"ben't that rather a doubtful compliment?"



"do you think so? well, now I come to think of it, perhaps it be a

little doubtful. but I haven't get the gift of tongue like Eustace;

you should hear he talk, Alizon."



"if his talk be like his book I don't think I shall like it."



"Eh!--why not? I haven't read they, but I hear they're deuce clever."



"too much so, cynical and bitter."



"that's just like his own character. eustace be the most pessimistic

man I know."



"I'm certain I shall not like he," assert Lady Errington calmly.



her husband chuckle a little before reply.



"don't be too sure of that. eustace be a very fascinating sort of

man."



"more so than you?"



"oh, I'm not fascinating."



"you're very modest, at all event."



"do you think so? wait till you hear I tell shoot story about my

prowess."



"be that your special weakness?"



"by no mean--you be."



"thank you for a very pretty compliment, but I'm afraid this

conversation be become frivolous," say Alizon, with a faint pink

colour creep into the pallor of her cheek, "however, it's end

now, for here come your friend."



"well late than never," remark Guy, turn round to salute his

cousin, who advance along the terrace, follow by Otterburn. "how do

you do, Eustace?"



"quite well, thank you Guy," reply Eustace, gravely shake hand.

"this be Mr. Macjean--my cousin, Sir Guy Errington."



"glad to see you, Mr. Macjean," say Errington bluffly, "and now let

I introduce both you gentleman to my wife, Lady Errington. Alizon,

this be my cousin Eustace and Mr. Macjean."



Lady Errington bow with a charming smile, and the whole party,

sit down, proceed to make themselves comfortable.









CHAPTER IV.

the art of CONVERSATION.



     "it's difficult to hold a conversation

         with three or five, odd number be a bore,

      for some one's sure to be _san_ occupation,

         so talk should always be 'twixt two or four.

      one cann't gain any secret information,

         if there should be a single person more:

      but four's a pleasant number without doubt,

      because there's not a chance to be the 'odd man out.'"





it be certainly a very pleasant little party which be seat on the

terrace of the Villa Tagni, talk social nonsense under the clear

glow of the sunset sky. behind the solemn hill the sun have

disappear, leave the sky fill with soft rosy tint, against

which the serrate outline of tall peak stand clear and distinct.

Slender cloud of liquid gold float in the roseate western sky which

resemble in its pale flush the delicate tint of a rose-heart,

soften off by degree into a cold blue, which in its turn give

place towards the darkening east to faint shadow and throb star

glimmering in the aerial gloom of come night.



but the four people on the terrace take no notice of the wonderful

gradation of colour, but chat gaily over the cake and tea

provide by the hospitality of Villa Tagni. all the gentleman, tired

of the thin wine of Italy, have take tea, and otterburn be

especially enthusiastic as he drain his cup with keen relish.



"I'm a perfect old woman for tea here," he say, hand back his cup

for a second supply. "a don't know why, as I never bother much about

it at home."



"that's because you cann't get a decent cup here," observe Eustace

drily, "man always long for the impossible."



"I long for a decent dinner," retort Otterburn with a hollow groan.

"I'm not a particularly greedy sort of chap--don't laugh, please, Lady

Errington, I assure you I'm not--but these Italians haven't the

slight idea how to cook."



"well you see their idea of cooking differ from your, Mr. Macjean,"

say Alizon, smilingly hand he back his cup.



"yes, that's true enough. I daresay they give a fellow the good they

can, but look at their victual; bread that's all full of hole, some

yellow mess they call polenta, skinny chicken and sour wine, you

cann't make a square meal of such stuff."



"some people could," say Errington, who be listen to the boy's

remark with an amused smile, "but I agree with you about the roast

beef of old England."



"or the wholesome parritch of Scotland," observe Eustace satirically.

"as a North Briton you surely forget that, Master."



"no, I don't," retort Macjean. "I get too much of that when I be

young."



"be so aged now."



"ben't that shabby?" say otterburn good-humouredly, turn to Lady

Errington. "he's always make fun of my age--as if youth be a

crime."



"it's a very charming crime at all event," reply Alizon pleasantly;

"don't you mind Mr. Gartney, he be a poet, and poet be always

praise--and envying--youth."



that's true enough, say Eustace with a sigh, "all the poet from

Mimnurmus downward have ever lament the passing of youth. what a

pity we cann't always remain young."



"and why not? I don't count age by year, but by experience," say

Lady Errington quietly. "one may be old at twenty and young at fifty."



Eustace, know what her experience have be, look curiously at her

fair placid face as she say this, and she must have guess his

thought, for a flush burn in her cheek under his searching gaze.



"that's what I say," cry Guy, refer to his wife's remark. "if a

fellow's get health, wealth and a good temper, the world's a very

jolly sort of place."



"the good of all possible world, accord to Voltaire," remark

Eustace, lean back with a disbelieving smile, "but you've leave out

one ingredient which some people consider very necessary."



"and that is----?"



"love!"



"Ab, I've get that," say Guy turn a fond eye on his wife.



"lucky man, other people be not so fortunate."



"no," observe otterburn with a huge sigh, having finish a very

decent meal, "it's so difficult to procure the genuine article."



"Hark to the cynic of one-and-twenty," cry Gartney.



"it's your example, Eustace," observe Guy, produce a cigarette

case, "but don't for Heaven's sake start a philosophical discussion on

happiness. why should the child of the king go mourn when the

soothing weed be within reach? have a cigarette, Macjean."



"thank you--if Lady Errington----"



"oh, I do not mind. Guy have habituate I to smoke. light your

cigarette by all mean."



Whereupon Otterburn accept the small roll of paper and tobacco with

much satisfaction, and be soon puff away contentedly, Guy

follow his example.



"these be jolly good cigarette," he say emphatically. "you cann't

get decent tobacco in Italy, so I smuggle these past the Customs at

Chiasso. I suppose it's no use offer you one, Eustace?"



"not in the least," respond Gartney smile. "it's a pity to spoil

this perfect fragrance with tobacco smoke."



"ah, that's so like you poet--always sacrifice the comfort of life

for the sake of its illusion. well, we willn't spoil your esthetic

feeling on the subject, Come, Macjean, let we leave these two to

continue the conversation, and we'll walk up and down till we finish

our smoke."



Angus glance enquiringly at Lady Errington, who smilingly give the

requisite permission, and be soon stroll up and down the terrace

with Errington, talk sport, upon which subject both gentleman be

quite in accordance.



leave alone with Lady Errington, Eustace lie back in his deep chair

gaze dreamily at she as she sit silent and pensive, fan herself

slowly with an absent expression in her blue eye.



the charm of the scene, the influence of the hour, the presence of

this pale, beautiful woman, and the delicate fragrance of the flower

which permeate the still air, all touch the poetical part of his

nature, and he could not help wonder in his own mind how such a

spiritual nature as that of Alizon Errington's could tolerate such a

matter-of-fact man as her husband, who could leave she so calmly to

talk sport with a shallow-minded boy. in this, however, Eustace

Gartney be entirely wrong, as love be not to be measure by

sentimental talk or silent adoration, and a man who love a woman in

an honest respectful fashion do not need to be constantly on his

knee to prove the sincerity of his passion. but then Eustace, who

believe in this exaggerated fashion of love-making, be a poet, and

poet have whimsical way of manifest their sentiment.



from these musing he be arouse by the voice of his hostess, who have

suddenly awaken to the fact that Eustace be silent, and fear she

have neglect her social duty.



"you be singularly silent, Mr. Gartney!"



Eustace start suddenly as her voice strike on his ear, and look

idly at she with a vague smile on his lip.



"the influence of the hour and the scene, I suppose," he say idly;

"one be always silent in Paradise."



"I should think that depend upon the absence or presence of Eve,"

reply Alizon demurely.



"or of the serpent. Confess now, Lady Errington, the serpent be a

charming conversationalist."



"and a bad companion--for a woman."



"no doubt Adam think so--after the Fall."



"what a pity there should have be a fall," say Lady Errington after

a short pause. "it would have be a charming world."



"Humph! consist of what the French call a _solitude à deux_."



"oh, but I be suppose the Garden of Eden became populate. it would

have be a world without sin or temptation."



"I beg 'your pardon. the tree of knowledge and life would still have

be flourish to tempt the primeval population nor do I suppose the

wily serpent would have be want."



"satirical, but scarcely true."



"ah, but you see we're both talk the romance of

what-might-have-be," say Gartney smile, "so my view of the

subject be no doubt as probable as your own. however this italian

Paradise with all its fault, consequent on our present-day

civilization, have exquisite scenery, and if one be to live here for

some year I daresay he would arrive at the near approach to

primeval happiness possible in this world."



"I'm afraid we shall not have an opportunity of test the truth of

your assertion. we leave here in a fortnight, for Guy be long for

England and the country."



"a nostalgia of the covert, I presume?"



"exactly! 'it's a fine day, let we go and kill something.'"



Eustace laugh at this reply, as the neatness of it satisfy his

somewhat cynical sense of humour.



"don't you feel nostalgia yourself, Mr. Gartney?" ask Lady

Errington, arrange the lily at her breast.



he turn his expressive face towards she with a sad smile.



"not of this earth! I be like Heine, _un enfant perdu_, and have a

home-sickness for an impossible world."



"create by your own fancy no doubt."



"yes! though I dare say if my fancy world become a real one it

wouldn't be so pleasant as this one. after all, Chance be the most

admirable architect of the future. when man like Sir Thomas more,

Plato, Bulwer Lytton and the rest of they, have indulge in paper

dream of ideal world, they have always commit the fatal mistake

of make the inhabitant insufferable bore, who have attain

perfection--and when perfection be attain happiness cease."



"how so?"



"because the great pleasure in life be work, and when perfection

render work unnecessary, life become a lotos-eat existence."



"well surely that be a very pleasant thing."



"to the few yes, to the many no! some man need constant excitement to

make they enjoy life. I can quite understand Xerxes offer a reward

to the man who could invent a new pleasure, for if Xerxes have not

attain the perfection of debauchery, he would not have find

existence a bore."



"you can hardly call such an ignoble height perfection," say Lady

Errington quietly. "I should call it satiety."



"no doubt you be right. but what do it matter what we call it? the

thing be the same."



"that sound as if you speak from experience, and at your age that can

hardly be the case."



"I remember," observe Eustace a trifle satirically, "that a short

time ago you say you measure youth by experience not by age. it be

the same with I, I be only thirty eight year of age, yet in that

short time I have exhaust all that life have to give."



"surely not!"



Eustace Gartney laugh in a dreary, hopeless manner that show how

truly he speak.



"I'm afraid it be," he remark with a sigh. "I have be all over the

world and see what be to be see. I have mix with my fellow

creature and find the majority of they humbug. I've be in love

and be deceive. I've publish book and be abuse, in fact I've

do everything possible to enjoy life, and the consequence be I'm

sick of the whole thing."



"your own fault entirely," say Lady Errington warmly, "as you have

deny yourself nothing you now reap the reward of such indulgence and

enjoy nothing. your present satiety be the logical sequence of your

own act. why not therefore try and lead a nobler and well life? go

among the poor and give they the help they so much need. look upon

your fortune as money entrust to you, not to squander on

unsatisfying pleasure, but to use for the benefit of humanity. do

this, Mr. Gartney, and I assure you the result will be satisfactory,

for you will find in such well-do the new pleasure which Xerxes

desire but never obtain."



with a sceptical smile on his massive feature Eustace listen to her

earnest speech, and at its conclusion laugh softly in his own

cynical manner.



"a most delightful view of one's duty to the world at large," he

say satirically, "but hardly satisfactory. that recipe for happiness

have be give to I before, Lady Errington, and be, I think, more

charming in theory than in practice. suppose I do take this advice

you give I in the goodness of your heart, and go out into the

world to play the thankless part of a philanthropist, what would I

gain--only a more intimate knowledge of human selfishness and human

iniquity. if I assist A, a most deserving person from his own point

of view, I've no doubt a would become my bitter enemy because I have

not do enough for he. I might rescue b from the workhouse, and b

would consider I shabby if I do not support he for the rest of his

natural life. as for C, well, I need not go through the whole

alphabet, in order to illustrate my view of the matter, but I assure

you, Lady Errington, if I employ my money in alleviate the

distress of my fellow creature, I would get very little praise and

a great deal of blame during my life, and when I die no doubt a short

paragraph in a newspaper as 'an earnest but misguided philanthropist!'

no! believe I I have think deeply about the whole thing, and the

game be not worth the candle."



"you look at thing in a wrong light."



"in the only possible light, I'm afraid. rose-colour spectacle be

not obtainable now-a-day."



"still such a pessimistic view----"



"be force upon we by circumstance. this be the nineteenth century,

you know, and we have no illusion leave--they go out with religion."



"well, I must try and convince you of the falsity of your view some

other time," say Alizon close her fan with a sigh, "but at present

I see Guy and Mr. Macjean be come to interrupt our conversation."



she rise to her foot as she speak, a tall, slim, white figure, that

seem to sway like a graceful lily at the breath of the evening

breeze. eustace, ever prone to poetical impression, make this

comparison in his own mind as he leave his chair and advance with she

to meet Guy and Angus.



"I say Alizon," cry Errington gaily as his wife come up, "just

fancy! Aunt Jelly's ward, Miss Sheldon, be stay at the Villa

Medici."



"Miss Sheldon," say Lady Errington reflectively, "be that the pretty

girl I meet at Miss Corbin's?"



"yes! you remember. on the day we go to see Aunt Jelly and ask she

blessing," reply Guy eagerly.



"who be she with?" ask Lady Errington; "surely Miss Corbin----"



"oh no," interrupt Eustace, mirthfully. "you might as well expect to

meet the Monument abroad as Aunt Jelly. I ask Miss Sheldon all about

it, and it appear that ever since her arrival from Australia she have

be anxious to come to the continent, so as a friend of Aunt Jelly's

be make what she call the 'grand tower' with her husband, this

young lady be place under their mutual protection."



"I wish she be under mine," say Otterburn audibly, on whom the

charm of the young lady in question have evidently make a deep

impression, "she's so awfully pretty."



"I'm afraid it would be a case of the blind lead the blind,"

remark Eustace drily.



"by the way," observe Guy, "who be Miss Sheldon? I ask Aunt Jelly,

but she tell I, sharply, to mind my own business."



"ben't that rather severe?" say Alizon mildly.



"not for Aunt Jelly," retort her husband. "Aunt Jelly's a huffy old

party, but she's get a weakness for Eustace, who don't object to be

sit upon, so perhaps he know about this young lady."



"I think I've get a hazy idea," assent Eustace leisurely, "she come

from the City of Melbourne, Australia, and her name be Victoria,

call after our gracious Queen, or the Colony, I forget which.

Sheldon _père_ be an admirer of our mutual aunt in the old day when

she be flesh and blood instead of iron. he go out with a break

heart to the Colonies because Aunt Jelly wouldn't marry he--fancy any

man break his heart for such a brazen image! well, at all event,

he make a large fortune out there, get marry, become the father of

one little girl, and then, his life's work be do, die, leave

his fortune to his daughter Victoria, and his daughter Victoria to

dear Aunt Jelly, who cherish she for the sake of the one romance of

her youth."



"how cruelly you tell the story," observe Lady Errington in a rather

disapprove tone. "I've only see Miss Corbin once, but I think she's

get a kind heart."



"Most people be say to have that, who possess nothing else,"

retort Eustace grimly. "however, you now know who Victoria Sheldon

be, and I willn't deny she's pretty, very pretty."



"very pretty," echo Otterburn, with a sigh.



"you ought to marry she, Macjean," say Eustace, "she have plenty of

money."



"I wouldn't marry a girl for her money alone," remonstrate Angus

indignantly.



"then take the american advice," say Sir Guy gaily, "never marry a

girl for money, but if you do meet a nice girl with any, try and love

she as hard as ever you can."



"I think I'll call and see Miss Sheldon," observe Alizon, after a

pause, "for, as she be a ward of your Aunt's, I shall very likely see

a good deal of she. be the people she be with pleasant?"



"that," observe Eustace calmly, "depend greatly on individual taste.

the honourable Henry Trubbles be the most egotistical speciman of

misshapen humanity I have ever meet with, and his wife, whom he marry

for her money, be a modern edition of Mrs. Malaprop with a dash of

Sary Gamp and a flavouring of the Sleeping Beauty."



"what a mixed description," say Errington laugh. "how do she

resemble the Sleeping beauty?"



"only in sleep."



"you make I quite curious to see she," cry Alizon smile. "and

if--well, I willn't promise anything about what I intend yet."



"what do you intend?" ask her husband.



"to have a small dinner party, and give Mr. Macjean a real english

dinner, but I'll first see how I like this extraordinary couple, and

then--well, we'll see."



"it would be awfully jolly," say Otterburn, whose stock of adjective

be limited.



"I know it's 'awfully' late," remark Eustace, in a tone of rebuke,

"and we have just time to get back to dinner."



"to what they call a dinner."



"it's well than nothing at all event--well, goodbye, Lady

Errington; thank you for a pleasant afternoon."



"don't forget your way to the Villa Tagni," say Alizon as she shake

hand, and the two gentleman, having vow warmly that they would not,

make their adieux, leave Sir Guy and his wife alone on the terrace.



"well, Alizon," say Errington, jocularly, "and what do you think of

my cousin, Eustace?"



"I think," reply Lady Errington slowly, "that he be the most unhappy

man I ever meet with in my life."









CHAPTER V.

an australian girl.



     "Charming, no doubt, her face be fair.

      as dark as night, her curl hair,

      her eye--two star, her lip--a rose,

      whoever see a pretty nose?

      Charming indeed,--but Fate to vex,

      have give her fault like all her sex,

      believe I, she's not worth regret,

      she'll break your heart, the vain coquette."





what a number of charming old romance begin at an inn. do not M. Gil

Blas commence his adventurous career by be swindle in one? and Don

Quixote, blind by fanatic chivalry, mistake the inn for mediæval

castle? Tom Jones become involved in a network of intrigue at a

hostelry; the hero of Dumas invariably meet their enemy of King

and Cardinal at the same place, while Boccaccio generally bring about

the complication of gallant and donzella at some gay florentine

"osteria." without doubt all the element of romance be to be find

at these rest place of man and beast; and the most incongruous

character, the most dissimilar rank of society's adventurer,

gallant, priest, bona robas and virtuous lady all pass and repass,

enter and exeunt, under the hospitable sign of inn.



bird of passage rest momentarily at inn before continue their

flight to the four quarter of the world, and during such rest meet

other bird of passage with sometimes curious result. Mr. A, a

gentleman of swallow-like tendency, on his way to the warm south,

may linger for a night at an hotel where Miss B, due in some northern

latitude, be also rest, with the result that Mr. A will delay his

flight for an indefinite period; nay more, the juxtaposition of the

two may end in A and b both continue their journey as man and wife,

which be the termination of all romance. strange that a chance meeting

at a place of public resort should alter two life, but then life be

make up of strange event, and a good many people date their happiness

or misery from an accidental meeting at an inn.



Gartney be let his thought run on in this somewhat whimsical

vein, as he smoke an after dinner cigarette over his coffee on the

terrace at Villa Medici.



before he, huge and indistinct, arise the grand façade of the hotel,

glimmer whitely in the moonlight, with its innumerable window,

its broad arcade, and its myriad lamp shine brilliantly on

group of gaily-dress people who stroll to and fro amongst the

pink-blossom oleander, or sit chat gaily round small

marble-top table, where white-cravate waiter, lithe and active,

attend to their wish.



beyond lie the lake, dark and solemn, under the shadow of the sombre

mountain, at whose base gleam orange-coloured point of light,

telling of the presence of distant village, while high above in the

cold, blue sky, glow the yellow orb of the moon and the glimmering

star. through the leave of sycamore, tamarisk, and magnolia sigh

the soft breath of the night-wind, fill the air with cool odour,

and the sound of music, render thin and fairy-like by distance,

float across the still water from some slow-move boat.



an historic place this Villa Medici, with its palatial hall, its

innumerable chamber, and its stately flight of white-marble step;

for it be here that the great Emperor intend to rest for a time in

his victorious career, an intention never carry out, although

everything be prepare for his reception, and the hotel guest now

dine in the small saloon hung round with yellow damask stamp with

the imperial 'N' and kingly crown.



then again it be here that unhappy Caroline of Brunswick, who become

Queen of England in name only, keep her state as Princess of Wales,

and try to find in the calm seclusion of Como that peace deny to

she in the land of her adoption. ah, yes, the Villa Medici be

connect with the life of some great personage, but now that they

all have vanish from the world's stage, whereon they play some

curious part, the Villa be turn into an hotel, and stranger from

far America, and still far Australia, reside in the many chamber,

and wander with delight through the enchanting garden which nature,

aid by art, have make a paradise of beauty.



"Poor Caroline," murmur Gartney to himself, as he think of all

this, "no one have a good word to say for she, and yet, I daresay, she

be a good deal well than the first gentleman in Europe. it be just

as well she die, for George would never have give she any right as

queen-consort. no doubt she pass some of her happy day here,

although she always hanker after the forbidden glory of Windsor

and Buckingham Palace."



his meditation be interrupt at this point by a gay laugh, and on

look up he see Victoria Sheldon come towards he escort by the

Master of Otterburn, who be evidently tell she some funny story,

judge from the amusement his conversation seem to afford she.



she be certainly a very pretty girl, one of those feminine beauty

who strike the beholder at first sight with a sense of indescribable

charm. a brilliantly tint brunette, overflow with exuberant

vitality, she have all the intense colouring and freshness of a

southern rise at that time when the cold rain draw its perfume

strongly forth in the chill morning air.



her eye, hair, eyebrow and long lash be dark as night; red as

coral the lip, which when part show two row of pearly tooth;

full and soft the round of the cheek, and a peach-like skin with a

rosy glow of delicate colour under the velvety surface. she be the

modern realization of that vivacious Julia whom Herrick describe so

charmingly in his dainty poem. and as a matter of fact the skin of

this young girl have all the brilliant colouring of the south, no doubt

assimilate by her system under the sultry glow of australian sky.

have an excellent figure, dainty hand and foot, with a perfect

taste in dress, and boundless vivacity, there be no doubt that

Victoria Sheldon be a feminine personality eminently attractive to

the strong sex.



as to her nature, it be quite in unison with her outward

appearance--bright, sparkling, vivacious, albeit somewhat shallow, yet

not without a certain veneer of surface knowledge. eminently womanly,

capricious in the extreme, witty, amusing, tireless, she have one of

those attractive nature which charm everyone in a singularly magnetic

fashion. some man, eccentric in their liking, admire those

semi-masculine woman who have mission, support the right of their

sex on lecture platform, emulate masculine peculiarity to the good

of their ability, and pass noisy life in shriek aimlessly

against the tyranny of mankind. those man who approve of such

semi-masculine tendency, certainly would not have admire the

womanly characteristic of Victoria, but the connoisseur of feminine

beauty, the judge of a brilliant personality, and the appreciator of a

witty nature, would each see in she the realisation of an extremely

difficult ideal.



the Master, young and rash, be just at that delightful age when every

woman appear a goddess to the uncultured fancy of youth; judge then

the effect produce upon his impressionable nature by this riant

vision of strongly vitalise beauty. he do not even make an attempt

at resistance in any way, but prone as god Dagon on the threshold of

his temple, he fall before the powerful divinity of this young girl,

and she produce on he the same effect as Phryne do on her judge

when she display the full splendour of her charm in the Areopagus

under the clear blue of athenian sky. Mactab, severe, ascetic and

self-mortifying, oppose to every form of admiration of the flesh,

would have blush for the grovel idolatory of his quondam pupil;

but no doubt the sunny climate of Italy aid in a great measure this

worship of Venus, and Angus Macjean, Master of Otterburn, prostrate

himself in abject worship before this outward manifestation of carnal

beauty.



Eustace see this, and be selfishly annoyed thereat, because he have

take a fancy to otterburn, and think that he (otterburn) should

agree with he (Eustace) in despise the sex feminine, which be

foolish in the extreme on the part of such an acute observer of human

nature; but then he be blind by egotism, and that vice distort

every vision. still he could not deny that physically she be

wonderfully pretty, despite his feeling of animosity against she for

come between himself and his friend. therefore he admire she

greatly from an æsthetic point of view, while Victoria, with the keen

instinct of a woman, scent an enemy and neither admire nor like

Eustace the cynic in the small degree.



"my dear Mr. Macjean," she say in answer to the remonstrance of

Angus who want everyone to like his friend as much as he do

himself. "your friend be a pessimist, and I don't like that class of

people; they always take a delight in analyse one's motive, which

be disagreeable--to the person concern. a flower be charming, but

those who pull it to piece in order to find out how it be make--be

not. I don't like analyst--they destroy one's illusion."



this plain-speak young lady's chaperone be enjoy an after-dinner

nap; the Hon. Henry be talk irish politic with an Irish M.P., who

do not believe in Home Rule out of contradiction to the rest of his

countryman who do. so Victoria Sheldon, feel in a most delightful

humour, be chat gaily with Otterburn, when they thus chance on

the melancholy Eustace, moralise on the mutability of human life.



"a penny for your thought, Mr. Gartney," say Victoria, pause

before he with a gay smile on her lip.



"they're not worth it," reply Eustace, look approvingly at the

charming girl before he, in her dainty white dinner dress, with a

bunch of vividly scarlet geranium at her breast. "I'll sell they as

bankrupt stock."



"haw! haw! haw!" from the Master, who be in that pleasant frame of

mind when everything seem to scintillate with wit--but then it be

after dinner, and a pretty woman be at his elbow. wine, wit, and

feminine influence, really the worst-temper man would feel pleasant

with such a delightful trinity.



"my dear Master," say Eustace reprovingly, "your mirth be

complimentary, but rather noisy--will you not be seat, Miss

Sheldon?"



"thank you," reply Victoria, sit down in a chair under the

shadow of a myrtle tree, the light from a distant lamp strike full

on her piquant face. "I be rather tired."



"of walk, or the Master?" ask the cynic gruffly.



she flash a brilliant glance on he out of the dusky shadow, and

spread her red feather fan with a grand wave of irresistible coquetry.



"Mr. Macjean," she say lightly as he sink into a chair opposite to

she, and lean his arm on the cold marble of the table, "what do you

think?"



"eh," observe the Master obtusely. "oh, I think the same as you."



"then," remark Eustace, re-light his cigarette, "you cannot

object to that diplomatic reply. do you mind my smoking?'



"not in the least. I hope Mr. Macjean will follow your example."



Mr. Macjean be only too happy to so far indulge himself. so the

gentleman sit and smoke with great enjoyment, while the feminine

element of the party smile serenely and impartially on both; smile

quite waste on the misogamistic Eustace, but then Victoria, with that

unerre instinct of coquetry implant in every woman's breast, take

a delight in behave thus, simply because she see Otterburn admire

she. he on his part naturally begin to grow jealous, and be without

the self-control habitual to those who live long in society, would

doubtless have show his irritation very plainly, only Eustace, take

in at a glance the whole situation, and be by no mean agreeable to

gratify Victoria's love of conquest, arrest the storm at once by

begin to talk with judicious diplomacy of the first thing that

come into his mind.



"tell I," he say, address himself to the volatile Victoria, "do

you not find our narrow english life somewhat irksome after the

freedom of Australia?"



"not so much as you would think," reply Miss Sheldon promptly, "for

after all there be a good deal of similarity between home and the

colony."



"you still call England 'home,' I observe," say Eustace with a smile.



"we do, because most of the generation who emigrate be still alive,

but even now the term be die out, and in another fifty year I don't

suppose will be in use."



"I should awfully like to go out to Australia," observe otterburn

languidly. "I'm sick of civilisation."



"oh don't imagine you leave civilisation behind when you come out to

we," retort Victoria sharply, with rise colour, "that be a mistake

many english people make. they think Australia be like the backwood

of America, but it's nothing of the sort. Melbourne be just as

cultured and wealthy in its own way as London, with the additional

advantage of have a well climate and be small."



"do you think the latter quality an advantage then?" ask Gartney

with ironical gravity.



"I should just think so, rather," say Miss Sheldon nod her head

emphatically. "London be a delightful place, I grant, but it's a

terrible nuisance visit your friend and go out to amusement."



"we have," observe the Master in an authoritative guidebook tone,

"train, tramway, carriages----"



"so have we--but even with they it take a long time to get about

London. we can get from one end of Melbourne to the other in a

reasonable time, but it's like an african explore expedition to

start round London."



"London," remark Eustace in a judicious manner, "be not one but

several city. there be the West End, which be devoted to wealth and

pleasure, the East End, famous for work and poverty. the City of

London proper, note for its mercantile enterprise and its

stock-broke fraternity, and finally the huge shipping town which

form the port of the Metropolis. every person stay in the special

city with which his business be connect, therefore there be no

difficulty in get about one's own particular local town, which be

much small in the aggregate than Melbourne."



"I understand all that perfectly," reply Victoria, who have listen

attentively, "but suppose you choose to live on the outskirt of

London, so as to get a breath of country air. in that case if you want

to go to a theatre you have to travel for over an hour to get to one."



"People who live as you say, be worshipper of Nature, and go to bed

with the sun--they don't want the gas and glare of theatre."



"oh, anyone can argue that way," say Victoria disdainfully, "so I

have nothing to say in reply. let we talk of something else."



"by all mean--the weather."



"and the crop. no! I  be not an agriculturist."



"Aunt Jelly," suggest Angus wickedly.



Miss Sheldon turn towards he with a mirthful smile in her bright

eye.



"what do you know of Aunt Jelly, Mr. Macjean?" she ask, put she

fan up to her lip to hide a laugh.



"I know nothing; absolutely nothing," he reply, with mock humility,

"beyond the fact that Gartney and Errington have both mention she as

an eccentric character, so I wish to know more about she."



if he do, his curiosity be not destine to be gratify at that

moment, for, with the whimsical caprice of a woman, Victoria suddenly

begin to talk on quite a different subject, suggest by the casual

mention of a name.



"do you like Lady Errington?" she demand, look from one to the

other.



"she be a very charming woman," say Eustace evasively. "she know

you, I believe."



"slightly! I  meet she at Aunt Jelly's, when she call one day."



"and what be Aunt Jelly's opinion?"



the girl laugh, and then, compose her feature into a kind of

stern severity, speak in a harsh, measured voice:



"not what I approve of; limp! wash out, no backbone, but no doubt

she'll make Guy a good wife. not a hard thing for any woman to do

see he's an idiot. so be his father before he, and he do not

take after his mother, thank God."



"the voice be the voice of Miss Sheldon," murmur Eustace, delicately

manipulate a cigarette, "but the sentiment be those of my beloved

aunt."



"how mean you be," say Victoria, reward otterburn with a bright

look for having laugh at her mimicry. "I think I do her voice to

perfection.'



"nothing but a saw-mill could do that," retort the irreverent

Eustace. "so that be Aunt Jelly's opinion. it ben't flattering."



"neither be Aunt Jelly."



"I'm die to know Aunt Jelly," declare Angus mirthfully, "she must

be as good as a play."



"she be! tragedy."



"no! no! Miss Sheldon, excuse I, comedy."



"I should say burlesque, judge from your description," say the

Master, gaily. "how do you drop across she, Miss Sheldon?"



"I don't drop across she," say Miss Sheldon, candidly, "she drop

across I. my father leave I to her guardianship, and I be duly

deliver in due course like a bale of good."



"why ben't Aunt Jelly fulfil her guardianship by see you

through the temptation of the continent?" ask Eustace, severely.



"oh, she place I under the wing of Mrs. Trubbles."



"I'm glad she don't place you under the eye of Mrs. Trubbles,"

observe Otterburn, with the brutal candour of youth, "because both

her eye be invariably close."



"what a shame--I wonder where she be?"



"Asleep! don't disturb she," say Gartney, as Miss Sheldon arise to

her foot. "Physicians all agree that sleep after dinner be most

beneficial to people of the Trubbles calibre."



Victoria laugh at this remark, and as she show a desire to stroll

about, the gentleman leave their chair and escort she through the

ground, one on each side, the lady be thus happily place between

the sex masculine.



a good many of the promenader have retire for the night, evidently

wear out by the heat of the day; but some indefatigable pianist be

still hard at work in the music saloon, and the steady rhythmic beat

of the last new valse, "my heart be dead," sound tenderly through

the still night air, break at interval by the light laughter of

young girl, the deep tone of man's voice, and the melancholy

sound of the water wash against the stone masonry of the terrace.

beyond on the lake all be strange and mystical, fill with cold

light and shadow, vague and dreary under the gloom of the distant

mountain; but here, by the garish light of the hotel, the pulse of

life be beat strongly, and the indescribable tone of idle

frivolity seem to clash with the silent solemnity of Nature.



perhaps Eustace feel this incongruity as his eye stray towards the

steel-colour water, for after a time the shallow conversation of

Victoria jar so painfully on his ear that with a hurried excuse he

leave the young couple to their own companionship, and wander away

alone into the fragrant darkness of the night.



"he's awfully fond of his own company," observe Victoria, indicate

the depart Eustace. "such a queer taste. I hate be leave to

myself."



"so do I," assert Otterburn eagerly. "I always like to be with

someone----"



"of the opposite sex," finish Miss Sheldon, laugh. "well, yes I

woman have always be my good friend."



"you answer at random."



"I dare say; one be incapable of concentrated thought on a perfect

night."



"you be also grow poetical, then indeed it be time for a prosaic

individual like myself to retire."



"no don't go yet, you cann't sleep here if you go to bed early."



"oh, that be your experience," say Miss Sheldon, as a bell from a

distant campanile, show white and slender against the sky, sound

the hour of nine o'clock. "well, I'll stay for a few minute long,

though I'm afraid Mrs. Trubbles will be dreadfully shock."



they lean over the iron balustrade of the terrace, and watch in

charm silence the dark water rise and fall in the chill

moonlight. the valse still sound silvery in the distance, with its

sad tone of regret and hopeless despair, and after a time Victoria

begin to hum the melancholy refrain in a low voice:





     "my heart be dead,

      and pleasure hath flee,

      but the rise you give I bloom fresh and red."





"what nonsense," she say contemptuously, break off suddenly. "I

daresay the rose be quite wither, only his imagination see it be

bloom."



"like his love for the girl."



"a bad shot, Mr. Macjean. how could it be so? his heart be dead, his

pleasure flee, so under these discouraging circumstance the rose must

certainly have be dead also."



"you say Gartney be cynical," say Angus slowly, "what about

yourself?"



"what about myself," she repeat with a sigh, turn round and

lean lightly against the balustrade. "I'm sure I don't know. I've

never think about the subject. very likely it's not worth think

about."



"believe I," begin the young man earnestly, "you are----"



"everything that's charming," interrupt Victoria, cross she

hand. "do spare I any compliment, Mr. Macjean, I'm so tired of

they. I wonder if you man think we woman believe all the lie you tell

we."



"but they're not lie."



"not, perhaps, for the moment, but afterwards."



"don't trouble about afterwards, the present be good enough for we."



he be get on dangerous ground, for his voice be soft, and his

young eye flash brightly on her face, so as Victoria have only know

he twenty-four hour, even with her reckless daring of coquetry this

be go too far, and with the utmost dexterity she change the

subject.



"by the way," she say lightly, "do you know I'm a relation of your?"



"impossible."



"well, perhaps it be. still you can judge for yourself. my mother's

maiden name be Macjean."



"the dev--ahem! I  mean good gracious. you must certainly belong to

the family somehow or other. I dare say--yes--I be sure you must be my

cousin."



"such a strained relationship. in what degree?"



"oh, never mind. Scotch clan relationship be so difficult to

unravel. besides, we're all brother and sister by the Adam and Eve

theory, accord to Gartney. but fancy you be a Macjean. it give

I a kind of claim on you."



"as the head of the clan, I suppose. never! I  be a free-bear

Australian, so hurrah for the Southern Cross and the eight hour

system of labour!"



"I haven't the least idea of what you're talk about?



"very likely. bear amid the effete civilization of a wear-out land,

you have no knowledge of our glorious institution, which render

Australia the Paradise of Demos."



"sound like a parliamentary speech."



"it be a parliamentary speech," assert Victoria, demurely, "an

effort of my father's when he be elect for the Wooloomooloo

constituency."



"I beg your pardon, would you mind spell it?"



"no you would be none the wise if I do."



"as to my obey you," say Otterburn, revert to the early part

of the conversation, "I think the opposite be more likely to happen."



dangerous ground again.



"Mr. Macjean," say Victoria in a solemn tone, "the night be get

on to morning, the tourist be get off to bed. you be chatter

in a most nonsensical manner and I'm go to retire, so good-night."



he do not make any effort to retain she, although he feel very much

inclined to do so, but then their friendship be still in its infancy

and the propriety must be observe.



"good-night, and happy dream," he reply, shake the hand she hold

out to he.



"thank you, but I leave that to poet--and lover," she respond, and

thereupon vanish like a fairy vision of eternal youth.



and lover.



"now I wonder--oh, nonsense! what rubbish! I've only know her one

circle of the clock; love ben't Jonah's gourd to spring up in a night.

still--well she's a most delightful girl and I--confound the valse! I

do wish they'd stop play at this hour. it ben't respectable.

awfully pretty!--and she's a Macjean too--ah, if I--bother, it's go

out. I shalln't smoke any more. I wonder where Gartney be. moon about

by himself, I suppose. I'll go and look he up. she's get lovely eye

and such pretty foot. eh! oh, here's Eustace--I say Gartney, I'm go

to bed. come and have a hock and seltzer before ta-ta."









CHAPTER VI.

a day'S shopping.



     "'tis an italian town,

     almost a city yet not metropolitan wholly.

     house red-roof, white-walled, lofty in height with iron

       balcony,

     Narrow and twist the street, with rough irregular pavement:

     below be the shop with their awning o'er window, fill with

       gaudy ware we see not in England,

     amid which stand the shop-keeper, shrill-voice, thievish,

      voluble and smile.

    'questo è troopo? 'non e molto'--question and answer and

      question once more,

     while in the burn sunshine, in nook, in corner, in court,

      in door-way,

     lie the dark shadow, fit for the hiding of lover, of bravos,

      of damsel and man-at-arm ruffianly."





relation be rather strained between Eustace and his young friend,

the reason be as usual to be find in the unconquerable selfishness

of the former. with his habitual egotism, Gartney insist that the

lad whom he have choose for a friend should attend solely to he, watch

his every action with dog-like fidelity, and have nothing to do with

the rest of the world.



this otterburn, high-spirited and wilful, naturally enough refuse to

do, though he have hitherto be obedient to Gartney's whim and

fancy in every way. not have heretofore have anything to attract

his attention in any great degree, and be fascinate by the strange

nature of his poet-friend, Angus have duly give he unlimited measure

of the admire adulation he so much desire. he have listen

patiently to Gartney's brilliant though somewhat egotistical

discourse, but now, with the irrepressible nature of youth, having

fall in love with Victoria Sheldon he begin to grow tired of his

friend's dour nature and pessimistic railing against the artfulness

of womankind.



they have now be nearly a week at the italian lake, and from be

her boyish admirer, Otterburn have become the faithful slave of

Victoria, and find that he could not serve both master and mistress

in a strictly impartial manner, he renounce his fidelity to Eustace.

of course he be still very friendly with he and like to listen to

his epigrammatic conversation--on occasion, but show plainly that

he much prefer Miss Sheldon's society, a discovery which vex his

quondam friend mightily, the more so as he see in such preference a

distinct triumph for Victoria.



that young lady have early announce her dislike to Eustace, deeming

he cold, vain, proud and an enemy to her sex; so, see otterburn

be to a certain extent indispensable to he, she try she hard to

bring about a separation between these two close friend--and

succeed.



not that she care over much for Angus. he be certainly a very nice

boy, and wonderfully useful as a carry-and-fetch poodle--but the

possibility of Otterburn take jest for earnest never occur to

she, and, ignore with the calm egotism of a woman the chance that he

might break his heart for her sake, she give he sweet look,

undeserved frown, be hot and cold, kind and cruel, doleful and

capricious, just as the humour take she, and by a dexterous use of the

whole armament of female wile successfully accomplish the task she

have set herself.



so otterburn having surrender at discretion, which be hardly to be

wonder at against such a crafty enemy, be now devoted to his

conqueror and see comparatively little of Eustace, who though

distinctly annoyed at his defeat cloak his real feeling cause by

Otterburn's desertion under the guise of careless indifference, and

either moon dismally about alone or seek solace in the society of

the Erringtons, who be now make preparation for their departure

to England.



before leave, however, Lady Errington with characteristic good

nature have throw aside all formality and call upon Mrs. Trubbles

and Miss Sheldon at the Villa Medici. she take a great fancy to

Victoria, both on account of her beauty and her generous

straightforward nature, while Mrs. Trubbles amuse she mightily with

the eccentricity of her character, so she ask they to a dinner at

the Villa Tagni, thereby earn the eternal gratitude of Angus, who

foresaw a chance of obtain Victoria all to himself for one whole

evening.



of course she also invite Eustace, whom she pity for his evident

unhappiness, think, with the natural fondness of a woman for

romance, that it spring from some unrequited love affair and not, as

be actually the case, from satiety and cynicism. eustace graciously

accept the invitation, and for once in his life look forward to

such entertainment with some pleasure, as the cold, irresponsive

nature of Lady Errington rouse his curiosity and make he anxious to

learn more of her inner life.



a few day before the Errington dinner-party, Mrs. Trubbles so far

overcome her disposition to sleep as to propose a day's shopping in

Como to which Victoria eagerly agree, be anxious to see as much

local lombardian colour as possible. on the morning of their propose

outing, however, Eustace, not be able to endure with equanimity the

prospect of a whole afternoon in the company of Mrs. Trubbles,

craftily betake himself on a boat excursion to the Villa Pliniana,

so otterburn nothing loth form the sole escort of the two lady,

and this party of three be now stand in the Piazza await the

arrival of the steamer.



a large, fat, good-natured woman be Mrs. Trubbles, with a broad red

face ever wear a sleepy smile and a portly body array in rainbow

colour with plenty of jewellery. everybody in town know the birth,

parentage, and bring up of Mrs. Trubbles as her history have long

ago pass the nine day' wonder of scandal, and be already somewhat

stale and forget by all except her most intimate friend, who never

forget to remind the good-natured lady that she be noble only by the

accident of marriage.



the honourable Henry Trubbles be a detestable little man with a bass

voice and an overweene vanity concern his political capability,

though he have long ago fail in diplomatic circle. a perusal of

Beaconsfield's novel in his youth have fire his ambition to emulate

their hero, and like a very second-rate Numa Pompilius he go to seek

an Egeria who would inspire he with great idea. the Hon. Henry,

however, be so singularly plain in person and disagreeable in manner

that no lady in his own rank of life would agree to help he to attain

to the Cabinet, so not be able to secure rank he marry money in

the person of Miss Matilda Barsip, whose papa have make a fortune in

army-contracting during the Crimean War. the noble house of which

Trubbles be a cadet offer no opposition to the match, be rather

glad to get the bud diplomatist settle and do for, so Miss

Barsip be duly marry with great pomp to her withered little stick

of a lover, and six month after the army contractor have the good

taste to die, leave they all his money.



the Family, to whom Mrs. Trubbles always allude in a tone of awe as

to some unseen divinity, take the young couple up, and having

float they both into smooth social water leave they to carry on

their life in their own way, which they do. the Hon. Henry, now

be in command of plenty of money, spend his life in hang on to

the outside fringe of politic and pretend to know all the secret

of the Cabinet, though as a matter of fact he be acquaint with

nothing but what he learn through the medium of the paper. he try

to get into Parliament several time but be such a palpable idiot

that no constituency would elect he, so Mr. Trubbles not be able

to serve his country, which do not want he, flutter round St.

Stephen's, worry the minister and bore the member so much that if

they could have give he the Governorship of a nice yellow-fever

island they certainly would have do so in order to get rid of he.

all the Colonial Governors, however, be healthy at present, so the

Honourable Henry stay in town and exasperate everyone with his

tea-cup statesmanship.



Mrs. Henry on her side have no ambition whatsoever, but drift

leisurely through life, spend her money in a comfortable homely

kind of fashion. she be present at Court on her marriage by the

Dowager Duchess of Margate, but do not appreciate the honour, so

never go near St. James' again in spite of the order of Henry, who

think the appearance of his rich wife might improve his diplomatic

prospect.



notwithstanding the effort of the Misses Wilkers, whose academy she

have attend at Hampstead, English be not Mrs. Trubbles' strong

point, and be a good-natured old soul, who never pretend to be

anything else but what she be, the worthy Matilda be a great

favourite with her social circle. her dinner be always excellent,

her dance pleasant and fashionable, and her portly person deck out

in gay colour be to be see at many place, though for the most part

she prefer to rest in her own house whenever she get a chance.



"I'm too stout to be skip about," she say candidly; "that

worrite husband of mine be always hop round like a cat on hot

brick, but for my part I like peace and quietness."



she be certainly a most popular lady, such as the man about Town

call a "jolly good sort" and the lady in Society approve of

greatly, because she do not give herself air above her position; so

in spite of her defective English, her loud taste in dress, and the

lowliness of her birth, the Hon. Mrs. Trubbles get on very well

indeed, and have a good number of friend and no enemy, which say a

good deal for her kindly disposition.



the trip to Italy have be undertake at the suggestion of the

Honourable Henry, who want to study some political question

concern the Great Powers, of which he know absolutely nothing; so

Matilda have also come with he to have a look at foreign part, and

have take Victoria with she, by permission of Aunt Jelly.



"where's Mr. Trubbles to-day?" ask Otterburn, dig his stick into

the gravel.



"oh, Henry," say Mrs. Trubbles placidly, look at the water in a

somnolent manner, "he's go to Bell-baggio, I think."



"Bellaggio," correct Victoria.



"something like that," reply Mrs. Trubbles complacently. "dear!

dear! how curious these foreigner do talk!--they call a steam a

vapour-bottle, which be a curious name. dear I, Mr. Macjean, what be

you laugh at?"



Otterburn pull himself up promptly, and have the grace to blush under

the severe eye of Victoria.



"it's _battello di vapore_," he say lightly, "but indeed, Mrs.

Trubbles, I'm as much at sea as you be about italian. I prefer our

gude scottish tongue."



"Glesgay," suggest Victoria, whereat Angus make a gesture of horror.



"no! no I mean the language of Jeannie Deans, of Highland Mary, and of

those Jacobite song that spring from the leal heart of the people."



"I once see _Rob Roy_," observe Mrs. Trubbles heavily; "they be all

dress in tartan. I don't think the dress be very respectable

myself."



"then I'll never come before you in the garb of old Gaul," say Angus

gaily.



"I should think it would suit you splendidly," say Miss Sheldon

approvingly, glance at his stalwart figure; "if you go to a fancy

dress ball you must wear it."



otterburn laugh, and promise to obey her command, but at this

moment the steamer draw in to the pier, and they be soon on board,

steam up to Como.



it be a beautiful morning, and as yet not too warm, the heat of the

sun be temper by the cool breeze, which, blow from the shore,

bring with it the resinous odour of fir and pine. on either side

precipitous mountain tower up into the intense blue of the summer

sky, the innumerable villa make pleasant spot of colour here and

there, while the bosom of the lake, placidly treacherous, be of

changeful hue, like the vary colour of a peacock's neck.



Plenty of tourist, in all sort of extraordinary garb, be on the

deck of the steamer, chatter italian, german, English, and French,

accord to their different nationality, all laden with umbrella,

alpenstock, Baedekers, luncheon-bag, marine glass, and such-like

evidence of travel. Mrs. Trubbles, having establish herself in a

comfortable corner, be try to get a short sleep prior to face

the fatigue of Como, so Victoria and her attentive cavalier, be

leave to their own device, begin to talk about everyone and

everything.



"how these tourist do hold on to their guide-book," say Victoria

disdainfully, "one would think they'd be quite lose without they."



"very likely they would," reply Otterburn, pull his straw hat

over his eye with a yawn, "they have a prejudice against look at

any place without know all about it."



"it's such a trouble read up all about cathedral and picture--I

like to ask question."



"oh! guide!"



"no! no i--they're bad than Baedeker. they never stop talk, and

their information be so scrappy."



"extensive but not accurate," suggest Macjean with a laugh.



"I'm not sure even about the extensive part," observe Victoria

gaily; "when I be in England I go to a cathedral--I willn't mention

name--and the verger have a cut-and-dry story about the place. when

he finish his little narrative I begin to ask he question. you've

no idea how exasperated he become, because he know absolutely nothing,

and at last say, in despair, 'why, Miss, you must be an American.' I

tell he I be an Australian, so he promptly reply, 'well, Miss,

that's quite as bad--for question.'"



as in duty bind, Angus laugh at this story, which be simple enough

in itself, but the telling of it seem to establish a more friendly

feeling between they, of which this artful young man take full

advantage, and begin to point out the various object of interest on

the lake.



"you see that villa over there," he say in an official tone, "it

belong to the Visconti lot. they use to be Dukes of Milan, you

know."



"dear I! and why ben't they Dukes of Milan now?"



"haven't the least idea," reply Angus, whose historical knowledge

be of the vague description. "Napoleon, you know, I think he upset

the apple-cart--turn they out, I mean. you see, Miss Sheldon, I'm

like your verger--I know a stereotyped story, but if you ask I

anything beyond I'm up a tree."



"you're a very honest guide, at all event," say Victoria with a

smile. "what be that tower on the hill?"



"oh, the castle of Baradello."



"and who be he?"



"some ancient Johnnie, I believe," return the young man carelessly,

"a duke or a pirate, or a picture gallery, I forget which."



"your information be most accurate," say Miss Sheldon gravely,

put up a large red sunshade, which cast a rosy reflection on her

piquant face, "you must study Baedeker very closely."



Macjean laugh.



"how severe you be," he reply lightly, "but I've get such a beastly

memory. it's like a sieve--but, I say, haven't we well wake up Mrs.

Trubbles? here's como--dirty place, ben't it?"



"rather dingy," assent Victoria, survey the untidy-look town

with its picturesque red roof, above which arise the great Duomo like

a great bubble. "what do you think, Mrs. Trubbles?"



"eh? what, my dear?" say that lady, whom the stoppage of the steamer

have arouse from a very comfortable slumber. "very nice indeed. like a

picture I've get over the sideboard in the dining-room--but, dear I,

how dirty the street be! I'm afraid they haven't get a Board of

Works. what do this man say?--Bill something--who be he talk to?"



"Biglietti," explain Victoria, as they pause at the gangway.

"ticket--you've get they, Mr. Macjean."



"yes, here they be," say Angus, and, hand they to the officer in

charge, they go ashore.



"what little man," say Victoria, catch sight of some of the

military, "they look like tin soldier."



"they don't seem very well feed," observe Mrs. Trubbles meditatively;

"I don't think the food be good--very bad quality, I'm afraid. dear

I, there's a fountain."



"it's more like a squirt," say otterburn laughing.



"plenty of water about this place," pursue Mrs. Trubbles, put up

her eyeglass, "but I don't think these foreigner make enough use of

it. oh, dear! dear! what a dreadful smell, they really ought to look

after the drain well. I'm so afraid of typhoid. Mr. Macjean, would

you mind smoking?--it's safe."



Mr. Macjean be only too delighted, and having light a cigarette,

be soon blow wreath of smoke as they all walk up one of the

narrow street, on their way to the Duomo.



"we must do the church, you know," remark Angus with great gravity,

"it's the big lion of Como--build by some one call Roderer or

Rodari--I'm not certain about the name. sound like a champagne brand,

don't it? it be build somewhere about the thirteenth or fourteenth

century--I'm not sure which."



"you don't seem very sure of anything beyond the fact that there be a

church," say Miss Sheldon disparagingly, "and as it's straight before

you, we can be certain it exist. they say it's all build of white

marble."



"it don't look like it then," remark Mrs. Trubbles emphatically,

"a good coat of paint wouldn't hurt it."



"oh, that would spoil it," chorus both the young people, whereupon

Mrs. Trubbles shake her head, and hold firmly to her original

suggestion.



having admire the ornate front, with its delicate Renaissance

carving they go out of the burn sunshine into the cool twilight

of the cathedral.



some service be go on as they enter, and in the dim distance

they see the high altar glitter with gold and silver ornament,

beneath gorgeous drapery of yellow damask depend from the

ceiling, and innumerable taper flare like beautiful glitter star

against the brilliant background.



number of worshipper, with bent head, be kneel on the chill

marble pavement, tell their bead, or silently move their lip in

prayer, while a priest in splendid vestment, attend by a long train

of white-robe acolyte, officiate at the altar, and at interval the

melodious thunder of the organ break through the monotonous voice of

the choir. placid-look image of saint, dusky picture of the

Virgin throne amid the hierarchy of heaven, before which burn the

lambent flame of slender white candle, many-colour tapestry

represent biblical scene, heavy gold brocade hanging,

elaborately-carve shrine and the sudden flash of precious metal and

strangely-set jewel appear in every nook and corner of the immense

building, while from the silver censer of the acolyte arise the

drowsy incense, in white cloud of sensuous perfume, towards the

gild splendour of the huge dome. here, from the lofty roof, the rapt

face of evangelist, saint, angel and virgin, look gravely

downward; there, slender shafts of sunlight, stream in through the

paint window, tint the white monument of the dead with rainbow

hue, and under all this subdue splendour of colour and beauty,

soften by the dusky twilight, kneel a mixed congregation.

Bare-foot _contadini_ from distant hill village, devoutly tell

their bead next to some dark-visage soldier in all the bravery of

military trapping, and delicately beautiful lady, array in the

late milanese fashion, kneel beside bare-breast peasant with

sinewy figure full of the lithe grace and suppress fierceness of

italian manhood.



"I wonder what Mactab would say to all this?" mutter Otterburn

involuntarily, as he think of the severe humility and bareness of

the Kirk o' Tabbylugs.



"who be Mactab?" ask Victoria in a subdue whisper. Angus chuckle

quietly.



"do I never tell you of Mactab?" he whispered--"oh! I  must. he's a

prominent minister of the Free Kirk, of the severe principle."



"what be his principle?"



"eh! what? oh, he haven't get any principal! he's a Free Kirk, I tell

you. all this heathenish worship would make he take a fit. he

believe in nothing, not even an organ, so the Mactab congregation

sing dreadfully out of tune, but they make up for this by strength of

lung. they could give that wheezy old 'kist o' whustle' fit in

psalmody."



at this moment Mrs. Trubbles, who have be gaze complacently about

she with the same sort of interest as she would have take in a

theatre, intimate that she have see enough, and lead the way out into

the hot sunshine.



"I'm rather tired of church," say the matron in her deep voice

"we've see such a lot of they in France."



"oh, France ben't in it with Italy in that line," observe Angus, in

his slangy way. "there be more church than public-house here."



"well, that's a very good thing," reply Victoria.



"I should think so, consider how thin the wine be," retort

Macjean, pause before a variegated kind of arcade; "but look

here--this be the market."



"oh, how pretty!" cry Victoria, note the picturesque colouring of

the different pile of fruit--"just like a scene out of Romeo and

Juliet."



"and there be Juliet say the Master wickedly, wave his stick in the

direction of a ponderous female who be lean from a project iron

balcony chattering to a lady below with shrill volubility over some

skinny-look poultry.



"Juliet in her old age buy Romeo's dinner," reply Victoria,

serenely. "don't, please, take the romance out of everything."



"no; I leave that to Gartney."



"Horrid man!" say the girl, viciously; "he would disillusionise an

angel."



"there be one or two thing, my dear Victoria," observe Mrs.

Trubbles at this moment--"there be one or two thing I should like to

take home with I as a kind of mementum of Italy. a fan or a

shell-box--you know, dear; a box with 'a Present from Como' on it.

now, what be the italian for 'a Present from Como'?"



"I'm sure I don't know," say Miss Sheldon, suppress a smile.

"however, here's an old curiosity shop. let we go in and spy out the

land."



"I cann't talk the language myself," say Mrs. Trubbles, doubtfully, as

her bulky figure fill up the door, "but Victoria----"



"be much bad," interrupt that young lady, quickly. "I know French,

but not italian, except parrot-like in singing. now Mr. Macjean----"



"I'm bad of all," explain Otterburn, in the most brazen manner.

"'Questo e troppo' be all I know."



"Translate, please."



"it mean 'that be too much."



"a very good sentence to know," say the matron, decidedly. "I believe

these foreign people be rarely honest. I shall learn it--'Question he

troppus.' be that right?"



"not quite; only three word wrong. 'questo e troppo.'"



"'Questo e troppo,'" repeat Mrs. Trubbles, carefully. "what a pity

these foreigner don't learn English. it's so much well than their

own gibberish."



"I'm afraid we'll have to go in for the primitive language of sign,"

cry Victoria gaily, as they stand in front of the diminutive counter

behind which a smile Italian be gesticulate politely.



it would take a long time to describe the difficulty of that

shopping. how the shopkeeper, assist by his tragic-look wife,

rave wildly in Italian, and his three customer endeavour vainly to

find out what they both mean. sometimes one person would speak, then

the other four would join in, the most powerful voice take the lead.

what with "Gran' Dio's" and "Per Bacco's" from the seller, and

"Basta, basta," "Questo e troppo," and "Si, si" from the buyer, the

whole transaction be quite operatic in character.



Mrs. Trubbles' system of shopping be very simple.



when the shopkeeper say two lira, she reply one; if he request

five, she offer four, always keep the price down, be convince

in her own mind that these foreigner be try to swindle she, an

idea abhorrent to her sturdy british spirit.



"I've get a conversation book somewhere," she say at last, fish in

a capacious pocket; "it's get question in three language."



"and the truth in none," observe Angus, _sotto voce_.



"oh, here it be!" exclaim Mrs. Trubbles, produce a kind of

pamphlet. "here, Mister Signor," hold up an olive-wood

paper-cutter, "Wie viel."



a shrug of the shoulder and a gesture of dismay from the shopkeeper,

who do not understand German.



"why, he don't know his own language!" say Mrs. Trubbles, with

great contempt. "they need a School Board here."



"I think," suggest Victoria, who be suffocate with laughter, "I

think you be talk german."



"dear! dear! you don't say so?" say the lady meekly, somewhat after

the fashion of M. Jourdain, who have talk prose for year and do not

know it. "yes, quite right. these book be so muddling. where's the

italian? oh, here; 'Quanto, quanto?'" shake the paper-cutter

frantically. "Quanto, signor?"



"tre lire."



"bother the man! I'm not talk about a tray!" cry Mrs. Trubbles,

in an exasperate tone. "Here!--this! use your eye. paper-cutter.

'Papero cuttero. Quanto?'"



"tre lire, signora."



"he mean three franc," explain Victoria.



"oh, do he. I'll give he two."



"Questo e troppo," say Otterburn, bring forward his only bit of

italian with great ostentation. "two--due--lira, signor. ah, che la

morte."



"no, no," from the shopkeeper, "non e molto."



"now what do that mean?" cry the matron, refer to her

text-book. "here it be: 'not much,'--si, si; far too much, too molto,

due--due lira," produce they triumphantly from her purse.



with many deprecate shrug and asseveration in fluent Italian that

such a sale would ruin he, the shopkeeper at last accept the two

lira, and Mrs. Trubbles with great satisfaction secure what she

want. they then buy a few more thing by pursue the same system

of beat down the price, and all three ultimately leave the shop

with the firm conviction that they have secure bargain, which they

decidedly have not.



"these pig of English," observe the astute shopkeeper to his wife,

"always talk a lot, but they pay in the end."



then the three innocent abroad wander aimlessly through the narrow

street, see the statue of the great electrician, Volta, the ruin

battlement, the church of St. Abbondio, and other object of

interest. afterwards they have some refreshment at a café, the

proprietor of which Mrs. Trubbles, who be a spendthrift in London

but a miser abroad, denounce as robber, and then be fortunate

enough to catch a steamer just start for Cernobbio.



"oh dear! dear!" moan Mrs. Trubbles, with a weary sigh, as she sit

down in a comfortable seat--"what with their language, their lie, and

their nobby-stone street, I'm quite worn out."



"I think one visit be quite enough for Como," say Victoria, as the

town recede into the far distance. "when do we leave this place, Mrs.

Trubbles?"



"in a week, dear," murmur the lady in a sleepy tone. "my husband

will get all his politic settle by that time, I hope."



"I hope so, too. I'm tired of the lake."



"don't say that," say Otterburn, reproachfully; "I'll be sorry to

leave the Villa Medici."



"you needn't. we can go; you can stay."



"I don't want to stay if you go."



clearly this obtuse young man be irrepressible, and as he be now

get on dangerous ground again, Victoria deftly turn the

conversation.



"I suppose we'll see you and Mr. Gartney at Rome?"



"oh, yes. will you be glad to see we?"



"perhaps. I don't like Mr. Gartney; I've tell you so a dozen time."



"then will you be glad to see I?" demand Otterburn, boldly.



Victoria look at he mischievously, with a dangerous gleam in her

dark eye, then lower her sunshade with a laugh, she turn

abruptly away.



"I shall be glad when we arrive at the Villa Medici," she say,

lightly; "I'm so hungry."



how on earth be a young man to make love to such a capricious girl?









CHAPTER VII.

LADY ERRINGTON'S LITTLE DINNER.



     "an alien race beneath an alien sky,

      amid strange tongue, and face strange alone,

      Stout English heart who for the moment try

      to form a little England of their own."





after the constant sight of dark italian face, and the everlasting

clatter of restless italian tongue, the guest at the Villa Tagni

find it pleasant to form part of an English circle once more, to eat

an English dinner, to discuss english subject and compare everything

british to the disadvantage of all thing Continental. so great a

delight do these six people take in meet one another at a

hospitable dinner-table that one would have think they have be for

year exile in the centre of Africa, and far remove from all

civilizing influence. Heaven only know there be no lack of English

tourist on the continent, but then to a great extent they preserve

their insular stiffness towards one another; consequently when people

meet in foreign part, who have a slight acquaintance at home, they

rush into one another's arm with tender affection, though they would

mutually consider one another insufferable bore during the London

season.



this, however, be not the case with Lady Errington's guest, who be

all genuinely delighted with one another, and chat gaily on

different kind of subject as if they have be bosom friend all

their life. the Hon. Henry have be invite on account of his wife,

who in her turn have be invite on account of Victoria, but having

go to Milan to see an italian Count who have all the complication of

european politic at his finger' end, he telegraph the sad news

that he would not be able to be present, at which Lady Errington be

secretly very glad, as an extra man would have quite upset the balance

of the party.



as it be, Sir Guy take in the portly Mrs. Trubbles to dinner, his

wife be escort by Eustace, and the Master of Otterburn realise the

wish of his heart by act as cavalier to Miss Sheldon. so thing

be thus pleasantly arrange, they all sit round the well spread

table as merry a party as it would be possible to find.



in some mysterious manner Lady Errington have manage to provide a

series of english dish, to which all present do ample justice, not

that anyone be particularly a gourmand, but italian cookery be a

trifle monotonous and a real english dinner in Italy be something to

be appreciate. at all event, what with the food, the wine, and the

continuous strain of light badinage, all the guest be in a state of

the high good humour, and even the pessimistic Gartney deign to

take a moderately charitable view of thing.



"this be jolly and no mistake," say Otterburn, as the servant fill

his glass with champagne, "you need to go abroad to appreciate home

comfort."



"I think you would appreciate they anywhere," remark Eustace the

cynic.



"and quite right too," chime in Miss Sheldon, with a gay laugh,

"everybody do, only they don't like to confess it."



"why not?" demand Sir Guy.



Victoria look rather nonplussed for the moment, having make an idle

statement without think she would be call upon to give she

reason.



"oh, I don't know," she reply, after some hesitation. "I suppose

people like to be think romantic, and think about what you eat

and drink ben't romantic."



"it's very sensible at all event," say Lady Errington; "do you not

agree with I Mrs. Trubbles?"



"I do," reply the matron ponderously, nod her head, upon which

be perch a cheerful-look cap of black lace and glitter

bugle, "people should always eat and drink well at meal time,

but no nibblin's in between. it ben't nature to despise good food

well-cook. I've no patience with those gell who starve themselves

and pinch their waist to look pretty. wasp I call they."



"without the sting," suggest Sir Guy.



"that depend on their temper, and their temper," continue Mrs.

Trubbles impressively, "depend on their eating. give they good meal

and plenty of exercise, and there's the makin' of good wife about

they. let they starve themselves and lace tight, and it make their

nose red and their temper cross."



"the whole duty of woman then," murmur Eustace demurely, "be to

appreciate her cook and disobey her dressmaker. they might do the

first, but never the second."



Mrs. Trubbles, not understand irony, look doubtfully at Eustace

to see if he be smile, but so grave be the expression of his face

that she do not know whether he speak in jest or earnest, so without

make any reply, she continue her meal while the conversation become

frivolous and general.



"I think Italy a very over-rate place."



"really! in what respect--moral, scenery, manner?"



"no, as regard music. it's a very barrel-organy country."



"not more so than the London street. and after all, `ah che la

Morte,' be more musical than 'tommy make room for your uncle."



"both out of date."



"well, say Gounod's 'Romeo and Juliet' and the 'Boulanger March."



"yes, it's much jolly than the Op. 42 _andante adagio con fuoco

prestissimo_ sort of thing they give you at the Richter Concerts."



"Maclean," observed Eustace, gravely regard his glass, "you be a

Philistine, and classical music of the advanced school be throw away

on your uncultivated ear."



"no doubt! I prefer 'Auld Lang Syne' to Beethoven."



"naturally, be a Scotchman. you're like the man who know two tune.

one be 'God save the queen,' the other--wasn't."



"I remember," observe Mrs. Trubbles, whose idea of music be

primitive in the extreme, "that I go to a concert at St. James'

Hall, where they play something call a fuggy."



"a fugue," translate Victoria for the benefit of the company. "I

know! one tune start, a second catch it up. then a third join in,

and just as it successfully muddle up the other two, a fourth and a

fifth have their say in the matter."



"sound dreadfully mixed."



"then it sound exactly what it be," say Miss Sheldon promptly. "but

what about this particular fugue, Mrs. Trubbles?"



"the fugue, dear--yes, of course. there be a young man in front of I

wriggle dreadfully. I think he be uneasy about a pin, but he be

only show how pleased he be with the music, and keep call out

'oh this be food!'"



"want the bottle, I expect," say Eustace sweetly, "such musical

baby shouldn't be allow to go to classical concert. it's too much

for their nerve."



"it's too much for mine," remark otterburn grimly. "after dinner,"

say Gartney, look thoughtfully at he, "I shall play the

'Moonlight Sonata.'"



"in that case, Lady Errington, may I stay out on the terrace? such a

suggestion be inhuman."



Lady Errington laugh and give the signal to the lady, whereupon

they all arise to their foot.



"I'm afraid you're talk dreadful nonsense," she say, shake she

head.



"it's a poor heart that never rejoiceth," reply otterburn

impudently, as he open the door for the lady to depart.



follow the continental fashion, Sir Guy and his guest do not

linger long over their wine, but, after a few minute, go into the

drawing-room, whence they stroll on to the terrace for cigarette

and coffee.



Mrs. Trubbles, feel sleepy after her dinner, find a comfortable

chair in a distant corner of the room, and go placidly to sleep,

while the remain guest establish themselves on the terrace, the

gentleman with cigarette and the lady with coffee.



such a perfect night as it be. away in the distance, dense and black

against the cold, clear sky, frown the sombre masse of mountain,

above which hang in a cloudless firmament the silver shield of the

moon. here and there a liquid star throb in the deep heart of the

heaven, and overhead shine the misty splendour of the Milky Way; not

a breath of wind ruffle the still surface of the lake, which

reflect the serene beauty of the sky, but at interval across the

star-smite surface would move the dark, slim form of a boat, the

oar break the water into thousand of flash diamond.



far beyond glimmer the orange-colour light of Blevio, and the

sudden whiteness of some tall campanile shoot up in slender beauty

from amid its dark mass of surround house. a sense of perfect

fragrance in the still air, a charmed silence all around, and a

wondrous restful feeling under the cool magic of the night. then,

mellow by distance, faint and far like aerial music, the silver

tone of a peal of bell sound at interval through the clear

atmosphere, until the whole night seem full of sweet sound.



"this be the night when Diana kiss endymion," say Eustace dreamily,

"the antique deity which we all deny be still on earth in Italy.

they be not visible, nor will they ever be so save to the eye of

faith alone. even then they be doubtful of reveal themselves to a

generation who would put they under the microscope and on the

dissect table. but although we try hard to disbelieve in their

existence, the spell of their beauty be sometimes too strong, and I

never go anywhere among these hill without a secret hope of find

Pan asleep at noontide in the ilex shade, or of see the laugh

face of a Dryad frame in tamarisk leave."



"and your hope be never realise," say Lady Errington sadly; "that be

so true of our modern desire."



"because we always desire the impossible," reply Eustace, clasp

his hand over his knee while the chill moonlight fall on his massive

face, "and expect to find it in crowded city under the glare of

gaslight, instead of in these magic solitude where the moon shine on

haunt ground."



"but be it possible to reconcile man and nature?"



"accord to Matthew Arnold, yes."



"what a romantic way you have of look at thing, Mr. Gartney,"

remark Victoria with some impatience. "if everyone take your view of

life, I'm afraid the world would not get on."



"it's all humbug," cry Otterburn, who agree in every way with Miss

Sheldon, "that be, you know, not quite sensible."



"I daresay it be not--in a worldly sense," say Eustace bitterly, "but

then you see I don't look at everything from a purely utilitarian

point of view."



"I do" interpose Guy in his hearty british voice, "it's the only way

to get one's comfort in life. and one's comfort suggest smoking."



Otterburn assent with avidity, for they have be sit with

cigarette for some time, but never light up, and even Eustace

depart so much from his poetic dreaming as to accept the soothe

weed.



"you don't practise what you preach, Mr. Gurney," say Lady Errington,

smile.



"how many of we do?" ask Gartney complacently. "I'm afraid we talk a

lot and do nothing, now-a-day. it's the disease of the latter end of

the nineteenth century."



"oh, everything's very jolly," say Otterburn, who resemble Mark

Tapley in his disposition. "who be it say that this be the good of

all possible world?"



"Voltaire! but by that it be not his intention to infer he don't

yearn after some well world."



"Heaven!"



"I don't think that be in M. Arouet's line."



"I'm afraid it ben't in any of our line."



"what a rude remark," say Lady Errington severely. "this conversation

be become so atheistical that I must ask Mr. Gartney to carry out

his promise and play the Moonlight Sonata. it may inspire we with

high thought."



"the Como Moonlight Sonata--it will be a local hit."



"what nonsense you do talk, Macjean," say eustace rise to his foot

and throw his cigarette into the water, "you're like that man in

the Merchant of Venice."



"what man in the Merchant of Venice?"



"oh, if you don't know your shakespeare, I'm afraid I cann't teach it

to you," retort Eustace, and step lightly across the terrace, he

sit down at the piano, which be place near the window of the

drawing-room, and run his finger lightly over the ivory key. within

the party on the terrace could see the gleam of the marble floor, the

dull glitter of heavily embroider curtain, the faint reflection of

a mirror, and over all the rosy light of a red-shaded lamp the glare

of which stream out into the pale moonlight.



everyone sit silently in the wonderful mystic world create by the

magic of the moon, and from the piano a stream of melody, sad and

melancholy, in a minor key, break forth on the still night. the spell

of the shadow, the weirdness of the hour, and the presence of Lady

Errington, to whom he felt strangely draw, all have their influence on

Gartney's wonderfully impressionable nature, and he begin to improvise

delicate melody on a story suggest to he by the calm lake

gleam without.



"in the crystal depth of the blue lake," he chant in a dreamy

monotone, while the subtle harmony wove themselves under his long

lithe finger, "there dwell a beautiful fairy, in a wondrous palace.

she be in love with the nightingale who sing so sweetly from the

laurel that hang their green leave over the still water. the voice

of the hidden singer have strange power and tell she of the cool green

depth of the forest; of the rich perfume shake from the flower by

the gentle night-wind, and of the ruin shrine from whence the god

have flee. as the passionate note well forth from amid the dusky

shadow the eye of the beautiful fairy fill with hot tear, for she

know that the bird sing of a long dead love, of a long dead sorrow.

but she have no soul, the beautiful fairy, and cannot feel the rapture,

the passion, the sadness of love. she rise to the glitter surface

of the lake, and wave her slender white arm to the nightingale that

sing so sweetly in the moonlight. but the dawn break rosy in the

eastern sky, the rough wind of the morning whiten the lake, and the

nightingale sing no more. then the beautiful fairy, break-hearte,

sink far down into the placid water, to where there bloom strange

flower of wondrous hue, and weep, and weep, and weep for the love

which she can never feel without a soul."



a chord, and the player let his hand fall from the keyboard.



"that be a beautiful story, such as Heine might have tell," say Lady

Errington softly.



"the inspiration be Heine," reply Eustace dreamily, and relapse

into silence.



Victoria, eminently a woman of the world, grow weary of this poetical

talk and make a sign to Otterburn, who, understand her meaning,

arise to his foot as she leave her chair, and they stroll along the

terrace laugh gaily. a sound from within show that Mrs. Trubbles

be once more awake, so Guy in his capacity of host go inside to

attend to she, and Eustace, sit at the piano, be leave alone with

Lady Errington.



so frail, so pale, so ethereal she look in the thin cold beam of

the moon, lie back, still and listless, in her wicker chair, with

her hand cross idly on her white dress. the man at the piano be in

the radiance of the rosy lamplight, but the woman, dream in the

silence, look a fitter inhabitant for this weird, white world of

mystery and chilly splendour. watch she closely, even in the

distance, Eustace catch a glimpse of her eye for the moment, and

fancy, with the vivid imagination of a poet, that he see in their

depth that undefinable look of unfulfilled motherhood which have lead

he to call she an "incomplete Madonna."



fill with this idea, a sudden inspiration of ascertain the truth

seize he, and without change his position, he replace his finger

on the ivory key and break into the steady rhythmical swing of a

cradle song.



his voice be a small sweet tenor, not very loud, but wonderfully soft

and sympathetic, so that he render the song he now sing with rare

delicacy and tenderness.





I.



     "Sleep, little baby! peacefully rest,

      Mother be clasp thee close to her breast;

      angel watch over thee gentle and mild,

      guard thee with heavenly love undefiled.

      sleep little baby, safe in thy nest,

      sleep little baby! mother's own child."



II.



     "Sleep, little baby! fear not the storm,

      tenderly mother be hold thy form.

      Mother's eye watch thee ever above

      Shine like twin star with fathomless love.

      Sleep, little baby! safely and warm,

      Sleep, little baby! mother's own dove."





when he have end the song with one soft, long-draw note, he glance

furtively at Lady Errington, and see that he have touch the one

sympathetic chord of her nature, for those calm blue eye be full of

unshed tear hang on the long lash. eustace delicately refrain

from notice her emotion, but rise from the piano stroll on to

the terrace, lean lightly over the balustrade and gaze absorbedly

at the restless water, dark and sombre under the stone wall.



"a perfect night," he murmur after a pause, during which Lady

Errington find time to recover herself from the momentary fit of

emotion.



"yes," answer Alizon mechanically, then after a pause, "thank you

very much for the song."



"I'm glad you like it," respond Eustace equably, and again there

be silence between they. the moonlight shine on both their face, on

his, massive and masterful with a poetic look in his wonderfully

eloquent eye, and on hers, delicate, distinct and fragile, as if it

have be carve from ivory. light laughter from the two young people

at the end of the terrace, a deep murmur of conversation from within,

where Sir Guy strove gallantly to entertain his drowsy guest, but this

man and woman, oblivious of all else, remained absorb in their own

thought.



of what be she think? of her past sorrow, her present happiness,

her doubtful future (for the future be doubtful with all

humanity)--Who could tell? eustace, delicately sympathetic as he be,

stand outside the closed portal of her soul, into which no man, not

even her husband, have penetrate. but man and woman, however closely

ally, how, ever passionately attach, however unreserved in their

confidence, never know one another's soul. there be always a

something behind all which be never reveal, which the soul feel

intensely itself, yet shrink from disclose even to near and

dearest, and it be this vague secret which all feel, yet none tell,

that make humanity live in loneliest isolation from each other.



perhaps Lady Errington be think of this hide secret of her soul

which none know, nor ever would know, but Eustace, soften for the

moment by the unexpected maternal emotion his song have evoke, be

envy his cousin the possession of this cold, silent woman. have he

know she personally before her marriage he might not have care much

about she, save in a friendly way, but his eccentric imagination have

endow she with a vague charm, which no other woman possess, and

the knowledge that she belong to another man make he bitterly

regretful. it be ever thus with the whimsical character of Eustace

Gartney. place something within his reach, and he despise it, place

it beyond his hope of attainment, and he would strain every nerve to

possess it. he live in the pursuit of the unattainable, which of all

thing have the great charm for he, and this unattainable vision of

charming womanhood fill his soul with passionate anguish and desire.



suddenly, with a sigh, Lady Errington lift up her eye and see

eustace look at she, respectfully enough, yet with a certain

meaning in his gaze which cause her vague embarrassment, she know not

why.



"your music have make I dream, Mr. Gartney," she say, nervously

open her fan.



"you be of a sensitive nature, perhaps."



she sigh again.



"yes, very sensitive. it be a most unhappy thing to be impressionable,

one feel thing other people count as nothing."



"other people be wise," say Eustace in an ironical tone, "they take

Talleyrand's advice about a happy life, and--be happy."



"what be your experience?"



"the reverse; but then you see I have not take Talleyrand's advice.

it be excellent and infallible to many people, but not to I."



"why not?"



"I refer you to one Hamlet, who say, 'the time be out of joint.'"



"Hamlet be a morbid, self-analyse egotist," say Lady Errington,

emphatically.



"no--you be wrong. he be a man crush down by melancholy."



"principally of his own making, though certainly he have plenty of

excuse."



"and don't you think I have any excuse for be unhappy?"



Alizon look at he critically.



"you be young, healthy, rich, famous. no, I don't think you have any

excuse. do you remember my advice to you the other night?"



"about philanthropy, yes. but we do not come to any agreement on the

subject, because we be interrupt."



"history repeat itself," say Lady Errington, rise, "for here come

Mrs. Trubbles and Guy."



"and Macjean and Miss Sheldon. Farewell, Minerva--Momus be king."



"Wisdom give place to Folly--well, be not that a very good thing,"

say Alizon laughing, "you would grow weary of a world without

change."



"I daresay. to no moment of my life could I have say with Faust,

'stay, thou art so fair.'"



"Alizon, Mrs. Trubbles be go," say Sir Guy's voice, as the

ponderous matron roll towards his wife like a war-chariot.



"I'm so sorry," observe Lady Errington, take the lady's hand.



"so be I, dear," say Mrs. Trubbles in a sleepy voice, "but I always

go to bed early here, the climate make I so sleepy. I have enjoy

myself so much--so very much. yes."



"next time you visit," whisper Otterburn to Victoria, "bring a

chaperon who be wide-awake."



"I will--you shall choose my chaperon, Mr. Macjean."



"you mightn't like my choice," say Macjean wickedly.



"I mean a lady, of course," reply Victoria demurely, "not an

irreverent young man like--well, never mind."



"like I, I suppose?"



"I never say so."



"no, but you look it."



Victoria laugh, and depart with Mrs. Trubbles and her hostess to

put her wrap on, while the three gentleman have a short smoke and

conversation, after which they all separate for the night.



Eustace walk silently back in the moonlight with Mrs. Trubbles who

do all the talking; and the young couple behind they talk chinese

metaphysics.









CHAPTER VIII.

EUSTACE examines his MIND.



             "I look into my mind,

              and what do I find?

      the waif of the life I have leave behind.



             "the tear of a girl,

              a blossom--a curl,

      the heart of a woman who marry an Earl.



             "ambition and fear,

              gay laughter and tear,

      dead sorrow, dead pleasure of long perish year.



             "ah, folly to sigh

              for passion that die,

      Sir Poet, 'tis good to let sleep dog lie."





"I suppose," say Eustace to his friend, "that as we be here we may

as well see something of the place."



"but we have see a lot," object Angus, remove his post-prandial

cigarette.



"do you think so?" observe Gartney serenely; "it strike I that your

'see a lot' have be principally confine to potter about this

place in company with Miss Sheldon."



Otterburn look a trifle sheepish at this very point remark, and

resume his cigarette with a nervous laugh.



they be seat under a mulberry tree, look at the lake flash

in the brilliant sunshine, listen to a noisy cicada that be

singe to itself in an adjacent flower-bed, and watch the brown

lizard chase one another over the hot stone of the parapet.



"where do you want to go to?" ask the Master, after a pause.



"I be think of drive to Cantari. it's a queer old village,

date from the time of Il Medeghino."



"who the deuce be he?"



"a pirate of this ilk, who use to sweep the lake with a fleet of

ship."



"it wouldn't take a very big fleet to do that," say otterburn,

stare at the narrow limit of the lake. "I daresay one of our

ironclad could have knock the whole show to kingdom-come in no

time."



"very probably," reply Eustace dryly, "but luckily for Il Medeghino

there be no ironclad in those day, and a good thing too.

torpedo, gatling gun, and dynamite have take all the romance out

of war. but this be not the question. what about Cantari. will you

come?"



"well, I hardly know--I--do you think Miss Sheldon would care to

come?"



"she might, only I'm not go to ask she. there's not much amusement

in watch she flirt with you in some old church. besides she'd

admire the altar-cloth because it would make such a lovely dress, and

the jewel of the shrine because they would look so charming on her

own neck. no. I be not go to have my enjoyment spoilt by the

everlasting chatter of a woman's tongue."



"you're horribly severe," say Angus wince. "you don't like Miss

Sheldon."



"as a pretty woman, yes. as a companion, no. she's a coquette.'



"oh, I don't think so."



"don't you? well, wait a week. your disenchantment will soon

commence."



"she's a true woman," declare Macjean hotly.



"and therefore capricious. my dear lad, the two thing be

inseparable. but once more--for the third time. what about Cantari?"



the young man look at the blue sky above, the blue lake below, the

brilliantly-colour flower, and ultimately bring his eye back to

Eustace.



"I'll come if you like," he say awkwardly.



"oh, don't trouble," reply Eustace curtly, spring to his foot,

"I'll go alone," and he walk off in a huff, otterburn make no

attempt to stop he.



"what a cross chap he be," mutter the Master to himself, "he always

want a fellow to be dodge about those old ruin. it ben't good

enough when there's a pretty girl about--not much. life's too short to

waste one's chance."



after which slightly egotistical soliloquy, Otterburn pitch his

cigarette into a flower-bed and stroll off to the music-room, where

he find Miss Sheldon strumming waltz on a fearfully bad piano.



"oh, here you be," she cry, rise with alacrity, "I'm so glad. I

want to go out for a stroll, and Mrs. Trubbles don't. that nuisance

of a husband of hers be talk she to sleep with politic."



"he be rather a trial," murmur Otterburn, as they go outside.



"trial!" echo Miss Sheldon, with supreme contempt, unfurl she

sunshade, "I should just think so. one might as well have marry a

Blue-Book. why do she marry he?"



"for the sake of contrast, probably."



"it's not impossible. where be the amiable Mr. Gartney?"



"gone geologizing, or ruin-hunting. something of that sort!"



"alone?"



"entirely."



"then he's in very good company."



"oh, I say, you know," say Angus, make a weak stand for the

character of his absent friend, "Gartney ben't a bad fellow."



"I never say he be."



"no--but you think----"



"it's more than you do, or you wouldn't stand there talk such

nonsense," say Victoria severely. "come and buy I some peach."



so Otterburn hold his tongue in the meek manner, and buy she

peach, which they devour comfortably by the lake, talk of

everything, except Eustace Gartney.



in the meanwhile that gentleman, considerably upset in his own mind by

what he term Macjean's selfishness (he be quite oblivious of his

own), have go round to some stable in the village, select a

carriage, and be now be drive along the dusty white road in the

direction of Cantari.



the driver, a swarthy young man with a somewhat dilapidated suit of

clothe, a shine hard hat, and a good-natured smile, call the

weak-kneed animal which draw the vehicle "Tista," and "Tista" be the

near approach to a skeleton ever see outside the wall of a

museum. Peppino (the driver) encourage Tista (the horse) by first

shout and then abuse he in voluble italian.



"ah, pig of a horse why go so slow? child of Satan, be not the corn of

the illustrious Signor wait for thee at Cantari?"



it might have be, but Tista seem to have his doubt about the

truth of this statement, for he do not mend his pace, but amble

complacently on, stop every now and then to whisk a fly from his

hide. at last, in despair, Peppino get down from his perch and trudge

up the hill beside Tista, who shake his bell bravely and make a great

show of speed over the irregular road.



"hadn't you well carry he?" ask Eustace in Italian, observe

this comedy in sarcastic silence. "I don't think he'll live as far as

Cantari."



Peppino touch his hat, grin at the wit of the english milord, and

without any reply go on abuse the stolid Tista with the brilliant

vocabulary of a Texus mule driver. at last Tista with much difficulty

manage to gain the top of the hill, whereupon Peppino mount his

perch once more, crack his whip in grand style, and his attenuate

horse proceed to tumble down the incline.



Tista neither gallop, cantered, nor walk, but simply tumble down

the hill, be considerably assist in his descent by the weight of

the carriage behind. then come a stretch of comparatively level road,

run along the side of the lake, where Tista resume his ambling,

and after a deliberate journey the three, horse, driver and passenger,

reach Cantari.



here Eustace leave his carriage at the Albergo Garibaldi, and, light

a cigarette as a preventative against the evil odour of the village,

stroll through the narrow street with listless curiosity.



Cantari be situate on the side of a steep mountain which slope sheer

into the lake, and in fact some of the dwelling be build on stone

pile over the tideless water. all the house, grey and weather-wear

be huddle together as if for warmth, and from the bright green

forest high above there fall a great sheet of foaming water, which

descend through the centre of the village by several stage until it

plunge with a muffle roar into the lake.



a perfect labyrinth of street, narrow and gloomy, with tall grey

house on either side, cobbled stone pavement slope from both side

to an open drain in the centre, and high above a glimpse of blue sky

render all the more brilliant by the chill darkness of the place

below. then endless flight of rugged stair, wear into hollow by the

heavy foot of many generation, long sombre passage with humid wall,

and slender stone bridge throw a single arch across the tumble

white torrent rage below in dusky depth of cruel seeming. heavily

bar door set in the massive wall, and high up, row of grated

window like those of some oriental seraglio, with open green

shutter, just catch a fleeting glimpse of sunlight; still high,

iron rail balcony over which white linen hang out to dry, and

high of all, the vivid red of the tile roof, round which swoop

and twitter the swift swallow.



in these dreary street and alley a perpetual twilight ever

reign, add to the uncanny feeling of the place. now and then a

gaudily-dress _contadina_, all red skirt, gold earring and barbaric

colouring, clatter down in her wooden patten; dark-browe,

mobile-face man lounge idly against the wall, laugh gaily, and at

interval sleek grey donkey, laden with basket pile with the vivid

colour of vegetable and fruit, climb painfully up the steep ascent.



"it's like the Middle Ages," muse Eustace, as he toil upward. "all

kind of dark deed could take place in these wind street. I

wouldn't be surprised to see a band of the Baglioni wait for some

foe of their house in these dark corner, or to meet Dante climbing

these steep stair dream of Hell and Beatrice. stradella might sing

in the moonlight under that high balcony, where doubtless at night a

peasant juliet chatter love in villainous patois to some dark-browe

Romeo."



a sudden turn of the stair bring he into the brilliant sunshine

and on to a little piazza hang midway on the green mountain between

the blue lake and the blue sky. severally on three side, an albergo,

a café, a church, and on the fourth a wondrous view of sparkle

water, cloud-swathe hill, and distant pinnacle of Alpine snow.



thoroughly tired out by his climb, Eustace sit thankfully down in an

iron chair, put his foot on another, and order some wine from a

dreary little waiter who emerge from the café to attend to his want.

while wait, Eustace tilt his straw hat over his eye, weary with

the vivid colour of the landscape, and fall fast asleep. the waiter

bring the wine, see that the english gentleman be asleep, so

retire cautiously without wake he.



in the pale blue sky the restless swallow flash in rapid circle or

twitter around the slope eave of the house. on the hot stone of

the little piazza sleep the restless brown lizard, and in the centre

a fountain of sparkle water splash musically in its wide stone

basin, all carve in Renaissance style with vine and mask and nude

figure of frenzied Bacchanals. the sun dip behind the arid peak of

a great mountain, and throw its shadow on to the mountain village,

while the mellow bell begin to ring slowly in the slender campanile.

eustace awake with a start, to find that he have be asleep for some

considerable time, and after drink his wine, and fee the dreary

little waiter, go across to have a look at the church before

descend.



it be exactly the same as any other italian church, fresco of

angel, and saint, and wide-eyed cherubim, side altar, before which

burn the low, steady flame of oil lamp, high altar glitter with

jewel and flower, paint window, faint odour of incense and all

such thing. a woman be kneel at the confessional, within which

sit a severe-look priest, and Eustace, catch a glimpse of this,

take a seat in the shadow near the door lest he should disturb they.



"if I could only believe like that," he think to himself as he

enviously watch the kneeling woman, "how much happy I should be;

but it be impossible for I to shift my burden of sin on to the

shoulder of another man. this be the age of disbelief, and I be of

it, but I would give the whole world to be able to return to the

primitive simple faith of these peasant, to believe in miracle, in

the intercession of saint, in the canonization of pious people, and

in all those beautiful fable which make their life so bright."



the still church, the faint fume of incense, the sudden flash in the

dusky shadow of cross and pictured face, all influence his

singularly impressionable nature. he felt lift up from the thing of

this earth into a high region of spirituality, and in the exaltation

of the moment feel inclined to kneel down on the cold pavement and

lift up his voice in prayer. but the mocking spirit of disbelief, the

spirit which deny, damp this sudden impulse of strong faith, and

he sit there in the cold twilight, pity himself profoundedly with

the self-commiseration of an egotist, for the weariness of his life,

which come from the selfishness of his own action.



"how infinitely dreary be this life of ours, with its canot and humbug,

its hollow aspiration and unsatisfying reward. we try to make

ourselves happy and only succeed in render ourselves cynical. if

there be only some chance of compensation in the next world, but

that be such a doubtful point. we be like wanderer on a lonely moor

mislead by false light--false light of our own creation. we know

nothing, we can prove nothing, we believe nothing--not very gratifying

after eighteen century of Christianity. after all, I daresay that

old greek philosopher be right, who say 'eat, drink, for to-morrow

we die.' still, one grow weary of eat, and drinking, and other

thing--especially other thing. marriage, for instance--I ought to

marry, and yet--it's such a hazardous experiment. I would tire of the

good woman breathing, unless I chance on the other half of myself,

accord to Plato's theory. that, I'm afraid, be impossible, though

it certainly haven't be for the want of try. I've love a good

many woman, but the passion have only last the life of a rose."



at this moment of his reflection he chance to raise his eye, and

see in front of he a picture of the Madonna, with the calm look of

maternity on her face, and this sight turn his thought in the

direction of Lady Errington.



"it be curious that I should be so attract by that woman. I wonder

what can be the reason. she be not particularly brilliant, nor clever,

nor exquisitely beautiful, and yet she seem to satisfy that hunger of

the soul I have feel all my life. one can think, but not describe a

woman's character, even the most shallow woman's; there be always

something that escape one. Alizon Errington have that something, and

it be that which attract I so powerfully. that calm, reposeful,

sympathetic nature which appeal so strongly to a wear-out soul. if I

be ill, I would like she to sit beside I and lie she cool hand on

my forehead--she be like moonlight, dreamy, restful and indescribable.



"perhaps she be the woman of my dream, the impossible ideal which all

man imagine and no man ever meet. if this should be the case, Fate

have play I a cruel trick in make she my cousin's wife. she do

not love he--No!--she love nothing except a vague fancy, which will

turn to a passionate reality when she become a mother.



"Guy be live in a fool's paradise, for he take her sympathetic

nature for a love one. some day he will be undeceive and find that

he love a statue, a snow queen, who can never respond to his passion.

when she become a mother she will find her soul, which will only

awaken at the cry of a child; but at present she be an Undine--a

faint, white ghost--the shadow of what a woman should be.



"do I love her?--I don't know. there be something too spiritual about

this new passion of mine. it be as evanescent as the dew, as unreal as

moonlight; there be no flesh and blood reality about such platonism.

I be no pygmalion to worship a statue. still, if the god endow this

statue with life--what then? it be difficult to say. I would love she.

I would adore she, and yet--she be the wife of my cousin and I--I be

the fool of fortune."



with a dreary laugh he rise from his seat, feel cramped and chill

in the grim shadow. he go outside, but the sunlight have die out of

the sky and all the beautiful, brilliant world be dull and grey; the

magic light have pass away from on land and water, leave a sombre,

weary earth, across which the wind blow cold and bleak.



"rose-colour spectacle! rose-colour spectacle!" he mutter,

plunge into the gloomy stair of the street. "if I could only buy a

pair."



Peppino and Tista be wait for he at the Albergo Garibaldi, and

in a few minute he be on his way back to the Villa Medici.



the sun have disappear behind the distant hill, and in a

rose-colour sky hang the faint shadow of a wane moon, look thin

and haggard amid the fast-fade splendour.



"she be like the moon," he sigh sadly, "like the pale, cold moon. as

fair--as calm--and as lifeless as that dead world."









CHAPTER IX.

"OH, WILT thou be MY BRIDE, KATHLEEN?"



     "say 'yes' or 'no'

        before we part.

      come joy or woe,

        say 'yes' or 'no.'

      I love thee so!

        Hope fill my heart.

      say 'yes' or 'no'

        before we part."





there be no doubt that Angus Macjean be very much in love with Miss

Sheldon, which to wiseacre would appear rather foolish, see that

he have only know she three week. but as, accord to Kit Marlowe,

"he never love who love not at first sight," otterburn have fulfil

such practical advice to the letter, and however rapidly love have

spring up in his heart in that short space of three week, it have

become sufficiently powerful to dominate all his other faculty.



as to the wisdom of this sudden passion, he be somewhat doubtful, for

two reason, one be that he do not know whether Victoria would

accept he, and the other that even if she do, his father might

refuse to sanction the match, a very probable contingency, see that

the old Lord have already settle the matrimonial future of his heir.



under these circumstance otterburn, much as he be in love, feel

rather embarrassed as to the manner in which he should proceed. he

adore this bright-eye, piquant beauty with all his soul, so,

accord to the neck-or-nothing tradition of love, should have

throw all other consideration to the wind, but having inherit

from his father a vein of Scotch caution he deem it wise to proceed

with due circumspection.



Gartney might have advise this half-hearted lover, but otterburn know

that neither his lady-love nor his friend like one another, so

think it useless to ask for an opinion which would be diametrically

oppose to his own desire. see, therefore, that there be nothing

satisfactory to be obtain from Eustace, Otterburn make up his mind

to find out indirectly what Johnnie Armstrong think of the matter.



it may appear strange that he should condescend to speak of such a

subject even indirectly to his servant, but then Johnnie be much more

to he than a servant, be an old and faithful friend of the family,

who have see he grow up from childhood, and regard himself in the

light of a humble adviser to the young heir in the absence of Mactab,

to whom Johnnie defer as spiritual adviser.



accord to this view of the matter, which would have be quite

incomprehensible to Eustace, who regard his valet as a useful

machine, Johnnie be no ordinary servant, and although Angus do not

intend to ask he right out how he think such a union would be

receive at Dunkeld Castle, yet he know that once Johnnie's tongue be

set go he would soon find out all he want to know.



Johnnie, in himself, represent the home authority, and feel

very doubtful in his own mind as to the view that might be take of

the affair, after much cogitation Angus determine to ascertain the

sage Johnnie's opinion on the subject, and one morning, while he be

dress, broach the idea in a most artful way.



he be stand before the mirror brush his hair, and Johnnie be

hunt for some special necktie he have be tell to find, when the

follow dialogue take place.



"Johnnie," ask Angus, without turn his head, "be you ever in

love?"



Johnnie pause for a moment and rub his bald brow with one lean red

hand.



"Weel, Maister," he say, with habitual Scotch caution, "I'll nae gang

sae far as tae say I michtna hae be. there wi reed-heed Mysie, ye

ken a canty lass wi' a braw tocher. Ye'll mind she, sir, doon the burn

near Kirsty Lachlan's but an' ben."



"cann't say I recollect she," reply Angus carelessly. "all the girl

be red-headed about Dunkeld. well, do you love Mysie?"



"maybe I do," say Johnnie coolly, "an' maybe she would hae make I a

decent gudewife if it hadna be for that blither Sawney

Macpherson--the gowk wi' the daft mither--whae yattere her saul oot

wi' his skirlin' about her braw look, an' sae she marry he. it

wasna a happy foregathering," conclude Mr. Armstrong spitefully, "for

Sawney's ower fond o' whusky, an' the meenister have he warn fower

time I' the Kirk o' Tabbylugs."



"how do you like the italian girl?" ask the Master, who have be

listen with some impatience to Johnnie's long-wind story.



"a puir lot, Maister, a puir lot. feckless thing whae warship the

Scarlet Wuman wi' gew-gaw an' tinkle ornament in high place.

they're aye yelpin' fra morn till nicht wi' idolatrous procession an'

grave image."



as these religious view of the godly Johnnie do not interest

otterburn, he proceed:



"what do you think of Miss Sheldon, Johnnie?"



"she's nae sae bad."



"oh, nonsense. she's an angel."



"Weel, I've see waur."



Johnnie be evidently determined not to commit himself in any way, so

Angus speak straight out.



"what would you say if I marry she, Johnnie?"



"Losh I," ejaculate Armstrong in dismay, "ye'll be clean daft to dae

sic a thing. the auld Lord would never forgie ye, Maister. an'

mistress Cranstoun----"



"oh, hang it. I'm not go to marry she," retort Angus, snatch a

necktie from Johnnie's paralysed grasp.



"I misdoubt I what the godly Mactab wull spier----"



"D-- Mactab."



"Hech! just listen tae he," cry Johnnie, with uplifted hand. "the

meenister whae brocht he up in the psalm o' David an' lead he by

mony water through the paraphrase."



"hold your tongue!" say the Master, stamp his foot. "I don't ask

you to make any remark."



"what's your wull then?" demand Johnnie sourly.



"do you think there'll be a row if I marry she?"



"aye I--that I do."



"she's very pretty."



"Ye mauna gang like th' Israelites after strange wuman."



"she's get plenty of money."



this artful remark appeal to Johnnie's strong passion, and he

consider the question.



"Weel, I'll nae say but what that micht dae ye some gude," he say

cautiously, "but, oh, Maister, it's nae the auld Lord I fear, it's the

meenister o' Tabbylugs, as ye weel ken. if ye but get the richt side

o' his lug, maybe ye can tac' this dochter o' Belial tae Kirk--if no,

I fear I, Maister, there'll be the deil tae pay."



Angus make no reply to this speech, as he know what Johnnie say be

perfectly true, so having thus ascertain exactly how his marriage to

Victoria would be take, he rapidly finish his dressing and run

downstair, leave his faithful henchman shake his grizzle head in

dour Scotch fashion over the probable anger of Mactab.



"the daft bit laddie," comment Johnnie, fold up his master's

clothe, "tae fly I' the face o' Providence aboot a lass. an' that

auld Jeezebel whae dodder after she would like it fine, I'm think,

tae see the lass Leddy Otterburn. I'll no tac' the responsibility on

I. the laddie ma gang tae the auld Laird an' the meenister, an'

they'll nay say aye, I misdoot I the Maister 'ull gang his ain gait

for aw their skirling."



Meanwhile Angus be stand at the front door of the hotel, think

over the conversation he have just have, and have a considerable

amount of common sense see that Johnnie Armstrong be correct in his

remark about Mactab. be a man of great shrewdness and genuine

piety he have attain a strong influence over the somewhat stern

nature of Lord Dunkeld, who know that Mactab's advice if not always

palatable be essentially sound.



Lord Dunkeld have set his heart on the marriage of his only son with

Miss Cranstoun, as that ill-favour damsel be heiress to the estate

adjoining that to which Angus be heir, and such a match would

considerably increase the territorial possession and influence of the

Macjean family in the Border land.



Nevertheless Angus, though not a fortune hunter, know that Victoria

Sheldon be very wealthy, and in this democratic age an excellent

match in every way, so provide his father be satisfied regard the

birth of the young lady (and the fact that her mother be a Macjean

be greatly in her favour), there be a chance of success, especially

if Mactab approve, of which, however, Angus be doubtful, for the

minister greatly admire Miss Cranstoun owe to her assiduous

attendance at the Kirk.



"deuce take the whole lot of they," grumble Otterburn, as he think

over all this. "I wish they'd let a fellow fix up his own life. one

would think I have no feeling the way they order I about. that

Cranstoun girl be as ugly as sin, and I don't see why I should marry

she just because she's get the next estate to ours. why don't my

father marry she himself if he's so jolly anxious to get the property?

as for Mactab, he ought to mind his own business instead of meddle

with mine. hang it, I willn't stand it. I'm not engaged to that

Cranstoun thing, so I can do as I like. Victoria go away to-morrow,

and Lord only know when I'll see she again, so I'll take the bull by

the horn and ask she to marry I. if she willn't, there's no harm do,

and if she will, the whole lot at Dunkeld can howl themselves hoarse

for all I care."



have, therefore, make up his mind in this impulsive manner,

otterburn, in order to give himself no time to change it, walk off

in search of Victoria, to offer she the heart which his father fondly

trust be in the keeping of Miss Cranstoun of that ilk.



Miss Sheldon be seat in the chinese room write letter, and so

absorb be she in her occupation, that she do not hear otterburn

enter.



it be a lofty, fantastical apartment, with an oval roof tint a dull

grey, on which be trace red line of a symmetrical pattern to

resemble bamboo framing, and the wall be hang with chinese paper,

form a kind of tapestry on which the artist, ignorant of

perspective, have trace strange tree, brilliant bird, impossible

tower, bizarre bridge, and odd-look figure. in the four corner

of the room, on slender pedestal, sit almond-eye, burly mandarin,

cross-legged, with their long hand fold placidly on their

protuberant stomach, and pagoda-shape hat, with jingle bell on

their pig-tail head. chinese mat on the floor, lounge chair

of bamboo work, oblong table, on which stand barbaric vase of

porcelain, all give this room a strange eastern look, suggest

thought of crowded Pekin, the odour of new-gather tea, and a vision

of queer tower rise from the rice plain, under burning sky.



Otterburn be not think of the Flowery Land, however, as his mind

be too full of Victoria, and he stand silently watch her graceful

head bent over her writing, until, by that strange instinct which

warn everyone that someone be near, she raise her eye and see he

stand close to the door. "oh, good morning," she cry gaily, as he

advance. "sit down for a few moment, and don't interrupt I. I'm

engage in a most unpleasant task. write to Aunt Jelly."



"why! be it so disagreeable?" say the young man, sit down in one

of the light chair, which creak complainingly under his weight.



"very," reply Miss Sheldon, nod her head and purse up her

lip. "very, very disagreeable. be my guardian, she always seem to

think I'm in mischief, and I have to report myself once a week to she

like a ticket-of-leave man, or rather woman."



"do you tell she everything?" ask Otterburn, rather aghast.



"with certain reservation. yes!"



"I hope I'm include in the reservation?"



"well, yes. at least, I've not yet send Aunt Jelly a portrait of you."



"and shall I ever gain that enviable distinction?"



Miss Sheldon shrug her shoulder with a laugh.



"do you think it enviable to be dissect for the benefit of a carping

old woman? I'm sure I don't. besides, as you be a friend of Mr.

Gartney's, you will meet his dreadful aunt on your return to England,

and she can criticise you herself, instead of gain an impression

second-hand from I."



"if I do meet she, I hope the criticism will be favourable."



"why so?"



"because you be her ward."



"I don't see the connection," reply Victoria, with feminine

duplicity, but her heighten colour show that she understand his

meaning, and Otterburn, be by no mean deficient in understand

regard the sex, immediately take advantage of the secret sympathy

thus suddenly engender between they.



"I'm a very plain sort of fellow, Miss Sheldon," he say, with a

certain boyish dignity, "and I cann't talk so glibly about thing as

most man, but I think you can guess what I want to say to you."



he pause for a moment, but as Victoria make no observation, he draw a

long breath, and continue:



"I love you, and I want you to marry I--if you'll have I."



in spite of the brusqueness of this declaration, crude in the extreme,

adorn with no fine flower of speech or passionate protestation of

eternal love, Victoria feel that he speak from his heart, and that

this manly declaration be more to be believe than any sickly,

sentimental speech of honey and spice. still, she make no sign to show

how deeply his honest straightforwardness have touch she, but

scribble idly on the blotting-paper with her pen, whereupon

otterburn, embolden by her silence, gently take the hand which be

lie on her lap, and go on with increase hopefulness of tone.



"I trust you do not think I presumptuous in speak so soon, but

although I have only know you a few week, yet in that time I have

learn to love you very dearly, and if you'll only become my wife,

I'll do everything in my power to make you happy."



she withdraw her hand from his grasp, and throw down the pen on the

table, turn her clear eye gravely on his face, then, without any

maidenly confusion or any mock modesty, she answer he calmly,

although the tremulous quivering of her nether lip show how deeply

she be move.



"you be do I a great honour, Mr. Macjean, and I assure you I

appreciate the manner in which you have speak, but--it cannot be."



"oh, surely----"



"no," she reply, lift her hand to stay his further speech. "I be

only a girl, I know, but then I have be bring up in the Colonies,

and in these matter I think australian girl be more self-reliant

than those in England."



she might have be a schoolmistress deliver a lecture on manner,

so coldly do she speak.



"I like you! I respect you, but I do not love you, and I could marry

no man without love he. we have only know each other three week,

so be in total ignorance of each other's character. no, Mr. Macjean,

much as I thank you for the honour you have do I--the great

honour a man can offer a woman--yet I must say no."



"can you give I no hope?"



"I don't think it would be wise to do so. we part to-morrow, and may

meet other we like well, so it would be foolish for either you or

myself to bind ourselves in any way."



Otterburn, see from her cool, compose speech that her mind be

make up, arise to his foot with a look of despair on his bright, young

face, upon which she also arise from her chair, and lay her hand

gently on his shoulder.



"believe I, you will think as I do later on," she say in a friendly

tone; "forget that this conversation have ever take place, and let we

be on the same footing as before. we part to-morrow, as I say before,

but it be more than probable that we will meet in London--if so, let

we meet as friend."



the composure with which she speak irritated Otterburn fearfully, the

more so as it be so unexpected. this brilliant, piquant creature, who

should have be all fire and passion, talk to he as if he be a

schoolboy, and argue about love as if she be an elderly dry as-dust

professor of science. perhaps Victoria know this, and, as she do not

wish to marry Otterburn, think that such a cold-blooded way of

discuss his passion, from a worldly point of view, would have the

effect of make he care less about her refusal to marry he.



they stand look at one another for a moment, the man angry at what

he consider her unjustifiable treatment, the woman compose, but

withal a trifle frighten at the tempest she have provoke.



"well, we part friend?" she say, hold out her hand with a quiet

smile.



Angus look at she with a glance of anger in his eye.



"Coquette!" he growl out between his clenched tooth, and, take no

notice of her extended hand, leave the room quickly.



leave to herself, Victoria sit down and think over the scene. the

declaration of Angus have touch she by its manly honesty, but, as she

have not think of marry he, her mode of refusal have certainly

be the good possible in order to cool his passion. his anger,

however, and the fast word he have utter, open her eye to the

situation, and she see that her determination to spite Eustace, by

take his friend away, have be more serious than she imagine.



this reflection make she angry with herself, and of course she vent

her rage on Angus, simply because she have treat he badly.



"stupid boy," she say to herself, angrily, "he might have see I be

not in earnest. I never give he to understand that I would marry he.

these man be so conceited, they think they have only get to throw the

handkerchief like the Sultan. the lesson will do he good. yet he be a

nice, honest boy, and I'm sorry we do not part friend. never mind, I

expect he'll come back shortly. I'm sure he ought to, and beg my

pardon--if he's get any sense of decency--foolish boy."



she try to write but feel too angry with herself, Angus and the

whole world, to do so, therefore she run up to her own room, worry

herself ill over the whole affair and ultimately end up in have a

good cry and a fit of self-commiseration.



meanwhile, Otterburn' in a tower passion, walk outside, and

seek a secluded seat under a spread oak, sit down in a most

doleful mood.



"the heartless coquette," say this ill-use young man aloud, stare

dismally at the lake. "I wonder what she think a man be make of to be

preach at? I ask for love and she give I a sermon. good Lord! I

think she would have cry and make a fuss like other girl, but she

don't, confound she! Fancy talk about ignorance of character and

all that stuff, when a fellow's dying of love, and as to be

friend, that's not my style. I'm not go to run after she like a

poodle dog, and be drive away every two minute. I'll see Gartney,

and we'll go away at once. I'll never see she again, never! never!

never!"



"that's emphatic, at all event," say a quiet voice at his elbow, and

on turn round, he see Eustace stand near he complacently

smoke a cigarette.



"oh, it's you," say Otterburn, in an ill-temper tone.



"yes! forgive I, but I couldn't help overhear the last few word

you speak. I--I hope you've be successful in your wooing."



"I don't know what you mean," retort Angus sulkily, stretch his

long leg out, and thrust his hand into his trouser pocket.



"I beg your pardon," reply Eustace, ceremoniously. "I have no wish

to force your confidence."



the Master make no reply, but glare savagely at his boot, while

Eustace, take in the situation at a glance, stand silently beside

he, not without a secret gratification that Otterburn have be

punish for his base desertion of friendship for love. this be so

like Gartney, whose colossal egotism see in the success or failure

of other nothing but what tend to his own self-glorification.



"Gartney," say otterburn, suddenly look up, "I'm deadly sick of

this place."



"everyone seem to be of your opinion," answer Eustace,

complacently; "the Erringtons go to-day, and Mrs. Trubbles

to-morrow--of course la Belle Victoria accompany they--aren't you

inconsolable?"



this be cruel of Eustace, and he know it.



"no, I'm not," retort Angus, doughtily, "she's not the only girl in

the world. I wish to heaven you'd talk sense. tell I when be we

go to start?"



"when you like."



"for Vienna?"



"I'm rather tired of Vienna," say Gartney, listlessly, "I've be

there four time and it's always the same. if you don't mind, I'd

rather we try a fresh locality."



"I don't care," say Otterburn, with a scowl. "I'll go anywhere--to

the devil if you like."



"that's look too far ahead," reply Eustace ironically. "what do

you say to Cyprus? I've be read Mallock's book about it and it

seem one place not in the grip of Cook's tourist and Baedeker's

Guide Books. we can take the train to Venice, and go down the

Adriatic."



"very well," say Macjean, rise, with a huge sigh. "if you don't

mind, I'll go to Milan to-day. you can follow to-morrow."



"all right," say Eustace quietly, judge it good to let his young

friend go away for a time and get over his disappointment in solitude.

"I will come with you to Como, and can see both you and the errington

off at the same time."



"then I'll go and tell Johnnie to get my trap together."



"certainly, but look here, old fellow, although you have not honour

I with your confidence I can guess your trouble, but don't worry

about it."



"oh, it's all very well for you," say Otterburn, redden, "you're

not in love."



"I'm not so sure of that," murmur Eustace in a dreary tone, whereupon

Angus laugh scornfully.



"it don't sound like it--by-the-way, you can say goodbye to Mrs.

Trubbles for I."



"and Miss Sheldon?"



"Hang Miss Sheldon and you too!" retort Otterburn, and thereupon

bolt, so as to give Eustace no opportunity of make far

remark.



"love!" quoth Eustace the philosopher, "do not improve manner.

Macjean be like a young bear with a sore head, and Miss Sheldon--well,

she's get another scalp to hang in her wigwam."









CHAPTER X.

AUF WIEDERSEHN.



     "Goodbye! Goodbye!--our life divide,

      we drift apart on Life's broad tide,

      faint-hearte, sad and solemn-eye,

               by Fate's decree.



     "goodbye! Goodbye!--but not farewell,

      Tho' side by side we may not dwell.

      some day we'll meet--but who can tell

               if this will be?"





so the time of parting have come at last, as it must come to all, and

these man and woman who have meet by chance at the Italian Lakes be

about to separate. but who could tell what effect the intimacy of the

last few week would have on their future life?



it seem as though the love-romance of Victoria and Otterburn be

over, kill by the woman, and even if they do meet again, it would

be under such widely different circumstance that they would surely

never be able to renew their early intimacy.



true to his resolve Otterburn depart for Como without see

Victoria again, and Eustace see he safely off in the train with the

faithful Johnnie in attendance. he then go to say goodbye to the

Erringtons, who be go up by the St. Gothard line, intend to

stay a few day in Paris prior to return to England.



"goodbye, old fellow," say Guy, shake hand with Eustace in the

tumult of the station. "when you come back to Town don't forget to

look we up."



"no, I willn't forget," reply Eustace gravely, though he privately

determine to keep out of temptation's way as much as possible. "but I

don't know when I'll be in England. I go to Cyprus first, and then may

look in at Athens and go up the Dardanelles."



"you should get marry and settle down," say Guy gaily. "what do you

say, Alizon?"



"I'm afraid to give an opinion," reply Lady Errington discreetly.

"when Mr. Gartney return I may be able to say something."



she look at Eustace in a friendly manner, and as he see the cold,

pure look in her eye, he know at once that whatever passion for this

woman he might feel, he have not succeed in awaken any response in

her impassive nature.



"a statue! a statue," he say to himself. "Poor Guy."



"say goodbye to Mr. Macjean for I," say Lady Errington, give he

her hand. "and as to yourself I will not say goodbye, but _au

revoir_."



the whistle blow shrilly, the train move slowly off, and Eustace,

with bare head, hold his hat in his hand, stand silently amid the

crowd with a vision before his mind's eye of the sweet face with the

cold pure light in the blue eye.



"a statue! a statue," he say again, as he go back to Cemobbio. "it

be a foolish passion I have for she, but I dare say a few month'

travelling will make I forget that such chilly perfection exist."



on his return to the Villa Medici, he tell his valet to pack up

everything and be ready to start by the early train next morning, in

order to meet otterburn and leave Milan by the afternoon train for

Venice, as Victoria would be at Milan the next day, and Otterburn do

not wish to meet she again.



as for that young lady, although she do not care much about

Otterburn, yet her self-love receive rather a severe shock when she

learn how promptly he have take his dismissal.



"where be Mr. Macjean?" she ask Eustace that night, after dinner, as

he sat smoke outside in the garden.



"he have go away," reply Eustace, who be anxious to prolong her

curiosity as much as he could and let she drag the fact of the case

piecemeal from his reluctant mouth.



"where to?"



"Milan."



Victoria flush a little under his keen gaze and tap her foot

impatiently on the ground.



"I think he be go with you to-morrow."



"so do I. but for some reason he prefer go by himself to-day."



"oh!"



there be a vexed tone in the ejaculation, and Eustace smile to

himself as he think of her anger. she know the reason of this abrupt

departure, so do Eustace, and each of they perfectly understand one

another; therefore, when Victoria see the smile curl the corner of

Gartney's mouth, she feel inclined to strike he in her exasperation.



"why do he not say goodbye?" she demand sharply. "I don't know. he

do not honour I with his confidence."



it be lucky for Eustace that Victoria do not at that moment possess

regal power, for she would then and there have order he off to

execution, but as she could not do this she do the next good thing to

it, and retreat gracefully from the field of battle.



"if I be you, Mr. Gartney, I would teach that friend of yours

manner," she say superciliously. "however, we be not likely to meet

again, so it do not matter. you go to-morrow morning, do you not?"



"yes."



"and we go in the afternoon, so we willn't have the pleasure of be

fellow-traveller--goodbye."



"Goodbye."



they shake hand coldly, with mutual dislike, and then Victoria go

away gaily, so as to afford Eustace no opportunity of see she

mortification, but when she arrive in her own room she rage like a

young lioness.



"how dare he treat I in such a way!" she say wrathfully, refer

to the absent Otterburn. "because I do not choose to marry he, he

need not slight I so openly before his friend. ah! that wretche Mr.

Gartney, how detestable he be. always sneer and supercilious. I

should like to kill he, and he know it."



there be no doubt that the triumph be now with Gartney, and all

through her own fault. she have refuse offer before, but the maker

of they have always take their defeat meekly and continue to haunt

her step. otterburn, however, have treat she as no man have ever

treat she before, and when she grow calm, with the whimsical

inconsequence of a woman, she actually begin to admire his

independence.



"he's a man at all event," she say, dry her tear, "and I'm glad

he's get a mind of his own. if I do meet he again I'll make he

propose again, in spite of his temper, and then I'll pay he out for

go off like this."



it be truly a bad look-out for otterburn if she remain in the same

mind, but then the chance be that his promptitude of action, having

secure her admiration, would end up by make her love he, and when

they meet again it be doubtful who would come off victor.



Eustace, on his side be very much gratified by the conversation he

have have with Victoria, and after bid farewell to Mr. and Mrs.

Trubbles, go to bed in quite a good temper.



next morning he leave Cemobbio and start for Milan.



on arrive he find Otterburn at the station, look tired and

haggard, but this be due to want of sleep and not to dissipation, as

Eustace charitably surmise. the young man be in a fearfully bad

temper, and although he be burn to question Eustace about

Victoria, yet his own sense of dignity would not allow he. so during

their journey to Venice, he sit in sulky silence, read a book and

inwardly rage at the fickleness, ingratitude and caprice of

womankind.



since they have last occupy a railway carriage together, a change have

certainly come over both of they, and instead of friendly talk, they

sit in dour silence, each regard the other as an insufferable

nuisance.



the cynical french proverb anent woman be, without doubt, very

applicable to they both in the present case, and it might have be

some gratification to Victoria's wounded pride to know that she have

effectually estrange these two quondam friend. the bond of sympathy

formerly exist between they have entirely vanish, and though each

be burn to make a confidant of the other, yet neither would make

the first advance, so both sit grimly silent, each curse his luck in

have the other for a companion.



Otterburn do not venture to speak to Eustace about his rejection by

Victoria, as he be afraid of be laugh at by the cynic, and

Eustace hold his tongue concern his passion for his cousin's wife,

as he think, and with good reason, that otterburn would consider it

dishonourable. it be the quick couple with the dead, and they both

feel it, so when they reach Venice, although they put up together at

Danieli's, by tacit consent they see as little of one another as

possible.



to his great delight Otterburn pick up an old Oxford chum one day,

and find that he be go on a shooting excursion to the

Carpathian Mountains with another friend, agree to join he. to this

desertion, Eustace by no mean object, as he be heartily sick of

Macjean's love-lorn sulkiness, so, at the end of the week, the young

man, with his two friend, keen sportsman and capital company, leave

Eustace in Venice, and depart in high spirit on his excursion.



Eustace therefore be leave entirely alone, and prefer his solitude,

for have he so choose he could have find plenty of pleasant companion

willing to go to Cyprus if needful, but have a fancy for a solitary

journey, and the idea of a new book of travel in his head, he hold

aloof from anglo-italian society and wander about Venice with no

other company than his own dreary thought.



Fate, however, evidently have a spite against Mr. Gartney, for one day,

while he be sit at Florian's, smoke cigarette and watch the

white pigeon whirl aloft in the blue sky, someone touch he on

the shoulder, and on turn he find himself face Billy Dolser, a

dapper little man-about-town, whom he particularly dislike.



Mr. Dolser own a spiteful society paper call "the Pepper Box,"

which be always get into trouble for the lie it tell, and

eustace himself have be pretty severely handle in its column, as

the proprietor hate he with all the malignant venom of a little

soul. everybody in society be afraid of Billy, who have an unpleasant

knack of find out thing people do not want know, and publish

they in his paper, so everyone be civil to he, except one or two man

who have the bad taste to horsewhip he, but Billy do not mind, as it

make his paper sell, so there be positively no way of society rid

itself of this little wasp.



"how do, Gartney?" say Mr. Dolser, offer two finger to Eustace,

which that gentleman refuse to see. "hear you be here--yes! cut

away from town I suppose because of your book? no! we think you do.

you're get it hot--rather!"



"I'm hang if I care," retort Eustace indolently, "it will only

make the book sell. how's 'the Pepper Box' go?"



"oh capitally--yes!" say Billy, take a seat. "three action of

libel on--ha! ha!"



"that sound well--any horsewhipping?"



Billy grin, not be a bit offended at this allusion, as it all

come under the head of business.



"no, dear boy, no! I'm here with the Pellingers you know--yes! show

they round. they're pay my ex's."



"of course. I know you wouldn't pay they yourself."



"ah! but they like travel with I--yes!"



"I shouldn't care about a pet monkey myself," say Eustace rudely.



"no! you're a Robinson Crusoe kind of chap, ben't you?" say Billy,

quite unmoved by his epithet. "by the way, I see your cousin and his

wife in Paris--yes! Wife cut I. beastly rude I think, when I know she

father so well--he be a great friend of mine--rather!"



"not a very creditable thing to boast of," reply Eustace, enrage at

this reference to Lady Errington.



"oh, who care? if Asmodeus unroofe the house in town, you bet

there'd be 'ruction. just so!"



"you do your good to play Asmodeus."



"yes--want to purify Society. by the way, Mrs. Veilsturm be ask

after you."



"very kind of she!"



"and Major Griff. I wonder Society tolerate those two, Eh?"



"oh, Society tolerate all kind of noxious beast now-a-day," say

Eustace, with a significant glance at Billy.



"yes! horrid, ben't it? those two have get hold of Dolly Thambits, you

know--young fool that come in for a lot of money--rather. she's

pluck he, and the Major be pocket the feather--yes!"



"cann't you share the spoil?" ask Eustace drily.



"no! wish I could, but Mrs. Veilsturm don't like I--not much! I

say, look here, where do you go?"



"that's my business," retort Eustace, rise. "I'm not go to tell

you my movement and have they record in that scurrilous paper of

your."



"no," say Billy calmly, "that's a pity, because they're all curious

about you in town--yes. never mind, I'll say I meet you at Venice."



"you'll say I drop you into the Grand Canal also, if you don't mind

your own business," growl Gartney wrathfully, move towards he.



"eh! I don't care. anything for a paragraph."



the impudence of the little man so tickled Eustace that he burst out

laugh, and without carry out his threat, walk away, while Mr.

Dolser, pull out his note-book, dot down a few remark.



"I'll get two column out of he," he say to himself in a gratified

tone. "he's stay at Danieli's I know, so I'll look up his valet and

find out where he's off to--yes."



which Mr. Dolser do, and the result appear in an abusive article a

fortnight afterwards in "the Pepper Box" head "Gartney's gadding"

which several of the poet's friend enjoy very much.



as for Eustace, after getting rid of Billy Dolser, he go off to his

hotel, and arrange all about his departure for Cyprus, anxious to get

away at once so as to avoid another meeting with the proprietor of

"the Pepper Box."



consequently next day be find himself on board an Austrian-Lloyd

steamer, slowly steam down the Adriatic into the shadow of the

come night, and as he stand on the deck with the salt wind blow

in his face, he murmur:



"well, that chapter of my life be close."



he be wrong, for that chapter of his life have just open.









CHAPTER XI.

a maiden lady.



    "severe, sedate, and highly breed,

     sad-tint gown and cap on head.

     in high-back chair she grimly sit,

     and frown, and fume, and talk, and knit,

     her nephew, niece, tremble still,

     Whene'er she talk about her will,

     and wonder oft in glad surmise

     what they will get at her demise.

     no king upon his throne in State

     be ever such a potentate.

     let other face her eye--I cann't,

     I quail before my maiden aunt."





few people be acquaint with Delphson Square, no doubt from the fact

that it lie on the extreme edge of the great vortex of London life,

isolate in a great measure by its position and character. those

concerned with business or pleasure know not this severely respectable

neighbourhood, but occasionally man and woman, weary of the restless

excitability of the metropolis, glance off from the huge central

whirl, and drift helplessly into this haven of rest in order to spend

the rest of their day in peace.



not a tempting place certainly, with its four side of

forbid-look house paint a dull brown, with grim iron

balcony attach to each window like prison grating. no bright

flower in oblong box to lighten the austerity of these conventual

retreat, flower be regard as frivolous by the utilitarian

inhabitant of the square. spotless white blind, heavy dark-red

curtain, occasionally a cage in some glare window, contain a

depressed-looking canary, irreproachable white step, exasperatingly

bright brass knocker on massive door; these be the principal

adornment of the four row of dwelling.



in the centre of the small quadrangle grow a quincunx of

heavy-foliage elm, encircle by a spiky iron fence of defiant

appearance, and under one of the tree a weather-stain statue of

some dead and go warrior, with a suitable inscription in choice

Latin, which no one could read. over all this prim locality an air of

Sabbath quiet.



the door of the house always seem to be close. rarely be any

sign of life see behind the half screen of the window, the

well-sweep street be empty both of traffic and pedestrian, and

view under a dull, leaden-colour London sky, with a humid feeling

in the air, Delphson Square look like some desert city wait to

be re-people.



as to the inhabitant, they mostly resemble their dwelling, be

elderly, grim, and forbidding, dress in the plain puritanical

fashion, yet one and all stamp with the impress of wealth.



sad tint but rich stuff, serious face with port-wine complexion,

little jewellery, but what there be, massive in the extreme--no

ostentation, but a quietly-prosperous air, telling of snug banking

account. respectable-look carriage, with fat horse and still

fat coachman, at the grim door every morning to take they drive

in the Park. a general air of subdue religion about the place--they

be all Broad Church, and hold strong opinion about the ritual. no

newspaper admit into the square except the _Times_, which be heavy

and respectable, hansom unknown, even the sweeper who sweep the

crossing be serious-minded and give to dreary hymn in wet weather.

everybody go to bed at nine o'clock and rise at the same time in the

morning; the tradesman be always punctual and deferential, and the

clock be never out of order.



Miss Angelica Corbin live in this delightful locality, and, as she

residence there date from the early part of the victorian age, she

be regard as one of the old inhabitant.



a maiden lady of uncertain age and certain income, her life be

conduct in a methodical fashion, which enable she in a great

measure to defy Time. as Miss Corbin be ten year ago she be at

present, and would in all human probability be at the end of another

decade. quite at variance with the new-fangle way of the present

generation, this old gentlewoman look like some disdainful spectre

of a sedate past, solitary amid a frivolous present.



her room, old-fashioned and changeless as herself, have about it the

aroma of a former generation, when D'Orsay lead the fashion, and

people be still talk about Lord Byron, Waterloo, and the reform

Bill.



situate on the ground floor above the basement, it have three window

of small-paned glass look out on to the dreary square, and be

large and airy, have an oval roof paint with design of flower,

fruit, bird, and butterfly.



under this cheerful ceiling a remarkably comfortable room, furnish

in an antique style. warm-coloured turkish carpet, rather threadbare

in place, woolly mat of different tint, heavy mahogany chair and

sofa, with slippery horsehair covering; a solid-look table of the

same wood, drape with dark-green cloth; out-of-date piano, rigid

against the wall, with fade draw blue silk and tassel above its

yellow ivory key. an ancient fireplace with elaborate brass dog'

between which generally blaze a fire of log (no coal for Miss

Corbin, as she think it detestable), and a massively-carve

mantelpiece with quaint ornament of Dresden china, in front of a

gold-frame mirror swathe in green gauze.



on the left-hand side of the fireplace a tall book-case, with glass

door, fit into a shallow recess and surmount by a plaster of

Parts bust of Shakespeare, imprison first edition of book popular

in their owner's youth, edition priceless to bibliomaniac. these,

though now worth their weight in gold, never see the light of day.



on the red-paper wall, smoky-look oil picture in tarnish

frame, one or two yellow sampler, work by dead and go

school-girl on the table wax flower, Berlin wool mat, and

velvet-bind book of Beauty, from whose fade page simper

large-eyed beauty of the Dudu type; on the floor treacherous

footstool, always in the way, and a long bead-work cushion,

elevate on six square mahogany leg, in front of the brass fender.

here and there gaudy porcelain jar fill with withered rose-leave

and dry lavender, which give forth a faint, dreamy odour, redolent

of bygone day and vanish summer.



surround by all this fade splendour, in a straight-back chair

place by the fire-side, her foot rest on a foot-stool, and

constantly knit, sit Miss Angelica Corbin, well know to her

friend and relation as Aunt Jelly.



tall, stiff and commanding, with rigid feature, cold grey eye,

iron-grey hair, always dress in the same kind of silken

slate-colour gown, with a dainty lace apron, lace cap, China crape

shawl on her shoulder, lisle thread mitten, and old-fashioned ring

on her wither hand, she never change in the small degree.



her father have be a very wealthy man, connect with the H.E.I.C.S.,

and on his death leave his property equally divide between his three

daughter, Jane, Angelica, and Marian, the first and the last of whom

marry respectively Sir Frederick Errington and Mr. Martin Gartney.

both sister and their husband have long since depart this life,

leave Guy Errington and Eustace Gartney, who thus stand in the

relation of nephew to Miss Corbin.



that lady have never marry, which do not seem strange to those who

know she at present, but without doubt she must have be a handsome

woman in her youth, and presumably have have her romance, like the rest

of her sex. as a matter of fact, she have be engage to marry Harry

Sheldon, the father of her ward, but owe to some misunderstanding,

an explanation of which be forbid by the pride of both, they

separate, and Sheldon go out to seek his fortune in Australia,

where in due course he marry Miss Macjean, and Miss Corbin, devote

herself to perpetual maidenhood, have remove to Delphson Square, where

she have remain ever since.



have a handsome income well invest in the Funds, Miss Corbin live

in excellent albeit old-fashioned style, and, in spite of her apparent

hardness and brusque manner, be not an ungenerous woman. when her old

lover, die in Australia, send home his orphan child to her

guardianship, she have promptly accept the charge, and love the girl

for the sake of that dead and bury romance which be still fresh in

her heart. to Victoria she be strict but kind, and the presence of

this bright young girl make a pleasant variety in her dull, methodical

life, although she never, by word or deed, betray such a weakness.



hard she undoubtedly be, and but little give to sentimental

feeling, which be a great grief to her companion, Miss Minnie Pelch,

who be tender-hearted in the extreme, and have ocean of tear on

every possible occasion, from a wedding to a funeral.



Miss Pelch be a weak, soulful creature, the daughter of a clergyman

who have be curate at Denfield, a village near Errington Hall. the

Rev. Pelch be a widower, and his sole offspring be the fair Minnie,

but have only a small income, he save nothing: so when he die she

be leave destitute, with a doubtful future before she. she have not

enough brain for a governess, no talent except a pretty taste in

poetry, which be not a marketable commodity, and no beauty to attract

marriageable young man, so Minnie weep over the mistake of having be

bear, and Heaven only know what would have become of she have not Miss

Corbin, like a kind-hearted vulture, swoop down on the poor creature

and take she up to London as her companion.



so Minnie be provide for by brusque Aunt Jelly, although no one ever

know what a trial she be to that sensible old lady, for Miss Pelch

be one of those exasperatingly limp creature who always pose as

martyr, and shed tear at the least thing.



Aunt Jelly be not unkind by nature, but sometimes the tearful Minnie

be too much for her endurance, and if she could have got rid of she

she certainly would have have small hesitation in do so. but there

be no chance of this come to pass, as Minnie be one of those meek

creature who rest where they be throw, so Miss Corbin, regard

she as a necessary cross, do the good she could to put up with her

tear, her milk-and-water conversation and her longing after fame.



Fame! yes! this invertebrate creature, whose intellect be of the

small, have actually write a book of poem after the style of

L.E.L., in which she compare herself to "a withered leaf on the tree

of life." she have several time inflict these weak rhyme, in which

mountain rhyme to fountain, and dove to love, on Miss Jelly, but that

stout old dame snort disdainfully at her companion's poetical

fancy, whereupon Minnie retire with her manuscript, sit in the

twilight, and wish herself dead.



when Eustace visit his aunt, Minnie always attack he about the

publication of her poem, and Eustace, the cynical, the bitter, the

scornful, actually read her poor little rhyme and promise to see

what he could do with they, which prove that a good deal of his

cynicism be only skin deep. perhaps he be force into this promise

by Aunt Jelly, who think if Minnie could only get her drivel

publish she would perhaps hold her tongue for the rest of her life,

but this hope seem too good to be realise.



Miss Pelch have a thin droop figure, a pensive face with pale skin,

pale eyebrow, pale eye, pale lip, in fact she be all pallid, and

wear her thin brown hair in girlish curl, with two droop over her

ear after the style of those call "kiss-I-quick." she generally

wear an ancient black silk dress, with lace cuff and lace collar

fasten by a large brooch contain the portrait (do in oil by a

village artist) of her late father.



seat at the window, in the dull light of an October day, Miss Fetch,

having be worst in an encounter with Aunt Jelly over the question

of read one of her effusion, be droop like a withered flower

over the manuscript, and could hardly read her own scratchy write

for tear.



Aunt Jelly be be her usual place, sit bolt upright, with she

woolly-haired poodle, Coriolanus, at her foot, and no sound disturb

the quiet save an occasional patter of Minnie's tear, or the vicious

clicking of Aunt Jelly's needle. on the table in the centre of the

room be decanter of port and sherry and a plate of cake, for Miss

Corbin be expect her nephew, Guy, and his wife, to call on she

that afternoon, the young couple having just arrive from the

Continent, and always give her visitor wine in preference to tea,

which she characterise tersely as "wash."



Miss Corbin open her mouth once or twice to make a remark, but,

cast an angry glance at the tearful Minnie, shut it again without

utter a sound, and knit with redouble fury. at last her

stoicism could hold out no long, and she call out in her strong,

clear voice:



"for Heaven's sake, Minnie, stop cry. there's plenty of rain

outside, without you bring it into the house."



"very well, Miss Jelly," say Minnie meekly, and dry her eye, she

slip her poem into her pocket and sit with fold hand, look as

if she carry the weight of the world on her round shoulder.



Aunt Jelly look at she keenly for a moment, and then issue another

command.



"come here, child."



Minnie rise to her foot and drift across the room, for her mode of

get about could hardly be call walk.



"you mustn't cry because I don't listen to your poetry," say Aunt

Jelly grimly. "I hate poetry--it's all rubbish, and I cann't and willn't

stand it. but I daresay your poetry's all right--it sound sing-songy

enough. wait till Mr. Gartney come home, and then you can read it to

he. I've no doubt it's as good as his own. now take a glass of port,

and stop your whimpering."



"oh, no, Miss Jelly," say Minnie' in a frightened tone. "oh, yes,

Miss Minnie," mimic the old lady fiercely. "do what I tell you--it

will put some blood into you."



"Tea!" begin Miss Pelch nervously.



"Tea! wash!" snort Aunt Jelly disdainfully, "there's no strength in

tea, girl. you might as well drink vinegar. your blood's like water;

I'm sure I don't know how your father rear you."



"Father be a vegetarian," volunteer Minnie, in mild triumph.



"and a pretty example you be of the system," retort Miss Corbin.

"if I don't keep my eye on you I don't believe you'd eat meat."



"it's so strong."



"that's more than you be!"



"Dr. Pargowker----" begin Miss Pelch once more. "prescribe iron, I

know all about that," say Aunt Jelly wrathfully. "I don't hold with

drug, I never do. meat and port wine be what you want and what

you've get to take. hold your tongue and do what I tell you."



thus adjure Minnie do not dare to disobey, and although she hate

wine, dutifully swallow a glass of old port, which be so strong

that it make her cough. the revivifying effect be soon see in the

colour which come into her pale cheek, prove that Aunt Jelly be

right in her prescription, as a long girlhood of vegetarianism have

weaken the Pelch system.



Minnie now feel well sit down and take up her work, which

consist in crochet antimacassar, a mode of employ time of

which Aunt Jelly approve. indeed, the industrious Miss Pelch have

manufacture enough antimacassar to stock a bazaar, and she be

constantly at work on they except when she take a turn at talk, for

Miss Corbin would not allow she to knit, that be her own special

weakness. the two sit work in silence for a few minute, Miss Jelly

grim and repellent as the Sphinx and Minnie weakly gay, as the wine

have slightly affect her brain.



"Minnie," say Aunt Jelly suddenly, point to the table with one

lean finger, "wipe your glass."



"very well, Miss Jelly," respond Miss Pelch with her invariable

formula, and thereupon arise from her seat and having wipe the glass

with a duster which she take from a drawer, replace the glass on the

tray, fold up and put away the duster, then return to her chair

and antimacassar in meek silence.



Silence, however, do not suit Aunt Jelly, who like to be amuse, so

she give Minnie the last letter she have receive from Victoria and

make she read it, keep up a running comment on the content

meanwhile.



"Liked Rome do she!--humph! nothing but picture and priest no

doubt. cooking ben't good. of course not, all oil and garlic. Mr.

Trubbles ill! pity that fool don't die--not much loss about he I

should think. wait a bit, Minnie, till I count the heel of this

stocking. one, two, three, four--go on, I can listen--ten, eleven,

twelve. my nephew go to Cyprus--twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two--he's

always go to some out-of-the-way place--forty-five, forty-six.

he'll end up by be eat by cannibal--fifty-three! Humph! I hope

his new book will be more respectable than the last one. eh! the

Master of Otterburn. who be he? never hear of he. come back by

Naples!--how can they come back by Naples. oh! the steamer, yes! I

hope Victoria willn't flirt with all the young man on board. perhaps

she'll be sea-sick. that'll take all the nonsense out of she. be that

all?--dear I, these girl cann't write a letter now-a-day. here, give

it to I back. you read so quietly, I cann't hear half you say."



this terrible old woman seize the letter and put it away, frown on

Minnie meanwhile, that damsel having meekly resume she antimacassar.



"four o'clock," say Miss Corbin, as the clock strike the hour, "they

should be here by now, but none of you young people be punctual

now-a-day."



"perhaps they've be detain," expostulate Minnie timidly.



"nonsense," snap Miss Jelly wrathfully. "why should they be

detain? they've be two day in town already. gad about I

daresay. I don't think much of his wife, but whatever she be he's

bad. I don't know however I come to have such a nephew. he haven't

get his mother's brain. that come of have an idiot for a father."



at this moment Aunt Jelly's courteous conversation be interrupt by

a ring at the door, and Miss Pelch be send to the window to

reconnoitre return with the information that it be Sir Guy and Lady

Errington.



Miss Corbin draw her shawl carefully round her angular shoulder, lay

her knitting on her lap, and having dismiss Minnie to a distant

corner of the room, where she sit in the shadow like an unhappy ghost,

be prepare to receive company.



Bickles, the fat, pompous butler of the establishment, throw open the

door of the room and announce in a deep voice:



"Sir Guy and Lady Errington."



and the young couple enter into the presence of the old dragon.









CHAPTER XII.

AUNT JELLY'S opinion.



     "all speech be silver, silence gold

         (I wish it be on some occasion),

      for though unpleasant to be tell,

         you get the truth from your relation."





anyone hostile towards matrimony, see Sir Guy in the character of a

newly-return bridegroom, would certainly have say that marriage be

not a failure in his case, for he look wonderfully bright and happy

as he present his wife to Aunt Jelly.



Lady Errington, on the other hand, still preserve her appearance of

fragility and her air of calmness, form with her reposeful manner a

great contrast to her husband, who be bubble over with excitement

and look like a happy schoolboy out on his holiday.



"here we be, Aunt Jelly," he say in his loud, hearty voice, kiss

his elderly relation, "back from foreign part and glad to be home

once more. don't you think Alizon be look well?"



"I don't know yet," reply Aunt Jelly sharply, with a keen look at

the young couple. "come here, my dear, and give I a kiss."



Alizon have a horror of feminine embrace, and always skilfully avoid

demonstrative friend, but from this direct command there be no

possibility of escape, so she submit to the ordeal with the good

grace she could and then take her seat near Miss Corbin, while Guy

go to the end of the room to shake hand with Minnie Pelch.



"well, Miss Pelch, and how be you? jolly, eh!--ah, that's right. be

write any more poetry? by Jove, you're quite a literary person."



Minnie smile faintly at this compliment and glanced rather

disapprovingly at Guy, who be far too healthy and English-look to

resemble her favourite hero of the Manfred-Lara type, who all have

pale face, raven hair, and no moral. Guy, however, having do his

duty towards his aunt's companion, wander back to that redoubtable

lady and sit down by his wife.



be thus place before the judge, Aunt Jelly commence to

cross-examine they both in her own brusque way.



"well, Guy," she say, resume her knitting, "now you've idle away

so many month on the continent, I hope you've come back to look after

your property once more."



"of course I have, aunt. we would have be back long ago, but Alizon

be in love with the italian lake. ben't you, Alizon?"



"yes, I think they be very beautiful," reply Alizon, who, be

a comparative stranger to Aunt Jelly, hardly know how to speak in a

way congenial to that lady, "but I'm afraid it be a very lotos-eat

place."



"Humph!" remark the old gentlewoman, with a sharp glance, "and you

don't like lotos-eating."



"no! I think life mean something more than idleness."



"for Heaven's sake, child, understand the value of be idle. don't

become a woman with a mission. it's a most detestable class--clatter,

clatter, chatter, chatter! they do more harm than good, in my opinion,

but then I'm an old woman and my idea be much behind those of

to-day."



"I don't think there's much chance of my become a woman with a

mission," reply Lady Errington, smile, "it's not my nature, nor do

I think Guy admire they."



"by Jove! no," say Sir Guy, energetically; "those woman who turn

themselves into feminine man--I cann't say I care for they at all. they

worry a fellow's life out with their preaching. my ideal of a woman

be--my wife."



Lady Errington's eye smile a grateful recognition of this

compliment, and even Aunt Jelly, who hate a display of any

demonstrative affection, be not ill-pleased.



"well, well," she say grimly; "I'm glad to see a husband appreciate

his wife, 'tis such a novelty now-a-day, they generally appreciate

someone else's. by-the-way, child, you don't look very strong."



"don't you think so, aunt?" say Guy in alarm.



"no! too pale--far too pale. have you get any blood, child? oh, of

course, you say you have. sick people always do. you must eat more and

take port wine. Guy, pour your wife out a glass of port."



Guy obediently do as he be tell, but Alizon protest against be

make to drink it.



"I'm really very strong, Miss Corbin----"



"Aunt Jelly," interrupt the old lady.



"well, Aunt Jelly, I look delicate, but I'm not--I am----"



"never mind what you be. drink up the port. you're as bad as Minnie.

bless the child, do you think I don't know what's good for people?

teetotalism fudge? it all come of adulterate drink, though I

daresay there's a good deal of truth in it. but a glass of good port

be what you want and what you've get to take."



Alizon, anxious to please the old lady on her first visit, do as she

be tell, and then, after make Guy drink some sherry, Aunt Jelly

proceed to talk about Victoria.



"yes, we meet she abroad," say Lady Errington, sip her wine, "a

very charming girl."



"ah, her father be such a handsome man," answer Aunt Jelly, with a

secret thought of her dead and do with romance. "I never see she

mother."



"she be a Macjean, I believe," say Guy indolently, "at least

Otterburn say something about his family be mix up with her."



Aunt Jelly raise her head like an old war-horse at the sound of a

trumpet.



"Otterburn! otterburn! who be he?" she demand sharply. "someone

Victoria have be flirt with, I suppose. I never hear of he,

though she do mention he in her letter."



"he's new to town," explain her nephew carelessly, "the eld son

of Lord Dunkeld. Angus Macjean, you know, his title be the Master of

Otterburn. a very nice boy and awfully in love with Victoria."



"oh, be he? and I daresay Victoria encourage he."



"rather!"



"no, no!" interpose Lady Errington, see a rise storm in Aunt

Jelly's frown, "I don't think she go as far as that, but you know,

aunt jelly, Victoria be very pretty and the boy could hardly help

admire she."



"oh, I daresay she ben't blind to his admiration," say Miss Corbin

viciously; "she's pretty, no doubt, but after all beauty be only skin

deep."



a weak giggle come out of the dark corner show that Minnie agree

with she, whereupon Aunt Jelly, who never permit any familiarity,

vent her anger on Miss Pelch at once.



"what be you sniffle for, Minnie?" she call out. "come here and

show yourself. this be my niece, Lady Errington, and this be Miss

Pelch, my dear. her father be curate at Denfield."



"how do you do?" say Alizon kindly, feel sorry for the blushing

Minnie. "I've hear about you from my husband. you write poetry, do

you not?"



an affirmative snort from Aunt Jelly.



"yes," reply Minnie, "I do write poetry sometimes."



"so Mr. Gartney tell I."



"oh, Eustace," cry Aunt Jelly significantly, "where be he now? Guy,

don't go to sleep! where be your cousin?"



"I don't know," retort Guy, who have close his eye for a moment.

"go to Cyprus, or some out of-the-way place. haven't he write to

you?"



"do he ever write letter?" demand Aunt Jelly in an exasperate

tone. "no! he keep all his scribbling for the public."



"oh, he do write beautifully," say Minnie, clasp her hand.



"Humph! that's a matter of opinion," respond Aunt Jelly doubtfully.

"he's as blasphemous as Lord Byron, without any of his genius. he's

more like that Lalla Rookh man that write such dreadful thing under

the name of Little. don't be afraid, child, I'm not go to quote

they."



"Mr. Gartney be a very charming talker," say Alizon quietly.



"bless I, child, you've get a good word to say for everyone,"

remark Aunt Jelly, with a benevolent scowl. "he certainly do talk

well. it's almost a lost art now-a-day. man and woman don't talk,

they drivel about their own virtue and their friend' fault. but

Eustace!--well, yes, he's more amusing than you, Guy; you, my dear,

have get all your good in the shop window. good appearance, but no

brain."



Guy, be use to Miss Corbin's plain speaking, roar with laughter

at this flattering description, but Alizon feel indignant at her

good-look, kind-hearted husband be thus decry, and speak out

boldly.



"I don't think so at all."



"that's a very good thing--for guy," say the old dame grimly. "don't

take up the cudgel on your husband's account, my dear, he's big

enough to look after himself. after all, he have a well heart than

Eustace, and he don't write poetry, which be a blessing. we must

always be thankful for small mercy."



Minnie feel rather indignant at this indirect shaft, but stand too

much in awe of Miss Corbin to venture a remonstrance, so after a

pause, during which Aunt Jelly eye the trio like an elderly beldame

of romance, Lady Errington continue the conversation.



"well, we must allow some latitude to genius."



"Genius!" scoff Aunt Jelly, pick up a stitch she have drop. "my

dear, in my young day every farthe rush-light do not call itself

the sun. eustace be clever in a nasty find-faulty way, I admit, but

he's not a genius. he ought to give up write abusive book, and

marry, but there--if he do he'd worry the good woman that ever

breathe into her grave."



"he sing beautifully, at all event," say Lady Errington, feel

rather nonplussed as to how to satisfy this contradictory woman.



"God bless my soul, child I don't go through a list of my

nephew's virtue. I know they already, and from the good

authority--himself. when he return from this tree place--what do you

call it?--Cyprus--yes, I know it have something to do with a tree.

well, when he return, I hope he'll be improve--there's room for it,

great room. Guy, when do you go down to Denfield?"



"to-morrow, aunt."



"that's sensible. Errington Hall need a master's eye. I don't

believe in absenteeism myself. if I have my way--which I'm not likely

to have, because it's too sensible--I'd pack all landlord back to

their estate in the country instead of let they waste their money

in London."



"but what would London do without they?" ask Alizon, much amuse at

this new view of the subject.



"much well," retort Aunt Jelly, sharply. "in my young day, before

steam and electricity upset everything, people stay in their own

house. but now everyone come up to London. a cake's no good if the

currant be all in one place. scatter they, and it's an improvement."



"there's a good deal of truth in what you say," remark Alizon,

quietly. "if literary man and musician, for instance, make little

centre of art and letter all over the three kingdom, it would be

more beneficial in every way than centralise everything in London."



"literature! bah!" say Miss Corbin, with scorn; "milk-and-water

novel about religion and society, bilious essay, and fault-find

critic--that's what you call literature now-a-day. as for music, I

don't know much about it. 'the Maiden's Prayer' and the 'Battle of

Prague' be think good enough when I be young. but now it's all

system and theory, and what they call sixth and seventh. a very

good name, too," conclude the old lady, grimly, "for the whole lot of

they do seem at six and seven."



"ah! you see, everything be improve," say Guy, meekly, not have

any idea about what he be talk, but only make a vain endeavour

to stay Aunt Jelly's rancorous tongue.



"it's more than manner be," reply the old lady, tartly. "Minnie,

don't twiddle your finger so. it annoy I. humph! so you're go

down to Errington to play the Lord of the Manor and your wife Lady

Bountiful. mind you take care of yourself, my dear; the mist down

there be very bad for the throat."



"I don't think they be bad, Aunt Jelly," expostulate Guy, indignant

that she should try to prejudice Alizon against her future home.



"oh, you think about nothing!" say Aunt Jelly, coolly. "I tell you

the place be unhealthy. bless the man, don't I know what I'm talk

about? look at that girl," point to the shrink Minnie, who be

dreadfully upset at have public attention thus draw to her--"she's

live all her life at Denfield, and what have she have? measle,

whooping-cough, neuralgia; she be a pale rickety mass of disease when

she come to I. what build she up? port wine. I tell you the place be

unhealthy, and mind you take plenty of port wine and beef tea, Alizon,

or you'll go out some day like the snuff of a candle. I've see

several of your sort go that way."



"aunt," cry Guy, rise to his foot in a rage, "how can you speak

so! hang it all! talk of something more cheerful. I don't bring my

wife here to be frighten out of her wit."



"Pooh! nonsense! don't you get angry," say the old lady, quite

pleased at upset her good-temper nephew, "what's the good of

be an old woman if you cann't say what you like? well, go down home

at once, and perhaps next year I'll pay you a visit."



"I wonder you're not afraid of die in such an unhealthy place," say

Guy, scornfully.



"don't you be afraid. I shalln't afford you that gratification for some

time yet," answer Aunt Jelly malignantly. "I'm a creak door. they

hang long, you know."



"Goodbye, Aunt Jelly," say Alizon, hold out her hand to Miss

Corbin, for she feel she could not stand this terrible old woman any

long. "I'll come and see you when I'm next in town."



"Humph! that mean if you've get ten minute to spare," growl the

old lady, kiss Lady Errington's soft cheek. "well! well! go on. the

old be always neglect."



"they wouldn't be if they be a little more pleasant," say Guy,

still indignant, as he say goodbye.



"ah! you young folk expect to find life all honey, but there's a good

deal of vinegar in it. I dare say you'll grow tired of one another."



Guy, who be at the door with his wife, turn round at this, and

call out in a rage:



"no, we willn't!"



"I've hear well man than you say the same thing, but it always come

to pass."



"it willn't in this case, so your kind heart will be disappoint for

once."



by this time Minnie Pelch have escort Lady Errington to the hall

door, and Sir Guy be about to follow after his parting shoot, but the

redoubtable Aunt Jelly be not one to give in without a struggle, and

would have the last word.



"go away! go away!" she say, furiously--"go away and learn manner."



"I certainly willn't come to you for the teaching," retort Guy, in

great heat. "Goodbye, Aunt Jelly, and I hope you'll be in a more

christian spirit next time we come."



he close the door after he so as to give she no opportunity of

reply, and Aunt Jelly thus be beat, feel in an exceedingly bad

temper. she fight with every one who come to the house, and crush

all except Eustace, whose cool sarcasm be too much for she, but this

unexpected resistance of the dutiful Guy surprise she, and she be

not ill-pleased.



"I don't think he have so much spirit," she chuckle, as she resume

her knitting. "it come from his mother, I'll be bind. Jane always

have a fine temper of her own and, be twice the man her milksop of a

husband be. well, well! I'm glad Guy can speak his mind. he haven't

much to speak, poor fool; still it's well than nothing."



in fact, the old lady be so pleased with Guy's rebellion on behalf of

his wife that she become quite good-temper, and Minnie, on her

return, find her patroness for once in her life an amiable companion.



as for Guy and his wife, when they be both snugly ensconce in their

carriage and drive back to the hotel, both of they laugh heartily

over the visit.



"ben't she an old cat?" say Guy, wipe the tear from his eye; "she

fight like the devil! it's the first time I've have a row with she."



"I'm sorry it be on my account, Guy," observe Alizon, anxiously.



"don't you bother your head, my dear," he reply coolly, pat she

hand; "if it haven't be you it would have be someone else. if Aunt

Jelly haven't a row every now and then she'd die. I wish to Heaven she

would, and then I'd get her money!"



"oh, Guy, how can you speak so?"



"why not? we need the money badly enough, I'm sure. she only waste it

on church and orphan' home. I wish to Heaven I be an orphan; Aunt

Jelly might take some interest in I."



"well, you be an orphan."



"yes, but that's not the genuine article. Aunt Jelly love a

snivelling, alone-in-the-world brat who need reform. a title

orphan like myself be no fun. I cann't harrow her soul."



"you do your good to do so just now," say Alizon, laugh. Sir Guy

echo her laughter, and when they arrive at their hotel both of they

come to the conclusion that they have pass a very pleasant afternoon.









CHAPTER XIII.

bring home the BRIDE.



     "'oh, mither! mither I've brocht hame

        a bonnie bride upon my steed,

      Sae lift she o'er the lintel stane,

        An'brake a bannock o'er her heid.'



     "'oh, bairnie, syn the wand begin

        Nane see sic sicht o' muckle wae,

      where gat ye, son, this witch wuman,

        Wi gowden hair an' skin o' snaw?'



     "'oh, mither, she's a Chrisom lass

        Wha by the Kelpie's burn do stray,

      Wi buke an' bell an' holy mass

        I wed she at break o' day.'



     "'oh, bairnie, she's nae Chrisom child,

        Sae evil glower her een tae see,

      she be a speerit fra the wild,

        an bring but dule tae you an' I.'"





Sir Guy be hum this gruesome ballad as the train near Denfield

Station, where news of their arrival have already precede they, and

the Errington tenantry, in a state of high excitement, be wait to

welcome the young couple home.



Blithe and happy, with a faint roseate tinge in her pale cheek,

arise from a natural feeling of anticipation, Alizon sit opposite to

her husband, who be gaze fondly at she, and the glint of her golden

hair and the whiteness of her skin set he think of that weird old

ballad, sing to he in childish day by an old Scotch nurse full of

the haunt superstition of the North.



"what on earth be you mutter about, Guy?" ask Alizon, in a

puzzled tone, as she hear he croon this melancholy strain.



"only an old song about a bride's home-come," he reply gaily, and

thereupon repeat to she all he remember of the legend, the

foreboding strain of which make his wife, sensitive in a great measure

to supernatural hinting, shudder nervously.



"don't, Guy, don't tell I any more," she say apprehensively, put

her gloved hand over his mouth. "it's a bad oman."



"what, be you so superstitious as that?" he reply, kiss she

hand. "do you think you be the witch-woman of the ballad, destine to

bring woe to Errington?"



"no! no! I hope not! I trust not!" cry Lady Errington, shrink

back with a vague dread in her eye, "but I be a little superstitious.

I think everyone be more or less, and my family have be so terribly

unfortunate that I be afraid of bring you bad luck."



"Nonsense! I don't mind the bad luck a bit, as long as you come along

with it," say her husband, soothingly. "I wish I haven't put these

idea into your foolish little head. you must have nothing but bright

thought to-day, my dearest, for this be your home-come, and I hear

we be to have a great reception."



"tell I all about it," ask Lady Errington, recover herself with

an effort.



"oh, that would take too long, besides I'm as ignorant as you be; but

there be to be banner and flower and music and all that sort of

thing, you know, and I expect old Welstarler the Rector will read we

an address. then, of course, everyone will have a tuck-out at the

Hall, and there be to be a dance in the evening down the village. all

Denfield's go to have a high old time, so, for once in your life

you'll be receive like a royal personage."



"don't make I nervous."



"Pooh! there's nothing to be nervous about. just smile and look sweet,

I'll do all the patter."



"the what?"



"Patter! talk you know. I'm afraid it be slangy, but very expressive

all the same. by Jove, the train's slow down, we'll soon be

home now. there's the square tower of Denfield Church, and yonder,

Alizon!--here, quick--on the right--that white wing of a house. that's

our place."



Sir Guy be quite excited, and chatter like a schoolboy home for

his holiday, whilst Alizon, for once arouse from her coldness, stand

near he, lean her head on his shoulder, and look out of the

window at the various object of interest, as the train steam slowly

onward.



at last they arrive at Denfield.



the little railway station be gaudy with bunting, much to the

astonishment of the prosaic folk in the train, who could not

understand the reason of such unusual decorative splendour, and as the

train go on immediately Sir Guy and his wife alight, they have no

time to find out what the excitement be all about, therefore depart

more in the dark than ever.



the station-master, who have know Sir Guy from boyhood, be much

flatter at be shake hand with, and present to Lady Errington,

to whom some child offer a charming bouquet of wild flower.



outside the station their carriage with four horse be wait, and

they get in amid the cheer of the villager, who muster here in

strong force. sturdy farmer, mount in good style, labourer,

look forward to unlimited beer, woman, in the bright of

dress, talk shrilly among themselves of the beauty of the bride,

school-child, jubilant at an unexpected holiday, all these be

present, with banner, flag, and flower unlimite. a proud man that

day be the old coachman, as he guide the prance horse through the

long lane of happy face, with his master and mistress sit in the

carriage behind, respond to the acclamation resound on all

side, while from the grey, old church tower ring a peal of joy-bell.



after all, let people pretend to despise it as they may, popularity be

a very pleasant thing, and it make life appear very bright to this

young couple, receive such an uproarious welcome, instead of

steal homeward amid indifferent face. despite the howling of

radical, the spread of socialism, the groaning about agricultural

depression, the bond between landlord and tenant be too kindly, and

too deeply ingrained to yield readily to the mob-shrieking for

equality and equal division of land. Sir Guy be a great favourite in

the county, and the Erringtons have be gentry at the Hall for many

century, so the sturdy british yeoman and kindly neighbour of the

young pair determined to make their home-come as pleasant as

possible--and succeed.



drive through the quaint, narrow street of the village, follow by

a long train of horseman, all the house on either side be gay with

flag and flower and handkerchief wave from the narrow casement.

flower strew the dusty road under the foot of the horse, the

village band, in bright uniform, play "Home, Sweet Home," on their

brass instrument, with mighty strength of lung, hearty cheer from

hundred of willing throat, loud clashing from the bell overhead,

mad with joy, and at the entrance to the Park a triumphal arch of

evergreen, with the word "welcome" inscribed thereon.



under this arch wait a gallant company of horsemen in pink, for Sir

Guy be a prominent member of the Hunt, and his brother Nimrods give

he a hearty greeting to his paternal acre. then, when the crowd

have cheer themselves hoarse, the old Rector, silver-haired and

kindly-faced, read an address to the happy pair wish they long life

and happiness, to which Sir Guy respond in suitable term, stand

up in the carriage, his hat off, and his bright, young face flush

with excitement.



up the long avenue, still follow by the huntsman, the farmer, and

the villager more flag overhead among the green bough of the

beech-tree, more flower on the dusty road below, and at length the

wide space before the house and the long façade of Errington Hall,

with its tall gable, its innumerable diamond-pan window, its

slender turret and weather-stain stack of chimney.



cheer from the servant, wait in two long line to welcome their

new mistress, with whose sweet face they fall in love at once. Sir Guy

then help his wife to alight, and they both stand on the threshold

of their new home, whilst a speech of welcome be make by the old

inhabitant, prompt by the village schoolmaster, to which the young

baronet respond with a few manly and straightforward word.



the band then play a noisy quick step, which inspire the villager

to far cheer, and the gentry, having see the Erringtons safely

home, ride off to their different residence, while the tenantry and

villager all rejoice and make merry on the lawn in front of the

terrace.



a blue sky above, a green earth below, happy face all around, kindly

voice sound in her ear, and her husband by her side, it be no

wonder that Alizon Errington, daughter of a social pariah, feel she

heart swell with gratitude towards God, who have guide she safely to

such a pleasant haven of joy and kindliness.



but it all come to an end at last, and after the tenantry have eat

and drink as much as they possibly could at Sir Guy's expense, they

all go down to the village to finish up the evening with dancing and

firework. the Erringtons, quite tired out, be leave alone stand

on the terrace watch the crowd as it melt away in the come

shadow, and the husband, put a kindly arm round his wife, feel

that this be the bright period of his life.



suddenly Alizon, who look pale and wear out with excitement, burst

into a passionate flood of tear, as she lean against her husband's

breast.



"my dearest," cry Guy, in alarm, "what be the matter?"



"nothing," she sob, put her arm round his neck, "only--only I

be so happy."



"you've get a curious way of show it," say Guy, cheerfully,

although his own eye be now rather wet.



"come, come, Alizon, you must not give way like this. you be tired

after your journey and all this excitement. if Aunt Jelly be here,

I'm afraid she would prescribe her favourite port wine," he add

jestingly.



Alizon laugh at this, dry her eye, and they both go inside to

dress for dinner.



a very pleasant little meal they have, in the old-fashion

dining-room, with the staid face of the family portrait stare down

at their frivolous descendant. Guy make his wife drink some famous

champagne, which be the special pride of the Errington cellar.



"I believe in fizz myself," he say sagely, hold his glass up to

the light. "Aunt Jelly pin her faith to port, but this be quite as

good and not so heavy. look at all those ancestor of mine frown

down on we, Alizon. no doubt if they could speak they would denounce

our conduct as frivolous."



"I'm very glad they cann't speak then," reply Lady Errington gaily.

"perhaps, however, they appear at midnight. do they? this place look

like a haunted house."



Guy shrug his shoulder.



"no! we haven't get a family ghost. it's a great pity, ben't it?

ghost generally run in family who have be bad lot, but the

Erringtons have always be a steady-go set, so we haven't get even

a haunted room, or a gruesome Johnnie with a clanking chain."



"I don't know if that's to be regret," answer his wife, as she

arise from the table; "besides, no one believe in ghost now-a-day."



"a good many people do not, but I firmly believe you do."



Lady Errington laugh a little nervously.



"no! I certainly believe in presentiment, but not in ghost--there's

a great difference between the two. be you come with I now?"



"yes! you surely do not want I to sit in solitary state over my

wine?"



"certainly not, and as it be such a pleasant evening, let we go

outside on the terrace."



"you must wrap yourself up, Alizon," say Guy, anxiously, "the air be

very keen here."



he send a servant for her shawl, and in a few minute they be

stroll up and down the terrace, arm in arm, not talk much, but

enjoy each other's company and the reposeful silence of the hour.



it be an exceptional night for November, in England, be still and

restful with a moist, warm feeling in the air, and a gentle wind

stir the distant tree. no moon, no star be visible, as the sky

be hide by heavy masse of cloud which seem to press down on the

weary earth, and a kind of luminous twilight be spread around, which

make everything loom strange and spectral in its half-light.



the warm, yellow light from the drawing-room pour out through the

open window on to the terrace, and away beyond the lawn, the flower

bed, and the great masse of beech, elm, and oak lie swallow up in

the dusky shadow. the wind rustle the dry leave from the tree, and

make the great bough shiver with complain sigh, as though they

dread the coming of winter, while there be a salt feeling in the

air, come from the distant sea, and, at interval, the dull, muffle

roar of the surf, beat on the lonely coast.



"this be not like Italy," say Alizon to her husband, as they stand

arm in arm, peer into the shadow, "and yet there be a kind of

similarity. this be the terrace of Villa Tagni, beyond the tree be

the distant mountain and that strip of luminous ground be the lake."



"I'm afraid I haven't your imagination, my dear," he answer

comically, "or, perhaps, I know the place too well, but I've get a

strong feeling that I'm not in Italy, but in England, and, moreover,

that I be at home."



"it's a very pleasant feeling."



"yes! I think even the most inveterate Bohemian, Eustace, for

instance, must experience a home-sickness sometimes."



"have your cousin any home?"



"oh, yes! at least, he own a kind of tumble-down old ruin about four

mile from here. it overlook the sea, and be a most dismal place.

eustace visit it about once in a blue moon, but I don't think he

like it. it's a haunted place, if you like."



"haunted by what?"



"oh, I don't know. there's some sort of a ghost, who make himself

objectionable--by-the-way, I'm not sure that it ben't a lady ghost,

with a rustling of silken skirt. but then ghost have no sex."



"you seem to be well up in the subject," say his wife, a little

drily, as they re-enter the house.



"not at all. I only know folk lore in a desultory sort of manner. but

when you get to know all the people round about here, you'll be tell

the most gruesome story."



"I suppose for the next few week we willn't have a moment of peace."



"it's very probable," reply Guy coolly, "and then we'll have to

return all the visit. it's a deuce of a nuisance, but one must do it.

we owe it to our position.



"I never hear that last phrase till I marry you," say Lady

Errington, a little sadly.



"why do not your father----?"



"my father! you forget, Guy. I be the daughter of a pariah."



he take she in his strong, young arm, and kiss she fondly.



"you be my wife, and the mistress of Errington Hall."









CHAPTER XIV.

an UNDESIRABLE ACQUAINTANCE.



     "this ghost from the past

        I tremble to see

      behind I I cast

        this ghost from the past,

      Life's pleasant at last,

        so let there not be

      this ghost from the past

        I tremble to see."





Errington Hall, hide in the green heart of its noble wood, be a

building of very mixed architecture, display in its incongruity

the various disposition and taste of the different owner who have

live therein. the original structure be evidently the large hall

(from whence the building take its name) which have be erect by the

first Errington after the Battle of Bosworth Field, when England be

once more settle down to domesticity, after the tumult and strife of

the Wars of the Roses. to this noble room, lofty, majestic, and

sombre, the various master of the Hall have add other and small

room, long, winding corridor, and innumerable outhouse, as the

fancy take they, or as their need require they, so that the centre

apartment be quite lose amid the huge wing and gable which

surround it on all side. the result be a bizarre combination which

make the old mansion wonderfully attractive to architect and

archeologist, while the lapse of century have mellow the whole

mass into one delicate tone of warm-hue loveliness.



from the central hall, with its carven roof, its long narrow window,

and quaint oaken gallery, run many crooked corridor, full of

unexpected angle, queer corner, sudden depression, and shallow

flight of step, lead to long range of bedroom, to the kitchen

and the servant' wing. this portion be Elizabethan and the outside

present the usual tudoresque aspect of battlement, venerable wall

of grey stone, cover with ivy, diamond-pan window, and grotesque

gargoyle. after the building of this, the Erringtons be evidently

too busy with the Parliamentary Wars to attend to their home, for the

next portion add to the original fabric be of Queen Anne date, of

dark-hue red brick, wide casement and heavy door. again there be

an architectural interval, as the Hanoverian Erringtons be engage

in make their peace with the new german sovereign of England for

suspect Jacobite practice, and the last notable addition take place

in the reign of the third George, when the front wing be add to the

house, a vast façade of dull white stone with innumerable window,

range of heavy balustrade, and confused decoration in the

Renaissance style, of nude figure, fantastic flower, bird, scroll

and such-like dainty device. a balustrade run along the front of the

roof, hide the lead, and in the centre an elaborate carving of the

Errington coat-of-arm, support by two greyhound, with the motto,

"Curro, Capio, Teneo." a broad terrace, with statue and urn thereon,

stretch from end to end, and a double flight of marble step lead

downward to the smooth, green lawn, from whence the great white pile

standing on its hill present a noble appearance. the Victorian

Erringtons add but little to the house, for the simple reason, that

the builder of the Renaissance wing have not only exhaust the family

resource in do so, but have encumber the estate with heavy

mortgage, which his descendant have not yet pay off. Sir Frederick

Errington have a turn for amateur gardening, and add long line of

hot-house to the side of the house, and also a kind of winter garden,

while Sir Guy have do his share in the adornment of the place, by

build a handsome range of stable. altogether it be a wonderfully

fine place, but far too expensive and costly for the Errington

rent-roll, which be not particularly large. so there it stand, a

monument of vanity and folly, which often make its present possessor

curse his bad luck in own such a white elephant.



the interior be quite in keep with the palatial exterior, for the

state apartment, situate in the front wing, be of enormous size,

splendidly furnish, but which look lonely in the extreme unless

full of company, a gaily-dress crowd be need to set they off to

advantage. the Errington family be proud of these state-room, which

be really wonderfully impose, but, except on grand occasion, when

they be throw open to the county gentry, prefer to inhabit a

small range of room on the western side, which be more

comfortable, both as regard size and furniture, than the chilly

splendour of the great apartment.



one of these room have be especially fit up for Alizon by her

husband, a charming octagon-shape apartment with window look on

to a quaint garden set forth in the dutch fashion, with trim

symmetrical line of box and sombre yew tree clip into fantastic

shape, know by the name of "my Lady's Pleasaunce."



"I think this be delightful, Guy," say Alizon, as she stand in the

garden with her husband; "it be so shut out from the world."



they be amuse themselves by explore the great house, and Alizon

be quite overwhelmed by the size and magnificence of everything.

range after range of splendidly furnish room shut up and leave to

the dust and spider, lofty wide passage with figure in armour on

either side, stain glass window here and there in which blush the

Errington escutcheon. it be all angle, and turret, and gable, and

crooked winding, so that Alizon clung closely to Guy as they wander

through the lonely room, feel quite afraid of the vastness of the

building.



"it put I in mind of Mrs. Radcliffe's story," she say with a

shudder, "there's something quite awesome about the place."



"Awesome? not a bit of it," reply Guy cheerfully, open a shutter

and let a flood of sunlight into a room, "it require live in,

that's all. you see, dear, my parent die age ago, and I've be

live here very little, so the whole place have get a little musty.

but now we're here we'll have more servant, and a lot of people to

come and see we. that will wake the place up a bit."



"but it's so large, Guy. why be it build so large?"



"I'm sure I don't know," say the young man somewhat ruefully, "it's a

deuce of a barn, ben't it? the errington always have a mania for

building, and whenever they'd nothing else to do they add wing.

More fool they, as it run away with all the money and put these

confound mortgage on the property. this be a dear old place, and

I'm very fond of it, but it's mile too big for we, and be a regular

white elephant."



"it must take a lot of money to keep it up."



"it do! so much that there's none leave for anything else. I wish to

heaven I ben't sentimental, or I'd pull down a lot of it."



"oh, Guy!"



"well, what be the use of all these empty room? it take an army of

servant to keep they clean, and for no purpose. we haven't get enough

money to keep open house, or I could fill all these room with people

I know, but what with this place, and the mortgage, and bad tenant,

it's a deuce of a nuisance altogether. I wish someone would take the

Hall off my hand as a museum, or an almshouse, after the style of

Hampton Court."



"you wouldn't sell it?"



"no, I daresay I wouldn't. I cann't do with it, and I cann't do without

it. it's a dead lock. but, if Aunt Jelly would only give up the ghost

and leave we her tin, we could keep the whole shop go beautifully."



"I'm afraid there's no chance of that."



"no, there ben't. Aunt Jelly be one of those aggravate old woman

who'll see the end of the present century."



"well, that's not far off," say Alizon mischievously.



"too far off for we to get her money, my dear," reply Guy candidly.

"I believe she's immortal."



they leave the room in which they be stand and resume their walk

through the house, stop in the picture gallery which contain the

Errington portrait, and also a number of celebrated picture, all of

which Guy contemplate ruefully.



"cann't even sell these," he say with a groan. "Fancy, what

humbug--they're all heirloom, and I'd have to apply to Chancery to

get permission, which I daresay they'd refuse. it take I all my time

to keep up this place and live decently, yet all this money be hang

on the wall in the shape of these picture. it's awful bosh, just like

make a child the present of a shilling on condition he don't spend

it. Humbug!"



"what! would you sell your ancestor, like Charles Surface?"



"no, I wouldn't go so far as that. but these picture be waste

their sweetness on the desert air in be shut up here, and, as I

need money more than picture, I would sell they if I could. I don't

see much chance of do so, however, for the Errington cousin--and

I've get about a hundred--would come down on I as a lunatic if I do

so. hang they! I wish they'd this place to keep up on a small income,

they wouldn't be so anxious to keep these mile of paint canvas. but

never mind, while there's Aunt Jelly there's hope, so come along and

look at the hall from the gallery. it's the good place to see it."



so they go along a narrow passage into the old portion of the

house, and soon find themselves in the wide gallery run round the

hall at a height of about forty foot. a wonderfully impressive place

it be, with its lance-shape window, fill with stain glass,

through which the pale sunlight stream, cast fantastic pattern

on the oaken floor. between every window, shield, spear and battle

axis, with fade banner droop above they, tell of ancient war

and the day of chivalry, when the deserted hall be fill with

man-at-arm and bold knight in steel armour, before the invention of

gunpowder relegate their iron panoply to the obscurity of country

house and museum. at the upper end of the room a raise dais, above

which a royal canopy and the Errington arm flash in gilt splendour

from the dusky shadow, while high above arise the pointed roof with

its great oaken rafter faintly see in the gloom. it be certainly a

fine speciman of the mediæval age and doubtless many stir tale

could be tell of the generation that have feast under its lofty

roof, or depart from thence to harry the land of weak neighbour,

as be the kindly fashion in those misname good old day.



"a wonderful old place, ben't it?" say Guy, as they stand look

from the height of the gallery at the immense space below, "and

genuine too. none of the sham antiquity of Abbotsford here. all this

be the real thing, and just as it be in the old day when the

Erringtons wear those absurd suit of armour, and poke their

neighbour' eye out with those long spear."



"you ought to be very proud of your race, Guy."



"I don't see much to be proud of in they," he reply candidly,

throw his arm round his wife's waist, "they be a humdrum lot at

good the Erringtons. go to church, mind their own business, and

leave other people's wife alone. they always seem to have be on

the safe side in keep their property, however, and if it haven't

be for their building craze, I'd be decently off. accord to their

idea there be no place like home, however, and that be why they

spend such a lot of money over it. I be proud of the dear old Hall,

but I do wish it ben't quite so large."



"do you use this place at all?" ask Alizon as they leave the gallery.



"only for dance, and tenant' dinner," he answer carelessly; "it

look very pretty when it's full, but at present one would think it

be haunt. quite a mistake, as there ben't a single ghost in the

whole place. a pity, ben't it, for this queer old house just look a

fit place for shadowy figure and gruesome legend."



"I suppose there be plenty of story about the Hall."



"oh yes! but very mild story, I'm afraid, not even equal to the

average shilling shocker. Errington Hall have no history which would

delight novelist or antiquary. Queen Elizabeth don't stop here on

a royal progress, Oliver Cromwell's Ironsides don't besiege the

place, and though I think the Hanoverian Erringtons be mix up in

Jacobite plot they hide neither Prince James nor Prince Charlie. we

be a very prosaic lot, my dear, and although the whole house be

romantic enough in appearance, there ben't a story about it that would

frighten a five-year-old child."



by this time they be on the terrace in the pale November sunlight,

and could see below the smooth green lawn surround the house,

girdle by the ancient tree of the park, which be now shed

their leave for winter time. the carriage drive sweep round the front

of the terrace in a graceful curve, and then disappear into the

green wood, while beyond the top of the tree appear the grey

square tower of Denfield Church, sombre against the dull sky. some

pigeon, white as milk, be whirl aloft in the moist air, and the

sun, invisible behind the grey clouds, diffuse a pale chilly

radiance, which make Alizon long for the blue sky and burn heat

of Italy.



"come inside, Alizon," say Sir Guy, see his wife shiver, "this

be cold after the South, and you'd well lie down for a time after

luncheon, as I daresay for the next week or two you'll have quite

enough to do in receive our neighbour."



what Guy say be true enough, and for the next few week Alizon have

as much as she could do in receive the county magnate, all eager to

see Lady Errington, of whom they have hear much, but of whose father

they have hear still more. despite Sir Guy's lack of ready money the

Errington estate be very large, the Errington position a very high

one in the county, and many a daughter of the Shires would have be

pleased to have become the mistress of Errington Hall, particularly as

its master, young, handsome and debonnaire, be favourite enough with

the gentle sex independently of his rank and position.



when, however, it come to be know that this eligible bachelor have

marry Alizon Mostyn, the county, at least the female part of it,

felt vex that an outsider should have carry off the matrimonial

prize, and the provincial belle feel none too well disposed towards

the young wife, although they mask their real feeling under many

sweet smile and smooth word.



the "Pepper Box," with its customary good manner, have set forth in

its column the story of Gabriel Mostyn, and although there be

nothing in it but what redound to Alizon's credit, yet the fact that

she have such a scamp for a father be not desirable in itself. Sir Guy

manage to put an end to the "Pepper Box" chatter by threaten to

thrash Billy Dolser, and as that gentleman be get rather tired of

be horsewhip he hold his tongue, so nothing more be reveal in

that quarter, but Society having get a pretty good idea of the Mostyn

history pursue the whole affair to the end, and find out all

Gabriel's iniquity and Alizon's filial affection. when Lady

Errington therefore receive the county family, she know perfectly

well that all these smooth smile people be well acquainted with

her history, and although she have nothing personally to fear from

their venomous tongue, yet the fact that the history of her

iniquitous father be know to they down to the minute detail, make

her position anything but a pleasant one.



the county, however, make a virtue of necessity, and see that Lady

Errington be of good birth, and that there be nothing against she,

whatever there might have be against her scamp of a father, make she

welcome among they in the heartiest manner, although a few wiseacre

shake their head doubtfully over Sir Guy's wife.



"what's breed in the bone will come out in the flesh," they whisper

one to the other, "and it's curious if she do not inherit some of

her father's bad quality as well as her mother's good one."



Lady Errington guess the somewhat unfriendly feel they bear

towards she because she have become mistress of Errington Hall, but

speak of it to no one, not even Guy, who never for a moment dreamt of

such a thing, and be delighted to see how his neighbour seem to

like his wife. this calm, statuesque woman, with the impassive face,

bear herself with stately grace towards the visitor that call at

Errington Hall, and although they all respect she, yet her manner

chill they with its coldness, and no one profess any strong liking

for she. the man admire she greatly, but think her cold and

haughty, while the lady, find she do not take an interest in

their provincial frivolity, say disagreeable thing behind she

back, and smile to her face, which do not for a moment deceive

Alizon, as she know what their friendship be worth.



no one could deny, however, that she be a beautiful woman, and fill

her position admirably in every way, yet curiously enough everyone

arrive at the same conclusion as Eustace, and pity Sir Guy as a

warm-hearted young man marry to a statue. Lady Errington be not

therefore an unqualified success, but her husband never perceive this

and take all the lip service of his friend for gospel truth, while

Alizon, although she guess pretty well the true state of thing, do

not undeceive he.



she know she be not dislike, as she have do she good to conciliate

everyone, but on the other hand she know perfectly well that a gulf

lie between herself and these people which could not be bridge over

in any way. they all want to take she to their bosom and gush over

she, while she, cold, reserved and self-reliant, object to the

obvious hint of patronage in this desire; so although she receive and

make visit, go to all provincial gaitie, and preside at her own

dinner-table in return hospitality, yet she feel she be an exile

among these people, a stranger in a strange land, who could neither

learn their way nor make they understand her own.



in fact, now that the glamour of the honeymoon have wear off, there

be time when even Sir Guy feel the chill of her manner towards he,

and although he try to analyse the feeling, never succeed in do

so. she be perfect in every way, almost too perfect, and at time he

have his doubt as to whether it would not have be wise on his part

to have marry a common-place provincial belle than this ethereal

creature, whose nature he vaguely perceive be utterly at variance

with his own. such idea as these, however, he reject as heretical

against the woman he love, and he assure himself with unnecessary

vehemence that he have gain a woman who would be perfect in every way

both as mother and wife. therefore the county and Sir Guy be both

pleased with Alizon in this somewhat doubtful fashion, and she,

know the real mistrust she have innocently provoke by her icy

reserve, do not trouble herself about it, but go calmly on her way,

fulfil her position as mistress of Errington Hall, and one of the

great lady of the place.



one event, however, take place which show Guy that under her

impassive demeanour there be a strong will and a considerable spice

of temper, both of which come to light in the episode of Mrs.

Veilsturm.



everyone far and near have call at the Hall. Stalwart county squire

with their comfortable wife and frivolous daughter, loud-voice,

hearty young man whose idea rarely extend beyond the hunting-field,

occasionally an effete inhabitant of Belgravia, whose ancestral acre

be but rarely visit, meek curate who want Alizon to become the

Lady Bountiful of the parish, and gay country damsel who revel in

lawn-tennis and slily copy Lady Errington's dress with feminine

subtlety--all these have call at the Hall and be receive by Alizon

with friendly reserve, after which she return their visit in

company with Guy, feel she have do her duty. nothing out of the

way happen till Mrs. Veilsturm leave her card.



they have be pay a visit to some county magnate, and on their

return Alizon have go inside, while Sir Guy remain without for a

moment give some direction to the groom about the horse. having

do so he run up the step into the entrance-hall, to find his wife

even pale than usual, stand by a small table look at a card

with a look of horror on her face.



"why, what's the matter, dear?" he ask, come forward anxiously,

"be anything wrong?"



she hand he the card without a word, and having look at the name,

he glance at she in puzzled surprise. "well, what's wrong about Mrs.

Veilsturm?" he say inquiringly. "she's a jolly sort of woman, ben't

she?"



"do you know she?" ask his wife coldly.



"no, I cann't say I do personally. she come down while I be away and

buy old Darton's place, about two mile from here. but what do you

look so horrified at?"



"come in here, Guy, and I'll tell you," answer Alizon, with an

effort, and walk into the drawing-room, follow by her husband in a

state of wonder as to what could have occur to upset his wife.



Alizon sit down under the window, twist her glove in her hand

with a look of anger on her face, while Guy stand near she with his

tall hat on the back of his head, look at she in a state of

bewilderment.



"I never see you so upset before, Alizon," he say, with an uneasy

laugh; "be there anything particularly wrong about Mrs. Veilsturm--be

she a leper, or be her character no well than it should be?"



"have you hear anything against her character?"



"not a word," reply Guy, promptly. "she's a great favourite with

everyone. her husband be a captain in some regiment that be

station out at the Bermudas or Jamaica, and I believe he marry she

out there. when he die he leave she well off, and she's a lively sort

of woman, but I never hear anything against her moral."



"what about Major Griff?"



"Major Griff!--oh, he be a friend of her husband's, I believe, and

want to marry she, only she willn't accept he. I hear that he be her

trustee, and look after her property for she; but what on earth do

you know about she, Alizon?"



"I know too much to allow she to visit here."



"the deuce you do," cry Sir Guy, take a seat, "and who tell you

anything about she?"



"my father," she reply quickly, turn her pale face towards he.



Sir Guy whistle, and look thoughtfully out of the window, know

well enough that Gabriel Mostyn's name be mention do not bode

any good to Mrs. Veilsturm. he say nothing, however, as he judge it

well to let his wife tell the story her own way, and that this course

be the right one be prove by what follow.



"as you know, I attend my father during those four year when he be

die, and although I don't want to say a word against he, see

that after all he be my father, yet, I hear sufficient from his own

lip to convince I that his life have be a vile one. not even the

fact that I be his child prevent he boast in my presence of his

horrible action, and although I invariably leave the room when he

begin to talk like this, I could not help overhear more than I

care to."



"I wonder you do not leave he altogether," say Sir Guy indignantly.



"he be my father after all," she reply simply. "no one would stay

by he except I, and I could not let he die alone, like a dog."



Sir Guy shift uneasily in his seat, find a difficulty in make

an answer.



"no, I suppose you couldn't," he answer reluctantly; "blood's

thick than water, but still--you be a good woman, Alizon."



Lady Errington smile faintly and shake her head.



"don't put I on a pedestal," she say, a trifle bitterly, "or you

will find your goddess have foot of clay after all. well, about Mrs.

Veilsturm. I need not tell you all I hear about she, but only this.

that my father know she--intimately--and that her life before she set

up for a woman of fashion in England, be not all that could be

desire."



"where do he meet she?" demand Sir Guy abruptly.



"in South America. she be a Creole, you know, and when my father know

she she be not married to Captain Veilsturm. she may have live

decently since she become wife and widow, for all I know, but when she

be in South America----"



Lady Errington break off abruptly, and rise quickly to her foot.



"how dare she call on I--how dare she?"



"I daresay she think you know nothing about she," say Sir Guy,

rise also.



"she know I be Gabriel Mostyn's daughter, and that ought to be enough

to make she keep away from I."



"but of what do you accuse she?"



"I accuse she of nothing, at present," say Alizon, look steadily

at he. "I only tell you that she be not a fit woman to cross the

threshold of Errington Hall, and she will not do so while I be

mistress here."



"what be you go to do then?"



"I'm go to return the card she have the audacity to leave here, and

write she a note forbid she to call again."



Sir Guy think for a moment, and then speak out.



"you be the good judge as to whom you make your friend, Alizon, but

if you do this Mrs. Veilsturm will demand an explanation, and there

will be a row."



Lady Errington pause with her hand on the door and look back.



"Mrs. Veilsturm will not demand an explanation," she say coldly, "but

if she wish for one I can easily satisfy she on that point. but

while I be mistress of Errington Hall if that infamous woman dare to

come here I'll have she turn out by my servant."



"but she----"



"she!" echo his wife decisively. "she will take the hint convey by

the return of this card and keep a wide distance between Gabriel

Mostyn's daughter and herself."



the door close after she, and Guy, after a pause of amazement at the

change in his usually calm wife, turn towards the window with a half

frown on his face.



"she's get a temper after all," he say to himself, thrust his

hand into his pocket. "I might have guess it. sleep volcano

be always the bad when they do start."









CHAPTER XV.

a WOMAN SCORNED.



     "what! will she place her foot upon my neck,

      and hold I helpless, writhe in the dust?

      Nay, such a thing be folly at the good,

      'tis ill to tamper with the mean worm,

      for, serpent-like, I'll wound she in the heel,

      and when she fall from her magnificence,

      I'll twist my coil around her dainty throat

      and sting!--and sting!--and sting!--until she die."





"who be Mrs. Veilsturm?"



a good many people ask this question, when a woman, black-browe,

voluptuous, and imperious as Cleopatra, flash like an unknown star

into the brilliance of a London season four year ago. no one could

answer this question, the quidnunc for once be at fault, and

although lady in drawing-room and man in club set their wit to

work to find out all about she, no one could give an opinion with

certainty as to who she be, where she come from, and what be the

source of her income.



the society paper, who usually know everything, could not unravel

this riddle, and it be reserve for the indefatigable Billy Dolser to

lift in some measure the veil which hang over the past of this

beautiful enigmatical woman. under the heading of "a Cleopatra of

to-day," an article appear in the "Pepperbox," set forth a very

delightful story which satisfy everyone except a few suspicious

grumbler, but whether it be fact or fiction, no one be quite sure.



accord to this veracious chronicle, Mrs. Veilsturm (or as the

"Pepperbox," thinly veil her identity, call she, Cleopatra) be a

West Indian Creole, bear in the island of Cuba, the daughter of a

wealthy planter. her parent die when she be young, and accord to

all report, she live a life of semi-barbaric magnificence in the

somnolent spanish island. later, become tired of her secluded life,

she go to Jamaica, and there meet Captain Veilsturm, at that time

repute to be the handsome man in the island. he marry she, and

for some time she reign as queen of the Regiment, but her husband

die suddenly of yellow fever, she leave Jamaica, and come to England,

intend with her great wealth to enter into London society.



in this laudable ambition she be help by Major Griff, a well-know

man about town, who have be in Veilsturm's regiment, and who, if

report speak truly, would have be glad to have marry his lovely

widow. Mrs. Veilsturm, however, do not care to tempt matrimony a

second time, and refuse the Major, who, nevertheless, remain her

close friend, for her deceased husband have make he his executor. so

the wily Major look after all the entire property of the husband

(consist of a small house in the country), and the large property

of the wife (consist of west indian estate), to the mutual

satisfaction of both himself and the widow.



Major Griff be invaluable to she in more sense than one, as he know

everyone and everything, and be enable to float she successfully in

London society through the influence of his friend.



how it be do the "Pepperbox" scribe do not venture to say,

although he hint that the Major's influence in induce his friend

to take up the lovely widow, be not due so much to their friendship

as to the Major's possession of certain disagreeable secret. however,

let the mean use be what they might, Mrs. Veilsturm obtain a

social success in a select circle, and become quite the rage of the

season. the Major's tactic and her own craftiness, add to her

undeniable beauty, enable she to take up an excellent position, and

although the next season some people show a desire to drop she, Mrs.

Veilsturm be too clever to let they do so, and manage to confirm she

social prestige in the most dexterous manner.



she have plenty of money, great beauty, a delightful house in Park

Lane, and be an admirable hostess, so with this galaxy of virtue

Society be fain to be content, and speak well of she to her face,

although behind she back they characterise she as an adventuress. it

be dangerous to do this, however, as Major Griff be ubiquitous and,

constitute himself her protector, dare any man or woman to speak

evil of Cleopatra, whose character and life be above suspicion.



with certain reservation this be the story the "Pepperbox" tell, and

whether people choose to believe or doubt, it do not matter to Mrs.

Veilsturm, who go serenely on her way, protect by the faithful

Major. some house, however, be close against she, as the Major be

not omnipotent, and in these some disagreeable story be tell about

the beautiful Creole, but Mrs. Veilsturm's set, although undeniably

fast, be also as undeniably "in the swim," so she be supremely

indifferent to such scandal.



as to the house close against she, she do not pose as an exile

Peri at the gate of a Paradise guard by Mrs. Grundy, but set

herself up in rebel authority over her own friend, and defy the

ultra-exclusive people in every way. as they do not invite she to

visit they in Paradise, she return the compliment by not ask

the pleasure of their company to--well, the other place, and as she

give most delightful entertainment, the dweller in the Mrs.

Grundy-guard-Paradise could not help feel rather annoyed. they

look down on Mrs. Veilsturm, they call she an adventuress, they

wonder how any decent people could tolerate such a woman, and yet

they regret that the law of social respectability force they to

ignore such an attractive woman.



this be the position of affair, rebellious Cleopatra would,

without doubt, have gain her ambition, and oblige even these

jealously-guard door to be open to she, but for an unfortunate

rumour which originate no one know where, and, creep through

society like a snake, raise its head and hiss disagreeable thing

regard gambling.



Gambling!



yes! Rumour, in the guise of bewigge old lady over tea, and

would-be juvenile old man over something strong, say that Mrs.

Veilsturm have very charming Sunday evening, very charming indeed, but

a trifle expensive to those not greatly bless with this world's

good. at these Sunday evening reception, at a late hour of the

night, certain green-cover table make their appearance, and such

production lead to the playing of nap, of unlimited loo, baccarat, and

such like game, over which a good deal of money change hand.



it be also observe that who ever lose, Major Griff do not, but that

a good deal of the money on the table manage to find its way into

his pocket. this have nothing to do with Mrs. Veilsturm certainly,

still it be curious that this wealthy woman should permit her house

to be turn into a gambling saloon, for the sake of give Major

Griff a nice little income, so rumour once more set to work to solve

the problem, and make several startling assertion.



first, that Society have be impose upon, as Mrs. Veilsturm be by no

mean wealthy, and that the west indian estate be a myth, emanating

from the fertile brain of Major Griff.



Second, that the relationship between the beautiful Creole and the

disintereste Major be by no mean as artless as be suppose, and

that the money gain by the Major go to keep up the house in Park

Lane.



Third, that Mrs. Veilsturm and the Major be in partnership together

for the purpose of make money, and that the woman's beauty and the

man's skill be the stock-in-trade of the say partnership.



then these disagreeable report be whisper everywhere, and even

Major Griff, astute and cunning as a fox, could not find anyone to

whom he could give the lie; and despite his emphatic contradiction of

such report; people begin to fight shy of fascinating Mrs. Veilsturm,

and the dainty little house in Park Lane.



the second season of Cleopatra in London, however, be nearly over, so

Major Griff, be an old campaigner, know that out of sight be out of

mind, and determine to withdraw himself and his partner from town for

a time, until the next year, when he hope to come back to Mayfair,

and proceed with more caution. accordingly, Mrs. Veilsturm announce

to her dear friend in confidence (so that it would sure to be

repeat) that she be tired of town, and be go to her little

place at Denfield, which she do shortly before the end of the season,

and the fact be duly chronicle in the Society paper.



the Major do not accompany she, as he do not want to give colour to

the report about his relationship with Mrs. Veilsturm, and moreover,

want to hear the result of this dexterous move. the result be

exactly as the astute Major calculate, for people begin to say that

Mrs. Veilsturm be greatly malign, as the Major have not accompany

she into the country, and that have she be the adventuress she be

assert to be, she would not have leave London, where she be reap

such a rich harvest, for a dull country house. the Major's diplomacy,

therefore, be entirely successful, and Society be quite prepared to

receive Mrs. Veilsturm when she choose to come back to Park Lane. so

after the lapse of some week, Major Griff join Mrs. Veilsturm at

Denfield, to talk over the success of their clever move.



he find she in clover, for as no disagreeable rumour have find their

way to this out-of-the-world locality, and she be know to be a

lead lady in society (videlicet the Society paper), all the

provincial gentry call upon she, and she visit at their house,

fascinate everyone with her brilliancy and beauty.



"Major Griff, a great friend of my poor husband," be duly introduce,

and be an admirable sportsman, and a bold rider, soon succeed in

become as popular as Cleopatra, so he be perfectly satisfied with

the attitude of thing as he foresaw the return of the firm to London

would be after the fashion of a triumphal entry. provincial gentry

be dull company, certainly, but a guarantee of respectability, and

the fact that Mrs. Veilsturm be at all the great house in the

country would be duly chronicle in the paper, and be see by the

London folk, would shew that she be not an adventuress, but a lady of

great wealth, move in the good society.



then Mrs. Veilsturm make a mistake.



against the advice of the Major, who have know and detest Gabriel

Mostyn, she call on Gabriel Mostyn's daughter and leave her card,

with the hope that the visit would be return. on the evening of the

day she have do this, she be wait for dinner in the little

drawing-room, and Major Griff, in evening dress, be lounge against

the mantelpiece with a glass of sherry at his elbow, listen to her

remark.



a handsome woman be Mrs. Veilsturm, as she lean back in a deep

arm-chair, fan herself slowly with all the grace and languor of a

Creole. a dusky skin, masse of coal-black hair, with a suspicion of

frizziness, betray the african blood, large black eye, a sensual,

full-lipped mouth, and the figure of a Juno, she be a wonderfully

handsome woman in a full-blooded way. her arm and neck be

beautifully proportion, and dress as she be, with the negro's

love for bright tint, in a lemon-colour dress, with great masse of

crimson flower at her breast and in her hair, she look a beautiful

imperious creature, with a touch of the treacherous grace of the tiger

in the indolent repose of her lithe limb. a painter would have

admire her voluptuous form, a poet would have rave on the dusky

beauty of her face, with the sombre light in the sleepy eye; but no

man who have any instinct of self-preservation would have trust this

feline loveliness, so suggestive of treachery and craft. some highly

imaginative man aver that Mrs. Veilsturm put he in mind of a

snake, and certainly there be more than a resemblance to a serpent in

the sinuous grace of her evil beauty.



as for Major Griff, he be a tall, dry-up man, like a stick; with a

hard, handsome face, iron-grey hair and moustache, and keen eye,

which look everyone straight in the face. a thorough scamp, it be

true, yet with sufficient dexterity to hide his scampishness, and a

military cut-and-dry brevity which disarm suspicion. some rogue

fawn and supplicate to gain their end, but not so the Major, who

habitually grave, plain in his speech, and brusque in his manner, give

everyone the impression of be a blunt, straightforward soldier. he

be stop at a friend's house in the town of Starton, which be a

short distance away, and have come over on a friendly visit to Mrs.

Veilsturm, who live mostly alone, as her house be not large enough

to enable she to receive company. this do not matter, as she

generally dine out every night, but on this special evening, the two

have to consult about their plan, so Mrs. Veilsturm have refuse an

invitation with many thank, but "you see I have to speak about

business connect with my West indian Estates with my trustee, Major

Griff," and the giver of the invitation be quite impressed with an

idea of her wealth. the West Indian Estates be a capital bait

wherewith to gull people as, be at a distance, no one could deny

their existence, and the very mention of they have a golden sound,

suggestive of toil slave and untold rich.



"so you do do what I tell you not to, Maraquita?" growl the Major,

who call Mrs. Veilsturm by her christian name when alone.



"if you mean in the way of call upon Lady Errington, yes," she

reply indolently, sweep her sandal-wood fan to and fro and

diffuse a subtle eastern perfume through the room.



she have a beautiful voice, full, rich and mellow, yet with a certain

roughness which grow more pronounced when she become excited. anyone

would have be fascinate by this voluptuous beauty lounge in the

chair, while the dreamy fragrance of the sandal-wood seem to add to

her rich, eastern look, but custom have habituate Major Griff to this

barbaric loveliness, and he speak curtly, be annoy and make no

effort to conceal his annoyance.



"you be wrong, quite wrong, I tell you," he observe, take a sip

of sherry.



"do you think I'm a fool?" ask Mrs. Veilsturm harshly, with a frown.



"I do! what woman isn't--on occasion?" be the polite response.



Mrs. Veilsturm laugh in a sneer fashion, in nowise offend, as

the private conversation of this precious pair be apt to be rather

disagreeable at time, but the Major, always cool and imperturbable,

know well than to provoke the Creole's wrath, which resemble, in

its force and terror, the storm of her native land.



"you be polite, I must say," say Maraquita, coolly, "but I'm use to

your manner by this time, so we need not argue about they. let we

talk business, and tell I why you object to my leave a card on Lady

Errington, see that she be a great personage down here, and may be

useful to we."



"you ask I a question of which you know the answer well enough,"

return the Major deliberately. "Lady Errington be the daughter of

Gabriel Mostyn, and I don't suppose you want your relationship with

he rake up."



"I don't see there be much chance of that," she reply

contemptuously. "Mostyn be dead, and his daughter know nothing about

I."



"don't you be too sure of that," say Griff significantly. "this girl

attend to her father for four year when he be ill, and Mostyn with

his monkeyish nature be just the man to torture a woman by tell

she all kind of thing of which she would rather have remain

ignorant."



"still, she be his daughter, and even Mostyn would hold his tongue

about some thing to she."



"Humph! I'm not so sure of that."



"be you not?--I be."



the Major frown, pull his moustache, and then finish his sherry

at one gulp, speak sharply.



"you appear to be sure of a good many thing, Maraquita, but perhaps

you will be kind enough to remember that union mean strength, and

that your well-being in the eye of the world be of just as much

importance to our scheme as my knowledge of human nature. if I haven't

make you leave London, thing would have be say which would have

close every door against you."



"and what about yourself?" ask the Creole her dark eye flash

dangerously as she shut her fan with a sharp click.



"the same thing precisely," retort Griff; coolly. "People be

begin to think I know too much about card, so it be wise in I

to have make an end of thing as I do. don't you make any mistake,

Mrs. Veilsturm, I be no more blind to my own defect than I be to

your, and you have just as much right to pull I up if you catch I

trip as I have to keep an eye on your conduct. and let I tell you

that your call on Lady Errington be a mistake, as the good she can

do to we be nothing to the harm she might do to you."



"Nonsense! I tell you she know nothing."



"so you say before, and I hope she don't, but if she do there

will be trouble."



"what can she do?" demand Mrs. Veilsturm with supreme contempt.



"if she she know anything, she can tell all her friend about that

south american business."



"if she come to measure sword with I in that way," say Maraquita

with vicious slowness, "I can tell a few story about her late father

which willn't be pleasant for she to hear."



"Pish! what good will that do? you cann't tell story about Mostyn

without inculpate yourself. it willn't harm his memory, which be black

enough. it will only harm you, and through you, I. no, no, Mrs.

Veilsturm, I've too much at stake to risk the world find out what

we want keep quiet, and if Lady Errington do not return your call,

put your cursed pride in your pocket and hold your tongue."



"I've get my wit about I as well as you," say Cleopatra coolly, "so

you needn't lecture I as if I be a school-girl. besides, my

position be too strong in Society to be hurt by Lady Errington or any

other silly fool of a woman."



"your position, my dear," remark Griff with cruel candour, "hang by

a thread, and that thread be Mr. William Dolser, of 'the Pepper Box.'

he put in what I want, and make people shut their mouth, but if he

turn nasty, he could find out quite enough to make they open they

again."



"if he try to, you could promise he a thrashing."



"that wouldn't do much good. he's use to the horsewhip."



"then you could have an action for libel against the paper."



"and very nicely we'd come out of it. whether we win or lose it would

be the death-knell of our campaign in town. no! no, I'll keep the

'Pepper Box' in a good temper by judicious bribe, and you on the

other hand, don't play with fire or you'll have the whole place in a

blaze."



the dexterous arguing of Major Griff evidently impress Mrs.

Veilsturm, for she make no reply, but look down frown at one

dainty foot in a high-heeled slipper that be rest on the green

velvet foot-stool. she know her partner be right in all he say, but

with feminine persistence be about to renew the argument and have the

last word, when a servant enter the room and present a letter to

his mistress, leave it again, close the door noiselessly after he.



Mrs. Veilsturm, lean back languidly in her chair, be about to open

the letter, when Major Griff stop she.



"wait a moment, Maraquita," he say deliberately, with a certain

anxious look on his face. "you know I often have an instinct as to how

thing will go?"



she bow her head, but say nothing.



"I have an instinct that your call on Lady Errington be a mistake,

and that letter be from Lady Errington to tell you so."



Mrs. Veilsturm laugh scornfully as she tear open the envelope, but

the Major, put his hand behind his back, lean against the

mantelpiece, and look steadily at she with a satisfied smile on his

lip.



the woman have wonderful self-command, for as she read Lady Errington's

curt note, no sign of anger escape from her lip, but her dark skin

flush an angry red and a venomous smile curl the corner of her

full mouth. still she give no further sign of be move, but having

read the note through in the most deliberate manner, hand it to the

Major with a low, fierce laugh.



Major Griff adjust his eyeglass carefully, smooth out the sheet

of cream-colour paper, and read as follow in a subdue voice:





"Lady Errington present her compliment to Mrs. Veilsturm, and

return the enclose card, which be evidently leave to-day at the Hall

by some mistake."





"so I be right, you see," observe Griff, leisurely fold up this

short epistle and let his eyeglass drop down. "Mostyn do tell

she about you after all--damn he!"



the Major swear in a tranquil manner, without any sign of anger, but

that he be greatly annoyed could be see by the twitching of his thin

lip under his grizzle moustache. as for Mrs. Veilsturm, her temper

have get the well of her discretion, and having leave her seat, she

be sweep up and down the little room like an angry panther in its

cage.



"well Maraquita," say Griff quietly, after a pause, "you see Lady

Errington have declare war, as I know she would."



"you know no more than I do," hiss Maraquita viciously.



Major Griff smile at she in a pitying manner.



"Instinct, my dear! instinct! I tell you what be in that letter

before you open it."



"I should like to kill she," say Cleopatra, glare at he in a kind

of cold fury.



"I've no doubt you would, but, as you cann't, why waste time in useless

threat?"



"that she, a school-girl--a brainless fool--should dare to put such an

insult on I," rage Mrs. Veilsturm, clench her fan tightly. "how

dare she? how dare she? do she know what I be?"



"she do," reply the Major drily, "her letter show she do."



Maraquita look from left to right in wrathful despair, then throw

all prudence to the wind, snap her fan in two, throw it on the

ground, and stamp on the fragment.



"I wish she be there! I wish she be there! what can I do to punish

she? what can I do?"



"you can do nothing," reply Griff, examine his nail. "to make war

on Lady Errington would be like throw feather at a granite image

in order to hurt it. she have an assured position in Society. you have

not. she have a past that will bear look into--you have not. she have

everything in her favour--you have nothing, so be a philosopher, my

dear Maraquita. Grin and bear it. Vulgar certainly, but sound advice,

very sound advice."



Mrs. Veilsturm turn on her dear friend in a fury, and stamp she

foot on the break fan, look like a demon with her blaze eye and

clench white tooth, which show viciously through her draw lip.



"hold your tongue," she shriek wrathfully, "don't stand sneer

there you fool. tell I what I'm to do."



the Major pour out another glass of sherry from the decanter on the

table and advance towards she.



"have a glass of sherry, and keep your temper," he say soothingly.



Cleopatra glare at he in speechless anger, then strike the glass

from his hand with such violence that it shatter to piece on the

carpet. Griff shrug his shoulder, and walk back to the

fireplace.



"you're act like a fool, Mrs. Veilsturm," he observe, tranquilly;

"first you break a fan, now you break a glass--silly, my dear, very

silly! it don't hurt Lady Errington, but only yourself. by-the-way,"

glance at his watch, "it's seven o'clock. I wonder when dinner will

be ready, I'm dreadfully hungry."



his partner, however, be not listen to he, but a sudden thought

seem to have strike she, for the fire die out of her eye and her

complexion resume its usual rich hue of health. after a pause, a

gratified smile break over her face, and bend down she pick up

the fan.



"I'm sorry I break this," she say, quietly, advance towards the

Major; "it be such a pretty fan. dolly Thambits give it to I. never

mind, I'll make he give I another."



she speak quite cheerfully, and the Major stare at she in silent

surprise at this sudden change from intense anger to languid

tranquillity.



"upon my word, you puzzle I, Maraquita," he say doubtfully. "a

moment ago you be like a devil, now you be within reasonable

distance of an angel. what be the meaning of this change?"



the beautiful widow put one slender foot on the fender, look in the

glass, touch some ornament in her hair, then reply, in a

wonderfully calm manner:



"simply this, that I see my way to punish Lady Errington."



"the deuce you do."



"yes; she be newly marry, and, no doubt, love her husband--he's a

fool, for I've see he in London, so through her husband I'll punish

she."



"oh, I see," say the Major, grimly; "you intend to make love to the

husband."



"what acute penetration, my dear Griff! that's exactly what I intend

to do."



"no good," answer the man, shake his head. "Errington be newly

married, and can see no beauty in any woman save his wife."



"he's a fool I tell you," retort Mrs. Veilsturm, coolly, "and I

never meet a man yet I couldn't twist round my finger. he may be

difficult to manage in his character of a newly marry man, but I'll

gain my end somehow."



"and then?" query Major Griff.



"and then," echo Cleopatra, viciously, "when I've estrange he from

she and possibly lead to a divorce, I'll have my revenge."



"at the cost of your own position."



"don't you be afraid. I'll look after that! I'll keep my position and

ruin her happiness at the same time."



"you're play with fire."



"fire that will burn they, not myself! come, dinner be ready, give I

your arm."



"one moment! when do you intend to begin the business?"



"that depend on Sir Guy Errington. as a newly marry man, I dare say

I can do nothing with he. newly married man sometimes get tired of

honey. when he do, then I will step in."



"suppose he do not get tired?"



"but he will. I tell you he's a fool."









CHAPTER XVI.

the event of eighteen month.



     "time fly onward with tireless wing.

      diver gift to we all he bring,

        Joy and sorrow

        on every morrow,

      a thousand pleasure, a thousand sting.



     "love he hath bring to a maiden fair,

      Hate hath sunder a love pair,

        Gauds that glitter,

        and memorie bitter,

      each of we bear hath his fated share.



     "life be evil, the wise man saith.

      Joy come but at the last-draw breath,

        Earth's false pleasure

        yield no treasure,

      there be no gift like the gift of death."





perhaps it be due to the way we live now, or possibly to the inherent

restlessness of the present generation, but Time certainly seem to

pass more rapidly with we than it do with our grandfather.



they live in a delightfully leisurely fashion, not without its charm,

and either stay complacently at home, or, if they do travel, go

in a sober-side mode by stage coach and sailing vessel. if they do

make a journey through Europe, it be call a Grand Tour, and seem

to have be somewhat after the style of a royal progress, judge

from the stately manner in which it be conduct. ah, there be, no

doubt, our steady-go ancestor know the value of be idle, an art

which we have quite lose, and take life in a wonderfully sedate way,

saunter, as it be, in an idle fashion, from the cradle to the

grave.



we, alas, have change this somnolent existence, and make the latter

end of this nineteenth century somewhat try to a man whose health

be not of the good, or to he who desire to shine among his fellow

creature. the struggle for existence be keener, the survival of the

fit more certain than ever, and the art of enjoyment have resolve

itself into a series of hurried glance at a multiplicity of thing.



if we want to travel, steam whirl we from one end of the world to the

other, give we no time to examine thing; if we wish to read,

hundred of book, fresh from the press, call for attention; if we

desire to enjoy ourselves, theatre, ball, picture gallery, all

offer their attraction in such profusion, that it be difficult to

know where to begin. we have gain many aid to enjoyment, yet it be

questionable if those very aid have not lose we the faculty itself;

for a breathless scamper after pleasure, with a hurried glance here,

and a momentary pause there, can hardly be call true enjoyment. the

world, and we who live therein, be so busy get thing in order

for the beginning of the next century, that all hand be press into

the service, and no one have a moment to be idle, or to admire the

profusion of good thing spread before he.



therefore, amid all this hurry and bustle, Time fly much more

quickly than formerly; our ancestor yawn through twelve hour of

leisurely work, we scarcely find twenty-four long enough for all we

want to do. we eat, drink, marry, and give in marriage, welcome the

newly bear, and forget the newly dead, with the utmost despatch and

rapidity, and no soon be one year, with all its trouble and

breathless enjoyment, at an end, than we have map out the care of

the next twelve month before they be fairly start.



eighteen month have, therefore, pass very rapidly since the

Erringtons take possession of the Hall, and a good many important

event, both to nation and individual, have happen in the meantime.

it be now the middle of the London season, and those who have part

month before at Como, be now about to meet again under widely

different circumstance.



Victoria Sheldon have duly return home with Mrs. Trubbles, and take

up her abode once more with Aunt Jelly, who be privately very glad to

see she, although she take good care that the girl should not know of

such weakness on her part. she ask Victoria a good many question

concern the people she have meet abroad, and particularly about

Otterburn, of whom Miss Sheldon give an account quite at variance with

the real state of affair, carefully suppress the fact that the

young man have propose and be refuse. in fact, she pass over her

acquaintance with he so very lightly, that she succeed in deceive

lynx-eyed Miss Corbin as to her feeling towards he, and never, by

word or deed, hint that he have any interest for she in any way.



but although she might deceive the world, she could not deceive

herself, and in reality she think a good deal about the man she have

reject, regretting, with the curious caprice of a woman, that she

have do so. the manner in which he have receive her refusal have

greatly impress she, for it differ greatly from the behaviour of

her other suitor, and if Angus have only ask she again a few month

after her arrival in England, he would doubtless have gain she

consent to the marriage.



otterburn, however, have be deeply wound at what he deem she

unjustifiable coquetry, and be intensely proud, resolve not to

submit himself to a second slight, therefore keep out of her way. if

some kind fairy have only bring these two foolish young people

together, everything would doubtless have be arrange in a

satisfactory manner between they, but as such aid be not forthcoming,

see we live in time when Oberon have resign his sceptre, they

remain apart, each in ignorance of the other's feeling, and

mutually blame one another for the position of affair.



Absence, in this case, make Victoria's heart grow fonder, and she feel

that she be really and truly in love with Angus, but as she neither

see nor hear of he, she have to lock up her secret in her own breast,

which do not add to the pleasure of life.



at the invitation of Lady Errington, she go down to the Hall at

Christmas, and have a very pleasant time, despite her heart-ache, as

her hostess make a great deal of she, and the young nimrod of the

county quite lose their head over "such a jolly girl who ride so

straight to hound, take the fence like a bird, by Jove." she could

have be marry three or four time have she so choose, but neither

her suitor nor their possession of house and land tempt she, so

she return to town and Aunt Jelly still heart-whole, except as

regard the little affair of Angus Macjean.



during the season she keep a keen look-out for he at all the place

she go to under the wing of Mrs. Trubbles, but otterburn do not

make his appearance, and it be only by chance that she hear he have

go to America for some big game shooting in the rockie. evidently

there be no chance of his propose a second time, and Victoria

should have put all thought of his do so out of her heart, but she

feel that she love he too much to do so, and hug her secret with

all its pain close to her breast, until she grow pale and thin, so

that Aunt Jelly become alarmed about her lung, think she be go

into consumption. with this idea the old lady, who hate change, take

a villa at San Remo and stay there for some month with Victoria and

Minnie Pelch. the change do both girl good, and when the trio

return to Town, Aunt Jelly take Victoria a round of visit to

several country house, which prove so successful that Miss Sheldon

quite recover her lose spirit and come back to London eager for the

pleasure of her third season in the great city.



while Victoria be thus pay the penalty of her prompt rejection of

Otterburn's suit, that young gentleman be have by no mean a

pleasant time of it himself. the shooting expedition to the

Carpathians have be a great success, and the excitement of sport have

for the time quite put Victoria out of his head, notwithstanding the

genuine love he have for the brilliant australian beauty. return to

England, however, he find his thought constantly run on she, and

with her piquant face constantly in his mind he feel inclined to seek

she and try his luck a second time, but his pride forbid he to do

so, which be certainly a very foolish view to take of the subject.



Angus, however, be remarkably obstinate in some thing, and, as he

be determine not to run the chance of a second refusal, put himself

out of the way of temptation by go up to Scotland on a visit to his

father, think that at Dunkeld Castle, at least, he would have peace

of mind. he be mistaken in this supposition, for his father, be

delight to find he so improve, immediately urge on he the

necessity of a speedy marriage with Miss Cranstoun.



the Master, however, to his father's dismay, prove very obstinate on

this point and flatly refuse to marry the lady, which refusal bring

down on he the wrath of both Lord Dunkeld and Mr. Mactab, who try

to bully the young reprobate into acquiescence. plain-look Miss

Cranstoun, however, prove too much for Otterburn, see that the

charming face of Victoria Sheldon be constantly haunt his fancy,

and notwithstanding all the art which be bring to bear on he, he

hold out against the match in the most stubborn manner.



Lord Dunkeld rave, and Mactab quote Scripture, all to no purpose,

and at length, become weary of dour look and continual lecture,

otterburn abruptly leave his ancestral home in company with Johnnie,

and, together with the chum whom he have meet in Venice, start for

America in order to have some sport in the Rocky Mountains. the wrath

of the home authority at this unexpected revolt of the hitherto

obedient Angus can be well imagine than describe, but as there

seem to be absolutely no way of bring the young man to reason,

they be force to let he do as he please. for very shame Lord

Dunkeld could not cut off the allowance of his only son, so he have to

acquiesce in impotent anger in Otterburn's disobedience, hope that a

lengthen tour in America would bring the young prodigal to reason

and induce he to return to Dunkeld Castle and matrimony.



submission such as this, however, be very far from Otterburn's

thought, as he have make up his mind not to marry Miss Cranstoun, and

moreover consider he be perfectly entitle to choose his own wife,

see it be he who would have to live with she, so he go off to

the States with a light heart. his adventure and that of his friend

would take a long time to describe, as they have a splendid time of it

in the rockie after big game, and become quite enamoured of the

uncivilized life drift down Montana way, where they meet with

cow-boy and plenty of young englishman who be cattle ranch in

the wild.



during this wild existence, which have such an ineffable charm for

they, Otterburn tell his chum, a merry young fellow call Laxton, of

his admiration for Victoria, whereupon Laxton, be verse in affair

of the heart, lecture his friend and advise he to once more try his

luck.



"and I'll lay two dollar," say this sagacious young man, who have

americanise his speech, "that she willn't say 'no' a second time."



with this idea in his head, Otterburn become anxious to return home,

and Laxton, be somewhat tired of primeval simplicity, consent to

leave the wide rolling prairie for the delight of Pall Mall. Laxton

want to return in a leisurely fashion by make for San Francisco

and go home again by New Zealand and Australia, but then he be

heart-whole and have not the vision of a charming face constantly in

his mind's eye. this fact be urge by otterburn as an argument in

favour of take the short route possible to London, Laxton, be

really a good-natured young fellow, consent, and leave their

delightfully savage life behind they go to New York. after a few

day' stay in that city they go across to Liverpool by one of the

big cunarder, and duly arrive after a pleasant passage.



Laxton go off to see his people in Yorkshire, but otterburn do not

venture to trust himself within the grim wall of Dunkeld Castle, well

know the stormy reception he would meet with, so journey straight

to the Metropolis, where he engage a comfortable set of chamber in

the neighbourhood of Piccadilly, and start on his matrimonial

campaign with a dog determination to succeed in win Victoria

Sheldon for his wife, or, in case of failure, to depart for an

uninhabited island and live a Robinson Crusoe misogamistic existence

till he die.



many event have happen in the Errington household since the young

couple have arrive at the Hall, the most important be the birth of

a little boy, which have greatly rejoice Guy's heart, as he now have an

heir to succeed to the estate. Aunt Jelly also signify her approval

in her own grim way, and actually stand godmother to the child, whom

she insist on christen Henry, after her old love, Sheldon,

although no one know or guess her reason for do so.



Eustace Gartney have be right in his estimate of Alizon's character,

for the birth of the child transform she from a cold statue into a

loving, breathe woman, render perfect by her motherhood. no one

who see she, with her delicate face flush with joy bend over the

cradle of the child, would have think it be the same woman who have

be so chill and impassive in her appearance and demeanour. the cold,

white snow-drop have change into the warm, red rose, and the

passionate idolatry she have for the child seem to fill out and

complete her life, hitherto so void and empty for the want of

something to love.



Guy adore his little son, to whom, for some inexplicable reason, he

give the name of "Sammy," and laughingly aver that Alizon bestow

so much love on the son that she have none leave for the father, which

assertion his wife smilingly deny, though it be true in the main.

Lady Errington give up go out a great deal, devote herself

entirely to the child, so Guy be leave to a great extent to himself,

which he by no mean relish; yet he make no complaint, as it would

have seem ridiculous to blame a mother for be over fond of she

first bear. still, Guy feel a little sore on this point, and much as

he have desire an heir and love his son, he almost wish the child

have never be bear, so much do it seem to come between they. have

Alizon be a wise woman, she would have see the folly of love she

child to the exclusion of her husband, but blind by maternal love

she neither see nor feel anything that do not pertain to the tiny

babe she clasp so ardently to her breast.



Mrs. Veilsturm make no further attempt to force her friendship on Lady

Errington, but shortly after the rebuff she have receive--the

knowledge of which she keep to herself--depart for a trip on the

Continent, which, for she, mean Monte Carlo, where she be afterwards

join in the most casual way by Major Griff. the partner be too

clever to travel together, as it might have attract attention, but

when one be at any special place the other be sure to turn up a few

week later on business connect with the west indian estate. so on

her return to England for the season, Mrs. Veilsturm tell her dear

friend that she have sell one estate, although, as a matter of fact,

the money she aver she have receive therefor be due to luck at the

green table.



Cleopatra and her friend be much more circumspect in their second

season in London. they do not wish to run the risk of any more

disagreeable report, and as their winning at Monte Carlo have be

very large the firm be enable to dispense, to some extent, with

baccarat on Sunday evening. Mrs. Veilsturm fully re-establish her

position in London, and the Major be more devoted than ever, so the

charming widow depart for her health to Algiers with the good wish

of everyone.



"next year, Maraquita," say the Major in a satisfied tone, as they

discuss their plan in a pleasant room look out on to the blue

water of the Mediterranean, "we will go in for make money and then

we can go off to America."



"I don't like give up London," object Mrs. Veilsturm angrily.



"you must, soon or later," reply Major Griff shrewdly. "however,

we will get together as much cash next season as we can, and if no one

say anything so much the well, if they do--well, there be always

America."



at the end of this eighteen month Eustace Gartney return to Town,

having herald his appearance by a book of travel entitle "Arabian

Knights," in which he describe all his wandering in the native land

of Mahomet. judge from the brilliant description give in this book

with its bizarre title, he seem to have make good use of his time,

and the fascinating page of the volume open an enchanted land to

western reader. the mysterious desert with their romantic

inhabitant, the lonely city far in the interior, whose very name

be suggestive of the fantastic story of the "Thousand and one

Nights," the poetic description of the melancholy waste of sand,

whose sadness seem akin to his own sombre spirit, and the wayward

fierceness of the arab love-song scatter like gem through the book

all make up a charming volume, and even the critic, much as they

dislike Eustace for the contempt and indifference with which he

treat they, be fain to acknowledge that this "Arabian Knights,"

whose pun title they ridicule, be a worthy addition to English

literature.



Eustace himself, in spite of the wide interval of time which have

elapse, be now return to England in very much the same frame of

mind as that in which he have set out. he have go away to forget

Alizon Errington, and he come back more in love than ever, not with

the real woman exactly but with an ideal woman whom he have create out

of her personality. he be in love with a phantom of delight, conjure

up by his vivid imagination, and fancy that she dwelt on earth in

the guise of his cousin's wife, but, have still some feeling of

honour leave, he determine to avoid the earthly representation of his

ideal, as he hardly judge himself strong enough to withstand the

temptation.



with his usual egotistical complacency--a trait which all his

travelling have fail to eradicate--he never for a moment thought of

look at the question from Lady Errington's point of view. he be

Sultan, and if he throw the handkerchief she would follow, so he would

be merciful both to this woman and to her husband, and put a curb on

his desire to take she to himself. he come back to England it be true,

but with the resolve only to stay a month, and then go to Egypt, as he

have an idea of explore the land of the Pharoahs in a new direction.



he love Alizon Errington, or rather the glorify Alizon Errington of

his imagination, and determine neither to see nor speak to she while

in England, because he do not wish to ruin Guy's happiness. he hear

she be a mother, and wonder if the change he have prophesy at Como

have come over she. if so he would like to see it for himself; still

the flesh be weak, and he do not know but that he might be tempt

to make love to she, which would be distinctly wrong.



so Eustace Gartney, blind by self-complacency, prose on to himself

as he travel homeward in one of the Orient steamer, and the

curious part of it be that he actually believe that he be talk

sense. a few sharp word from a sensible man or woman might have

dispel his vision of be an irresistible lover and have show

he that Lady Errington be not likely to give up everything for the

sake of a man she care nothing about; but Eustace make a confidant of

no one, and, absorb in his ridiculous dreaming, deem himself

quite a hero for resist a dishonourable impulse, which, have he

give way to it, would certainly have result in a manner vastly

different to that which he anticipate.



so the puppet be all on the stage, and it only remain for Fate in

the guise of a showman to move they hither and thither accord to

their several destiny.









CHAPTER XVII.

GOSSIP.



     "if friend be poor and you cann't use 'em,

      'tis always pleasant to abuse 'em,

      although in their turn it be true,

      they're sure to speak the bad of you.

      the pot may call the kettle black,

      but kettle pay the favour back,

      and useless be all indignation,

      for 'tis the law of compensation."





Otterburn's chamber in a pleasant street off Piccadilly be

furnish in a very comfortable fashion, having be the property of

an extravagant young man who come to grief on the turf, and thereupon

dispose of his room and their content to Angus Macjean, who be

look for apartment. as the Master have not much idea of arrange

furniture accord to individual taste, beyond banish some rather

"rapid" picture from the wall and replace they by hunt trophy

from his american trip, he leave the room in their original state,

which be by no mean a bad one.



Johnnie Armstrong indeed have be move to wrath by see such a lot

of money spend on costly trifle, for the charming little statuette

in bronze, the delicate ornament in Dresden china, and the thousand

and one nick-nack suggestive of cultured taste be all so many

object of horror in the eye of Mr. Armstrong, be evidence of

sinful waste on the part of their purchaser. in spite of his love for

the turf, the former proprietor of these room must have have a

cultured mind, rare among the gild youth of to-day, as Angus during

the early day of his occupancy often come across some tiny

water-colour, or some rare edition of a book which show both good

taste and critical judgment.



"what a pity for such a clever fellow as Bamfield to go to the dog

through racing, when he could appreciate all this sort of thing," he

say half aloud one day, on turn over a charming edition of

Villon's poem.



"it's an ill wind that blaw naebody ony guid," observe Johnnie, who

overheard this remark, "an' ye get the hail thing cheap enow."



this view of the situation be quite characteristic of Johnnie. he

despise the costly furnishing of the room as sinful waste, but be

quite content that all this splendour should be pay for by someone

else, see that his master have get it cheap. economy in Johnnie's

eye be the great of virtue, and he delight to make bargain

for thing which he do not want for the mere sake of get the

well of the seller. this be not strictly speak economy at

all, see that the thing buy be superfluous, but it please

Johnnie and amuse Angus, so the dour old man potter on in his own

narrow-minded way without interruption.



the room, therefore, be furnish in a fashion calculate to please

the most fastidious critic, and Angus be very comfortably settle in

Town for the season. he have not yet see Victoria, as he intend to

woo his lady love in a somewhat cautious fashion, but have ask dolly

Thambits to breakfast with a view to find out her movement in

Society.



Mr. Thambits be a good-natured young fool, with the comfortable

income of thirty-thousand a year and not the slight idea how to

spend it. his father having be an inventor, have make a large fortune

by genuine talent and dexterous advertising, and resolve to make his

son a gentleman, in which laudable ambition he succeed fairly well,

for Adolphus Thambits be not a bad sort of fellow on the whole,

although a monstrous fool in many way. not all the tuition of Harrow

and Cambridge could put any sense into his silly head, and his father

having die suddenly, he be leave alone in the world with this large

income and not the slight idea how to guide his life.



for the sake of his money he be ask everywhere, and as he always

conduct himself well, and be very good-natured, people like he

after a fashion, although they despise and profit by his weakness

of character. Cleopatra have take he up, and, assist by Major

Griff, be teach he experience of the world in a manner beneficial

to herself and partner, but decidedly detrimental to the pocket of the

unfortunate dolly.



as Angus hear that Thambits be rather smite with Victoria, he

foresaw in he a possible rival, so have invite he to breakfast to

find out Victoria's movement, which dolly would be sure to know, and

also to ascertain if he have any intention of offer himself and his

large fortune to the australian beauty. so dolly, who like otterburn

in his own weak way, arrive at that young man's room, accompany by

Mr. Jiddy, a fat, little man, with a timid manner and a frightened eye

in his head, who impose upon thambit' good nature by borrow money

from he.



while the three be seat at breakfast, somewhere about eleven

o'clock, Laxton make his appearance, having return from Yorkshire,

where he have be play the part of the prodigal son. be tired of

the domestic veal, he have look up Angus, to propose another hunting

expedition to the wild of Africa.



Laxton, having have his breakfast, sit in a comfortable arm-chair and

smoke, while Angus and his two guest proceed with their meal under

the vigilant eye of Johnnie Armstrong, who hover around with an air

of strong disapproval of breakfast at such a late hour of the day.



"well, Angus, old fellow," observe Laxton, when he have make himself

at home with a pet meerschaum of his host's, "ben't you tired of

civilization yet?"



"hardly?" reply Angus drily, "see that I've only have three week

of it. what do you want to do now."



"Try Africa--we'll get some elephant shooting."



"ben't that rather dangerous?" say Thambits mildly.



"dangerous!" echo Laxton with contempt. "Pooh! nonsense--not a bit

of it. jolliest thing out. it's life, my boy--life!"



"yes, and on some occasion it's death, my boy--death," rejoin Angus

with a laugh.



"I have always hear," remark Mr. Jiddy, who sit curl up on the

edge of a chair like a white rabbit, "that there be no pleasure

without an element of danger."



"who say there be," say Laxton, who hate Jiddy as a parasite and a

milksop. "what do you know about danger?"



"nothing," reply Mr. Jiddy, who never take offence, be

essentially milk and water in his nature, "but I've read a good deal

about it."



"Sunday-school book, I suppose?" say Laxton with a sneer. "'Little

Henry and his Bearer' be about your style, I think."



"I've read that book," observe dolly with a gratified chuckle, "but

it be rather a slow story ben't it?"



"not quite so rapid as Zola," say Otterburn, who be begin to

find both Thambits and his friend a trifle tiresome. "by-the-way,

Laxton, have you read the 'Arabian Knights'?"



"I have," say dolly again, "in my schoolday!'



"oh, bosh!" return Laxton with supreme contempt. "we're not talk

of that."



"oh, no," chirrup Mr. Jiddy, delight at know something, "it's

the Arabian Knights with a 'K.'"



"what on earth be the Arabian Nights with a k?" demand thambit

blankly, whereupon both Angus and Laxton burst out laugh at the

bewildered look on his face.



"it's Gartney's book about Arabia," explain Angus, rise from the

table and light a cigarette, his example be follow by his

guest.



"oh, I've hear of it," say thambit, complacently. "Billy Dolser

tell I he do not think much of it."



"be Billy Dolser a judge?" ask Laxton, with great scorn.



thambit turn on he a look of mild reproach.



"of course! why he's get a paper of his own."



"oh, that settle it!" return Laxton, drily. "I think myself it

be a jolly good book, and write by a man who know what he be

talk about, but as that little blackguard Dolser haven't be

further East than Italy, he must be a capital judge of the book!"



"why do you call he a blackguard?" ask Jiddy, remove his

cigarette.



"because he be one," growl Laxton, wrathfully--"a mean little sneak

who vilify people's character in that rag of a paper which ought to

be burn by the public hangman! snake and mosquito be create for

some purpose, I suppose, but why such a little reptile as Dolser

should be allow to exist, I don't know."



Mr. Jiddy contribute himself to the "Pepper Box" in an underhand way,

by listen to thing he be not mean to hear, so he take up the

cudgel on behalf of Mr. Dolser in a weakly, ferocious manner.



"oh, I say, you know those word be actionable?"



"be they," say Laxton, who have rise to his foot and be look

down from his tall height at the scrap of limp humanity in the chair,

"you can repeat they to Dolser if you like, and if he don't think

they be actionable I'll be happy to add a thrashing, so that he can

have I up for assault."



Mr. Jiddy wriggle, not like the turn the conversation have take,

and resume his cigarette, while Otterburn, who agree with every word

Laxton say, but could hardly endorse it in his character of host,

hasten to make an observation.



"by the way, Gartney's in London."



"just come in time to hear Mr. Dolser's opinion about his book," say

Laxton, grimly.



"I don't think that would trouble Gartney much," reply otterburn,

smile, "but after eighteen month' travel in the wild, I'll suppose

he'll stay at home for some time."



"I'll lay you a level fiver he don't," say Mr. Laxton, remove his

pipe, "he's get prairie fever."



"what's prairie fever?" demand dolly.



"do you know what a prairie be?" say Laxton, answer one question

by ask another.



"a large field, ben't it?" say Mr. Jiddy, complacently. Angus roar.



"yes, a very large field," he reply, "much large than any you'll

get in England. I shoot that buffalo on the prairie," he add,

point to a huge shaggy head adorn the opposite wall.



"it's a very large head," observe Mr. Jiddy, wisely. "a buffalo--a

kind of cow, ben't it?"



"not exactly," return Laxton, drily; "it's more like an enraged

bull. but to return to prairie fever. it's the feeling a man get when

he once see those undulate grass plain and which haunt he ever

afterwards."



"what haunt he ever afterwards?" ask the intelligent dolly,

light another cigarette.



"oh, damn!" retort Laxton, politely, and turn on his heel, quite

disgusted with the ignorance of the young man. thambit be not in the

least put out by Laxton's rudeness, but begin to talk to Angus about

Mrs. Veilsturm, while Jiddy try to extract a paragraph out of Laxton

by a series of mild little question about buffalo.



"Mrs. Veilsturm's an awfully jolly woman, Macjean," say Thambits--"real

good sort, you know! I  think you'd like she immensely."



"would I?" reply Angus absently, wonder how he be to ask dolly

about Miss Sheldon.



"yes; she's get awfully jolly Sunday evening, you know. be you fond

of baccarat?"



"not much. be you?" ask Otterburn, fix his keen grey eye on the

weak face of the young man.



"yes, rather. only I always lose. I'm so unlucky."



"oh, you lose at Mrs. Veilsturm's?"



"yes. we play there on Sunday evening. it's awfully jolly!"



"it must be--for Mrs. Veilsturm!" retort Otterburn, doubtfully, at

once form an unfavourable opinion of that lady; "but if you're so

unlucky, you shouldn't play baccarat."



"oh, but I'll win when I get to be a well player."



"will you? I wish you all success. do many people go to Mrs.

Veilsturm's?"



"yes, lot. all the jolly people in town. she's quite in the swim

you know. you meet all sort of pretty girl there."



"indeed! not on Sunday evening, I presume?"



"oh, no; on week-day. I meet that pretty australian girl there last

Thursday for the first time this season."



"Eh? Miss Sheldon?"



"yes. awfully jolly girl. do you know she?"



"slightly," reply Angus, carelessly; "I meet she once in Italy. she's

quite the belle of London, I hear."



"yes, rather. and such a nice girl! no humbug about she. lot of

fellow want to marry she."



"you among the number, I suppose?" say Otterburn, with an uneasy

laugh.



"eh? oh, no! there's not much chance for I. I've get no brain, and

she don't care for fellow who cann't talk, you know."



"you're very modest, at all event," say otterburn, feel rather

amuse by this candid admission.



"oh, no, I'm not," reply Mr. Thambits wisely; "people think I'm a

fool because I've get lot of money, you know. but I see far than

they think. but about Mrs. Veilsturm--you'll call and see she with I,

willn't you?"



"I don't know," say Angus, shortly; "perhaps."



"she's go to have a fancy dress ball, soon," ramble on Mr.

Thambits in a weakly fashion. "I'm go as a crusader. how do you

think I'll look as a crusader?"



"oh, the usual thing, I suppose," reply Otterburn, good-naturedly

suppress a laugh at the idea of dolly Thambits in chain armour. "I

don't think any one at a fancy dress ball look like what he pretend

to be. I suppose Miss Sheldon will be there?"



"rather. everyone in London be go."



"then I may as well follow the example of everyone in London," say

otterburn, quickly. "I'll call on Mrs. Veilsturm whenever you like."



"oh, that's jolly! but, I say, I've get to meet a fellow at the

Carnation Club, you know. Jiddy, I'm go."



"so be I," reply Mr. Jiddy, slip off a chair where he have be

seat like a whip schoolboy under the severe eye of Mr. Laxton.

"thank you for tell I about your travel, Mr. Laxton; they're most

entertaining."



"it's more than you be!" growl Laxton, grimly.



dolly Thambits and his friend Jiddy take their departure, to the great

relief of both Angus and Laxton, who be quite sick of their

frivolous small talk and milk-and-water mannerism.



"good heaven, Macjean!" say Laxton, when the door close on the

pair, "what the deuce do you have such fool here for?"



"they be fool, ben't they?" reply Otterburn, select a pipe

from his rack; "but the fact be, I ask Thambits to find out

something, and Mr. Jiddy come uninvited."



"like his cheek! why don't you drop he out of the window?"



"because we're in London--not in America," reply Angus, mildly; "my

dear Laxton, do remember that!"



"I never get a chance of forget that," groan Laxton, sit

down. "I'm sick of this narrow humdrum life. Most of the man I meet

be idiot, and the woman bad. let's go off to Africa, old chap.

I've find out all about the country, and we'll get another man to

join we--Helstone, you know. he's get a jolly yacht, and we can take

our own time."



"it sound tempting," say Angus, wistfully; "but you see, Laxton, I

come here with a purpose, and until I carry out that purpose I cann't

leave England."



"it's that girl, I suppose?"



Angus nod.



"yes. I haven't see she yet, but intend to shortly. if she refuse

I, I'll go out to Africa with you, but if she accept me----"



"well?" demand Laxton, grumpily.



"I'll ask you to be good man at the wedding," reply Angus, laugh.



his friend arise to his foot with a resign expression of

countenance, and hold out his hand.



"it's no good arguing with a man in love," he say, in a dismal tone;

"but fancy give up a jolly expedition for the sake of a woman! let

I know soon, as if you don't go I will, for I'm die to get out of

these clothe."



he look down with disgust at his well-fitting frock coat, grey

trouser, and neat patent leather boot, all of which he be willing

to change for a rough hunter's dress and a life of danger, such be the

instinctive leaning of young Englishmen towards the barbaric delight

of their woad-stain ancestor.



"well, you be a queer stick, old fellow!" say Angus, laugh;

"you'll give up all the comfort of life for what?--jungle fever,

Liebig's Extract, and a dangerous existence!"



"don't prose, my boy," retort Laxton good-humouredly, take up his

hat, "you'd do the same if you ben't in love. well, goodbye at

present. I'll look you up again, and if you want to see I in the

meantime, just drop a line to the Globe Trotters' Club.'"



when he depart Angus stand for a moment in deep thought, fill his

pipe, with a strange smile on his face.



"I'm in love be I?" he say, strike a match. "well, that's true

enough, but whether it's a wise thing to be in love be quite another

affair! Humph!" light his pipe, "it all depend on Victoria."



he pick up the morning paper, and be about to settle himself down

for a good read, when a knock come to the door.



"confound it!" grumble Otterburn, fold up the paper, as he hear

Johnnie Armstrong go to the door. "I wonder who that be?"



his question be answer in another moment by himself, for suddenly a

massive figure appear at the door of the small sitting-room, and

otterburn spring to his foot with a cry of pleasure:



"Eustace Gartney."









CHAPTER XVIII.

from FOREIGN PARTS.



     "I have come from land fantastic,

      which the desert sand environ,

      where the Koran's law adrastic

      bind the soul in chain of iron.



     "all the land be full of magic,

      Danger 'neath delight repose,

      Love be fierce and dark and tragic.

      Cypress mingle with the rose."





it be Eustace Gartney in the flesh, return to quiet old England

after his perilous wandering in distant land beyond the verge of

civilization, and Otterburn feel most unaccountably glad to see he

once more. why this should be the case seem somewhat strange, see

that they have tired of one another in their former intimacy, and

part with mutual satisfaction, yet in the heart of each there lurk

a kindly feeling which cast a certain glamour round their old

friendship, and make they mutually glad to meet again.



otterburn shake the hand of his former mentor with [* * *] pleasure,

thrust he into the most comfortable chair in the room, and prepare

to ask a series of breathless [* * *] as to all that have take place

since their parting at [* * *] many month ago. Eustace, on his part,

feel a [* * *] this enthusiastic reception, and be glad to think that

at least one friend remember he in a kindly manner.



they have both change in outward appearance since their last meeting,

Gartney be much thin than formerly, but his face, lean and

brown, still retain its dreamy expression, which be, indeed,

deepen by his habit of thoughtful self-communing in solitary

desert. for the rest, he be as badly dress as ever, be now

array in a loose suit of grey home-spin, which would have startle

the accurately dress denizen of St. James' Street on the person of

any one else but Eustace Gartney. but, then, he be a privileged

person, and, as his poetic book of travel have render he more

famous than ever, his former friend greet he heartily, all of

which greeting, although kindly mean, Eustace estimate in a cynical

fashion at their proper value, until genuinely touch by the boyish

and demonstrative affection of Otterburn.



that young man, on his part, have wonderfully improve from the slender

boy of eighteen month before, for, although the space of time seem

short, Macjean be at that age when the change from adolescence to

manhood be very sudden and very marked. the semi-uncivilized life he

have lead have also a great deal to do with the shaping of his physical

characteristic, and he be more manly, more self-reliant, and more

mature in every way than the unformed youth from whom Eustace have

part. a heavy moustache adorn his upper lip, he carry himself in

a dashing, self-confident manner, and the tone of his voice be

deep and more mellow than formerly. still he retain that boyish,

impulsive manner that have so fascinate the cynical man of the world,

and Eustace look upon he approvingly, as he lean forward in his

chair, with eager eye and part lip, anxious to hear all about the

eld man's adventure.



"what a jolly time you've have, Gartney!" say Otterburn, gaily, "but,

by Jove, what a queer fish you be. you start for a month's tour in

Cyprus, and you end up by a year and a half's exploration of Arabia."



"the seductive influence of travel draw I onward," reply Gartney,

cross his leg and fold his hand. "after all you might as well

have come with I that time at Venice, instead of go off to Central

Europe."



"oh, I've be to America since then."



"yes, so I hear. same man you go that carpathian trip with?"



"yes. awfully good sort of fellow, but a mania for wild life. he be

here a few minute ago, want I to start off to Africa on another

expedition."



"and you, be very comfortably settle here, decline."



"rather! I like breathe time you know. will you have a cigarette?"

say Angus, hold out his open case.



"no, thank you. I've contract the vice of pipe-smoking," reply

Eustace, produce a well-wear briar-root, and fill it leisurely.

"you've get very pleasant room here."



"yes, be they not? I buy the whole box and dice just as they stand

from Bamfield. get they at a bargain, much to the delight of Johnnie."



"be Johnnie still with you?"



"of course! he's part and parcel of my life, and circumnavigate the

globe with I, like a Scotch Sir Francis Drake. do you want a light?

here you be."



he strike a match, and hand it to Eustace, who light his pipe, and

then lean contentedly back in his chair, listen to the vivacious

chatter of the young man.



"of course you know your book have be a great success," say

otterburn, point to a copy on the table, "there it be. I get it as

soon as it be publish. some of the critic, however, have be

give it fit, especially the chapter call 'the Puritans of

Islam.'"



"indeed! and what do the critic know about the Wahhabees?" ask

Eustace, with calm surprise.



"accord to their own showing, everything."



"ah, we all know the omniscience of critic! they be truly wonderful

man, before whose vast experience and knowledge I remain dumb. and the

rapidity of their work, their marvellous grasp of every subject in

literature, from a child's Primer to a novel of George Meredith's.

nothing appall they, nothing daunt they. oh, what wonderful man they

be! truly wonderful, so calm, so learn, so kind-hearted. why do you

know, Macjean, I meet a critic once who think nothing of Dickens as

an author! think of that! think of the wonderful mind of that man who

could afford to speak contemptuously about one of the master spirit

of the age."



"do he write book himself?" ask Otterburn, shrewdly, at which

Eustace look at he in grave reproof.



"of course not," he reply quietly, "he be a most self-deny man.

he do write one novel I believe, but it be so far in advance of our

present age that the publisher be afraid to print it--fancy that, a

publisher afraid! well, it be so, and now this critic only review

other people's book--what self-denial. and then his decision. why he

make up his mind about a book, that have take month to write, in

five minute. I've know he analyse a book without cut the leave

to read it. of course it be marvellous, simply marvellous, but our age

be prolific in such clever man. I've meet many such, and always feel

like a whip schoolboy before their calm, clear gaze. if you boil

down twenty of our good author you may make one critic, but then it's

quality not quantity."



"I think you do not like critic?"



"not like critic, my dear fellow?" say Eustace sweetly, "why they

be my dearest friend, my good benefactor. they always read my

book, and give half an hour to each, actually a whole half hour. what

friendship! and then, you know, they be so kind, they point out all

my mistake, and if I copy any idea of foreign author, they always

look they up to see if I have do so correctly, and mention

it--really mention it--in their article. if there be anything naughty

in my chapter, they reprove I, oh, so kindly, and tell the public

where to look for the bad bit. and then they be so modest; they

never tell I they write these article, when I meet they in society.

I always put my name to my book, they never do to their article, and

yet my book be full of mistake which they try to correct for I."



"how kind of they?"



"yes, be it not? I wish I be a critic, Angus, instead of a poor

author. I be always wrong, you know, and they be constantly right,

but then I don't know so much as they do. when I write a book I've to

see thing for myself, but they can sit down and correct I without

go outside the four wall of their study. what a pity Shakespeare

have not critic in his day! they would have point out all the

defect in Hamlet, and good-naturedly correct Lear for he. I

daresay they would have show he how to improve his blank verse. it

do need improve, you know, because I hear a poet say so the other

day. a real poet, much well than Browning or Tennyson, only he

ben't know so well. just twenty-two year of age, and yet could talk

like that--wonderful. but don't speak any more about critic, because

I'm so fond of they that I could praise they for hour. let we talk of

mean thing. tell I all the news of the day, the scandal of the

hour, the gossip of the drawing-room, and story of club."



"Faith, I don't know that I've much to tell you," say otterburn

candidly. "I've be on the war-path as well as yourself, so be just

an ignorant of town as you be."



Gartney smoke on quietly for a few moment, and then suddenly ask

the question nearest his heart:



"what about the Erringtons, Macjean?"



"I haven't the least idea," reply Angus carelessly, "as I have not

see they since you do at Como. I believe they be still live at

their place in the country, and that Lady Errington have present she

husband with a son and heir."



"yes, I hear that," say Gartney, with a slight smile. "I wonder if

my prophecy have come true?"



"Eh!--what prophecy?"



"about the Incomplete Madonna."



"oh, yes, I remember now," respond Otterburn indolently, "you say

she be unfinishe, don't you? well, I suppose she's happy now, as

she have gain her heart's desire and become a mother."



"I've  no doubt she's happy," say Eustace significantly; "but what

about her husband?"



"I'm sure I don't know! you seem to take a great interest in the

Erringtons?"



Eustace flush a little under the bronze colour of his skin, and

move uneasily in his seat.



"do I? a mere whim, I assure you, to see if my prophecy about the

incomplete Madonna turn out correct. but never mind, I'm go to

call on Aunt Jelly this afternoon, and she'll give I more accurate

information than you can. have you meet Aunt Jelly yet?"



"no! you forget I tell you I have be away from England also,"

answer otterburn stiffly.



"true! I forget that, but you see my dear relation haven't write a

word to I since I've be away, and I'm oblige to ask a stranger for

information. be Aunt Jelly's ward marry yet?"



"no; she be still Miss Sheldon."



"you be rather fond of she, be you not?"



"so fond of she that I ask she to be my wife at Como, and she

refuse I."



"I guess as much," reply Eustace calmly; "however, that be merely

a boyish fancy."



"I beg your pardon. no!"



"indeed! you don't mean to say you be in love with Victoria Sheldon

still?"



Otterburn arise to his foot with an angry laugh, and begin to walk

slowly to and fro with his hand in his pocket.



"be there anything so extraordinary in that? I love Miss Sheldon and

she refuse to marry I, so I try to forget she. well, I haven't

forget she, and I've come back to Town expressly to ask she to be

my wife. I daresay I'm a fool, but you're not in love, and cannot

understand the feeling."



"can I not!" answer Gartney serenely, think of Lady Errington,

"well, I don't know so much about that. have you meet Miss Sheldon

yet?"



"no.



"that don't sound like an eager lover."



"I daresay it don't," retort Angus coolly, "but you see I've

learn sense since my first rebuff, and now gang warily, as the Scotch

say. I'm not go to let Miss Sheldon see I care two straw about she

till I find out the state of her feeling towards I."



"astute diplomatist!--then I suppose you willn't call with I on my

respected aunt?"



"and meet Miss Sheldon!--hardly! I'm go to wait till I see she at a

fancy-dress ball Mrs. Veilsturm give shortly."



"oh!" say Eustace, remove his pipe, "be that lady still in the

flesh?"



"very much so, indeed accord to Mr. Adolphus Thambits--of whom

you've no doubt hear--her house be quite a fashionable centre."



Gartney make a gesture of disgust, and arise to his foot.



"Good Lord! what be we come to? I think people would have find

out Mrs. Veilsturm and her scamp of a Major long ago. I meet they last

time I be in London. I suppose they still have the little Sunday

evening, and talk about the west indian estate?"



"yes, I believe so."



"Humph! I should not have think Aunt Jelly would have let her ward

visit Mrs. Veilsturm."



"why not? she be in the odour of sanctity--no one know her little

peccadillo, or, if they do, don't talk about they. I suppose few

people except the initiate know about the real business of those

Sunday evening. Mrs. Veilsturm be all white--on the surface--so not

even her dear friend can throw mud at she."



"you be get quite eloquent, otterburn," observe Eustace smile;

"I suppose, when you're married and settle we'll hear of you in

Parliament."



"I'm not married and settle yet!--perhaps I never will be," reply

otterburn gloomily.



"you don't seem very hopeful," remark Eustace, with gentle sarcasm,

"but as you willn't come to Aunt Jelly's, suppose I play the part of

Cupid's messenger, and find out how the land lie with Victoria

Sheldon."



"oh, if you only would," cry Angus eagerly; "but no! I'm afraid

there's not much chance for I. I daresay she have forget I ever

exist."



"oh, if that be the case I'll soon improve her memory! cheer up--while

there's life there's hope."



"not always," respond Angus gloomily, "particularly in this case. I

call she a coquette last time we part."



"no doubt she fully deserve the name, if I remember rightly," say

Eustace drily, put on his hat, "and she'll remember you for that

out of spite."



"well, do what you like, Gartney," reply Otterburn, grasp his

friend's hand, "I'm awfully glad to see you safe and sound once more.

when will you look I up again?"



"I'm not quite sure! I've get to see Aunt Jelly first--my lawyer

second--about a dozen tradesman, to make myself respectable, and then

I be go to run down home for a few day."



"I don't know you have a home."



"oh, yes!--the cot where I be bear, and all that kind of thing. a

tumble-down old place, look out on to the German Ocean."



"well, don't let I lose sight of you yet," say Macjean, accompany

his guest to the door.



"No!--by-the-way, I'll come back and tell you my impression of Miss

Sheldon, and you can shape your course accordingly--in love with the

same woman for eighteen month! good Lord! what constancy! ah, Johnnie

and how be you?"



"Brawly! brawly! thank ye for speiring, sir," reply Mr. Armstrong,

who stand hold the door open, "may I tac' the leeberty of

obsairving, sir, that ye look a wee bit brown, it's the weather na

doot."



"not a bit of it, Johnnie--the sun, my man, the sun."



"Hech! Hech! Au thocht it be the dochter," reply Johnnie, laugh

at his own wit.



Eustace do not take offence, as Johnnie's dour way rather amuse

he, so he laugh also and depart, while Angus go back to his

dressing-room to get ready for pay a round of visit.









CHAPTER XIX.

AUNT JELLY discuss FAMILY AFFAIRS.



     "you know the marriage service where it says--

      'whom God hath join let no man put asunder,'

      that answer for an interfere third,

      who sow dissension in a happy home;

      but wife and husband can do just the same,

      unless there's give and take betwixt the pair,

      black look, neglect, hard word, and other ill,

      will put asunder a and b new wed,

      as surely as if C have play the rogue."





Aunt Jelly be a lady whom everyone judge well to leave alone, as

she, be of a tart and aggressive nature, be dispose to be

exceedingly disagreeable when meddle with. Old Father Time appear

to be of the same opinion, for he never seem to come near she in any

way, and though year after year go by, change youth to age,

dim bright eye, whiten head brown and golden, and turn

mellow voice to shrill treble, Miss Corbin still preserve the same

grim appearance, as if she be indeed the granite figure to which so

many of her friend liken she. if Time do add another wrinkle in a

stealthy way, or make her blood course more slowly through her

wither frame, he do it in such a manner that no one, not even the

close observer, could notice it; and Aunt Jelly, straight and

defiant as ever, sit grimly silent in her chair, knitting, knitting,

knitting, as though she be some immortal hag weave the destiny

of short-live humanity.



the old lady have hear of Eustace's return from abroad, and be in a

high state of indignation that he have not call to see she as soon as

he arrive in Town, but having receive a note from he say he

would pay she a visit that afternoon, she be now wait with the

firm determination to give he an unpleasant reception.



Victoria have already go out in the carriage to do some shopping for

the old dame, and no one be with Miss Corbin except Minnie Pelch,

who, more tearful than ever, be seat at the window, like Sister

Anne, watch for the approach of Mr. Gartney.



the room have the same old-fashioned look about it, save that here and

there a bunch of flower or some dainty feminine adornment show that

Victoria Sheldon have strive to make thing somewhat more home-like.

Aunt Jelly sit in her chair with woolly-haired Coriolanus at her foot,

and knit on in severe silence, only open her mouth every now and

then to speak to the tearful Miss Pelch.



that young-old lady be in a state of suppress excitement at the

prospect of see eustace again, as she contemplate make a final

assault on he regard the publication of her poem, but Aunt Jelly

have so harass and worry she, that she be reduce to a state of

extreme limpness, and weep in a stealthy manner, make her eye red,

which by no mean add to the beauty of her appearance.



the port and sherry decanter be on the table with the usual plate

of cake, for though Miss Corbin intend to give Eustace a

disagreeable reception she do not think of neglect the duty of

hospitality; fulfil in her eye by the production of cake and wine.



"well," say Miss Corbin sharply, for the seventh time, "be he

come?"



"not yet," reply Minnie meekly, after the fashion of Sister Anne.



Miss Corbin snort like an old war-horse, toss her head in an

indignant manner, and resume her work.



"in my young day," she observe at length in her usual harsh fashion,

"the junior be always civil to the senior. civility cost nothing

then--now it appear to be unpurchasable. eh! what do you say, Minnie?

Nothing!--it's your sniffling then! how often have I tell you to

correct that habit. look again--be he come?"



"not yet," answer Miss Pelch once more, "it's only three o'clock."



"I don't ask you the time," rejoin Aunt Jelly tartly. "I suppose

you're go to worry he about that poetry of your?"



"I'm go to ask he to get it publish," say Minnie with tearful

dignity, "bind in blue and gold with my portrait at the beginning."



"poor child," say Aunt Jelly, pause a moment, "how you do build

castle in the air. well, I hope my nephew will help you to do what

you wish. nobody will read the book except the critic, and they'll

abuse you. if they do," continue Miss Corbin, shake her finger,

"don't come to I for sympathy, for I've warn you. be he come?"



"yes!" cry Minnie, in a state of excitement, see a hansom rattle

round the corner and pull up before the door, "he's in a cab."



"oh, indeed, couldn't walk I suppose," grumble Miss Corbin grimly,

"well for his pocket and his liver if he do. hand I that last

volume of his rubbish, Minnie, I've get a few word to say about it."



Minnie obediently do as she be tell and Aunt Jelly take the heavy

book on her knee, while the door be fling open by the butler, who

announce in his usual pompous voice:



"Mr. Eustace Gartney."



"how do you do, Aunt Jelly?" say Eustace, walk across to the old

lady as if he have only part with she the day before, "you don't look

a day old."



"Humph! I'm sorry I cann't return the compliment" reply Miss Corbin,

present her withered cheek to be salute. "Arabia haven't do you

much good, at all event."



"you're as candid as ever, I see," say Gartney carelessly, turn to

Minnie. "I hope you be well, Miss Pelch."



"oh quite, thank you, dear Mr. Gartney," answer Minnie, in a state

of flutter excitement. "I'm so delighted to see you back."



"so kind of you," murmur Eustace, take a seat in the chair Minnie

push forward for he. "well, Aunt Jelly, and how have the world be

use you?"



"the same as I've be use it," retort Miss Jelly

epigrammatically. "I keep the world at its distance."



"like oil painting. they always look well at a distance, you know."



"don't talk book to I," say the old lady, "I've have quite enough of

your smart saying in this," touch the volume on her lap.



"so I see! I tell my publisher to send you a copy. I hope you like

it."



"I do very, very much," cry Minnie clasp her hand, "it's simply

too lovely for anything."



"the critic don't think so," say Aunt Jelly spitefully.



"and I suppose you agree with the critic," reply Eustace.



"do you hear I say so?" demand his aunt fiercely.



"No but----"



"then don't cry out till you be hurt. take a glass of wine--Minnie,

the wine."



Miss Pelch pour out the wine with trembling hand, so excited she be

at the presence of the great author, and Eustace, know his aunt's

determination on the subject of port, drink it meekly although it be

a wine he hate.



"the book," say Miss Corbin, after a pause, "be not at all bad. I

daresay there be a good many lie in it, still they're decently tell

lie. you've improve this time, Eustace."



"thank you, my dear aunt, I'm glad to have your good opinion, but the

critics----"



"critic," snort Aunt Jelly scornfully, "do you mean those idiot

that scribble for the paper and who would abuse their parent for two

penny three farthing? Pooh! I don't call those critic. in the palmy

day of the _Quarterly Review_ there be decent reviewer, but

now--rubbish! they write nothing but drivel, though to be sure it's

drivel they criticise. I'm not talk about your book, Eustace, my

dear. it's good!--very good, and I wouldn't say so if I don't think

so."



"no, I'm sure you wouldn't," reply Eustace meekly. "and how be

thing, aunt?"



"what kind of thing, child? be more explicit."



"well, my cousin Errington, be he all right?"



"Humph! right enough."



"and his wife?"



"she's a fool," remark Aunt Jelly politely, at which Eustace feel

quite indignant.



"I don't think so."



"what do you know about it?" retort the old lady sharply. "I tell

you she be a fool. Guy be up to see I the other day."



"well, you can hardly expect I to believe that Guy speak like that to

you about his wife.



"who say he do, you blind bat? don't jump to conclusion, Eustace,

for you're not clever enough to land at they."



"well, tell I why you speak of Lady Errington like this"



"I take my own time and own way of tell thing," reply Miss Jelly

deliberately. "Minnie, my dear, go upstairs and look for your poetry,

I daresay Mr. Gartney will glance at it before he go."



Minnie have her precious manuscript in her pocket, but know from

Miss Corbin's hint that she want to discuss private affair with her

nephew, meekly retreat from the room, close the door quietly after

she.



"I don't know what I've do that you should inflict Minnie's poetry

on I," say Eustace in an injure tone.



"Pooh, nonsense! don't be selfish. it give the poor child pleasure to

have her milk-and-water rubbish look at by you. do a kind action for

once in your life, Eustace. I'm sure it's little enough you do for

your fellow-creature."



"they ben't worth it."



"I daresay, but no doubt they make the same remark about you."



"well, don't bother about my failing, Aunt Jelly," say Eustace

impatiently, "tell I about the Erringtons."



"it's just this," observe Miss Jelly, let her knitting fall on

her lap, "you know how fond Guy be of that wife of his, a piece of ice

with no more feeling in she than that pair of tong. well, since this

child be bear, she have change altogether, nothing but love and

affection, and the Lord know what!"



"all the well for guy, I should say," say Eustace, who know what

be come.



"all the bad you mean," retort his aunt. "bless my soul, I don't

mind the woman melt, no one could go on love such an icicle, but

she's melt the wrong way, and every particle of affection she have be

give to the child."



"well that's only natural."



"it's nothing of the sort, sir," object Aunt Jelly energetically.

"why should a woman love nothing but her child, and take no more

notice of her husband than if he be a sign-post? every woman ought to

love her child, certainly, but they owe something to the father of

the child as well."



"no doubt! but perhaps Guy exaggerate his wife's neglect."



Aunt Jelly shake her head in a doubtful manner.



"I don't think so," she reply, deliberately, "guy ben't the man to

cry out, unless he's hurt. from what he say, it appear Alizon be

always with the child, and the poor lad be leave to wander about by

himself. sometimes, she willn't even come to meal. now, that cann't

possibly be right, can it?"



"no, I suppose not," answer Eustace, after a pause, wonder to

himself at find his prophecy so literally fulfil, "but, perhaps,

the child be ill, and need care."



"the child be as well as you be," retort Aunt jelly, snappishly,

"though that be not say much, for you look as if you be sicken

for some disease, but in plain word Alizon be neglect her husband

in the most silly manner for the child. if this be the case, how will

it end?"



"I'm sure I don't know!"



"you never know anything! then I'll tell you, they'll learn to do

without one another, and that's a bad thing. she'll be all right,

because she's get the child, but Guy's get nothing, and he's not the

man to put-up with such treatment. if she neglect he, he'll find

consolation with some other woman."



"oh, aunt!"



"I've shock you, have I?" say the old lady grimly. "get your nerve

well under control, then. I call a spade a spade, and be tell you

the truth. if Alizon Errington go on like this, the first woman that

come along will snap up her husband, and the consequence will be of

her own making."



"well, what's to be do?" demand Eustace, blankly.



"I'm sure I don't know," say Aunt Jelly, with an air of vexation,

resume her knitting. "I don't want to see the affair end in the

Divorce Court, and that's the direction it's go in at present. Guy

be up the other day, and tell I some long rigmarole about his

feeling, so the good thing you can do be to go down to the Hall, and

see what you can do."



"I!" cry Eustace, jump to his foot in a state of agitation. "I

can do nothing."



"take a glass of wine, my dear, take a glass of wine," say Aunt

Jelly, sharply. "your nerve be all crooked. that come of gad

about the world."



Eustace make no reply to this onslaught, but walk to and fro in

silence. he be considerably puzzle how to act in this dilemma, as he

have make up his mind not to see Lady Errington, think his feeling

towards she be too strong for he to keep silence. curiously enough

it never seem to strike he that as Alizon be neglect her own

husband for the child, it be unlikely she would respond to his

passion in any way, see that she have neither eye nor ear for

anything save her first-bear. Gartney's egotism blind he on this

occasion, as it do on many other, but he feel that he be be

force into a situation, towards the woman he love, from whence there

be no escape. look at it in his narrow-minded fashion, it seem a

struggle between love and honour, and he be undecided how to act. all

his life, however, he have be accustom to deny himself nothing, and

in this case he carry out his rule principle of selfishly

gratify himself, so there and then make up his mind to accept Aunt

Jelly's mission and go down to Errington Hall.



"well, Eustace," say Aunt Jelly sharply, quite unaware of the

struggle go on in her nephew's mind, "what do you say--will you do

a kind action for once in your life?"



eustace having make up his mind, come slowly back to his elderly

relation and resume his chair.



"I'm sorry you've get such a bad opinion of I, Aunt Jelly," he say

coolly, "and I'll have much pleasure in prove you're wrong for once

in your life, by go down to Ellington Hall, and have a talk with

Guy."



"that's right," reply Miss Corbin, much gratified. "and I suppose

you'll have a look at your own place."



"of course!"



"I think so, you never do a thing in your life without a double

motive," say Aunt Jelly, unjustly. "however, I don't care two straw

what you go down for, so long as you try and put thing right between

those two idiot."



"kindly opinion you've get of human nature, Aunt."



"no doubt, I have," retort Miss Jelly, coolly, "but that's human

nature's own fault, not mine."



"do you remember what wise La Rochefoucauld say?" observe Eustace,

thoughtfully. "'many people judge the world as if they be its

judge, and not its denizen.' that be true, I think."



"I don't like your cut and dry wisdom, Mr. Quoter-of-old-saw,"

reply Aunt Jelly, "there's sure to be a flaw in it somewhere."



Eustace laugh and lean back in his chair.



"you've get an answer for everything, Aunt Jelly! well, I'll go down

to Errington, and do my good, but I'm doubtful of success. it's

foolish work meddling between man and wife."



Miss Corbin sniff in a doubtful manner, and be about to make some

bitter reply, when the door open and Victoria, bright and piquant as

ever, enter the room.



"here I be, Aunt Jelly," she cry gaily, "with not one of your order

forget--Mr. Gartney!"



"how do you do, Miss Sheldon?" say that gentleman rise from his

seat, "it's some time since we meet."



the memory of their ill-conceal enmity at Como, and of the

circumstance under which, she have part from Otterburn, all rush

suddenly into Victoria's mind, and she blush deeply, but with her

usual self-command she suppress all other sign of emotion, as she

hold out her hand frankly to Eustace.



"it's eighteen month since we last see one another," she say,

equably, "and since then, judge from your book, you have be

lead a delightfully dangerous life."



"More fool he!" mutter Aunt Jelly disdainfully.



"and you, Miss Sheldon," say Eustace, take no notice of the old

lady's ill-nature, "what kind of a life have you be lead?"



Victoria slip into a chair, and take off her glove carelessly,

though, truth to tell, her heart be beat somewhat rapidly at this

meeting.



"oh, the usual London life!" she reply nonchalantly. "Theatre, Park,

Ball, Church--Church, Ball, Park, Theatre. the only change you can get

be to reverse they."



"you young girl don't know how to enjoy yourself in a rational

way," say Miss Corbin, politely; "you ought to marry and settle

down."



"that's your advice to everyone, Aunt Jelly," retort Victoria, she

cheek grow hot; "but you have not practise what you now preach."



"circumstance alter case, child," return Aunt Jelly, composedly.

"I have my reason--you, no doubt, would call they ridiculous

reason--but they be good enough for I."



Victoria do not know of the old love romance between her father and

this fade beauty, or she would never have speak as she do; but as

Miss Corbin, with a softened look in her eye, bend over her work, she

feel vaguely that this sharp-tongue woman have suffer, and touch

the withered hand with a pretty gesture of penitence.



"I suppose you have quite forget Como, Miss Sheldon?" say Eustace,

remember his promise to otterburn, and artfully try to find out

if she still remember the boy.



"oh, no! I like Como very much! the scenery be delightful."



she speak quietly enough, but Eustace be an acute observer of human

nature, and his keen ear catch an inflection of a tremor in her voice

which considerably guide he in frame his next remark.



"yes, the scenery be charming, be it not?" he remark

significantly; "and the friend we meet there also. what a pleasant

party we be. the Erringtons, Mrs. Trubbles, yourself and--Macjean."



"and what have become of Mr. Macjean?" she ask in a low voice, take

up Aunt Jelly's ball of wool.



"oh, Otterburn be in London."



"in London!" she echo, start violently.



"dear I, Victoria," say Aunt Jelly, snappishly, "how nervous you

be, child! you've upset my wool all over the place."



Victoria, glad of an excuse to hide her face, bend down to pick up the

ball, and Aunt Jelly, having catch Otterburn's name, go on talk.



"Otterburn, eh? I know that name. ben't that the young man you

flirt with at Como, Victoria?"



"I don't flirt with he," cry Victoria, raise her head defiantly.

"at least," she add, catch sight of Gartney's keen eye fix on

she, "at least, not much."



"that's so like you, child," observe Aunt Jelly, disentangle she

yarn, "you will play with fire--some day you'll burn your finger."



"perhaps that catastrophe have happen already," say Eustace quickly.



Miss Sheldon laugh in a somewhat artificial manner at this remark,

and promptly deny it.



"I'm sure it haven't," she say, look straight at Eustace with

crimson cheek. "I take too good care of myself for that. but talk

about Mr. Macjean, how be it I have not see he?"



"I don't know I'm sure," reply Gartney carelessly; "he's only be a

short time in Town, you know. I want he to come here to-day, but he

be engage."



Victoria feel all her old hatred of Eustace revive as he speak the

last word, as she feel sure he be talk sarcastically, and would

have like to reply sharply, but she could hardly do so without

betray an unwonted interest in Otterburn, which might have place

lynx-eyed Aunt Jelly on the _qui vive_, so wisely hold her tongue.



Eustace himself, be satisfied that Victoria still feel an interest

in his young friend, inwardly congratulate himself on the result of

his diplomacy, and arise to go.



"Goodbye, Aunt Jelly," he say, kiss his relative. "I'll go down

home to-morrow and tell you what I've do on my return."



"that's right, Eustace," say Aunt Jelly, much pleased; "have a glass

of wine before you go?"



"no, thank you," reply Gartney, walk to the door, "one glass be

enough for I."



"weak head," mutter Aunt Jelly, "just like your father."



"well than a weak character," retort Eustace, gaily. "_Au revoir_,

Miss Sheldon. I'll tell Mr. Macjean I've see you."



"no, don't," say Victoria hastily, then, feel that she have

commit an error, strove to mend it. "I mean yes, of course I'll be

very pleased to see Mr. Macjean again."



"I've no doubt you will," mutter Eustace to himself, as he get into

his cab; "she's still in love with he, so otterburn have only to ask

and to have."



Mr. Gartney would hardly have be so confident have he see Victoria

at that moment, for she have run hastily up to her room and be lie

on her bed in a passion of tear.



"he wouldn't come and see I, I suppose," she say viciously. "oh,

very well, I'll punish he for this. he's forget all about I, but

I'll make he propose again if it's only for the pleasure of refuse

he."









CHAPTER XX.

the OLD HOUSE by the SEA.



     "Curs'd by Superstition eerie,

      Grim it stand a ruin dreary,

      Round it spread the marsh lonely,

      haunt by dim shadow only,

      shadow of an evil seeming,

      such as rise in ghastly dreaming,

      overhead the sky of crimson,

      redden slowly from the dim sun,

      silently the sluggish water

      Undermine the tower which totter,

      and the ocean's sullen boom,

      Prophesies the come doom,

      when the house shall sudden sink,

      shattered o'er destruction's brink,

      and the dark night's gloomy pall

      evermore brood over all."





Eustace, with his whimsical fancy for bestow appropriate name on

all thing, have christen his ancestral residence Castle Grim, and he

certainly could not have hit upon a happy title for such a dreary

place.



stand on the verge of wide-spread marsh, it face towards the

sea, which be only a little distance away, and the salt wind from

the ocean roar day and night round the lonely house. for it be

lonely, no habitation be within mile, owe to the malaria which

arise from the marsh make the whole neighbourhood unhealthy to

live in. Gartney have another residence, much more comfortable,

situate in the midland shire, but, with his usual fantastic nature,

prefer when stay in the country to inhabit this semi-ruinous

mansion.



whoever build it must have be fond of solitude, and much give to

self-communing of a dreary nature, for certainly no one with a

healthy mind could have find pleasure in contemplate the melancholy

stretch of the marsh and in hearken to the sullen roar of the

surge break on the sandy shore. few of the Gartney family have

stay in it since its erection, and it be reserve for Eustace, in

whom the melancholy nature of some far-off ancestor be revive, to

make it a habitable residence.



perhaps the weirdness of the place have a fascination for his poet

nature, or the dismal fenland please his distorted imagination, but

at all event, Eustace be rarely in England without pay a visit to

Castle Grim, and stay there a few day, before his departure to

distant land.



other people not be so fond of this awesome place, Gartney could

get no ordinary servant to stay in it, and consequently it be leave

to the care of an aged pair, man and wife, who do not mind where they

live so long as they have a roof to cover they, food to eat, and a

chance of earn a decent income. they look after the crazy old

place thoroughly, and when their master pay it a visit contrive to

make he pretty comfortable consider all thing. but as a rule,

they live a Robinson Crusoe-like life, see no one from week's end

to week's end, save when they go into Denfield for provision.



Mr. and Mrs. Javelrack, the guardian of this unpleasant mansion, have

receive a telegram from its owner, tell they that he be come,

and consequently the male Javelrack have drive to the Denfield Station

for his master, while the female Javelrack set the room in order and

prepare a meal for Mr. Gartney.



Eustace have not bring his valet to Castle Grim, as that worthy would

immediately have give notice have he be ask to stay in such a

nerve-shake place. so he drive away from the station slowly in the

dog-cart with his quaint old retainer beside he, and his portmanteau

behind.



it be a very decent dog-cart take it all round, and the horse in

the shaft be not by any mean a bad speciman of his kind, as Gartney

allow the Javelracks a decent sum yearly to keep up the place, and

they make amend for their lonely life by surround themselves with

all the luxury they be able. Report say they be miser, and

perhaps there be some truth in the rumour, but whenever Eustace come

down, he always find thing in order, so he never trouble his head

to ascertain what proportion of the income he allow they have spend

on the place, or what portion they stow away in odd corner. indeed,

if he have find that these two old servant be spend as little as

they could without be find out, and put the rest by for a

rainy day, he would not have be particularly annoyed, for they be

only within their right in have some pleasure in Castle Grim.



Eustace wrap himself well up in his ulster, for the wind blow very

keenly across the marsh, and as the horse be restive, they soon

leave the village behind and be move rapidly across the straight

road which stretch a narrow white thread until it vanish on the

verge of the horizon. the gable of Errington Hall show whitely

above the sombre wood around it, but after a rapid glance at the roof

which cover the woman he love, Gartney shake the rein impatiently

to make the horse go fast, and stare resolutely at the red glare of

the sky lower over the wild waste landscape.



"I'll see she to-morrow," he think, as the hoof of the horse beat

steadily on the hard white road, "and then I can see for myself how

thing stand between she and Guy."



some long sombre cloud lower heavily over the crimson of the

horizon as if Night, like some dark-wing bird, be wait to settle

down on the chill earth, and a keen cold wind, blow sharply from

the distant ocean, bring the salt odour of the sea to their

nostril.



Javelrack, his huge form bow by age and rheumatism catch from the

marsh mist, sit grimly silent beside his master with his large,

hairy, brown hand clasp on his lap, and his mahogany-colour face

with its wiry black beard, so screw up with face the cut wind,

that under his weather-stain brown hat he look like a fantastic

chinese idol. eustace, wrap up in his own thought, pay no

attention to his silent companion, but, bow his head against the

blast, indulge in vision of Alizon Errington.



a dreary country, with the wide spread marsh stretch on either

side for mile, and the long straight road run through the heart

of the swamp. sluggish, slimy pool of oily stillness, fringe of

stately reed sway to and fro in the blast, smooth patch of green

grass, pleasing to the eye but treacherous to the unwary foot. here

and there a break-down fence, deeply implant in weed of luxuriant

growth, border deep ditch of black earth fill with stagnant

water, on which float green slime, row of depressed-look

willow, and on occasion the gaunt stump of a tree stick up as if

to mark the site of a submerge forest.



then suddenly against the dull red of the sky a misshapen pile of

gable and chimney on the verge of a slight rise, girdle by a gaunt

ring of leafless tree. beyond, heap of wind-blow sand cover with

sparse vegetation standing as a barrier between the marsh and the

ocean, which toss in wave of blood under the evil red sky as it

moan in a querulous voice on the starve-look strip of sandy

beach. and this be Castle Grim.



Eustace stop the tired horse at the door of the house (or rather

the horse stop of its own accord), and give the rein to

Javelrack, jump down. at the door he be meet by Mrs. Javelrack,

large and gaunt as her husband, with the same embrowned face and the

same distorted feature, suggestive of chinese deity. indeed, as the

male Javelrack take the portmanteau into the house and stand by his

wife, they look like two ogre inhabit Castle Grim, who be

prepared to make a meal of Eustace as soon as he be safely within the

wall.



the male ogre, however, take his master's portmanteau into his

bedroom, and then come out again, take the dog-cart round to the

stable, while Mrs. Javelrack, her face twist into a hideous grin

mean for a smile, bring hot water for the weary traveller.



"don't be long with the dinner, Mrs. Javelrack," call Eustace as she

close the door.



"no sir," croak Mrs. Javelrack in a hoarse voice, as if she have be

a frog out of the marsh, "it 'ull be ready as soon as you, sir."



Mr. Gartney wash himself in the warm water, which take away the

smarting feel in his face cause by the keen salt wind, and having

change his clothe saunter into the one habitable room of the

place, which do for dining-room, drawing-room, and music-room, for

Eustace have send down a very good piano, which stand in one corner.



"Humph! rather spoilt by the damp," he say to himself; as he run his

lithe finger over the key, "or perhaps the amiable Mrs. Javelrack

have be try to cultivate music."



the ogress bring in the dinner and wait on Eustace in a ponderous

manner, give he all the news of the neighbourhood, which be

remarkably scant, and talk all through the meal in a subdue roar.

when Eustace have finish, she remove the dish, bring in some

coffee, and, after make up the fire, retire to the kitchen and the

company of Mr. Javelrack. Gartney hear they chat even through the

thick wall, for the dampness of the marsh have make they both

somewhat deaf, and consequently they shout so loudly at one another,

that it be difficult at time to tell whether it be the ocean

roaring or the ogre converse.



it be a very comfortable room, having be furnish by Eustace

accord to his own idea, and the wall, instead of be paper,

be hang with dull red cloth after the fashion of tapestry, which

wave at interval as the searching wind creep in shrilly through

crack and cranny. a wide fireplace in which blaze a large coal fire

between the grotesque brass dog, several comfortable arm-chair, and

on one side, a small book-case contain a selection of Gartney's

favourite author. at the distant end of the room a grand piano, with

the music pile neatly beside it, a cumbersome, old-fashioned sofa,

and a deep, square window with diamond pane, and a quaint oaken seat

set in its depth.



Eustace draw an arm-chair close to the fire and near to the small

table upon which Mrs. Javelrack have place his coffee, produce his

pipe, and be soon puff away in a most comfortable manner. he

pick up a slim volume of poem entitle "rose dreaming," and turn

over the page listlessly as he sip his coffee, feel a drowsy

sensation steal over he. a verse in the poem call "Temptation,"

however, rouse he from this lethargic state, and throw down the

book, he pace restlessly up and down the room repeat the four

line quietly to himself:





     "this love so hard the winning.

        for ever will endure,

      if all the world be sin,

        why should we two be pure?"





"I'm afraid she willn't take the same view as that," he mutter to

himself discontentedly, think of Lady Errington. "and yet, if she

don't love her husband, she may have a kindly feeling for I. as to

the child, surely no woman--not even this Madonna--can devote herself

exclusively to it. still, the child be the obstacle between herself

and her husband, so perhaps it will be the obstacle between herself

and I. oh! I could love she! I could love she if she would only let

I! she will let I! I'm certain of it! Guy have no brain, and she be

starve for the want of intellectual food. the child be the excuse,

but that be the real reason of the coldness between they."



one of the most extraordinary part of Gartney's delusion concern

his chance of success with Lady Errington lie in the fact that his

present reasoning be diametrically oppose to the view he hold when

first meet Lady Errington. he then assert that she would never

care for her husband, but when she become a mother would lavish all

her love on the child. this view of Alizon's character be a correct

one, as Eustace in his innermost heart well know, but he wilfully

deceive himself in think that now she have obtain her heart's

desire she would give it up for the sake of a man whom she have hardly

see. Eustace, however, have be so uniformly triumphant with the

female sex, that the idea of fail with Alizon never enter his

mind, and he think that if he lay siege to Lady Errington, in a

dexterous fashion, she would give up everything--husband, child, name,

and home--in order to gratify his selfish desire.



when he come to England after his many month' absence in Arabia,

Gartney have determine not to see Lady Errington, feel that he

love she, or rather her idolize memory, so much, that he would not

be able to suppress his passion, and thus behave dishonourably towards

his cousin Guy by run away with his wife. Aunt Jelly, however, by

tell he of the estrangement between the pair have banish this

honourable hesitation from his heart, as he feel himself force by

Fate to see the woman he love face to face. it be a very convenient

excuse with which to quiet his conscience for this wrong-doing, and

having settle in his own selfish mind that Fate be too strong for

he, he determine to estrange husband and wife still far, so that

he would have less trouble in overcome Lady Errington's scruple to

his dishonourable proposal.



this idea which he hold have be singularly strengthen by the remark

of Aunt Jelly, when she say that Guy in his present state would be

the prey of the first clever woman that come along. Eustace therefore

determine to introduce Guy to some clever woman who would entangle

he in her net, and the woman he have fix upon in his own mind for

this vile purpose be--Mrs. Veilsturm.



it be curious that he should have fix on this special woman to do

this, see that he be ignorant of Mrs. Veilsturm's grudge against

Lady Errington, and do not know how eagerly she would seize this

opportunity of revenge herself on the woman who have slight she so

scathingly. he merely choose Mrs. Veilsturm because she be beautiful,

clever, and unscrupulous, so a hint to she would be quite sufficient

to induce she to fascinate Guy by all the mean in her power.



Eustace Gartney be by no mean a thoroughly bad man. indeed, he have

very good quality, although they be, to a great extent,

neutralize by his indomitable selfishness, and therefore he suffer

several qualm of conscience over the dishonourable scheme he have in

hand.



his intense egotism and love of gratify self, however, come to his

aid, and he argue himself into a satisfactory frame of mind by Heaven

only know what sophistry.



"she don't care a bit about her husband," he reflect, pace the

room with measured stride, "she never do care about he, and it's a

pity to see a clever woman like that tie to an unsympathetic log.

with I, her life will be much happy than with he, and after he

get a divorce I will marry she, and we will live abroad, where there

will be no narrow-minded bigot to scoff at what they will call she

false step. I'll do it, at whatever cost! my life will be a blank

without she, and she will be unhappy with Guy, so it will be far the

good for both of we to come together, even at the cost of a public

scandal. I'm sorry for Guy, but the one must suffer for the many, and

I daresay in after year he will thank I for take from he a wife

from whom, even now, after less than two year of married life, he be

estranged."



so Eustace, sophist as he be, argue in favour of his dishonourable

passion, and would have even succeed in persuade himself that he

be a much-injure person by have to undergo such trouble, but for a

certain uneasy feeling that he ruthlessly crush down.



having settle his plan to his own satisfaction, Eustace have another

smoke, then go to the window, draw aside the curtain and look

forth into the black night.



the wind be rise and whistle shrilly round the house, lash

the dark wave into line of seethe white foam which glimmer

ghost-like through the gloom, while overhead the thin filmy cloud

race across the sky over the face of the haggard-look moon. he

could hear the thunder of the surge on the distant beach, the wind

mutter drearily among the tree, and cast his eye overhead he

see the pallid moonlight stream in ghastly radiance through the

ragged cloud.



drop the curtain with a sigh, he saunter across to the piano,

and begin to improvise a weird fantasy in keep with the feeling

arouse by the wild scene without. the roll of the sea, the wuthering

of the wind, and the rustle of the reed be all transmute into

strange harmony under the touch of his skilful finger, and steal

out at interval from amid the tempest of sound, steal a strange,

sob strain, fitful and wayward as the breeze, as if some malicious

demon be pipe heart-steal love-song to the sky, and the night,

and the lonely marsh.



he remain some time at the piano, follow his changeful fancy,

but when the clock strike nine he close the instrument, and have one

final pipe before go to bed. as he sit in front of the fire,

look into the heart of the burn coal, he go over again in his

own mind the detail of the scheme by which he hope to secure his

cousin's wife to himself.



"yes," he say aloud in the silence of the room, "it be all right!

there be no flaw!"



there be a flaw, however, and one which, in his blind egotism and

complacent selfishness, he entirely overlook, and that be the love

of the mother for her child.









CHAPTER XXI.

from the husband'S point of VIEW.



     "a statue cut in marble white

      to I give but a cold delight,

        although 'tis fair

        I do not care,

      for joy begin and end with sight.



     "a woman pure as virgin snow,

      within whose vein the life-blood flow,

        whose smile reveal

        the love she feel,

      ah, such a one be Love's true rose."





the next morning Eustace make up his mind to go to Errington Hall in

the afternoon, and meanwhile amuse himself in leisurely stroll

along the beach watch the wave roll landward.



behind he the sand hill rise in low mound with their scanty

vegetation, shut out the marsh beyond, then come the narrow

strip of sandy beach on which his footstep leave deeply imprint

mark, and before he, sombre under the leaden coloured sky, stretch

the heaving ocean, with thin line of white-crest wave break to

cold foam at his foot. the sky, fill with rain-charge cloud,

lower heavily on the chill earth, and midway fly a wide-wing

sea-gull, utter discordant cry.



it be a dreary scene, and Eustace, with his hand clasp behind he,

stare at the dismal prospect, which be quite in keep with his own

disturb feeling. he be meditate a dishonourable action, and he

know it, so in spite of his determination to carry it through to the

bitter end, he feel oppress by a vague feeling of dread that all his

villainy would be of no avail. in the course of his selfish life he

have do many foolish thing, at which the world have look askance,

but hitherto his pride have preserve he from dishonour, but now he

stand on the edge of an abyss into which he be about to plunge of his

own free will, and, in spite of his egotistical philosophy, he

tremble at the prospect before he.



suppose he do induce Lady Errington to return his passion and leave

England with he, what benefit would it bring to he or to she? to she

a ruin home, the memory of a deserted child, the prospect of exile

from all social circle, and an endless regret for her fall; to he,

delight companionship for a time, and then a sense of weary disgust,

of futile sorrow for a past that could not be undo, and constant

discord between himself and the partner of his shame.



be it worth the risk he be run, for a chimera, a fanciful

creation of his own brain, a desire for a vision that might never be

realise? and all this time with characteristic selfishness, not a

thought for the deserted husband, for the motherless child.



"Hallo, Eustace! where be you?"



Gartney arise to his foot with an ejaculation, the red blood rush

to his face.



"Guy!"



it be Guy, his cousin, the man whose wife he love, the man whose

home he intend to destroy, and, even wrap as he be in his triple

armour of pride, egotism, and self-complacency, he feel the sting of

remorse. it be too late, however, to think of such thing, he having

fully make up his mind to act; so he crush down the feeling which

might have make he a well man, and go forward to meet his cousin,

who be walk smartly along the beach.



eighteen month have not make much change in Errington, save that he

be a little stouter, but he look as handsome as ever, only there

be a discontent look on his face, as if he be thoroughly

dissatisfied with his life, as indeed he be. he have evidently ride

over, as he be in a riding dress, and he advance towards Eustace

with one hand in his pocket, the other hold his hunting crop with

which he carelessly switch his boot.



"well, dear old fellow, I be glad to see you again," he say, come

to his cousin and hold out his hand.



"you be very kind, Guy," falter Eustace, quietly shake hand,

with the feeling of remorse again dominant in his breast. "I be go

over to see you this afternoon."



"be you?" say Errington, listlessly. "oh, yes!--of course, but I

hear at the village you have come to Castle Grim, so, as I be

mount, I think I'd come on here. I've leave my horse with that old

Caliban of yours and come down to look you up."



"I'm very glad to see you," return Eustace, turn away his head.

"shall we go back to the house?"



"no, not yet," respond Errington, throw himself down on the dry

sand. "let we talk here. I want to speak to you privately, Eustace, and

this be the good place."



Gartney know in his own mind that Errington want to speak about his

wife, so sit down near the recumbent form of his cousin, and wait

for he to begin the conversation.



nothing be say, however, until, after a moment's silence, Guy look

up at Gartney's face with a frown.



"Good Lord, man, have you leave your tongue behind in Arabia?" he say

roughly, lean his cheek on his hand.



Eustace laugh a little bitterly.



"perhaps it would have be as well if I have do so," he say

deliberately, "it might save my soul the burden of many lie."



"as whimsical as ever!"



"do you think so? no doubt! solitude be rather apt to confirm a man in

his eccentric habit. by-the-way, you have not tell I how your wife

be?"



"quite well," reply Errington shortly.



"and the son and heir, on whose birth I must congratulate you?"



"oh, he's all right."



Guy speak this last sentence in such a bitter tone that Eustace could

not help turn round and look at he. he be gaze moodily at

the sand, but glance upward, as he feel rather than see that Gartney

have turn round, and smile ironically.



"you seem surprised?" he say at length.



"I be surprised," answer Eustace deliberately. "when I see you in

Italy, you speak very differently--very differently indeed."



"ah, but you see that be in my character of a newly-married man,"

sneered Guy, pick up a handful of sand and let it stream

through his finger. "all that sort of thing be over."



"and why be it over?" ask Eustace, coldly. "eighteen month can

scarcely make so much difference----"



"it make every difference--in my case."



"why?"



Guy sit up suddenly, clasp his hand round his knee, and stare at

the ocean, answer in a dreary voice utterly devoid of any feeling:



"I daresay it will sound ridiculous to a man like yourself, Eustace,

and no doubt you and the world will laugh at I when you know my

reason. but I cannot help it. I've fight against the feeling, as much

as ever I could. I've make all sort of excuse for my wife, but it's

all of no use."



"I'm quite in the dark as to what you be talk about."



"I'm talk about my wife," say Guy deliberately. "you know how much

in love I be with she when we marry?"



"and be you not in love with she now?"



"yes, I be!"



"then what have you to complain of?"



"Complain of!" echo Errington with a bitter laugh. "I have nothing

to complain of, accord to the view of the world. Alizon be a

perfect wife, a perfect mother, a perfect woman in every way. in fact,

that be what I do complain of! she's too perfect."



"Good Heavens, man!" cry Eustace, now thoroughly exasperate. "I

don't understand a word you be say. if Alizon be perfect, both as

wife and mother, what more do you want?"



"I want love," return Guy, in a low, deep voice, the blood rush

to his face. "I want love and affection. I'm starve for one kind

word and I cannot obtain it. it sound ridiculous, do it not, for a

man of my year to whimper about love like a silly schoolboy? but I

cannot help it. I marry Alizon in order to have a true and love

wife, and I find I be tie to a statue."



"but I cannot understand----"



"of course, you cann't," cry Errington vehemently, leap to his

foot, "how could you? a cold-blooded man, who can do without love and

affection, who don't care two straw about any human being, and only

adore the phantom creation of his own brain. Great Heaven!" say the

unfortunate young man, stare wildly up at the leaden-colour sky,

"if I be only a man like that how happy I should be. but I'm not,

I'm only a fellow who want to be love by his wife, but even that be

deny I. I marry Alizon for love. I love she then, I love she

now, and she care no more for I than she do for yonder ocean."



"but surely the child be a bond of union between you?"



"the child!" repeat Errington fiercely, "no! the child, which should

have draw we close together, have put we far asunder than ever. I

long for a child to succeed I in the estate, and, now I have

obtain my desire, I wish it have never be bear. I hate the child!

it seem horrible, Eustace, but I do. I hate it."



"don't talk like that, Guy," cry Eustace, spring to his foot, and

lay his hand on his cousin's arm, "it's terrible--your own child!"



"my own child! my own child," repeat Guy with senseless reiteration.

"yes! my own child."



he thrust his hand into his pocket, and abruptly turn away,

walk a short distance in order to conceal his emotion, while Eustace

stand silently in the same place, wonder at his cousin's grief over

what appear to he to be such a trivial matter. it might seem so to

he, but it certainly be not to Guy, whose whole nature be smart

under a sense of neglect and injury.



after a few moment Errington return, with a hard look on his face,

and a cynical laugh on his lip.



"I beg your pardon, Eustace," he say ceremoniously, "for trouble

you about these affair, but if I haven't someone to talk to about it,

I believe I should go mad. I go up to Aunt Jelly the other day, and

tell she what I be now tell you, but she don't seem to think much

of it."



"you make a mistake there," say Gartney, quickly. "Aunt Jelly think

a great deal about it. in fact, it be because she urge I to see what

I could do, that I be down here."



"you cann't do anything," reply Errington listlessly, "no one can do

anything. Alizon and myself be an ill-wed pair. the quick couple

with the dead. she be a perfect wife, a perfect mother, and I, in the

eye of the world possess a treasure in the matrimonial way, be the

most miserable devil alive."



Eustace feel a sudden pang of compunction at the idea of the misery he

propose to add to the unhappy young man's life, and after a short

struggle between the generous and selfish instinct of his nature, the

former triumph, and he determine to do his good to reconcile

husband and wife. with this new resolve in his mind, he approach

Guy, and take he by the arm, walk slowly across the beach with

he towards Castle Grim.



"come to the house, old fellow," he say kindly. "you be work

yourself into a perfect state over nothing. have luncheon with I, and

then we'll drive over together, and I'll do my good to put thing

right."



"impossible," say Guy, gloomily, "quite impossible."



"how so?"



"it's easy enough explain! when I marry my wife, I think she

coldness would wear off, but it do not. to all my love and

tenderness, she be as cold as ice. kind enough in a cold-blooded sort

of way, but as far as any answer tenderness or feeling of sympathy,

she might as well have be a statue. that be hard enough to bear, as

you may imagine, but when the child be bear it be much bad. she

ben't a statue now, by any mean, but her whole soul be wrap up in

the child. she's never away from he, she never stop talk about

he, she live in the nursery, and never come near I. if I offer to

caress she, she frown and resent any display of affection. all her

love, all her heart, be give to the child, and I've get to be content

with cold look, and about five minute' conversation a day. I hardly

ever see she, sometimes she don't even come to meal, and when I

remonstrate with she, she turn on I in a cold fury, and ask I

if I want she to neglect the child. what be I to do, Eustace? I

cann't force she to love I against her will. I cann't keep she from the

child. there seem nothing for I to do, but to be satisfied with the

life I be lead now, and it's Hell, Eustace, Hell. it's a big word

to describe a little thing, ben't it? the world would laugh at I if

they hear I talk, but no one can understand it, unless they undergo

it."



he speak with great emotion, and although Eustace fail in a great

measure to understand his deep feeling on the subject, he could not

but see that his cousin have great cause to speak. a young man of

ardent nature, to whom love be a necessity, find himself tie to a

woman who chill every demonstration of affection, and lavish all

her adoration on the child of which he be the father--it be truly a

pitiable situation, and yet one at which the world would laugh,

because the tragic element therein be so simple.



Gartney listen in silence to the long speech, and say nothing in

reply, make his cousin have some luncheon, while he think over the

whole affair.



"I willn't speak to Mrs. Veilsturm," he think to himself, pour out

Guy a glass of wine, "if I can I'll bring they together again and then

leave England for ever."



during the luncheon, he talk gaily enough to Errington, cheer he

up by every mean in his power, make up his mind in the meantime as

to what be the good course to pursue.



when the meal be finish, he order Javelrack to bring round a

horse, and, with Sir Guy, be soon trot along the road on the way

to Errington Hall.



"now, listen to I, Guy," he say, when they be some distance on

their journey. "I think you exaggerate a good deal of this thing. it's

not half so bad as you make out. Alizon be a young mother, and you

know they always adore their first-bear to the exclusion of everything

else. I don't think she be naturally of a cold nature, and when her

first outburst of joy on the child be exhaust, she will, doubtless,

give you that love which be your due, and which you so much need. but,

in the meantime, it be foolish of you to remain at the Hall, as you

will only work yourself up into a frenzy over nothing. Solitude be the

bad thing in the world for a man in your condition, so the good

thing you can do be to come up to town with I for a week or so."



"but I cannot leave Alizon alone," object Errington in perplexity.



"why not? she willn't be lonely, as she have the child, and besides, if

she neglect you as you say, it be because you be always near she. a

few week' absence would make a wonderful change in her demeanour, I

can tell you."



"do you really think so?" ask poor Guy, his face light up.



"I'm certain of it. in spite of your year, my dear boy, I'm afraid

you don't know much about feminine nature. learn then, that to make a

woman value a thing truly, it be necessary to put it out of her reach.

immediately it be in that position, then she'll strain every nerve to

get it back again. therefore, if you leave your wife, and neglect she

for a time, she will begin to grow jealous, and see how wrongly she

have treat you. when you come back again, she will alter her conduct,

and thing will be all right."



"I don't believe in that prescription," retort Guy, sharply.



"don't you? it do sound rather difficult of belief, but it's true

for all that. and I can tell you of a case in question, that of

Victoria Sheldon and Macjean."



"I don't understand----"



"no! then I'll explain. if you will carry your memory back to the time

we be in Italy, you will remember that Otterburn be very much in

love with Victoria Sheldon."



"to tell you the truth, I've almost forget Otterburn himself. be

he not your companion then?"



"Yes!--we part at Venice, and I see he again for the first time

last week. well, Otterburn be so much in love with Victoria that he

propose. she refuse he, so Otterburn, have a spirit of his own,

depart, and have never see she since. finding, therefore, that he

stand on his dignity, she fall in love with he, and I feel certain,

that if Otterburn choose to ask she again, she will say yes."



"but will he choose?"



"he will! they love one another devotedly, and each be ignorant of the

other's feeling, but when they meet everything will be arrange

satisfactorily. so you see, my dear Guy, the value of absence, for if

Otterburn haven't go away, he certainly would not have win the heart

of Victoria Sheldon."



"and you advise I to do the same?"



"I do, decidedly! leave your wife for a few week, and if she have any

love for you--which she must have, or else she would not have marry

you--she will miss you hourly, and when you come back--well the game

will be in your own hand."



Guy do not reply for a few minute, but urge his horse into a

canter, and the two ride along for some distance in silence. when

near Denfield, however, Errington suddenly draw his horse up, and

turn his head towards Eustace.



"I will take your advice," he say abruptly, "it can do no harm, and

it may do good."









CHAPTER XXII.

from the WIFE'S POINT of VIEW.



     "what be the pure love on earth?

      a maiden's love for summer mirth?

      a lover's worship of his idol

      when bell ring out his happy bridal?

      a patriot's when on foreign strand

      he suffer for his native land?

      a poet's or musician's love

      for thought inspire from above?

      ah, no, the love most undefiled

      be that the mother give the child."





Lady Errington be as usual in the nursery, sit in a low chair

near the window, watch "Sammy" playing on the floor. "Sammy,"

otherwise Henry Gerald Guy Errington, be now a year old, and look

what he be, a remarkably fine child, of which any mother might be

proud. "Proud," however, be too weak a word to use in connection with

Alizon's love for her child, see that this small scrap of humanity

roll about at her foot be worship by she with an affection

absolutely idolatrous. all her idea, her thought, her affection,

be bind up in Sammy, and have it be a question of death for mother

or child, there be no doubt that Alizon would have cheerfully yield

up her own life to save that of her baby.



nor be Sammy undeserving of worship, for he be really a beautiful

boy, with the frank expression of his father's handsome face, and a

healthy, sturdy little frame, which seem to defy disease. during his

twelve month of existence he have be very healthy, and even in the

delicate matter of cut his tooth have be more successful than the

generality of infant. with his rosy little face, his big, blue eye

and soft yellow curl of hair, he look as an obsequious nurse

express it, "a perfect picter." that worthy lady, Mrs. Tasker by

name, and fat, plethoric and red-faced by nature, be at the end of

the nursery attend to some article of the young gentleman's

toilet, and Alizon have her child all to herself, for which privilege

she be profoundly grateful, as Mrs. Tasker be a terrible autocrat.



a wonderful change have come over she since she have become a mother,

for the statue have become a woman, the iceberg have melt, and in all

her life she never look so womanly as she do at this moment. she

face, flush a delicate rose-colour, be sparkle with animation,

her lip be part in a merry laugh, and her eye, soft and tender,

absolutely seem to devour the child as she bent forward to play with

he.



Sammy be sit like an infant Marius among the ruin of a carthage

of toy, for around he on all side lie the evidence of his

destructive capability. a woolly quadrupe, something between a dog

and a cow, dignify with the name of "Ba-lamb," lie on its back,

piteously extend one mangle leg, the other three having be

bite off, and an indecent india-rubber doll, with no clothe and a

squeak, be be drag about by a string. there be several other

thing, such as a drum (break), a toy soldier (head miss), a

wooden Noah (paint suck off), and last, but not least, a hunting

crop of his father's, which be Sammy's special delight, because it

ben't suppose to be proper for he to have it.



Sammy at present be hammer "Eliza" (the doll aforesaid) with the

whip, when suddenly discover that one shoe have come off in his

exertion, he render thing equal by pull off the other shoe, and

then chuckle with delight at his success.



"Naughty Sammy," reprove his mother, bend down to pick up the

shoe. "mustn't do that--ah, bad child!"



the bad child, attract by the fact that both shoe be out of his

reach, make a snatch at they, with the result that he over-balance

himself, and come down heavily on his head. he be undecided whether

to howl or not, when his mother settle the question by pick he up

with a cry of pity, whereat, know the right thing to do, he howl

vigorously.



"Mother's own precious! mother's own darling!" lament Alizon,

rock he to and fro on her breast; upon which Sammy, find the

rock pleasant, roar louder than ever, whereupon Mrs. Tasker

hurry forward to give her opinion.



"why, whatever's the matter, my lady?" she ask anxiously. "he haven't

swallow anything have he?"



this be Mrs. Tasker's constant nightmare, for Sammy have an

ostrich-like capacity for swallow anything that come handy, and

dispose of all sort of thing in this manner, to the great detriment

of his stomach.



"he's hurt his head, Nurse," explain Lady Errington, anxiously,

while Sammy, satisfied at be the centre of attraction, stop

roar. "his poor head. he fall over on the floor."



"he's allay's doin' that," say Nurse in despair. "I nivir do see

sich a topply child. feather be lead to his upsetting."



the comparison be not a particularly happy one, but it serve Mrs.

Tasker, who thereupon want to take Sammy from his mother, a

proceeding to which Lady Errington strongly object.



"no, don't nurse please! let I hold he a little time! see he's quite

good now."



and indeed, Sammy be now behave like an angel, for be attract

by a small gold brooch his mother wear, he be stand up on his

sturdy leg, pluck at it with chubby finger, and gurgle to

himself in a most satisfied manner.



"I nivir do see such a dear child," remark Mrs. Tasker admiringly.

"'be 'owl be hoff as soon as on. why the last as I nusse, my lady,

be that givin' to hollerin' as you might 'ave think I'd put 'Im to

bed with a pin-cushing. but as for Master Sammy, well----" and cast

up her little eye to the ceiling, Mrs. Tasker express in pantomime,

with a pair of dumpy red hand, that word fail she.



"he's an angel! an angel!" murmur Alizon fondly, cover the rosy

little face with kiss. "oh, nurse, ben't he perfect?"



Nurse express her firm conviction that there never be nor never

would be such a perfectly angelic child, and then the two woman

indulge in a lavish display of grovel affection, with many

inarticulate word, tender fondling and indistinct kiss, all of

which Sammy accept with the great calmness as his just due.



at this moment a servant enter the nursery to inform Lady Errington

that Sir Guy and Mr. Eustace Gartney be wait for she in the dutch

room, at which Alizon be in despair, for it be now the time when

Sammy take his airing, and therefore one of the most interesting

event of the day. however, much as she dislike leave the child,

she could hardly refuse to see Eustace without appear pointedly

rude, so send the servant away with the information that she would be

down immediately.



"I willn't be long than I can help, Nurse," she say dolefully,

deliver Sammy into the extended arm of Mrs. Tasker. "be sure you

take the great care in dress he."



"well, my lady," say Mrs. Tasker, with scathing irony, "I 'ope as

I've dress a child afore."



"yes! yes! of course," reply Lady Errington hastily, for she have a

wholesome fear of the autocrat's temper, "but you know how anxious I

be! and his bottle, Nurse! take care it's warm, and Nurse! please

don't go out until I send up a message."



"will it be long?" demand Mrs. Tasker determinedly, "because there

ben't much sun, and this blessed child must git as much as he can. it

make 'Im grow."



"no! only a few minute," say Alizon quickly. "you see, Nurse, I'll

want to show he to Mr. Gartney. take the great care--the very

great care--goodbye, mother's angel--kiss mother, dearest."



Sammy open his button of a mouth and bestow a damp caress on his

mother, which be his idea of kiss, and then Lady Errington,

yield to stern necessity, withdraw slowly, with her eye fix on

the child to the last, and even when she close the nursery door, she

strain her ear to hear he crow.



both gentleman be wait in the dutch room, which receive its name

from the fact that it look out on to the prim garden, with the row

of box-wood, the bed of gaudy tulip and the fantastically clip

yew tree. Guy be in a much more cheerful mood than usual, as he

think that the panacea prescribe by Eustace would make an end of

all his trouble, and Gartney himself experience a wonderful feeling

of exhilaration at the near prospect of see his visionary lady of

Como once more.



the soft sweep of a robe, the turning of the handle of the door, and

in another moment she stand before he, a fair, gracious woman, who

advance slowly with outstretched hand and a kindly smile.



"how do you do, Mr. Gartney, after all this time?" she say sweetly,

clasp his extended hand. "I think we be never go to see you

again."



be this the pale, cold Undine he have last see at Como, more ethereal

than the visioned spirit of romance? be this the perfect, bloodless

statue of whom Guy complain? this lovely breathing woman, aflush

with all the tender grace of motherhood, with delicately pink cheek,

eye brilliant with animation, and a voice rich and mellow as the

sound of a silver bell. yes! his prophecy have come true; the haunting,

hungry look have depart from her eye, for in the full satisfaction

of the strong maternal instinct the thin, unsubstantial ghost of

maidenhood have disappear; and in this beautiful woman, aglow with

exuberant vitality, he recognize the reality of the visionary

creation of his dream brain.



"do you think I be lose in arabian solitude?" he say, recover

from his momentary fit of abstraction. "I'm afraid I'm not the sort of

man to be lose. I always come back again, like a modern Prodigal Son."



Alizon laugh when he speak thus, but month afterwards she

recollect those careless word. at present, however, she sit down

near he, and begin to talk, while Guy, who have utter no word since

she enter the room, stand silently at the window, stare out at the

quaint dutch garden.



"now I suppose you be go to stay at home, and tell your tale from

your own chimney corner?" say Lady Errington, clasp her hand

loosely on her knee.



Eustace shake his head.



"I think so the other day, but now--I'm go on an exploring

expedition up the Nile."



"you must have the blood of the Wandering Jew in your vein."



"or Cain!--he be rather fond of travel, ben't he?"



"don't be profane, Mr. Gartney," say Alizon, try to look serious.

"but really you ought to settle down and marry."



"yes, shouldn't he?" observe Guy caustically, turn round. "go in

for the delight of the family circle."



"that all depend whether he would appreciate they or not," reply

Lady Errington coldly, flash an indignant look at her husband, upon

which eustace to avoid unpleasantness make a hasty observation.



"by the way, talk of the family circle, I have to congratulate you,

Lady Errington, on the birth of a son."



Alizon's eye, which have harden while look at Guy, grow wondrous

soft and tender.



"Yes!--he be the dear child in the world--everyone love he except

his father."



"what nonsense Alizon!" say Guy, hastily turn towards his wife.

"I'm very fond of he indeed, but one get tired of baby."



"I daresay, but not of their own child," answer Lady Errington

indignantly. "you must see he, Mr. Gartney, and I'm sure you'll say

you never see such a lovely child."



she arise from her seat and leave the room quickly, while Eustace

look reproachfully at Guy.



"you shouldn't talk like that," he say quietly, "I don't wonder you

find thing disagreeable if you sneer at the child."



"I don't sneer at the child," retort Guy sullenly, "but I'm tired of

hear nothing but baby chatter all day long."



"perhaps, if you be as attentive to the baby as your wife, it would

be advisable."



"Nonsense! I cann't be on my knee before a cradle all day, and besides

Alizon willn't let I come near it. one would think I be go to

murder the child the way she look at I when I lie a finger on it."



"Mr. Gartney," say Lady Errington's voice at the door. "come upstairs

with I to the nursery."



"cann't I come to Paradise also?" observe Guy wistfully as his cousin

be leave the room.



"certainly, come if you care to," reply Alizon coldly.



"no, thank you," reply Errington abruptly, his brow grow black

with rage at the coldness of the invitation.



"I'll stay here till you return."



Lady Errington go upstairs slowly with Eustace, with a look of anger

on her face.



"you see," she say bitterly, pause at the nursery door, "he do

not care a bit about his child."



"oh, I think he do," answer Eustace discreetly, "but he think

you do not want he to come."



"I be always glad for he to come," remark Alizon coldly, "but when

he do he only make disagreeable remark about the boy, so his

visit be never very pleasant."



thing be decidedly wrong between this young couple, and they so

thoroughly misunderstood one another that Eustace be at a loss how to

set they right. he be save the trouble of further thought, however,

by Lady Errington open the door and precede he into the nursery.



"there he be, Mr. Gartney," say the young mother, "look at my

precious."



"my precious," in all the glory of white hat, white cape and woolly

glove and shoe, be seat in his perambulator ready to go out for

his airing, and Mrs. Tasker, with the under-nurse, be both attach

to the wheel of his chariot. at the sight of Gartney's bronzed face,

he set up a howl, and be only pacify by be take out of his

carriage into the protect arm of his mother.



"the complete Madonna now," think Eustace, as he look at the

flushed face of the young mother bend over the rosy one of the

child.



"do he cry then! sweetest! what do you think of he, Mr. Gartney?"



"there can be but one opinion," reply that gentleman solemnly, "he's

a very beautiful child, and you may well be proud of he, Lady

Errington."



"do you ever see a fine child?" demand Alizon, insatiable for

praise.



"no, never," answer Eustace, which be true enough, as he hate

baby and never look at they unless force to. "hi, baby, chuck!

chuck!"



"Goo! goo! goo!" gurgle Master Errington, and stretch out his

chubby arm to Gartney, intimate thereby a desire to improve his

acquaintance with that gentleman.



"oh, he's quite take to you," say Lady Errington gaily. "just feel

what a weight he be."



so Eustace be force to take the child in his arm, and look as

awkward as a man usually do when burden with a baby. ultimately

Sammy be return to his mother's arm, and she take he down the

stair, while the footman and Mrs. Tasker between they carry down

the light wickerwork perambulator.



"wheel he up and down the terrace for a time, Nurse," say Alizon,

when the child be once more replace in his little carriage. "I'll be

out soon."



they be stand at the door, and Lady Errington wait there until

Mrs. Tasker vanish with the baby round the corner on to the wide

terrace, when she turn to Eustace with a sigh.



"do that mean that you be anxious to get to the baby?" ask

Eustace, raise his eyebrow, as they walk back to the dutch room.



"oh no, really," reply Lady Errington, with polite mendacity, "do

you think I be never happy away from Sammy?"



"be you?" he ask, eye she keenly.



Alizon flush a bright crimson, laugh in an uneasy manner and

fidget nervously.



"what a shame to push I into a corner!" she say at length, raise

her clear eye to his face. "No!--I be never happy away from my child.

I be so afraid of any accident happen! dear I, what have become of

guy?"



they have enter the dutch room by this time and find it empty, but

on the table afternoon tea be lay out, so Alizon sit down to pour

out Eustace a cup. Gartney look at she furtively as she do this,

and think he have never see she look so charming.



"Lucky Guy," he say at length, take the cup she hand to he.



"because of Sammy?" she ask, look at he with a bright smile.



"no! because of you!" reply Eustace boldly, whereat she shake she

blonde head gaily, though her lip wear a somewhat scornful look.



"I'm afraid Guy don't think so!"



Eustace judge this a good opening from which to lead up to his

attempt at reconciliation, so speak out at once.



"Lady Errington, don't you think you be rather hard upon guy?"



she turn her face towards he sharply.



"why do you ask that?" she demand coldly.



"I be afraid it be a liberty," answer Eustace slowly, "but you see I

be Guy's cousin, so the near relationship must excuse my apparent

rudeness. but the fact be you don't seem perfectly happy."



"I be happy, perfectly happy I have everything in the world I

desire--health, wealth and my darling child."



"I see you don't count your husband among your blessing," say

Eustace.



"oh, yes! I'm very fond of Guy. he be the father of my child!"



"be that the only reason you be fond of he?"



"really, Mr. Gartney, I do not see by what right you speak like this

to I," she say with great hauteur.



"I beg your pardon," say Eustace, with cold politeness. "I be wrong

to do so."



Lady Errington begin to twist her marriage ring round and round, as if

she want to pull it off, and a frown pass across her mobile face.

Eustace, verse in the way of her sex, know that those sign

betoken further remark on her part, so he wisely say nothing, but

wait for the outburst, which come exactly as he expect.



"I be very fond of Guy," she assert defiantly. "I would not have

marry he if I have not be fond of he. what make you think I'm

not? I suppose Aunt Jelly have be say something?"



"my dear Lady Errington," respond Gartney replace, his cup on the

table, "I have no right to speak as I do. I beg your pardon."



"please answer my question, Mr. Gartney," she say angrily, a red spot

of colour burn on either cheek. "have Aunt Jelly be say

anything?"



Gartney be not the man to remain in any difficulty where a lie could

help he out of it, so he reply to her question with the great

deliberation.



"Aunt Jelly have be say nothing. the only reason that make I

speak be that you seem to I to be fonder of the baby than of your own

husband."



the murder be out, and he be prepare for a storm, but it do not

come, as Alizon have quite as much self-control as himself.



"well, and what be wrong in that?" she say coldly. "I do love my

child more than my husband, any mother would."



"ben't that rather hard on the husband?"



"no! I do not see it! of course, I love Guy very much--much more than

he love his child," she finish with a burst of passion.



"I think Guy be very fond of the child," say Eustace quietly.



"he be not," she reply angrily, rise to her foot; "he grudge

every hour I spend with the boy. he would have I neglect the child

in order to be always with he. but there, what be the use of

talking?--neither you nor Guy can understand the feeling of a

mother."



this remark close the discussion so far as Eustace be concern, for

he deem it useless to argue with a woman who be so blind to

everything except her maternal feeling, so he hasten to turn the

conversation.



"you be right there, Lady Errington," he say good-humouredly, "I be

a bachelor, so know absolutely nothing about these thing. but Guy

look a little knock up, so I want to take he to town with I."



"oh, certainly," reply Alizon indifferently. "a run up to town will

do he good. I want Guy to enjoy himself in every way. but now, Mr.

Gartney, excuse I for a time, as I must go and see how the baby be

get on. will you stay to dinner?"



"no, thank you," say Eustace, rise and hold out his hand. "I

have some letter to write this evening, but I will come over

to-morrow and see you before I go back to town."



"that's right," answer Lady Errington, smile as she press his

hand. "goodbye at present. come to-morrow, and I will show you the

baby again."



she go to the door, when it suddenly open, and Guy enter.



"oh, here you be, Guy," she say sweetly, as he stand hold the

door open for she to pass through, "I be just go to send for you.

Mr. Gartney be go away."



"and where be you go?" ask Guy, with a half-smile on his stern

face.



"can you ask?" she say archly. "to the baby, of course." and with a

laugh she vanish through the doorway, while Guy, with a scowl,

push the door roughly to, and stride across the room to Eustace.



"well?" he demand curtly.



"well," answer Eustace coolly, "I do what I could--but of course,

my dear fellow, it's a very delicate matter, and really I have no right

to interfere in any way."



"what do she say?" demand Guy roughly, turn as white as a sheet.



"she say you have well go to Town with I," answer Gartney

reluctantly.



Guy burst out with a harsh laugh, and turn towards the window with a

gesture of despair.



"Good God! and I'm break my heart for that statue."









CHAPTER XXIII.

MRS. VEILSTURM'S "AT HOME."



     "I hate 'at home,' they're simply inquisition

        to torture human being into fit;

      a mixture of plebeian and patrician,

        on whom in judgment Mrs. Grundy sit;

      Sonatas play by second-rate musician,

        and milk-and-water joke by would-be wit;

      such squalling, scandal, crush of man and ladies--

      it's like a family party down in Hades."





as this be the first victory he have ever obtain over his

egotistical nature, Eustace feel most unjustifiably proud, and view

his action with great self-complacency, therefore the good result of

such victory merely become egotism in another form. his attitude

towards Lady Errington have certainly alter, but not for the well,

as the fantastic adoration he have formerly feel towards a vision of

his own creation have change to an earthly love for the real woman, in

which there be mingle more of sensuality than platonism. eustace be

certainly not a coarse man in any sense of the word, but he have

regard the visionary Lady Errington so long as his own special

property, withhold from he by the accident of her marriage with

Guy, that when he see the flesh-and-blood woman _riant_ in all her

newly-find vitality, he view she as a Sultan might view a fresh

odalisque add to his _serail_. the pale lily have change into the

rich red rose, and the spiritual being of his fevere imagination have

take the form of a beautiful woman, full of temptation to an ardent

lover.



any sensible man would have see from the short conversation he have

have with Lady Errington that love for the child fill her heart to

the exclusion of all else, but Eustace, with supreme egotism, deem

that she love the child simply because her husband be not worthy of

her affection and when he deign to worship she she would certainly

forget the pale passion of maternal love under the fierce ardour of

his devotion.



with this idea in his mind it be no wonder he feel that he be

exercise great self-denial in try to bring husband and wife

together, and in renounce his desire to gain possession of a woman

for whom he feel an unreasone admiration. however, be determine

to carry out this new mood of asceticism to the end, he take Guy up to

Town with he, and try to amuse that moody young man to the good of

his power, which be a somewhat unsatisfactory task.



see that he have abandon his scheme to gain Alizon's love, he do

not intend to speak to Mrs. Veilsturm, as he have now no desire to

entangle Guy with another woman, but as he be go to an "at home"

give by Cleopatra, he do not hesitate to take his cousin with he in

the ordinary course of thing.



Eustace know more about Mrs. Veilsturm than she care he should know,

as he have meet she at Lima, in South America, when she be--well, not

Mrs. Veilsturm--and he judge a woman of her harpy-like nature would

not strive to annex anyone but a rich man. Guy be not rich, so

Eustace think she would leave he alone--a most fatal mistake, as he

have unconsciously place Cleopatra's revenge within her grasp. Mrs.

Veilsturm have neither forgive nor forget the deadly insult offer

to she by Lady Errington, but hitherto, owe to Guy's devotion to his

wife, have be unable to entangle he in any way. now, however, Fate

be play into her hand, and when she receive a note from Eustace,

ask if he might bring his cousin to the house in Park Lane she feel

a savage delight at such a stroke of unforeseen luck, but, be too

clever a woman to compromise her scheme in any way, write a cold reply

to Mr. Gartney, tell he he could bring Sir Guy Errington--if he

like.



of course Eustace do like, and as Guy, who have quite forget all

about the episode between Mrs. Veilsturm and his wife, listlessly

acquiesce, they both arrive at Cleopatra's "at home" somewhere about

five o'clock.



"I seem to remember the name," say Guy, as they struggle up the

crowded stair.



"you certainly ought to," respond Eustace, "see that she be about

the well-know person in Town."



"ah, but you see I'm a country cousin now," say Guy with a faint

smile. "hang it! what a crush there be here."



"that's the art of give an 'at home,'" answer Eustace drily, "you

put fifty people who hate one another in a room build to hold twenty,

and when they're thoroughly uncomfortable you give they bad music,

weak tea, and thin bread-and-butter. after an hour of these delight

they go away in a rollick humour to another Sardine Party. oh, it's

most amusing, I assure you, and--well, here we be, and here be Mrs.

Veilsturm."



Cleopatra have certainly not lose any of her charm, and look as

imperious and majestic as ever, stand in the centre of her guest,

array in a startling costume of black and yellow, which give she a

strange, barbaric appearance. there be no doubt that she wear too

many diamond, but this be due to her african love for ornament, and

with every movement of her body the gem flash out sparkle of light

in the mellow twilight of the room.



a foreign musician, with long hair and pale face, be play some

weird eastern dance on the piano as Eustace enter and bow before

she, and it suddenly flash across his mind that this sensuously

beautiful woman be quite out of place amid these cold english blonde

and undecided brunette. she ought to be toss her slender arm in a

tropical forest, to the shrill music of pipe and muffle throbbing of

serpent-skin drum, whirl in the mystic gyration of some sacred

dance before the shrine of a veiled goddess. the sickly odour of

pastille, which she be fond of burn in her drawing-room, assist

this fancy, and he be only rouse from this strange vision by the

mellow voice of his hostess bid he welcome, as she touch his

hand with her slender finger.



"I be glad to see you, Mr. Gartney," she say, with a slow smile; "it

be indeed kind of you to call so soon after your return. and your

friend, whom you be to bring?"



"be here," reply Eustace, present his cousin, "Sir Guy

Errington."



Guy bow, feel somewhat bewildered at her rich loveliness, and,

with a swift glance from under her heavy eye-lash, she shake hand

with he.



"Mr. Gartney's friend be mine also--but you be welcome on your own

account, Sir Guy."



"you be very kind," answer Errington mechanically, "I think the

obligation be on my side, however."



"he's a fool," decide Mrs. Veilsturm in her own mind, as she look

at his fresh, simple face; "I can twist he round my finger, and I

will, if it's only to spite his wife."



at this moment eustace be seize upon by Mr. Dolser, who be on the

look-out for copy, and, much against his will, be drag to the

other end of the room by the pertinacious little man, leave his

cousin in conversation with Mrs. Veilsturm.



the room be quite full of all sort and condition of man and woman.

Cleopatra know everybody in the literary, artistic, and musical world,

and they all come to her reception, so that it be quite a treat to

find somebody there who have do nothing. this happen on occasion

when someone who have not do anything be bring to worship someone

who have. there be plenty of lady novelist in all shade, from

blonde to brunette, pick up idea for their next three-volume

publication; pale young poet, with long hair and undecided leg, who

write rondel, triolet, and ballad, hint, in wonderful rhyme, at

thing fantastical; dramatist, young and old, full of three-act play

and hatred of manager and critic. a haggard young man of the

impressionist school droop in a corner, discourse of Art, in the

new jargon of the studio, to the last fashionable manageress, who

do not understand a word he be say, but pretend to do so, as

she want he to paint her picture. everyone present have an eye to

business, and each be pursue his or her aim with vicious

pertinacity.



"mixed lot, ben't they?--yes!" say Mr. Dolser superciliously, when

he have get the unhappy Eustace pin up in a corner; "don't they

cackle about themselves too--rather see that stout old party in the

corner, in the damage millinery--new novelist, you know--disease

school--Baudelaire without his genius--write 'the Body Snatcher'

--yes!--read it?"



"no," respond Eustace, shortly, "and I don't intend to."



"it be rather a corker for weak nerve," say "the Pepper Box"

proprietor, affably; "there's gibble--perfect genius as critic;

always slash a book without read it. he's destroy more

reputation than any one I know. yes! ah! fancy Maniswarkoffi

be here--pianist, you know. English, only they wouldn't have

he under his real name of grub, so he go abroad and dig up

his present jawbreaker. draw money now, and smash two piano a

week--beautiful!"



in this way Mr. Dolser artlessly prattle along, destroy a

reputation every time he open his mouth, much to the disgust of

Gartney, who want to get away.



"excuse I," he say, in despair, "but I see a friend over there."



"ah! do you really?" reply Dolser, put up his eyeglass. "oh,

Macjean, ben't it? yes. just come back from America. have a row with pa

because he want he to marry some Scotch lassie. yes."



"you seem to know all about it?"



"yes, yes; oh, yes. business, you know--and by Jove! talk about

that, I want an interview with you about your book."



"then you willn't get one."



"that's all you know," retort Mr. Dolser. "what? you willn't tell I

anything? never mind, I'll make up a few fairy tale. if they ben't

true that's your look-out. Ta, ta! look in 'the Pepper Box' next week.

Jove! there's Quibbles. 'cuse I, I want to ask about Bundy's

divorce," and he disappear into the crowd.



it be no use be angry with the little man, as he be so very

good-natured with all his impudence, so Eustace merely smile, and

move across the room to Otterburn, touch he on the shoulder.



"you here?" he say, in a tone of glad surprise. "I _be_ glad! I be

just go away."



"not enjoy yourself?" observe Eustace, lean against the wall.



"can any one enjoy himself here?" retort Otterburn in disgust. "I'm

tired of hear people talk about themselves; and if they talk about

anyone else----"



"they abuse they thoroughly. my dear boy, it's the way of the world.

by the way, you get my note about Victoria?"



otterburn colour.



"yes; I'm very much oblige to you," he reply, in his boyish

fashion. "if it be only true what you think, that she do care for

me----"



"of course she care for you."



"it seem too good to be true."



"do you think so?" say Gartney, drily. "oh, I beg your pardon. I

forget you be in love!"



"cold-blooded cynic," laugh otterburn, "go thou and do likewise."



"with your awful example before I--hardly," reply Mr. Gartney, with

a kindly look in his eye. "do I tell you Errington be here to-day?"



"no. be he really?--and Lady Errington?"



"oh, she's in the country. but Errington seem as if he want wake

up, so I bring he to town with I."



"by the way, how be Lady Errington?"



"very much change--and for the well. my prophecy concern the

incomplete Madonna have come to pass. she be a mother now, and adore

her child."



"indeed! and be she go to adore her child for the rest of her

life?" ask Otterburn, flippantly.



Eustace shrug his shoulder.



"I suppose so. she certainly cann't adore her husband. Guy be a real

good fellow, as I've always maintain, but no woman in the world

would put he on a pedestal."



"Poor Errington! be he as fond of his wife as ever?"



"Fonder, if possible."



"then I pity he!" say Macjean, emphatically--"I pity any man who

give his heart to a woman to play with."



"yet that be really what you propose to do with your."



"not at all. I be go to ask Miss Sheldon to be my wife once more.

if she accept I, well and good, as I've no doubt we'll make an

exemplary married couple. but if she refuse--well, I'm not go to

wear my heart on my sleeve by any mean. there be always Laxton,

Africa, and good shooting."



"all of which will console you for the loss of the woman you profess

to adore. what a prosaic idea!"



"a very sensible one, at all event," retort Macjean, with a grim

smile. "I've no fancy to play shuttlecock to any woman's battledore.

oh! there be Errington talk to our fair hostess."



"or rather, our fair hostess be talk to Errington."



"precisely. you shouldn't have lead this unfortunate fly into the

spider's parlour, Gartney."



"why not?" reply Eustace, superciliously. "I assure you the fly be

all right. it be not rich enough for Mrs. Spider Veilsturm to seize

on. she only care for opulent fly."



"I'm afraid I cann't take your view of the situation, see what I now

see."



Gartney, move by a sudden curiosity, look sharply at Cleopatra, who

be certainly put forth all her fascination towards Guy, and that

gentleman, who have apparently forget his wife for the moment, be

talk rapidly to she with a flushed face and considerable

earnestness. eustace be puzzle at this, and frown amiably at the

pair.



"now what the deuce be that for?" he mutter to himself. "I certainly

do not ask she to fascinate he, and she have no reason to do so.

Humph! perhaps Fate be once more interfering. if so----Well,

otterburn?"



but Otterburn have disappear, and Eustace find that his place be

take by Dolly Thambits, attend by Mr. Jiddy, both gentleman

watch Mrs. Veilsturm over Gartney's shoulder.



"ah! how do you do, thambit?" say Gartney, take no notice of the

Jiddy parasite.



"I'm quite well," reply dolly, whose mild face wear anything but a

pleasant expression. "I say, who be he--the chap talk to Mrs.

Veilsturm? he come with you, don't he?"



"yes; that is Sir Guy Errington, my cousin and very good friend."



"oh!" return Mr. Thambits, after a pause. "I think he be

marry?"



"of course--marry Miss Mostyn," murmur Jiddy, meekly.



"well, marriage ben't a crime," say Eustace, raise his eyebrow.

"what be the meaning of the remark?"



"Eh?" answer dolly, vacantly, with another scowl at Cleopatra. "oh,

nothing only--oh, bother! they've go into the next room. come,

Jiddy!" and the young man vanish into the crowd, accompany by his

umbra, leave eustace in a state of considerable bewilderment.



"be the boy mad," say that gentleman to himself, "or only jealous?

the latter, I think. he see it too. confound it! what do it mean?

she's surely not go to fight an enemy unworthy of her spear? yet, I

don't know. woman be strange creature. she must have some reason.

I'll go and see what Major Griff say about it."



that redoubtable warrior, look stiff, airy, and more military

than ever, be talk in his sharp voice to a ponderous gentleman

somewhat after the Dr. Johnson type, who be listen attentively.



"yes, sir," the Major be say, "I be grow tired of town. I think

I'll take a run across to New York."



"and Mrs. Veilsturm?"



"I be not aware what Mrs. Veilsturm's plan may be," say Griff, in a

frigid tone, "as she do not honour I with her confidence so far."



the ponderous gentleman smile meaningly, as he, in common with the

rest of society, be begin to doubt the platonic relationship say

to exist between the Major and Cleopatra. Major Griff see the smile,

and, ever on the alert to defend Mrs. Veilsturm from the slight

breath of scandal, would have make some sharp remark, but at that

moment Eustace touch he on the shoulder.



"excuse I, Major," he say courteously, "but could I speak to you for

a few moment?"



"certainly, certainly," answer Griff, with great readiness. "Mr.

Waldon, we will resume our conversation on some other occasion."



he be always willing to oblige Eustace from motive of diplomacy, as

he be well aware Mr. Gartney be to a certain extent behind the

scene, and judge himself and Cleopatra from a very different

standpoint to that of the world. eustace indeed know that both Major

Griff and his fair friend be neither more nor less than a couple of

clever adventurer, but with indolent good nature he never impart

this opinion to any one, as he see no reason to topple down the house

of card they have so laboriously build up. besides, he hate the

trouble which the exposing of the pair would entail, and, in his

innermost heart deem they not much bad than the rest of London

society, he permit they to continue their predatory career

unchecked. the Major know that Eustace would leave himself and partner

alone, but be always scrupulously polite to he, so that nothing

disagreeable should arise to mar the perfect understanding between

they.



"I'm glad to see you back again, Mr. Gartney," say the Major,

mendaciously, when they be establish in a comfortable corner out

of earshot.



"it's very kind of you to say so," respond Gartney, who quite

appreciate and understand the sincerity of the remark, "I think you

would have be glad to have hear of my death in Arabia."



"and why?" demand Griff, warmly--"why, Mr. Gartney?"



"oh, if you don't know I'm sure I cann't tell you," retort Eustace,

maliciously; "but don't trouble yourself to pay fictitious

compliment, Major. I think we understand one another."



"of course," assent the Major, with great dignity; "between

gentleman there be always a sympathetic feeling."



Gartney would have like to have argue this point, but have no time

to do so, he merely shrug his shoulder, and resume the

conversation.



"I bring my cousin, Sir Guy Errington, here to-day."





"the devil you do!" ejaculate Griff, considerably astonish.



strike by the Major's tone, Eustace fix his eye keenly on he.



"if you doubt I," he say coolly, "you will be convince by go to

the refreshment room, where, at present, he be in conversation with

Mrs. Veilsturm."



"egad! she's get he at last," mutter Griff, pull his grey

moustache with an air of vexation.



"what do you say?" ask Gartney sharply.



Major Griff do not answer, be apparently in deep thought, but when

Gartney address he the second time he have evidently make up his

mind what course to pursue, and speak accordingly.



"it don't suit I," say the Major deliberately, "and I'm sure it

willn't suit you, nor your cousin, nor your cousin's wife."



"it be as I think," observe Eustace coolly; "there be something at

the bottom of all this, therefore, if you will be less enigmatic,

Major, I shall understand your meaning all the soon."



"I don't like to show my hand," remark Griff, take an illustration

from his favourite pursuit, "but in this case I'll treat you as a

partner and do so. I know why you want to speak to I."



"do you?" say Eustace imperturbably.



"yes! She"--referring to Mrs. Veilsturm--"is no doubt make the

run with Sir Guy Errington to an extent which surprise you, and

you want to know the reason."



"see that my cousin be not rich enough to tempt either Mrs. V. or

yourself, I do," return Eustace with brutal candour.



Whereupon, the Major, like the daring old campaigner he be, tell

Gartney the whole story of the card episode, to which he listen

attentively, and see clearly the pit into which he have innocently lead

his cousin.



"well, Mr. Gartney," say Griff, when the story be finish and

Eustace make no remark, "what do you say?"



Eustace take out his watch and glance at the time before reply.

then he replace it in his pocket and answer the Major.



"at present, I say nothing; later on, I may."



"oh, ho!" quoth Griff sharply, "then you have some idea----"



"I have no idea whatever," reply Gartney sharply. "your story be

quite new to I. I bring my cousin here innocently enough, and if

Mrs. Veilsturm think he sufficiently handsome to captivate, that's

her business, not mine."



he turn on his heel and go off, leave Griff stare after he in

the most astonished manner.



"what do it mean?" ponder the old campaigner. "oh! he don't seem

to mind Maraquita play the devil with his cousin, as she intend

to. now I shouldn't wonder," say the Major grimly, "I shouldn't

wonder a bit if there be another lady mix up in this affair."









CHAPTER XXIV.

"ON revient TOUJOURS à SES PREMIÈRES AMOURS."



     "you have return,

        I think you would,

      Tho' you I spurn,

      you have return;

      the lesson learn

        will do you good.

      you have return,

        I think you would."





when otterburn disappear so suddenly from the sight of his friend,

he have go straight across the room to where a slender girl dress

in a dark-green walking costume be stand near the door.



"can you remember an old friend, Miss Sheldon?" he say in a low

voice.



she turn round with a cry of surprise, flush violently

as she recognise he, and hold out her hand with the great

self-possession.



"of course Mr. Macjean! my memory be not quite so short as you think."



they be both overcome by this unexpected meeting, but as the eye of

the world be on they they be perforce oblige to hide their

emotion under a polite mask of indifference. no one, look at this

charming girl and this handsome young man, would have think there

be anything between they but the mere feeling of acquaintanceship.

and yet they be both profoundly move, and each, in some instinctive

way, guess the feeling of the other, although their greeting be so

cold and study.



"I do not expect to meet you here," say Victoria in a friendly tone.



"I suppose not," reply Otterburn politely, "as I only return to

Town about three week ago.'



"you have be away?"



"all over the world. Africa be the only place leave for I to explore."



"and I daresay you be think of go there next?" otterburn

laugh.



"perhaps! it all depend."



"upon what?"



"truth to tell, I hardly know," answer Macjean coolly. "whim,

fancy and desire of sport, I think."



"he don't care a bit about I or he would not talk so coldly about

go away," think Victoria, with a sad feeling at her heart, but,

be too proud to show her real feeling, merely laugh as she

answer his remark.



"there's nothing like enthusiasm! well, Mr. Macjean, I'm glad to see

you again."



"do you really mean that?" he say anxiously, "or be it only the

conventional society phrase?"



"why should you think so?" reply Miss Sheldon in a displeased tone.

"you know I always speak my mind regardless of social observance."



"I have not forget that," observe otterburn quietly. "Candour be

such a wonderful thing to meet with now-a-day, that anyone with such

a virtue be sure to be remember."



"for nine day, I suppose? she say jestingly.



"yes! or eighteen month," he respond meaningly.



Otterburn be evidently as audacious as ever in trespassing upon

dangerous ground, so Victoria, although her heart beat rapidly at his

last remark, deftly turn the conversation as she use to do in the

old day.



"you have an excellent memory, Mr. Macjean," she say gaily, "but you

have forget that I have be stand for the last ten minute,

that you have not ask I to have a cup of tea, and that I'm both

tired and thirsty."



"a thousand pardon," say otterburn, penitently offer his arm. "I

plead guilty! as you be strong, be merciful."



"to your failing, certainly! I've get too many of my own to refuse

absolution. oh, there's Miss Lossins go to sing. I cann't bear these

drawing-room song, so let we go at once."



she take his arm, and as they move downstairs he feel a thrill run

through his body at the light pressure of her hand. he feel inclined

to speak boldly then and there, but a vague fear of the result

withhold he, and in the presence of the woman he love, Angus

Macjean, man of the world as he be, feel like an awkward schoolboy.



on her part, Victoria feel that she still have an influence on his

life, and derive from this instinctive feeling a wonderful amount of

pleasure, which could only have be engender in her breast by a

sentiment of reciprocity.



owe to some ridiculous feeling of pride, neither of they refer to

Como during the whole of their conversation, as their parting at that

place have be so painful, and although they be both think about

it yet they talk of everything in the world except what be

uppermost in their mind. they have think of, dream of, love, and

desire one another all through these weary eighteen month, and now

when they be together and a word would have remove all

misunderstanding, neither the man nor the woman have the courage to

utter it.



at present, however, they be downstairs indulge in the slight

dissipation of afternoon tea, and Victoria, know that Otterburn be

still her admirer, be quite at her ease, talk gaily about

everything and everyone.



"this be awfully nice tea," she say, nod her head to the Master.

"why don't you try some?"



"I will, on your recommendation," he reply, take a cup the maid

be hold out, "but willn't you have some cake?"



"if there's some very curranty cake, I will," say Miss Sheldon

gluttonously. "I'll have the brown outside piece."



"why should that be more desirable than any other piece?" say Macjean

as she take it.



"More currant in it! I'm fond of currant."



"so it seem."



"now don't be severe. let's talk about something else. Mr. Gartney,

for instance."



"oh, he's here to-day."



"be he really? I think it would be too frivolous for he. the

arabian desert be more in his style."



"well, judge from his book, the Arabian Desert be not entirely

devoid of feminine interest."



"don't be horrid! it's a very charming book."



"nobody say it ben't. but I'm astonish to hear you defend Gartney

like this. you use to hate he."



"no, no! I don't exactly hate he, but I must say I don't like he."



"ben't that splitting straw?"



"not at all," retort Miss Sheldon gaily, "the two thing be widely

different. but to return to Mr. Gartney. he's really very nice."



"I'm so glad you think so," say Otterburn gravely. "I'll tell he

so."



"no, don't," exclaim Victoria, with genuine alarm. "I wouldn't have

he know it for the world."



"why hide the Sheldon light under the Gartney bushel?"



"you're talk nonsense, but you always do talk nonsense. but, good

gracious, look at the time--six o'clock."



"oh, that clock's wrong."



"so be I--in listen to you. Mr. Macjean, I must go. my chaperon

will be wait for I."



"who be your chaperon?" ask Otterburn, as they ascend the stair.

"Mrs. Trubbles?"



"no! she's in the country. now I be under the care of Mrs. Dills. do

you know she?"



"only as the wife of Mr. Dills."



"she's a most amiable woman, but not pretty."



"curious thing, amiable woman never be."



"how cruel--to I."



"Pardon! you be the exception----"



"to prove your extremely severe rule! thank you!"



talk in this light and airy manner, which be really assume to

hide their real feeling, Miss Sheldon and her lover arrive at the

drawing-room, find Mrs. Dills, small, spiteful and vivacious, to whom

Victoria introduce the Master, and then go off to say goodbye to

Mrs. Veilsturm.



when she return, and Otterburn be escort her downstair in the

train of Mrs. Dills he notice a puzzled look on her face, and

promptly ask the reason of it. she do not answer at first, but as

they stand on the step, wait for the carriage, suddenly ask he a

question.



"who introduce Sir Guy Errington to Mrs. Veilsturm?"



"Gartney do--to-day."



"to-day," she repeat, in astonishment. "why from their manner to one

another I think they be old friend."



"Mrs. Veilsturm have such a sympathetic manner you see."



"yes, very sympathetic," reply Victoria, sarcastically. "but here be

the carriage Goodbye, Mr. Macjean. come and call on Aunt Jelly."



"certainly! I be anxious to make the acquaintance of Aunt Jelly."



"so anxious that you delay the pleasure by three month," reply

Miss Sheldon laughing, as the carriage drive away, leave otterburn

on the step in a very jubilant frame of mind.



when he have somewhat recover his presence of mind, he go off to

find Eustace, be so overburdened with his secret happiness that he

feel it a necessity to speak to some one on the subject. eustace know

all about his passion, Eustace have be a good friend in find out

Victoria's sentiment towards he, so Eustace be undoubtedly the

proper person to speak to in this emergency.



after a hunt of some moment' duration, he find Mr. Gartney in

company with Errington, talk to Mrs. Veilsturm, and while the

latter seem flushed and excited, the face of the former wear an

enigmatic smile. Mrs. Veilsturm herself have be arouse from her

habitual languor, and be chat gaily, while Major Griff,

ostensibly talk to Dolly Thambits, be in reality look at

Errington with a frown. it be quite a little comedy, and Eustace

alone possess the requisite understanding to enjoy it, although from

the studied expression of his face it be impossible to tell his real

feeling.



otterburn touch Eustace on the shoulder, and draw he away from the

group.



"I say, I believe it's all right," he say, in a eager whisper.



"what be all right?" ask Eustace, in a puzzled voice. "oh, you

know," reply Otterburn, with some disgust at his friend's density.

"I meet Miss Sheldon here, and--and I speak to she."



"oh, that's it, be it?" observe Gartney, with a kindly smile. "I

suppose I must congratulate you?"



"not yet. but I think it's all right," say Otterburn, repeat his

first remark. "the way she talk, you know, and I talk also,

and--and----"



"and you're count your chicken before they're hatch," say

Gartney impatiently. "don't be angry, Macjean," he add, see Angus

look annoyed, "it's only my fun! I think it will be all right--that

be if she's forgive you for the Como business."



"Eh?" say Otterburn, obtusely. "I think it's she who require to be

forgive."



"I'm afraid you willn't find she take that view of the question,"

reply Gartney cruelly. "in love, the woman be always right and the

man everlastingly wrong."



"what a dog-in-the-manger you be, Gartney," say otterburn angrily,

the brightness die out of his face, "you willn't love anyone yourself,

or let anyone else do it. I tell you Miss Sheldon and myself

understand one another. she ask I to call and see Aunt Jelly."



"how delightful--for Aunt Jelly," remark Eustace sarcastically. "I

hope the pair of you willn't indulge in sentiment before the old

lady--she don't believe in it."



"I'll take my chance of that," observe Angus cheerfully. "but I've

get such a lot to tell you about Victoria. come along with I to the

Club."



"very well," reply Gartney, in a resign manner. "it seem my fate

to hear love confidence. I'll come as soon as I can persuade Guy to

leave Mrs. Veilsturm, or rather as soon as I can persuade Mrs.

Veilsturm to let Guy go."



"it seem to I six of one and half a dozen of the other, as far as

that go," say Otterburn shrewdly.



Eustace do not reply, but walk up to his cousin and the lady.



"I'm afraid we must go, Mrs. Veilsturm," he say, smile at

Cleopatra.



"oh, it's early yet," remark Cleopatra languidly. "must you go, Sir

Guy?"



"I suppose so," answer Errington, look at his watch. "Time, tide

and dinner wait for no man. it's past six."



"so like a man," laugh Cleopatra, "think of his dinner before

everything else."



"no, really," respond Errington, colour at this rude remark, "but

I've get an engagement, and I always like to be punctual."



"in that case don't forget my 'at home' next week," say the lady,

with a bewitching glance.



"oh, no, I willn't forget that," reply Errington coolly, much more

coolly than Cleopatra like, but she suppress her anger at his

nonchalance, and turn to Eustace.



"Goodbye, Mr. Gartney, so good of you to have come to-day. Mr.

Maclean, I've no doubt I'll see you to-night at Lady Kerstoke's dance.

Sir Guy, I hope you will find your way here again. goodbye, all of

you," and then her attention be claim by another batch of depart

guest, while the three gentleman go downstairs.



"well," say Eustace, with a sigh of relief, as they walk down Park

Lane, "I must candidly confess I hate 'at home."



"oh, no," reply Otterburn, with his mind full of Victoria, "they're

very jolly."



"oh, for the freshness of youth!" sigh Gartney, look at the

bright face of his companion. "Guy, what be your opinion?"



"what about?" ask Errington, rouse himself from a fit of

abstraction. "Mrs. Veilsturm?"



"we be talk about 'at home,'" say Eustace, equably, "but as

you've mention Mrs. Veilsturm, what be your opinion on that lady?"



"she's very pleasant, but rather overpowering," be Errington's

verdict.



"and that's her reward for devote the whole afternoon to you--'Oh,

the ingratitude of man!'"



"she's not a woman I would fall in love with," say Otterburn, with an

air of having settle the question.



"nor I," echo Sir Guy, so very resolutely that Eustace know at once

he be doubtful of his own strength of will.



"self righteous Pharisees, both," he say scoffingly, "you talk

bravely, but if Cleopatra put forth her strength she could twist you

both round her finger."









CHAPTER XXV.

FASCINATION.



     "Snake! snake! your treacherous eye,

      grow and deepen to marvellous sky,

      star shine out in the rosy space,

      every star be a woman's face,

      flushed and wreathe with amorous smile,

      draw my soul with magical wile,

      Vision! while I be rapt in thee,

      Death be come unknown to I.

      Snake hath catch I fast in his toil,

      round I wind his shine coil,

      ah, from dream with a start I wake,

      Thou host sting I, oh cruel snake."





Most man of strongly imaginative nature be superstitious, and

Gartney be no exception to the rule, his instinctive leaning in this

direction having be strengthen to a considerable extent by his

contact with the fatalistic dreamer of the East. he have travel

over a goodly portion of the world without having be infect by the

habit or thought of the so-call civilized race but the many

month he have dwell among the descendant of Ishmael, have inoculate

he imperceptibly with their strong belief in predestination. in fact,

his adaptability to the way and custom of the East, seem, to

himself, so marvellous, that he almost incline to the theory of

transmigration, and believe he have live before amid these lonely

desert.



at all event, his last sojourn among they have develop his

instinctive vein of superstition in the strong fashion, and he come

back to England fully convince that all thing be preordain by

the deity we call Fate. it be a very convenient doctrine, as it

enable he to blame a supernatural power for his own shortcoming,

and when anything happen out of the ordinary course of event, he

say "Kismet," like the veri follower of Mahomet.



with this belief, it be little to be wonder at that he believe he

see the finger of Fate intervene in the matter of his love for Lady

Errington, and argue the question in this style:



on his return to England, he have determine to abstain from see

Alizon so as to keep out of the way of temptation, but Fate, in the

person of Aunt Jelly, have force he to meet she against his will in

order to see if he could bring about an understanding between the

young couple. yield to his passion, he have make up his mind to

gratify it, but move by the spectacle of Guy's misery, have gain a

victory over himself, and strove to reconcile husband and wife.



with this aim, he have take Guy up to Town, think a short absence

might be beneficial, but fate for the second time interfere, and in

the most innocent fashion in the world he (Fate's instrument) have

deliver the young man into the power of his bitter enemy, by

introduce he to Mrs. Veilsturm. she hate Lady Errington, and would

certainly do she good to estrange husband and wife still far, thus

the field be leave open to Eustace to declare his dishonourable

passion.



twice, therefore, have he strive to conquer his feeling, and twice

Fate have intervene, so that he now feel inclined to fight no long.

have he give way to his present desire, he would have leave Guy to the

tender mercy of Cleopatra, and go down to stay at Castle Grim from

whence he would have be able to go over to Errington Hall daily and

pay his court to Alizon. all feeling of honour, however, be not

absolutely dead in his breast, so he determine to await the course of

event and see if Mrs. Veilsturm would manage to subjugate Guy, in

which case he determine to interfere. he know quite enough about Mrs.

Veilsturm, for his opinion to carry considerable weight with that

lady, and although it be not a pleasant thing to step between a

panther and its prey, yet he make up his mind to do so should occasion

arise. but if Fate intervene for the third time, and render his

trouble useless, Eustace feel in his own heart that far struggle

against Destiny would be beyond his strength.



at present, however, he have rather over-estimate the situation, as

Guy be by no mean the abject slave of Mrs. Veilsturm he deem he

to be. love for Alizon, although but ill-requite, still have

possession of Guy's whole being, and form a safeguard against the

dangerous assault of Cleopatra. Errington be constantly in

attendance on she, and she put forth all her art to enmesh he in her

toil, but although three week have now pass, she see that she have

not make much headway. Guy like she for her kindly manner towards

he, admire she for her beauty, feel flatter by her preference, but

in reality be as heart-whole as when he first see she, and have his

wife lift she little finger, he would have fly to her side without

a moment's hesitation.



Cleopatra be much too clever a woman not to see this, and feel rather

nettle that any man should dare to withstand her charm. moreover,

be bent on separate Errington from his wife, she have a very

powerful reason to do she well in reduce he to a state of bondage;

therefore spare neither time nor trouble in attempt to do so.

Errington's love for his wife, however, stand he in good stead, and

despite the temptation to which he be subject, he do not succumb

in any way.



Major Griff be by no mean pleased with this new fancy of his

friend and partner. as a rule, by dexterous management, he could make

she do what he like, but on some occasion she break away from

lead-string, and do what she please. this present desire to

captivate Errington be due, not to a feeling of love, but to the more

powerful one of revenge, and Griff, be an astute reader of

character, see that in her present frame of mind he could do nothing

with she.



it be a terrible trouble to the Major that thing should be like

this, as during this season Rumour have once more be busy with

Cleopatra's name, and to such a good purpose, that many door hitherto

open be now close against she. Society begin to talk of the number

of man who have lose large sum of money at Mrs. Veilsturm's, hint

that the west indian estate be a myth, and that Cleopatra be no

well than an adventuress. Society suddenly discover that it have

be deceive, that a base woman have pass herself off as the pure

of her sex, that it have nourish a viper in its bosom; so now

Society, in righteous wrath, be prepared to denounce Mrs. Veilsturm

and Major Griff with the bitter vindictiveness from the house-top.

the storm have not break yet, but could be hear mutter in the

distance, and now this foolish passion of Cleopatra so openly

display would accelerate the period of its bursting.



the Major, have his eye and ear open on every possible occasion,

see all this, and take measure to secure a safe retreat in case of an

unexpected collapse of the London campaign. America be to be the next

field of the firm's operation, and both the Major and his fair friend

have determine to signalize their departure by a grand fancy dress

ball, to which friend and foe alike be to be invite, after which

they could depart with fly colour to New York.



this little scheme have be very nicely arrange, but unluckily this

Errington affair threaten to upset the whole business. know she

have very little time at her disposal, and be determined to ruin

Guy's life if she possibly could, Cleopatra go beyond all the bound

of prudence, and blazon her preference for Errington so very openly

that everyone be scandalize.



in vain the Major implore Cleopatra to be cautious and not ruin

everything by her mad folly; but, carry away by a fierce feeling of

revenge against Lady Errington, she merely laugh at his entreaty

and prosecute her scheme of entangle Guy with redoubled ardour.

Major Griff speak to Eustace, think he could stop the affair by

take his cousin away, but Gartney, be determined to leave the

matter in the hand of Fate, simply shrug his shoulder and say he

could do nothing. be therefore unable to do anything, the Major

could only look on in a cold fury at Cleopatra strive to ruin

herself, Errington, and himself in a fit of mad anger.



Mrs. Veilsturm's intimate friend be also very indignant about what

they please to call her infatuation, little dreaming of the real

reason of this sudden passion. it be only the Major's influence over

Mr. Dolser that keep the affair out of the scurrilous page of "the

Pepper Box," but although it have not appear in print, the whole

affair be an open secret.



dolly Thambits, who be in love with Cleopatra, be furious at the way

in which he be neglect, but this kind of treatment only make he

all the more in love with his disdainful mistress, much to the relief

of Griff, who be afraid that the boy would escape from his toil.



in the midst of this whirl of rage, envy, and revenge, Guy, see no

special favour in Cleopatra's condescension, be quite cool and

compose, be the most unconcerned person of the whole lot. of

course, no one dare to speak to he about the real fact of the case,

and of the enmity he have provoke, so he remain in complete

ignorance, anxiously await for a letter from his wife ask he to

return.



that letter never come, however, for Alizon be perfectly happy with

her baby, and miss Errington no more than if he have be a stock or

stone. she know nothing of the peril to which her husband be

expose, and, curiously enough, none of her London friend write and

tell she, else she might have be for once startle from the serene

pleasure of motherhood.



accord to his promise, Otterburn call upon Aunt Jelly, and be

graciously receive by that strong-minded lady, who take a great fancy

to he. as yet, he have not speak outright to Victoria, but still the

young couple understand one another, and such understanding be

approve of by Miss Corbin, who see in otterburn the very husband she

would have choose for her ward. so Otterburn call on the old lady

pretty often, and bring she all the news of the town, while

Victoria, feel completely at rest concern her lover, listen

quietly.



all her idea of make otterburn propose, and then refuse he out

of revenge, have quite vanish, as she be now passionately in love

with he, and accord to the position now strangely alter since

those old day at Como, it be for she to crave and for he to grant.

otterburn, however, know nothing of this, but woo in all honour and

timidity, while Aunt Jelly, like a good but grim cherub, look on in

silent approval.



it be during one of Otterburn's visit, that by chance he let fall

something of what be go on between Mrs. Veilsturm and Guy,

whereupon the old lady, have an eye like a hawk, immediately see

that something be go on of which she know nothing. with this idea

she wait till Maclean depart, and then put Victoria through her

facing, with the result that she find out all about it and be

terribly wroth against her nephew.



Eustace call to see she, and she speak to he about it, but eustace

point-blank refuse to interfere again, say he have do his good,

but could now do no more. Aunt Jelly, therefore, be alarm, not

only for the happiness but for the respectability of the Errington

household, write a note to Guy, ask he to call.



having despatch this, she work herself up into such a fury over

the whole affair that she take a fit, and for some time be in danger

of dying, but her indomitable spirit assert itself, and with iron

determination she arise from her bed of sickness to see her nephew.



it be a fight between Cleopatra and Aunt Jelly for possession of Guy,

but all this time Guy have no more idea of play his wife false, than

he have of return Mrs. Veilsturm's openly-display passion.









CHAPTER XXVI.

AUNT JELLY INTERFERES.



     "what vow you make at the marriage altar,

        for well and bad, to take your wife;

      yet at the moment of need you falter,

        quail at rumour of come strife.

      Nay, it be wise to cling and cherish,

        Altho' thing evil be say and do;

      if in the future you both should perish,

        Husband and wife should be lose as one."





Aunt Jelly be look very pale and ill on the day she elect to see

Guy in order to expostulate with he on the wild way in which he be

behave. she be suffer from a very serious disease connect with

the heart, and Dr. Pargowker warn she against any undue excitement,

as it might prove fatal. he be seat with she now, a fat, oily man

of the Chadband specie, and talk about her ill-health in his usual

unctuous manner.



in her accustomed chair sit Miss Corbin, look wear with illness,

but as grim and defiant as ever, while the doctor stand near she

feel her pulse with one hand, and hold his watch with the other.

Minnie, ever watchful of her patroness's comfort, hover round like

an unquiet spirit, bring all sort of unnecessary thing, which

make Aunt Jelly very irritable and lead she to say unpleasant thing to

Miss Pelch which reduce the poetess to tear.



"well?" say Miss Corbin sharply, when Dr. Pargowker have finish with

her pulse, "what do you say? be this illness serious?"



the doctor lift one fat white hand in gentle protest, and resume

his seat with a comfortable sigh.



"no, dear lady, no," he say in his heavy, soft voice, "do not I

beg of you think you be so bad as all that. you remind I, if I may

be permit to make the comparison, of a dear friend of mine who

departed----"



"bother your dear friend!" snap Aunt Jelly in her grim manner.

"I don't ask you here to tell I other people's history. I want to

know about my own state of health."



Dr. Pargowker fold his chubby hand complacently on his rotund

stomach and meekly venture a protest against this language.



"do not, oh dear lady," he say unctuously, "do not excite yourself

like this. it be bad for you, dear lady, very bad."



"very bad, dear Miss Corbin," echo Minnie tearfully.



"and might lead to complication," pursue the doctor, shake his

head.



"complication," echo Miss Pelch, put her handkerchief to her

eye.



"Minnie," say Aunt Jelly politely, "you're get a big fool

every day. have the goodness to hold your tongue and not talk of

thing you know nothing about. Dr. Pargowker, if you will kindly leave

off nod your head like a chinese mandarin, and tell I straight

out what you mean, I should feel obliged."



"Dearest lady," growl the doctor, "it be useless to conceal from you

the painful fact that you be very ill."



"I know that sir," retort Aunt Jelly coolly, "go on."



"you must avoid all undue excitement, such as dance, theatre, and

see friend."



"I haven't be to a dance for the last twenty year," say Miss

Corbin wrathfully, "and as for a theatre, I've get no time to waste on

that rubbish. what do you mean by talk such nonsense to I?"



"easily upset, I see," murmur Pargowker, apparently to himself,

"very easily upset."



"wouldn't you like a little pillow for your head, dear Miss Jelly?"

say Minnie, hold one over Miss Corbin as though she be go to

play Othello to the old lady's Desdemona.



"I'd like a little common sense," retort Miss Corbin, push away

the pillow, "but it seem I'm not likely to get it."



"be calm, dear lady, be calm," observe Dr. Pargowker, nod his

head. "if you will permit I, I will write out a prescription."



"Pen, ink, and paper, Minnie!" order Aunt jelly, glare at the

doctor.



the oblige Minnie fly to obtain these necessary, and having do

so, place they on a little table near the physician, who wheel his

chair round and begin to write.



Aunt Jelly and Dr. Pargowker be old friend, and never part

without a fight, which, however, be principally conduct by Miss

Corbin, as the doctor resolutely keep his temper, and always leave the

room as bland, cool, and unruffled as when he enter it. in spite of

his round-about way of put thing, Pargowker be really very

clever at his profession, and Aunt Jelly repose the utmost confidence

in his power, although she never could resist use her sharp tongue

on he when occasion offer, and as it do so now, Aunt Jelly begin

to talk, show thereby that she be not so ill as she seem.



"Lord know how you get patient," she say, fold her bony hand,

"it's all chat with you and nothing else."



"dear, dear," murmur Pargowker, go on placidly with his writing,

"this be bad, very, very bad."



"be you talk about your prescription, or yourself?" snap Miss

Corbin, dauntlessly. "I daresay they're much of a muchness. if one

don't kill I, I've no doubt the other will."



"pardon I, dear lady," say the doctor, smile blandly, "you be

in error. this prescription will do you a great deal of good. oh, we

will pull you round, yes--yes. I think I may venture to say we will

pull you round."



"pull I round or square, it's easily see I'm not long for this

world," reply Miss Corbin.



"oh, do not speak like that, Miss Jelly," whimper Minnie, "you will

get quite well, I'm sure of it."



"aye! aye!" remark Pargowker, fold up his prescription. "while

there's life, there's hope."



"don't quote your proverb to I," say Aunt Jelly, determine not to

be please by anything, "they're nothing but traditional lie; but

seriously speak, doctor, if you can speak seriously, which I'm very

much inclined to doubt, I want to see my nephew, Sir Guy Errington,

to-day."



"no! dear lady, no!" say Pargowker, rise from his seat, and

raise one hand in protest, "pardon I, no!--the very bad person

you could see!"



"if you know he as well as I do, you might well say that," reply

Miss Corbin, malignantly, "but I must see he. it's imperative."



"if you will not excite yourself----"



"I'm not go to excite myself," retort Aunt Jelly, "but I'm go

to excite he."



Dr. Pargowker take up his hat and button his coat with the air of a

man who wash his hand of the whole affair.



"if you attend to my order," he say, speak more sharply than be

usual with he, "you will see no one. but I know you of old, Miss

Corbin. you expect to be cure, but willn't do what you're tell."



"Good Heavens!" ejaculate Aunt Jelly, with feeble merriment. "have

you take to poetry also? the idea be good, doctor, but the poetry be

bad than Minnie's."



"oh, Miss Jelly!" murmur Minnie, in tearful protest.



"well, well," say Pargowker, good-humouredly, shake hand with Miss

Corbin, "poetry or not, dear lady, do what I tell you. keep yourself

calm, see no one, take this prescription, and I think, yes, I think

you will be quite safe."



"I've no doubt about it," cry Aunt Jelly, as he pause at the door,

"safe for the near cemetery. go along with you, doctor. I tell you

I've make up my mind to see my nephew. it's a case of life and death."



"certainly with you, dear lady--certainly with you," say Dr.

Pargowker emphatically. "Miss Pelch, will you honour I by see I

to the door?"



"you want to talk about I behind my back," say Miss Corbin,

suspiciously. "it's no use. I'll make Minnie tell I everything." she

dart a threatening look at that young lady, which make she shake,

and then Minnie disappear through the door, while the doctor

prepare to follow, first give a parting word to his refractory

patient.



"it's no use, dear lady," he say, with playful ponderousness,

"call in the doctor if you don't intend to obey he."



"I never obey anyone in my life," say Aunt Jelly, stiffen she

back, "and I'm certainly not go to begin with you."



"Dearest Miss Corbin, I be in earnest."



"so be I," retort the old lady, frown. "there! there! go away,

I'll do everything you tell I, but I must see my nephew to-day."



Dr. Pargowker sigh, yield to stern necessity, and speak.



"well, you can do so, my dear, old friend, but only for five

minute--only for five minute."



"quite enough for all I've get to say."



the doctor look waggishly at Miss Corbin, in order to keep up her

spirit, but his face grow very grave as he speak to Minnie at the

door.



"she must not see anyone," he say emphatically, "mind that, Miss

Pelch. I be oblige to say she could speak to Sir Guy Errington for

five minute, as she grow so excited over be contradict. if he

do come, let she see he for that time, but don't let she grow

excited. I'll call in again to-night, to see how she be."



"be she very ill?" ask Minnie in dismay.



"so ill," say Pargowker, put on his hat, "that if she's not keep

absolutely quiet, she willn't recover."



"oh!" say Miss Pelch in an alarmed tone, and would have ask more

question, only Dr. Pargowker be already in his brougham, on his way

to another patient.



Minnie return to the drawing-room, with a cheerful face, so as not

to let Miss Corbin see her feeling, but that indomitable lady be

determined to have the truth, and tackle she at once.



"well, what do he say?" she demand, sharply.



"only that you be to keep yourself quiet, dear Miss Jelly," reply

Minnie, take up her work, a green parrot be embroider on a red

tree, against a yellow ground and a purple sky.



"what else?"



"nothing!"



"Minnie, you be deceive I," say Aunt Jelly solemnly. "I can see

it in your face. do you think it's right to deceive a die person?"



"you're not die," whimper Minnie, begin to cry.



"I'm not far off it, at all event," retort Miss Corbin, with a

sigh. "I know my own constitution quite as well as that fool of a

doctor, and I'm pretty sure I willn't get well this time."



"oh, but you will--you will," cry Minnie, weeping.



"Pooh! nonsense, child," say Miss Corbin, kindly, "don't waste your

tear over an old woman like I. I've have a long life, but by no mean

a happy one. quantity not quality, I suppose. if I can only see

Victoria engage to that nice macjean boy, and persuade my nephew out

of his folly, I'll not be sorry to go."



"Dr. Pargowker say you be not to see Sir Guy long than five

minute, Miss Jelly."



"quite long enough."



"and be not to excite yourself."



"there, there, Minnie!" say Miss Jelly, impatiently. "I'll take good

care of myself, you may be sure. what time do Sir Guy say he would be

here?"



"four o'clock, dear Miss Corbin."



"it's nearly that now," observe Aunt Jelly, look at the clock. "I

hope he willn't keep I wait. young man be so careless now-a-day.

Miss Sheldon have go out?"



"yes! to the Academy with Mrs. Trubbles and Mr. Macjean."



"neither of whom know anything about picture. it mean flirt, not

art, I've no doubt. well! well, we must not be too hard on the young.

let I leave the world in peace, that's all I ask."



Minnie put down her work, and come close to Miss Corbin, whose thin

cold hand she take in her own.



"dear Miss jelly, don't talk like that," she say, softly, "indeed you

will get well, I'm sure you will."



"no, child, no!"



"oh, but, yes," persist her companion, fondly. "why, whatever would

I do, if you do not live to read my little volume?"



"oh, it's come out, then?" say Aunt Jelly, grimly, with a flash of

her old spirit.



"yes, Mr. Gartney have arrange it all. I be go to keep it a

secret, but when you talk about die, I cann't," and poor Minnie

fairly break down, which touch Aunt Jelly more than she like to

acknowledge.



"there! there!" she say, touch Minnie's face, with unaccustomed

tenderness, "you're a good child, Minnie. tell I all about this

poetry book."



"it's go to be call 'Heart Throbs and Sad Sobs, by Minnie

Pelch,'" say the poetess, radiantly, "'dedicated to Miss Angelica

Corbin, by her sincere friend, the Authoress.'"



Aunt Jelly be silent for a few minute, feeling, rather a choking in

her throat. she have laugh at poor Minnie's simple rhyme on many

occasion, and now the poetess have return good for evil, pay she

the high compliment of inscribe her name on the front of the book.

Minnie mistake her silence for indignation at not having ask

permission, and try to pacify the old lady.



"I hope you're not angry," she say, timidly smooth Aunt Jelly's

hand, "but I want to surprise you by the dedication. there's a

poem about you too, Miss Jelly, and I think it's the good in the

book--really the good."



the old lady be so touch by Minnie's poor little attempt to

propitiate she, that she could not trust herself to speak, and when

she do there be tear roll down her hard old face, as she bend

down and kiss she.



"it's very good of you, child," she say, in a tremulous voice, "and I

feel very much honour, indeed. perhaps I've not be so kind to you

as I ought to have be.



"oh, but you have!--you have!" cry Minnie, throw herself on her

knee, with tear in her eye. "if it have not be for you, I would

have starve, dear Miss Jelly. indeed, I would. it be so hard to get

pay for poetry. and you have be such a kind, good friend--such a

kind good friend!"



"if I have speak harshly to you, dear, on occasion," say Aunt

Jelly, brokenly, "it be from no want of feeling. Age, my dear Minnie,

age, and an embitter nature. but the heart be there, my dear, all

the time the heart be there."



"I know it was!--I know it be!" wept Minnie, pat the wither

hand of her old friend. "I have never doubt that."



"yes! yes!" mutter the old dame dreamily, "the heart be there."



and there be silence for a few minute, only break by the sob of

Minnie, then Aunt Jelly recover her usual manner with an effort, and

order wine and cake to be place on the table. Miss Pelch have barely

time to do this, when there come a ring at the front door, and shortly

afterwards Sir Guy Errington enter the room. Aunt Jelly, now quite

her own grim self, receive her nephew coldly, and then send Minnie

out of the room, as she want to talk to Sir Guy in private. Miss

Pelch, however, mindful of the doctor's order, do not go far, but

wait in the hall, so as to be ready to enter when the five minute

have expire.



Guy look rather haggard about the face, as he sit down near his

elderly relation, which Aunt Jelly put down to fast living, although,

in reality, it be due to worry about his wife. this idea do not

make she feel very tenderly towards Errington, and she prepare

herself to do battle.



"so you've come at last?" she say, straighten she back, and

fold her hand on her knee.



"I come as soon as you send for I," answer Guy, quietly.



"you should have come without an invitation," say Aunt Jelly, with a

frown, "but young man of the present day seem to take a delight in

neglect those nearest and dearest to they."



this be say pointedly, with a view to draw forth some remark

about Alizon, but Guy do not take it in that sense.



"I don't want to neglect you, aunt," he say moodily, "but our

conversation be not so pleasant that I should look forward to they."



"I only speak for your good."



"People always do that when they make disagreeable remark," reply

Errington sarcastically. "you're not look well to-day, Aunt Jelly."



"I don't feel well either," respond his aunt shortly. "I'm die."



"oh, no, don't say that," say Guy, heartily shocked at her remark.



"but I will say it," retort Miss Corbin, nod her head

vigorously, "and I'll say something else too that you willn't like."



"I've no doubt you will," answer Guy crossly, rise to his foot.

"look here, Aunt Jelly, you're not well to-day, and if you bring I

here to quarrel, I'm not fit for it."



"you're fit for nothing in my opinion except the Divorce Court," say

Aunt Jelly viciously. "sit down."



"I don't know what you mean by talk about the Divorce Court,"

answer Errington calmly, obey her command.



"think and see."



"what's the good of my do that?" cry Errington angrily, "I don't

know what you mean."



"don't shriek," say Miss Corbin coolly, "it go through my head."



"I beg your pardon aunt," reply Guy politely, "but if you would tell

I what you're drive at I would feel obliged."



Aunt Jelly sit in silence for a moment, rap the finger of one

hand on the knuckle of the other, then speak out sharply.



"what's all this talk about you and Mrs. Veilsturm?" Guy sit bolt

upright in his chair and stare at she in amazement.



"oh, be that it?" he say with a short laugh. "don't worry your head

about Mrs. Veilsturm, aunt. all the world can know the relation that

exist between we."



"all the world do know."



Errington arise from his seat with a smothered ejaculation, and

thrust his hand into his pocket, begin to walk backwards and

forward.



"you needn't use bad language, my dear Guy," say Aunt Jelly, with

aggravating placidity. "all I want to know be what you mean by leave

your wife and run after Mrs. Veilsturm?"



"I'm not run after Mrs. Veilsturm," say her nephew angrily, "and

I've not leave my wife. I'm simply up in Town for a spell, and have

call once or twice to see a very pleasant woman."



"a very pleasant woman, indeed," sneer Aunt Jelly scornfully.



"if you think so badly of she, I wonder you let your ward go near

she."



"I don't know anything against the woman's character," reply Miss

Corbin, "so there's no reason I should keep Victoria away. I daresay

she's as bad as the rest of they, and conceal it well. but that's

nothing to do with my question. it have come to my ear that you be

pay marked attention to Mrs. Veilsturm, and I want to know if it

be true."



"no, it be not true?" answer Errington slowly. "I have be a great

deal with Mrs. Veilsturm since I come up to Town, but that be simply

because she ask I to visit she, and without be absolutely rude,

I could not refuse."



"a very nice explanation," say his aunt disbelievingly, "but do you

think it be one your wife will accept?"



"my wife know nothing about my visit to Mrs. Veilsturm."



"indeed she do," reply Aunt Jelly coolly. "I write and tell she

all about they."



Guy's face grow as pale as that of a corpse, and he stare at Miss

Corbin as if he have be turn into stone. at length, with an effort,

he arise to his foot and repeat her answer in a harsh, strained

voice.



"you write and tell she all about they?"



"yes! I  do not think your conduct be right, so, as your wife have

most influence with you, I write and tell she to call you back to

Ellington."



all the blood in his body seem to surge up into his head with the

violent effort he make to suppress his anger. have it be any one else

but this feeble old woman, he would have simply let his passion master

he, but in this case, with such an adversary he could do nothing.



"God forgive you, Aunt Jelly," he say at length, "you've do a cruel

thing," and he turn and walk slowly to the door.



"I have do what be right," say Miss Corbin bravely. "you be

deceive your wife, and I be determined she should know of your

deception."



Sir Guy turn towards she as he pause at the door, and when she

finish speak, answer she slowly and deliberately.



"you be quite wrong. I be not deceive my wife, as I can prove to

you. as you know, my wife have treat I very cruelly during the last

year, and neglect I in every way, give all her love to the child.

Eustace come down the other day, and advise I to leave my wife for a

few week, think she would not be so indifferent on my return. I

take his advice and come up to Town. Eustace take I to Mrs.

Veilsturm, and find she a very pleasant woman, I simply go there

in order to amuse myself. but as for care about she, I love and

respect my wife and my name too much to degrade myself so far.

unluckily, until the other day, I do not remember that Alizon

dislike Mrs. Veilsturm, because she be mix up with her father in

some way, and forbid she to visit at the Hall. have I remember this,

I would not have go there, but it's too late now to think of it. by

believe all these malicious story, which I give you my word of

honour have no foundation, and write to she, she will believe that I

go to see this woman on purpose, and she will never forgive I. I be

go down to the Hall by to-night's train, and will try and explain

everything to she, but I'm afraid she will not believe I. no doubt

you act for the good, Aunt Jelly, but in do so you have simply

ruin my life."



"Guy! Guy!" moan the old woman, who have listen to all this with a

sense of stunned amazement. "forgive I! I  do it for the good, but I

will write again and tell she how wrong I have be."



"it be too late," he reply sadly, "too late."



"no, it's not too late, Guy. but forgive I! forgive I!"



Errington look at she coldly.



"if my wife forgive I I will forgive you," he answer, and leave the

room.



Aunt Jelly stare at the closed door, and strove to call he back, but

her voice die in her throat, a mist come before her eye, and

overwhelm by the fatal discovery she have make, and the excitement

she have undergo, she fall back in a dead faint.









CHAPTER XXVII.

the deity call FATE.



     "believe I, sir, the deity call Fate,

      be strong than the strong of we all,

      Fate! Fortune! destiny! what name you will!

      we be the sport of some malignant power,

      who twist and turn the action of our life,

      in such strange fashion that our good intent

      --Not evil in themselves--breed evil thing,

      and wreck our fair venture, tho' we strive

      to bring they holily to some quiet port."





on leave Miss Corbin's house Errington's first impulse be to drive

straight to the railway station, catch the six-thirty train, and go

down to the Hall at once, in order to explain matter to his wife. a

moment's reflection, however, convince he that this would be a

foolish thing to do, as he could not possibly reach home before eight

o'clock, and his late arrival at such an hour without be expect

would be sure to cause comment among the servant. they already

guess more of the strained relation between himself and his wife

than he like, so in order to avoid the slight chance of any

further remark be make, he determine to go down to Denfield next

day in the ordinary course of thing.



he therefore drive back to his hotel, and while dress for dinner

ponder deeply as to the good course to pursue with Alizon. on this

night he be engage to dine with Macjean at the Soudan Hotel, and

recollect that his cousin be to be of the party. eustace be a man

in whom he have a profound belief, and frequently defer to his

cousin's judgment in delicate matter, so on this present occasion he

make up his mind to speak to Gartney, whose clear head would doubtless

be able to solve the problem.



it be true that Mrs. Veilsturm expect he to call for she at the

Marlowe Theatre, where she have a box. but the idea of be in her

company again after what have transpire be too much for he, so he

hastily scribble a note excuse himself on the plea of sudden

indisposition, and send it off to Park Lane by a special messenger.



"Macjean and Laxton can go to the theatre as arrange," he think, as

he go slowly down the stair, "and I'll make eustace take I to his

room, where we can talk over thing at our ease."



with this determination he jump into a hansom and drive off to the

Soudan Hotel in Piccadilly, where he find otterburn wait for he

in company with Laxton.



"where's Gartney?" ask the Master after greet his friend, "he

promise to be early."



"Eustace's promise be like pie crust," reply Errington, give his

cloak and hat to the waiter, "make to be break."



"you look very broken yourself," remark Macjean meditatively, as the

gaslight fall on Guy's face. "what be the matter? have you have bad

news? will you have a glass of sherry?"



"nothing be the matter," reply the baronet categorically. "I have

not have bad news, and I will take a glass of sherry."



he really feel very worried over the position in which he now find

himself regard his wife, but it be well he should dine in

company than alone, as a solitary meal would only make matter appear

much bad than they really be. besides he be go to consult

Eustace, who, he feel certain, would advise he for the good, so he

put the good face he could on the matter, and chat gaily over his

sherry to the two young man while wait for his cousin.



presently Eustace, cool, calm and unconcerned, arrive, with a large

appetite and an apology for be late.



"I've get a man who be in the habit of mislay thing," he explain

as they all sit down to dinner, "he mislay his brain when he be

bear, and haven't find they yet, so I suffer in consequence. no sherry

for I, thank you! water, please!"



"Ugh, London water," groan Laxton, hold up his sherry to the

light.



"Water," remark Mr. Gartney sententiously, "be the pure of all

element."



"not in town," retort Macjean with a grimace. "I don't believe in

Adam's wine."



"no Scotchman ever do as far as I know," say Eustace drily.

"presbyterian wine be what you all prefer north of the Tweed."



"and a very good idea too," observed Guy, contribute his quota to

the conversation, "especially on wet day."



"that's why such a lot of whisky be consume in the Land o' Cakes,"

explain Eustace gravely, "it's always wet up there. Scotch mist and

Scotch whisky invariably go together."



"this," remark Laxton, allude to the conversation, "be not a

teetotol meeting."



"no one could possibly accuse it of be that," retort Gartney,

with a significant glance at the full glass, "but if you three

gentleman don't mind talk, I'll eat in the meantime. the Soudan

cook be a good one, the Gartney appetite be a large one, so thank God

for all his mercy and leave I to pay attention to the good thing

of this life."



his three friend laugh at his humorous way of put thing, and

devote themselves to the fish. the conversation go on in a more or

less frivolous fashion, the last scandal, the blunder of the Cabinet,

the new novel of the realistic school, the prospect of a war in the

East--all these be discuss in their turn by the quartette, and

then Laxton begin to argue with Otterburn about the african

expedition, so seize the opportunity Guy bend forward to speak to

Eustace.



"I want to talk to you after dinner," he say in a low voice.



"certainly," reply Gartney carelessly, "but will you have time? what

about the theatre?"



"I've change my mind," say Guy quickly, "so I send an excuse to Mrs.

Veilsturm. have you anything particular to do? if not we can go to

your room. I willn't detain you long."



Eustace flash a keen look on his cousin, and pause a moment before

reply:



"I be go to look in at one or two drawing-room to-night," he say

at length, "but as my engagement really ben't very particular, I'll

not trouble about they, so I will be at your disposal."



"thank you," answer Guy, draw a long breath.



"nothing wrong, I hope?"



"well that be as it turn out. I see Aunt Jelly to-day."



"ah!" say Eustace in a significant tone, know that an interview

with Aunt Jelly always mean trouble of some sort. "I think I can

understand. however, let we go on with our meal. pleasure and appetite

first, business and Aunt Jelly afterwards. what be those two boy

fight about?"



the two boy be still engage in the african argument, and have

arrive at a dead lock, each be firmly convinced in his own mind

that his view of the subject be the right one.



"you're all wrong, I tell you," say Otterburn hotly, "you're talk

just like you do at Montana. Africa ben't America."



"nobody say it be," return Laxton ungracefully, "but I daresay the

sport be very much the same in both place. Africa be not a new

planet."



"you might as well say that pot walrus in the Arctic region be

the same as jungle shooting in India."



"it's merely a matter of temperature," declare Laxton decidedly.



"oh, if you pin your faith to the thermometer, I've nothing more to

say," reply Otterburn, throw himself back in his chair with the

air of a man who have crush his opponent.



"I haven't the least idea what you be talk about," observe

Eustace leisurely, "and judge from what I've overhear you both seem

to be in the same predicament."



"we'll discuss it later on," say otterburn gaily. "what a pity I

cann't come out with you to Africa, Laxton, and settle the argument

that way."



"well, why don't you come?" demand Laxton quickly.



otterburn redden and laugh in an embarrassed fashion, while

Eustace throw a roguish glance at he, and make answer for the bashful

lover.



"don't you bother your head, Laxton there be more important thing

than shoot expedition in this world--at least, otterburn think

so."



Laxton be quite in the dark regard the meaning of these mystic

utterance, when it suddenly dawn on he that the lady whom

Otterburn have speak about in America might have something to do with

the turn the conversation have take, and lift his glass with a smile

as he look towards Macjean.



"to the health of the something more important than shoot

expedition," he say gravely, and finish the wine.



"thank you," respond otterburn laughing. "may I some day drink the

same health to you?"



"never!"



"never's a long time."



"and talk about time," remark Guy, glance at his watch, "if you

two boy have any idea of the theatre to-night you'll have to be off."



"ben't you come too?" chorusse Otterburn and his comrade.



"no! I  receive an important piece of news to-night, about which I

wish to speak to my cousin."



"what will Mrs. V. say?" ask Laxton gaily.



"who can foretell a woman's remark?" say Eustace quizzically, see

that Guy be disinclined to speak.



"depend upon how much you know of the woman," respond otterburn

smartly.



"Woman," retort the cynic, "be an unknown quantity."



"what about quality?"



"this conversation," say Eustace, look at his glass of water, "be

get problematic. after dinner be a bad time to solve puzzle,

therefore--coffee."



it seem a good suggestion, so they all adjourn to the

smoking-room, and indulge in further conversation while they enjoy

their coffee and cigarette. shortly afterwards Otterburn and his

friend depart for the Marlowe Theatre, while Eustace in company with

Guy go off to his room in Half Moon Street, Piccadilly.



use as he be to hardship in foreign land, Eustace always take care

to make up for his deprivation by make himself very comfortable at

home, consequently his room leave nothing to be desire in the way of

luxury. his valet be well accustomed to his master come in at all

kind of unexpected time, consequently when they arrive the room

be well light, the chair dispose in tempting corner, and a

spirit-stand with glass and soda-water stand ready for any thirsty

soul.



Eustace place his cousin in a well-cushion chair, give he an

excellent cigar, then, light one himself, take his seat opposite to

Guy and prepare to play the part of father confessor.



it be a hot night and the window be stand slightly open,

let in the pleasant, confused noise of the street, with its

rattling of cab, voice of people, and footfall of innumerable

pedestrian. the faint sound of a barrel organ play the last new

tune, "oh, she's leave I for another," come softly to their ear, and

they sit smoke silently for a few moment until Errington speak.



"I tell you I see Aunt Jelly to-day."



"yes and what do she say?"



"a good many disagreeable thing," reply Guy bitterly; "accord to

her showing, I must be a singularly wicked man."



"Aunt Jelly," observe Eustace philosophically, "know very little

about the actual world, and having live apart from her fellow

creature for many year, have form in her own mind an ideal life to

which she expect all her friend and relation to conform.

unfortunately, the majority of nineteenth century people be neither

lucrece nor bayard, consequently Aunt Jelly, in Pharisee fashion,

rail at the world and say, 'thank God, I'm not as other woman be.'"



"she be as other woman be in the matter of listen to gossip," say

Guy emphatically, "for she tell I it be common talk that I have leave

my wife for the superior attraction of Mrs. Veilsturm."



Eustace look up suddenly in dismay.



"my dear fellow, you must be make a mistake."



"I'm make no mistake," return Guy doggedly. "Aunt Jelly say it be

common talk. have you hear anything about it?"



"you know I never pay attention to gossip," say Gartney evasively, "I

don't even listen to it, but you may be certain that anyone who pose

as the _cher ami_ of Mrs. Veilsturm willn't escape calumny."



"I don't pose as the _cher ami_ of Mrs. Veilsturm," say Errington

fiercely. "I don't care two straw about she."



"action speak louder than word. you certainly have act as if you

do."



"Good Heavens, Eustace, you surely don't believe all these lie?"

retort Guy wrathfully, rise from his chair.



"I never say I do," answer his cousin coolly, "but I'm look at

it now from the world's point of view. Mrs. Veilsturm have certainly

make a dead set at you, and you, think it be natural amiability,

have play into her hand. you, no doubt, call it friendship, but the

world don't."



"it be friendship. indeed, hardly that as far as I be concern, as I

don't care if I never see Mrs. Veilsturm again. she have take an

unaccountable fancy to I, and I'm no Joseph where a pretty woman be

concern, but as for leave my dear wife for a meretricious woman

like that--good God!"



"well, let the world talk as it like, so long as it ben't speak

the truth," say Eustace impatiently. "who care? if you expect

justice from your fellow creature, you willn't get it. as to Aunt

Jelly, old woman be privileged gossip. it don't matter to you."



"but it do matter to I, I tell you," cry Guy violently, walk

to and fro, "she have write all about these lie to my wife."



the barrel organ outside be still grind out the popular tune,

be now assist by the shrill voice of a girl singe the word of

the song.





     "oh, she's leave I for another,

        Mary Anne! Mary Anne!

      and she say he be her brother,

        Mary Anne.

      it may be true, for all I know,

      but would she kiss her brother so,

      and would she leave I for he? no!

        Mary Anne, Mary Anne!"





the regular beat of the melody seem to repeat itself everlastingly

in Gartney's ear as he sit there in silence wonder over the

statement Errington have make. if Alizon know all, she would never

forgive her husband and then--be it fate that so persistently

smooth the road for his evil do? he feel dull and stupid at the

unexpected announcement he have hear, and, after a pause, lift his

heavy eye to Guy.



"well," he say drearily, "and what do you intend to do?"



Errington sit down heavily in his chair and stretch out his hand

with a weary gesture.



"I don't know what to do," he answer in a dull voice. "I suppose the

good thing will be for I to go down and explain matter to Alizon."



"but will she accept your explanation?"



"no!"



"then why make it?"



"a drown man will grasp at a straw. I must do something! I cann't

let my wife think I have wilfully wrong she. good heaven! surely

she must know I love she dearly."



"I should think it be very probable she do," answer Eustace

slowly, "besides, I think Lady Errington be too sensible a woman to

give ear to lie report. tell she all you have tell I, and I'm

certain you will have no difficulty in make your peace with she."



"do you think so?" ask Guy, his sad face brightening, "but no, I'm

afraid not. you remember the story I tell you about Mrs. Veilsturm's

card be return."



Eustace nod.



"that be the difficulty. if it have be any other woman than Mrs.

Veilsturm--but as it be, she'll think I do it wilfully."



"surely not."



"my dear fellow, you've never love a statue," say Errington

bitterly, rise to his foot and put on his cloak, "but it's no

use talk any more. Aunt Jelly have do more harm than she know of.

I'll go down to the Hall to-morrow, and tell Alizon everything. if she

believe my explanation, well and good, if she do not----"



"well?" ask Eustace, see his cousin hesitate.



"well!" repeat the other harshly, "I shall come back to London and

Mrs. Veilsturm."



he be go before Eustace could offer a word of remonstrance on the

folly of such a determination, and then Gartney return to his seat

with an air of utter lassitude.



"Kismet," he say to himself, after a long pause. "it be Destiny."



be it indeed destiny that have interfere for the third time? be it

fix by Fate that he should be Lady Errington's lover, and lose his

honourable name for her sake? it seem like it, see that all

barrier he have set up against this illicit love, be sweep away by

the action of other people, and the field leave open to he. still,

Alison have not yet have her interview with Guy, and, as she must know

how much he love she, surely she would accept his explanation of the

lie report concern his infatuation for Mrs. Veilsturm.



if she do so, all would be well with they both, but if she refuse to

believe his story, and dismiss he coldly, then----



Eustace arise to his foot, and walk over to the window, look out

into the hot night. below, the glare and glitter of gas-lamp--above,

the luminous light of the star--and far in the east, rise over the

sombre masse of cloud, burn an evil planet, which be dread of

old by the Chaldeans.



the man look at it with troubled eye feel the twin power of good

and evil strive in his heart.



and the star gleam steadily in the thunderous sky.









CHAPTER XXVIII.

HUSBAND and WIFE.



     "you have break your oath

        and break my heart,

      oh, sorrow for both,

      you have break your oath;

      although I be loth

        in anger to part,

      you have break your oath

        and break my heart."





Alizon Errington be seat in the dutch room with Aunt Jelly's letter

clench in her hand, and Sammy play on the carpet beside she. the

child, roll among his toy be babble inarticulate word of

endearment to they, but the mother's eye be fix on the gaudy bed

of tulip blaze in the sunshine as she think over the word she

have just read.



so this be her husband! this man who have go straight from his home,

from his wife, from his child, to the arm of this infamous woman. he

know more than the world do about the character of Mrs. Veilsturm,

for she have tell he herself. he know that she, his wife, have refuse

to receive this adventuress and have return her card! he know that

Mrs. Veilsturm, Cleopatra, whatever she like to call herself, have

be connect with disreputable Gabriel Mostyn, and yet, in spite of

all this, he have dare to enter her house, to clasp hand with she as

a friend, to sacrifice his honour and that of his wife to this vile

woman.



be there any faith or honesty in man?



her father have be bad and vicious all his life; he have destroy his

daughter's belief in the male sex by the terrible revelation of his

death-bed, but her husband--oh!--she have think he well than this:

she have respect and admire he, she have be a good wife, hold

her head high and keep her honour spotless. she be a good mother

to his child, and she have do she good in all way to fulfil the vow

make at the marriage altar.



this be her reward! she be desert for another woman, for a woman

who be the vilest of her sex. her wifely honour have be drag in

the mud, her wifely name have be place with jeer in the mouth of

man and woman, and the marriage tie, so sacred in her eye, have be

violate by her husband, by the very man who should have respect its

sanctity.



her first bear be play at her foot in the happy innocence of

childhood, a pure soul fresh from the hand of God, who have give she

this treasure to nurse and cherish. yet even now, in its artless

babyhood, the shadow of a dark shame be hover over its golden

head, the name it bear be already smirch in the eye of the world,

and its father, who be responsible to God for its well-being, have

already degrade it by his own shameful passion.



ah! all man be the same. her father be only the type of many

other. they love a woman, or say they love she, and stay beside

she for a time, yet as soon as they grow weary of she, they fly to

the arm of some new fancy, and not even the sanctity of the

marriage tie could restrain their brutal nature. Guy, whom she

think so good and kind, have turn out the same as his fellow man.

he have be a good husband for a time, but now, grow weary of his

quiet home, satiate with domestic love, weary of his prattle child,

he have deliberately fling himself into the arm of this light-o'-love.

well, he would have his reward. the wage of sin be death! and he

would be drag down to destruction by those arm that encircle he

so fondly.



but what about herself? what could she do in order to free herself

from the companionship of this man who prize she less than he do his

dissolute companion? divorce! yes, that be the way to break the

chain which bind she to the husband she despise. but it be

impossible that she could take advantage of the law, for it would

reflect on the child in the future, and for the child's sake she would

have to remain in the bondage of marriage.



Tearless, cold, and pale as a lily, she sit there with her hand

clasp the hateful letter which tell she of her husband's treachery

and destroy the happiness of her life. the child, weary of its toy,

crawl across the carpet to her foot, and clutch her dress raise

itself to its foot with a plaintive cry. she look downward in

dry-eyed misery, see the wax-like tiny hand clasp her dress, and

hear the thin little voice utter its inarticulate prayer to lie on

her breast.



the full horror of her position break on her dull brain like a flash

of light, and with a burst of tear she take up the child and strain

he convulsively to her bosom.



ah, how those tear fall--hot, scald tear that blister she

cheek, that burn into her very soul, and that fall on the

frightened face of the baby like rain, bitter and salt as the wave of

the sea. the child be afraid at this passionate outburst of sorrow

and begin to cry, but she hold he close to her breast and,

restrain her tear, hush he to slumber with a low lullaby

rock to and fro, her heart heavy as lead.



"Alizon!"



with a cry she arise to her foot, the sleep child in her arm, and

see her husband, travel-stain, worn, and haggard, stand at the

door with a look of implore agony on his face. she draw herself up

to her full height and shrink against the wall, with one arm stretch

out to keep he off, the other hold the tiny form of the child, and

at her foot the crumpled letter that have be the cause of all this

undoing.



Guy make a step forward and stretch out his arm.



"Alizon!"



"Don't--don't come near I!" she say in a low, hoarse voice, with a

look of horror on her pale face.



"I come to explain----"



"nothing can explain that," she answer, point to the letter on

the floor, "nothing can explain that."



"I can explain it, if you will only listen," he say vehemently. the

mark of tear be still on her cheek, but no other trace of

emotion remain to show how she have suffer.



as her husband speak, a cold, scornful smile creep over her face, and

she sign to he to go on, still shrink against the wall with her

arm fold round the child as if she would keep it from be

contaminate by its father.



"I see Aunt Jelly," say Sir Guy hurriedly, "and she tell I what she

have do. write to you about--about Mrs. Veilsturm."



he bring out the hate name with a great effort, but his wife,

neither shrink nor wincing, stare straight at he with that

terrible frozen smile on her face.



"she write under a mistake," pursue Errington, clasp the back of

a chair in his strong finger as though he would crush it to dust. "it

be not true what she say. I tell she all about it and she believe

I. I be go to tell you now, and you will believe I, will you not,

Alizon?"



"I cannot tell."



the word drop slowly from her mouth, and he fling out his arm

towards she with a cry of anguish.



"you must believe I--you must, I tell you," he say breathlessly. "it

be not true about that woman. I go up to Town with Eustace, and

call at she house----"



a flush of angry red pass over her face, and she turn on he like

a tigress.



"you call on she! you call on that woman!" she say in a clear,

vibrate voice, tremulous with anger. "the woman about whom I tell

you--whom I would not receive, and you--you--my husband, dare to put

this insult upon I."



"Alizon----"



"don't speak far! I have hear enough. that letter be true, and

you cannot deny it."



"I do deny it," he cry fiercely. "I tell you it be all a mistake. I

forget all about your refusal to receive Mrs. Veilsturm. have I

remember I would not have go."



"ah!" she say with ineffable scorn, "if you have remember. what

excuse be that to make? do my word weigh so lightly with you that you

could forget they so easily? it be not for anything that Mrs.

Veilsturm have do to I that I decline to receive she. but I hear

my father, on his death-bed, speak of she--speak of she as man such as

he be speak of such a woman as she be. I tell you this, and yet you

forget my word and visit she."



"as God be my judge, I do forget," he say desperately. "I do not

think about it until it be too late."



"ah, you do remember at last."



"yes! only it be too late. I have be to her house and she----"



"and she," echo his wife bitterly. "oh, I well know what you be

go to say. she do she good to captivate you with her vile art,

try she hard to win your heart from me----"



"but she do not succeed--she do not succeed," he say earnestly.



"do you think I care if she do or if she do not?" reply Lady

Errington scornfully. "do you think I would place myself in rivalry

with that woman? no! you have choose she in preference to I, your

lawful wife. go to she as soon as you like, but don't dare to come

near I."



"I will come near you," say Guy desperately. "you have no right to

judge I like this."



"I have the right of a wrong woman."



"no, no! I  swear you have not. on my soul; on my honour----"



"on your honour," she interrupt with a sneer, "the honour of a man

who could act as you have do!"



"whose fault be it if I have act badly?" he cry, render

desperate by her jeer.



"do you mean to infer it's mine?" say his wife quietly.



he gnaw his moustache viciously and do not respond, whereupon she

be about to ask the question again, when a knock come to the door and

startle they both.



"it be the child's nurse," say Lady Errington, go to the door.

"wait a moment."



Guy turn towards the window so that the servant should not see how

upset he be, and Lady Errington, open the door, keep she face bent

over the sleep child as she place it in Mrs. Tasker's arm.



"he's sound asleep, Nurse," she say quietly, as the old woman take

he. "take he up to the nursery, and I'll come to he in a short

time."



her voice be perfectly under control, and Mrs. Tasker never for a

moment suspect anything be wrong between her master and mistress as

she toil slowly up the stair carry the child tenderly in her

stout arm.



Lady Errington draw a long breath as Mrs. Tasker disappear, and

then, close the door quietly, turn once more to her husband, who

still stand look out at the bright sunshine, which seem to mock

his misery by its glare and cheerful brilliancy.



"I be wait for your answer," say his wife's steady voice behind

he, whereupon he turn swiftly round, and cross to where she

stand, stern and silent by the table, catch one of her hand before

she could prevent he.



"Alizon," he say earnestly, "for your own sake, for the sake of our

child, listen to I quietly, and I will try and explain thing to your

satisfaction. I do go to Mrs. Veilsturm's, but I swear by all that be

sacred, that I do not remember anything about she. not even her name.

think for a moment, the whole affair pass in five minute--your

explanation be a hurried one, and you never refer to it again. it

be eighteen month ago, and since then her name have never be

mention between we, so you can hardly wonder that I quite forget

about the woman. have I remember, I would not have go--give I at

least that credit. I go innocently enough with Eustace, and Mrs.

Veilsturm, I suppose out of revenge for the slight she receive from

you, be very attentive to I. I do not respond to her advance in

any way, and see as little of she as I could. I be not responsible

for the coupling of our name together. you know how the world talk

and magnifie the most innocent thing into evidence of guilt. the

scandal reach the ear of my aunt, and she, innocently enough, write

that letter to you--a letter which she now bitterly regret having

send to you. when she tell I about it, I explain all, and she ask

my pardon for having write the letter. I come down here at once to

tell you everything, and I have now do so. on my honour, Alizon,

that be the whole affair. I act wrongly in forget about Mrs.

Veilsturm's past, and I ask your pardon. let this misunderstanding

cease between we. I love you dearly. I have always love you, never so

much as now. do not let our life be blight like this. I have act

wrongly, and I ask your pardon. you in your turn grant it to I, and

let we forget this terrible mistake."



all the time he be plead, she listen to he without any sign of

emotion, her face look impassable as a marble mask, but at the

conclusion of his speech, she withdraw her hand from his with a cold

smile of disbelief, which show how little his tenderness affect

she.



"your explanation would satisfy the world," she say with chilly

dignity, "but it do not satisfy I. I cannot believe that you forget

about my refusal to receive Mrs. Veilsturm. even if you do forget,

that only make your conduct bad, for you still go to visit she

after you recollect the affair, as you acknowledge yourself. I have

be a good wife to you, I have be a good mother to your child, and

in return you have not even give I the common fidelity of a husband,

which every woman have a right to expect."



"I see it be no use plead to a cold piece of perfection like you,"

say Guy, draw himself up with dignity. "I have stoop to explain

this affair, and you decline to believe I. I can do no more. you be

convince, without the shadow of a reason, that I be vile, and it be

impossible for I to undeceive you far than I have do. under

these circumstance it be impossible for we to live together as man

and wife. you doubt I, and I resent your do so, therefore it will

be good for we to at once make some arrangement about our future

life."



he speak calmly enough, but his heart be hot with indignation, that

he should receive such treatment from the woman he love well on

earth. he be innocent, and he know himself to be innocent, therefore

all his nature rise in revolt against the unjust attitude take up by

his wife.



she, on her side, be also indignant, deeming that his explanation be

false from beginning to end, so she refuse to forgive he, or to

believe the skilful tissue of falsehood he have put forward as a plea

for her mercy.



it be a case of misunderstanding on both side, and as the stubborn

pride of each refuse to bend, nothing be now leave but separation.



"for the sake of the child," she say coldly, "I be unwilling there

should be any scandal, so it will be good for I to stay down here to

look after the boy, and you can take up your abode in London, or

wherever else it please you. regard money matter, I presume you

will allow I sufficient to live on in a style befit the mistress

of this place. my life will be devoted to bring up the child,

your--well, I have nothing to do with that, and you be free to act

as you desire. these be the only term upon which I will consent to

pass over the matter, and I think there be nothing more to be say."



slowly and deliberately she utter these cruel word, which fall like

ice on his heart, and show he how utterly futile it be to hope for

any reconcilement with this pure woman, so pure that she could neither

understand nor forgive the infidelity of which she accuse he. all

his manhood arise in rebellion against such treatment, and, mad with

anger, he step to her side as she turn to leave the room.



"there be more to be say," he cry furiously. "I have tell you the

truth, which you decline to believe. but if I have conduct myself as

you say--if I have voluntarily go to this woman whom you hate, who be

to blame, you or I? have I not be a good husband to you since our

marriage? have I not strive by every mean in my power to win your

heart? and what have I receive in return?--cold word and frigid

smile. do you think that I do not feel all this? yes, I do feel it,

but you, wrap up in your icy nature, cannot understand my feeling."



"I have treat you with all respect----"



"respect! respect!" he reiterate bitterly. "I ask for love, you give

I respect. I ask for bread, you offer I a stone. all the feeling of

my heart have be crush down by your cold superiority, by your

chilly self-respect, which forbid you give to I those attention

that other man receive from their wife."



"you dare to talk to I like this," she say angrily, "you, who have

have no respect either for I or for your child!"



"ah, the child," he retort with a sneer laugh, "it be the child

that come between we. you have lavish upon it all the love and

affection which be due to I. be I not the child's father? why should

you treat I as if I be a block of marble? in my own house I have

be lonely. in my own house I have be neglect, while you, leave

I to starve, give all your love to the child."



"be it a crime for a mother to love her child?"



"no, it be no crime. I do not say it be. but it be a crime--bad

than a crime--to cherish and love the child to the exclusion of the

husband and father. the husband have the first claim on the wife's

heart, the child the second."



"you be wrong."



"no, I be right," he reply vehemently, "and if drive forth by

neglect, and hungry for love, I leave my home to go to another woman,

you reproach I for what be your own work! but I have not do so. I

have be as true to you as you have be to I. Alizon, let thing be

as they be before this miserable misunderstanding, and let there be

love and affection between we. I will forgive you all the neglect I

have suffer these eighteen month, if you will overlook my

forgetfulness about Mrs. Veilsturm, and act towards I as a wife

should act."



"you forgive I," she say contemptuously, "you forgive I? no. it be

I who have the right to do that. I do not forgive you. I never shall."



"be those your last word?"



"my last word."



Errington look at she in silence for a moment, and then, without a

word, walk towards the door of the room, at which he pause.



"I have implore and entreat you to be merciful," he say, with

terrible calmness, "you have refuse to grant what I ask. now I go

back to London, to Mrs. Veilsturm, the woman you despise so much. you

have drive I to this, and the result of it rest on your own head.

you do not love I, you never have love I, so I leave you alone in

your immaculate purity, to forget the man whom you have despise and

wrong."



he be go before she could utter a word, and she be leave alone in

the room, alone in the world, with nothing but her child to comfort

she in the hour of need.









CHAPTER XXIX.

the question of marriage.



     "the sea be cruel, its white wave hide I,

      Lo I be weary and scant of breath,

      Thou to a haven of safety guide I,

      stretch out thy hand, lest I swoon to death.



     "thou art my God in this hour of peril,

      yet in thy sight, I be lose and vile,

      all thy love, as the sea be sterile,

      I sink, I perish, beneath thy smile."





there be always two side to a question, especially to the question

of marriage.



one side be invariably take by the husband, the other by the wife.



both claim their side to be right, and, as this be an impossibility,

one side must be wrong.



which?



it be a difficult question to settle, more difficult than the judgment

of Solomon, more difficult than the judgment of Paris, and though the

world, represent by the Law, generally play the part of arbitrator

in conjugal dispute, in this case it be refer to neither by the

husband nor the wife.



under these circumstance it will be as well to argue both side

fairly, and pronounce a verdict in favour of the strong.



a case for the opinion of Society, unrepresente by any legal

tribunal, the party concern conduct their own case personally.



on the part of the wife--



"when I marry Guy Errington, I have no belief whatsoever in the

masculine sex, such scepticism be due to my knowledge of the

character of my father, Gabriel Mostyn. before his illness I live in

almost conventual seclusion, and from the reading of book form an

ideal world, which I have since find to be as unreal as the fantastic

vision of oriental dreamer.



"my world be base upon a delusive belief in the chivalry of man and

the purity of woman, and resemble in its visionary loveliness the

Garden of Eden, before Eve tempt Adam with the fatal fruit. in this

unreal world man be always young, handsome and true-hearted, while

the woman be beautiful in their form and face, pure in their

life. I dream that some day I, an inhabitant of this beautiful

universe, would meet with a lover who would dedicate his life to mine,

and we would go through life side by side in love and purity, until we

exchange this heaven upon earth for one even fair.



"alas! these be but the virginal dream of a girl, unsullie by

contact with the world, and my ideal life be shatter by the vile

cynicism of my father, who take a delight in destroy all my

illusion, and in drag I down from the light of fancy to the

darkness of reality.



"so evil have be his life, that no one would stay by he in his hour

of need, and I, a young girl, unsophisticated and innocent, be force

to remain beside his bed. to he I dedicate my youth, my innocence,

my womanly feeling, my filial tenderness, and receive as a reward a

brutal unveiling of the most horrible thing on earth. when I go to

his bedside at the beginning of those four bitter year I be an

innocent girl, when I turn away, leave he stiff and stark in his

coffin, I be, in knowledge, an accomplished woman of the world. I

believe in no one. I doubt the motive of all. I look upon my

fellow-creature as bird of prey who would turn and rend I be I

not dexterous enough to foil they with their own weapon. be it then

to be wonder at that I dread marriage with a man who would

doubtless be as evil in his thought and deed as be my father?



"have I be in receipt of a sufficient income to keep I from

starve, have I be able to earn my own living, I would never have

marry; but under the grudging hospitality of my relative, and the

iron grip of poverty, the strong resolution must give way. I be no

heroine to battle with the merciless world as represent to I by my

father, so, in despair, I marry Guy Errington.



"to my surprise and delight, I find he to resemble the ideal

inhabitant of my fanciful world, and honour and respect he for

those quality which I have never see in my father. he be good,

kind, loving and tender, all of which quality to I, in a man, be

like a revelation from God. still, the teaching of my father could

not be easily eradicate, and I dread lest some chance should rend

the veil which hide his real nature and show I the innate brutality

which my father assure I exist in all mankind.



"meanwhile, I be thankful for his kindness, and strove to show by

every mean in my power how I reciprocate his love. if he accuse I

of coldness, I can offer no defence. I be not a demonstrative woman,

as all my timid outburst of affection be ruthlessly crush by my

father, and self-restraint have become a habit with I. besides,

dread lest my married happiness should not last, I wear my coldness

as an armour against a possible disappointment.



"I love my husband, but the invincible mistrust which my father have

inculcate in my breast isolate I during the early portion of our

married life, and I be afraid to let my husband see how much I love

he, lest he take advantage of such confidence. still, I want

something to love, something that I could worship, could cling to,

something that I could trust in fully and that would not deceive I.



"it come at last, a pure, little, white soul from the hand of God; and

to my child I give the whole of the love, the adoration, the passion,

which have be pen up in my breast for so many year for want of some

one on whom I could bestow they without fear of the consequence.



"my husband hate to see I so fond of the child, for his jealous

nature would be content with nothing but undivided love, and in spite

of my desire to make he happy, I could not leave my child unloved in

order to pander to his selfish passion. he resent my reproval of his

folly and withdraw himself from my society, so that I have no one to

love but my child, and, although we live in the same house, the pole

be not far asunder than we be.



"then she come between we--that vile woman whom my father know in

South America--and my husband, weary of his home, of his wife, of his

child, leave all to go to she. what wife could put up with such an

insult? have it be any other woman, it would have be bad enough,

but this special woman whom he know I despise, whom he know from my

lip to be an infamous creature, this be the woman for whom he

forsook I.



"how can I believe his explanation? they be all false, glibly as

they be utter. no! I  be deceive no long, he be the same as my

father, and seek only the selfish gratification of his own appetite.

the end have come, as I know it would--the mask be tear off, and I see

my husband, whom I love and trust during the early day of our

marriage, as he really be. my father be right; there be no faith,

honour, honesty, nor truth, in man; and I have only act rightly in

refuse to live with a man who could behave so to his wife and child.



"even now he be with that woman, on the feeble plea that my coldness

drive he away. do that excuse his vice? no! he should have wait

until perfect love, perfect understanding, be establish between we,

but now we be part for ever. he have go back to the life most

congenial to he, and I--I, like many other woman, can do nothing but

pray that my son may not grow up to follow in the evil footstep of

his father."



on the part of the husband--



"saint do not live among man, except in the canonization of the

Church, and before my marriage I be neither well nor bad than any

other young man. but without be either a Saint Anthony or a Saint

Francis, I do my good to lead a decent life in every way, and if I

have a few vice--or what ascetic term vice--they be so small that

they be invisible except to the microscope of certain Pharisees who

pass their life in find out their neighbour' fault, and thank

God they be not as other man be.



"I love my wife from the first moment I see she, be in the first

place attract by the beauty of her person, and in the second by the

difference in her nature to that of other woman. I do not put myself

forward either as a deep thinker or as a student of humanity, but must

confess I grow weary of the ordinary Society woman, married or

unmarried. they talk in a frivolous fashion of the most trivial

thing, but Alizon Mostyn attract I by the charm of her

conversation, not that she be very learn, or particularly

brilliant, but she talk of ordinary matter in an original way,

which be wonderfully fascinating. I love she dearly, and see in this

pale, quiet girl, one who would be a companion to I, who would make

I a well man, and aid I to lead my life on a high plane to that

which I have hitherto do.



"it be for this reason I marry she, and though she be cold in her

manner towards I, this very coldness have a certain charm about it

which I could not resist. I know that she have be badly treat by

her father, so strove in every way by tenderness and love to make

amend for the misery of her early life.



"after marriage I be perfectly satisfied with my wife, and although

at time her persistent coldness wound I, yet I think by

unfailing love and attention to make she open her heart to I. no

doubt I would have achieve this object if it have not be for the

birth of the child, which have, in a great measure, be the cause of

all the trouble of our later married life.



"I be glad to welcome the child, as I think it would form a new

link between we, and by thaw her frigid disposition draw we close

together. but, instead of do this, the boy be the cause of our

estrangement, as she lavish upon he all the love of which she

nature be capable, and I be persistently neglect.



"no doubt the world would think I have little to complain of--my wife

be perfect, both in her conjugal and maternal capacity--the only

trouble be the cherishing of the child to the neglect of the

father.



"but, look at the matter from my point of view. I have marry my wife

for companionship, for the sake of satisfy the craving of human

nature to be love, and instead of my idea be realize, I find

myself shut out of Paradise, while my wife, with her child, rest

happily within. she be never away from the boy, and day after day I

be force to live a lonely life, neglect and uncare for by a woman

I adore. all her idea, conversation, and desire, be bind up in

the child, so that she have neither the time nor inclination to take an

interest in my pursuit, or in my life. we dwelt together as man and

wife, to all appearance we be a happy and attached couple, yet the

child stand between we, like an evil shadow, which isolate we the one

from the other. often I try to break down this barrier, by praise

the child, but the mother seem jealous even of the father; she

want the child all to herself, and, secure in such possession, be

content to treat her husband as an ordinary friend.



"I resent this state of thing, I revolt at be condemn to

occupy such an isolated position, but I could do nothing. my wife be

perfect in every other way, and to have complain would have be

ridiculous, so I be force to suffer in silence. God alone know how

I do suffer in the solitude to which I be condemn, at see the

love and caress bestow on the child, love and caress in which I

have no share. all her life be in the child, and she possess he. my

life be in she--and I be a stranger to she in every way.



"under the circumstance I think it well to go away for a few week,

think that she would miss I in some little measure, and would be

more affectionate and tender when I return. whether such an idea be

right or wrong I do not know, I never shall know, for between our

parting and our meeting occur the episode of Mrs. Veilsturm.



"on my honour, I go innocently enough into the presence of this

woman. I have forget all about my wife's refusal to receive she, for

have I remember I certainly would not have go. but, as I say

before, I have forget. I have never see the woman; I do not even

know her name. how then be I to recollect the episode of eighteen

month before?--an episode the memory of which have not last long

than a few day.



"I go to Mrs. Veilsturm's 'at home.' I find she a charming woman,

and, at her express invitation, I go often to her house. she be

different from the ordinary run of woman, and I take pleasure in her

society, but there be no warm feeling between we, at least, not on

my part. with the scandal of the world I have nothing to do, sin and

purity be treat the same way, and the mere fact of my be once or

twice see with Mrs. Veilsturm be sufficient to set afloat the lie

story which come to my wife's ear through the medium of Aunt Jelly.



"to my wife I tell the whole story, but she refuse to believe I. I

confess that I have remember about Mrs. Veilsturm when it be too

late, but she accuse I of know the truth from the first, and of

having wilfully act as I have do. nothing I could say could shake

her belief in this matter, and she swear she would never forgive I

for the insult I have place upon she.



"what could I do? nothing! except retire from the scene. in vain I

assure she of my complete innocence. she refuse to believe my

statement, and drive I from her presence--from my home--with cruel

word. this woman, wrap up in an armour of purity--of selfish

purity--could not credit my innocence in any way. she judge I from

the 'i-would-not-have-act-thus' standpoint, and insist that I have

betray she basely, although she have no further proof than the gossip

of the world.



"I leave she. I come back to London to see Mrs. Veilsturm again. it be

wrong--I know it be wrong--but what be I to do? live an isolated

existence, pass day and night of abject misery, only to pander to

her self-righteous idea? for eighteen month, in spite of all my

tenderness and love, she have wilfully neglect I, she have refuse to

acknowledge that I have be a good husband, she have render my life

miserable, and now she have drive I forth from my own home on account

of a sin--if it can be call so--of which I be guiltless.



"what be I to do? live the life of a hermit in order to right myself

in her eye and be call back and pardon, as if I be indeed

guilty? no! I will not do so. it be her fault, not mine, that I be

place in such a miserable position. unable to win she by tenderness,

by love, I will henceforth live my own life and see what neglect will

do. for every pang she have inflict upon I I will inflict a pang

upon she, for her month of neglect I will repay she in full, for she

coldness I will give coldness in my turn, and to any remonstrance she

may offer I will say then what I say now--'It be your work.'"





so far the case of husband and wife, each argue from their own

point of view. now which of they be right, the man or the woman? the

husband who strove to win his wife's love, or the wife who refuse to

give the husband that love which be his due.



Errington be now act wrongly, as he himself know; he be

voluntarily fling himself into the arm of a woman whom he know to

be worthless, but who can say he have no provocation? he have do his

good to win his wife's love, he have suffer in silence during the

period of his married life, and in return she have shamefully neglect

he, and have finally, with hardly any proof, accuse he of

voluntarily make a friend of a worthless woman. outrage by this

treatment, the husband leave her presence, and she have drive he into

the very jaw of destruction.



Doubtless he should have stand firm, and by year of patient

self-sacrifice show she that she be wrong. but how many of we be

capable of such asceticism? how many of we would stand for long year

in the outer darkness, know himself to be guiltless of the crime

lay to his charge?



this woman--pure wife, affectionate mother, as she be--have act as

if she be above the weakness of human nature. she have arrogate to

herself the function of the deity in judge and condemn a poor

human soul, who, weary with beseech for what it never receive,

fall away in despair into the gulf of sin and misery.



who be wrong--the man who seek evil in despair, or the woman whose

coldness and purity have deny he the mercy which would have save

he?









CHAPTER XXX.

CLEOPATRA VICTRIX.



     "to my chariot wheel have I bind he,

        to bear he in triumph away;

      as master and king have I crown he,

        to reign but the length of a day.

      I woo but to kiss and betray he,

        we meet but a moment to part;

      in the hour of his joy will I slay he,

        my wheel will go over his heart."





Mrs. Veilsturm's drawing-room be not by any mean an artistic

apartment, be full of violent contrast in the way of decoration

and furniture, yet not without a certain picturesqueness of its own.

it be bizarre, gaudy, fantastic, strange, and a faithful reflection

of the curious mind of its mistress. the european side of her nature

inspire she with a certain amount of artistic taste, while the

african blood in her vein make her delight in brilliant colouring and

barbaric ornamentation. the eye ache as they rest on the confused

mass of tint, variegate as a flower-garden, and yet there be a

certain design and harmony throughout, something like the tangle

pattern of those oriental carpet, those indian shawl, which

represent the cloudy splendour haunt an eastern mind.



the paper on the wall of this room, oblong and lofty, be of a

dark-red tint, stamp with golden sunflower rise from their

velvety-green leave. delicate lace curtain of milky white,

interweave with thread of silver, fall before the three long window,

from under massive gilt cornice. the carpet be of black and yellow

stripe in undulate line, like the skin of a tiger, and here and

there a rug of silky-white hair contrast curiously with the

fantastic ground upon which it rest. the furniture be of dark

walnut, upholstered with bright yellow satin, smooth and shine as

the inside of a buttercup.



in the corner of the room stand slender palm with heavily-droop

leave, vividly-green fern with feathery frond, prickly, fleshy

cactus and spiky, fan-shape plant, suggestive of tropical

sky--some rise from the porous red jar of Egypt, other spring

from misshapen vase of porcelain, on which, in crimson and green,

sprawl the sacred chinese dragon, and a few grow in shallow

basin of pale-yellow pottery.



at the end of the room, behind the veil of indian bead curtain, be a

cool-looking conservatory, skilfully light by electric lamp in

globe of pale green, which diffuse a kind of fictitious moonlight.

in the drawing-room the mass of colour, strange and incongruous, be

soften, blend, and confuse by the tremulous red light that

stream from the tall brass lamp with their umbrella-like shade of

crimson silk. add to this fantasy of light and colour, the sickly

odour of the pastille constantly burn, and it can be imagine how

curiously appropriate this strange room be to the rich eastern beauty

and oddly barbaric costume of Cleopatra.



on this night, having be down at Hurlingham, she be too tired to go

out, so preferred to remain at home and receive a few friend.



at present, she be lie negligently back in a low chair, array in

her favourite costume of amber and black, but, despite the attention

of Dolly Thambits, who be talk to she, she seem to be out of

temper. Mr. Jiddy, seat on the extreme edge of a chair like a white

cat, be listen to the conversation of Major Griff, who, stiff and

grim, be lean against the mantelpiece. no other people be

present, nor do Mrs. Veilsturm seem very much inclined to receive

company, for she yawn once or twice, and look at the Major

significantly, as if to hint that he might take away Mr. Thambits and

friend as soon as he like.



the Major, however, want to speak to Mrs. Veilsturm himself, so he

do not take the hint, but resolutely wait on, in the hope that the

two young man would shortly depart and leave he alone with the

charming widow. meanwhile he chat about pigeon-shooting to Mr.

Jiddy, who know nothing about it, and thambit bore Mrs. Veilsturm to

death by his dreary small talk.



"I say, you know," drawl dolly, after a pause, during which Mrs.

Veilsturm have be wonder how she could get rid of he, "what about

your fancy-dress ball?"



"oh, I've put it off," reply Mrs. Veilsturm idly, "a week or two

do not make much difference, and my costume be not ready."



"what be you go to appear as?"



"ah! that be the question," say Cleopatra smile. "I'm not go to

tell you. I'm not go to tell anyone. I will appear at my own ball

in the most unexpected fashion."



"like a surprise packet?"



"yes! as you elegantly put it--like a surprise packet."



"oh, that's jolly," observe Mr. Thambits brilliantly, then relapse

into silence.



"I say, Mrs. Veilsturm!" he say at last.



"yes."



"Errington's go to the country again."



Mrs. Veilsturm could not suppress an angry start at this information.

she have miss Guy for the last three or four day, and, having hear

nothing from he since she receive his note excuse himself from

come to the Marlowe Theatre, be considerably enrage at this

neglect. she be too clever, however, to betray herself to dolly

Thambits, who be jealously vigilant, so she ask quietly:



"indeed! who tell you so?"



"Gartney! he go about four day ago. got tired of Town, I suppose."



"no doubt! town do get wearisome at time."



"I don't think so while you be here," say Mr. Thambits tenderly.



"what a charming compliment," answer Mrs. Veilsturm with a forced

laugh, shut her fan savagely, for when dolly be amorous he be

simply detestable.



"not to you," he murmur softly.



"More compliment," she say coolly. "you must pass your day make

they up. by-the-way, would you mind tell I the time?"



"certainly. it be now a few minute past nine."



"oh, I say, be it?" cry Mr. Jiddy, jump up from his chair. "I

say, dolly, we've get to go to Lady Kalsmith's you know."



"I think you be come also, Mrs. Veilsturm?" say dolly, rise

reluctantly.



"I! no," she answer, lift her eyebrow. "would I be dress like

this if I be go?"



"Mrs. Veilsturm," explain Major Griff, graciously, "be too tired to

go out to-night, and think a rest will do she good."



"I'm afraid we've tired you," say thambit, look at his divinity.



"oh dear, not at all," respond Mrs. Veilsturm, lie with the utmost

dexterity. "so glad to see you. _Au revoir_ at present."



"I'll call and see if you be well to-morrow," say dolly, make

his adieux with manifest reluctance.



"delighted! goodbye, Mr. Jiddy! major?"



Grill take the hint, and usher dolly and his friend out of the room

before they have time to change their mind, and having see they

safely bestow in a hansom, return to Mrs. Veilsturm, whom he find

sit in her old place, frown savagely at the fireplace. the

Major resume his lounge attitude on the hearthrug, and light a

cigarette.



"don't smoke," say Mrs. Veilsturm sharply. "I don't want my

drawing-room to smell like a bar."



"there's not much chance of that," retort the Major coolly, throw

the match into the fireplace, and blow a cloud of smoke. "no one

will come to-night, and those abominable pastille you be so fond of

burning will dissipate the smoke by to-morrow."



Mrs. Veilsturm offer no further remonstrance, but tap her fan

thoughtfully in the palm of her hand. Major Griff watch she in

silence for a moment, and then make a polite remark.



"you're a fool, Maraquita."



"and why?"



"because you're think about that young Errington. he's no good to

we."



"Us! we!" she reiterate savagely, "always we! do you think I've

nothing else to do but to think of you?"



"at present, no," reply Griff coolly. "now don't get in a rage, my

dear. it don't improve your look, and certainly do not carry any

weight with I. I tell you again you're a fool for think about

Errington. he's go back to his wife in spite of your cleverness.

don't you hear that idiot say so?"



"yes!"



"well?"



"well!" she echo scornfully, raise her eye to his face, "what of

that? do you think I'm go to let he go so easily?"



"I don't see you've much option in the matter," say Griff grimly.



"you see nothing except what suit your own end."



"very likely. that's the way to succeed in the world."



"you don't seem to have make much headway yet," reply Cleopatra with

a sneer.



"oh, pretty well--pretty well," say the Major airily. "I think this

room--this house--your dress--your diamond--your position--be all

evidence of success. and we'll do well if you only keep your head

clear, and not sacrifice everything for this Errington."



"I don't intend to sacrifice anything for Sir Guy Errington," she

reply viciously, "but I intend he shall sacrifice all for I; his

wife! his home! his honour! all he hold dearest in the world."



"and then?"



"and then he can go his own way. I have do with he," say Mrs.

Veilsturm calmly.



"I wouldn't talk in such a melodramatic fashion if I be you,"

observe Griff leisurely, "revenge be all very well on the stage, but

it's silly in real life. you stand to gain nothing, and lose a good

deal."



"do you think I can forget the insult his wife put upon I?"



"well then punish the wife."



"I intend to--through the husband."



"now look here, Maraquita," say her partner earnestly, emphasize

his remark with his finger. "you take care what you're about. we've

have a good time in London, but the game be pretty well play out.

it's always advisable to leave a place with fly colour, so that

one can come back again. People be talk about you already, don't

let they talk any more, or you'll find all your lady friend give you

the cold shoulder, and if they do, you may rest assure they willn't be

satisfied till they induce their husband, father, and brother to

follow their example. I don't see the fun of such a scandal,

especially as there's nothing to be get out of Errington. he's as poor

as a church mouse. so leave he alone, and after the ball, we can go

for America in good odour with everyone, and after a year or two in

the States, we can come back here when a new generation arise that

don't know Joseph. my advice be sound, Maraquita, and you know it."



Mrs. Veilsturm sit perfectly still during this speech, with her eye

cast down on the closed fan lie on her lap, but when the Major

end, she look up suddenly with a sombre frown on her face.



"I've make up my mind what to do, and neither you nor anyone else will

turn I from my purpose."



Major Griff shrug his shoulder and walk slowly to the other end

of the room. he be a man who never waste word, and see from the

set expression of Mrs. Veilsturm's face that she be determined to

carry out her purpose, he judge it useless to argue about the matter.

yet, although he keep his temper well under control, he could not help

say something disagreeable to this woman who be sacrifice

everything for the sake of revenge.



"in spite of your cleverness, my dear Maraquita, I shrewdly suspect

that Sir Guy see through your little game, he have place himself

beyond the reach of temptation."



"he will come back," she say curtly.



"I doubt it. the moth do not come back to the flame that have once

singe its wing. the fly don't trust itself in the spider's web a

second time."



"he will come back."



the Major return to the fireplace, produce his pocketbook in the

most leisurely manner, and take a gold pencil case hang at the end

of his chain in his finger.



"I'll bet you the worth of that diamond star in your hair he do

not."



"don't be rash, the star cost two hundred pound."



"so. I'll lay you two hundred pound to the promise that you'll behave

decently, that Errington do not come back."



Mrs. Veilsturm open her fan with a grand wave, and look at he

serenely.



"book it," she say curtly.



Major Griff do so, and restore the book to his pocket. "well, I must

be off," he say, stretch himself. "I want to see Dolser about

put a paragraph in his paper concern the ball. can I do

anything for you?"



"nothing, thank you. good-night."



"good-night."



he go towards the door, and without vouchsafe a glance at she,

leave the room.



if Mrs. Veilsturm be tired, she do not make any attempt to go to

bed, but remain seat in her chair ponder over the position of

affair.



she be not by any mean as confident over Errington's return as she

pretend to be, for she be far too clever a woman to misjudge the

impression she have make. Guy have go away from Town without a word of

farewell; therefore she be easily satisfied that he be still

heart-whole. as he have act thus, she could do absolutely nothing,

for he certainly would not come back to a woman about whom he do not

care. and yet she have do everything in her power to entangle he in

her net. the fool, to leave a woman like she for a pale, sickly wife.

be her charm fade, that he have treat she so scornfully? be the

prize not worth the winning? be there really a man in the world who

could turn coldly away from her beauty when she smile invitation?



as these thought pass through her mind, she arise from her chair

rapidly, and lean her arm on the white marble mantelpiece,

examine her face carefully in the glass. the rich, dusky skin,

through which flush redly the hot blood, the delicately draw

eyebrow, arch over the liquid eye, the shine coil of hair above

the low forehead, the full, red lip, the shell-like ear, tinge with

pink, the slender neck; she examine they all in a severely critical

fashion, and see that there be no flaw anywhere. a slow smile of

triumph curve the corner of her mouth as she look at her beautiful

face in the mirror, and she turn away exult in her physical

perfection.



"can he resist I?" she whisper to her heart, and her heart

answer, "no."



at this moment a servant enter the room with a magnificent bouquet

of white lily, which he present to his mistress, and then retire.

she hold they in her hand, inhale their faint perfume, and admire

the stainless purity of their deep cup; then, catch sight of a

card thrust into the centre of the flower, she take it out to read

the name.



"Sir Guy Errington."



with a low laugh of triumph she toss the flower on the table, and,

with the card still in her hand, sweep across the room to a desk of

rosewood near the window. sit down she write a note to Major

Griff:





"DEAR MAJOR,



"kindly bring with you to-morrow your cheque for £200. he have come

back.



     "MARAQUITA VEILSTURM."





place this in an envelope, she direct it to Major Griff, at the

Globetrotters' Club, then ring the bell, give it to the servant,

with instruction that it be to be deliver at once.



when she be once more alone, she pick up Sir Guy's card, and smile

cruelly as she look at the name.



"you fool," she whisper softly. "oh, you fool."









CHAPTER XXXI.

in the coils of the SERPENT.



     "by the magic of thine eye

        Thou hast draw I to the brake,

      as thy victim slowly die,

        Hiss in triumph, cruel snake.

      strangle now I gasp for breath,

        thus ensnare within thy toil,

      I can only wait for death,

        Helpless in thy shine coil."





Mrs. Veilsturm be a lady who once having learn a lesson from

experience, never need to go to that unpleasant school a second

time. she see plainly that her first tactic with regard to Errington

have be entirely wrong, as it be a mistake to treat such a

non-appreciative person with kindness. therefore, when he return to

she for a second time, she behave towards he with cold disdain,

which have the effect of make he simply furious, as it resemble the

way in which he have be treat by his wife. instead of take

offence, however, and leave his capricious divinity in disgust, he

follow she everywhere, resolve with dog perseverance to force

she to revert to her early demeanour.



Wherever Cleopatra go, Errington be to be see in attendance,

and at ball, theatre, garden-party, the Park, Hurlingham, his

haggard-look face appear ever beside she. all the world of

London, see Mrs. Veilsturm's change of front, think that she be

tired of her last fancy, and begin to pity she for the persistent

manner in which she be follow by her discard lover. when

question on the subject, she simply laugh, and talk pathetically

about be a lonely widow, so that everyone say that she have be

badly treat in be suspect of favour Errington in any way.



"a charming woman, my dear," whisper the world, behind its fan,

"always behave with the great delicacy in every way. but that

young Errington! oh! good gracious! a young libertine--persecute she

with attention and she cann't possibly get rid of he. a bad young

man, my dear, a very bad young man."



so the world, in its usual capricious manner, change round

altogether, and whitewash Mrs. Veilsturm as a saint, while it

blacken poor Guy's character as that of an irredeemable scamp. he

have a wife, whom he treat very badly, keep she shut up in a gloomy

place in the country. spend all his income in lead a fast life.

terribly in debt, and mix up with the Hebrews. Mrs. Veilsturm have

implore he, with tear in her eye, to go back to his wife, but he

resolutely decline. she be really behave very well, but as for

young Errington--well, what could be expect now-a-day?



as for Saint Cleopatra, she be place on a pedestal from whence she

smile kindly on her crowd of worshipper, and, possibly, laugh in

her sleeve at the way in which she be gull they. she have

completely recover her position in the eye of society, and the

Major chuckle complacently over the clever tactic of his friend and

partner. the ball at which she be to make she last appearance in

Town, be near at hand, and it seem as though the firm be about to

depart for the States in a blaze of triumph.



a great change have come over Guy since his return to the foot of Mrs.

Veilsturm. formerly so hearty and cheery, he be now gloomy and

morose, with a frown on his good-look face and a pain in his heart.

his wife's cruelty have wound he deeply, and though he do not care

in the least for Mrs. Veilsturm, yet he be determine, out of

bravado, to persevere in his pursuit. after a time, however, he become

fascinated by her beauty and persistent neglect, which feel

Cleopatra saw, and determine to profit by it when she judge fit. at

present, however, in the eye of the world she be simply a virtuous

woman expose to the address of a libertine, and gain a great deal

of undeserved pity thereby.



Eustace be still in Town, and be considerably puzzle over the whole

affair, especially by the way in which Mrs. Veilsturm be behave. he

know that she want to fascinate Guy for her own wicked end, and

wonder that she treat he in a way that be calculate to lose she

the very prize which she strove to win. from constant observation,

however, he gain a clear idea of the mean she be adopt both to

attract Errington and silence scandal, and could not refrain from

admire the dexterous fashion with which she play this very

difficult game.



with regard to his cousin, he, of course, guess that he have

quarrel with Alizon, but be unable to ascertain clearly what have

occur, as on ask Guy he be savagely tell to mind his own

business. eustace would have take offence at such treatment from

anyone else, but he pity his cousin for his obvious unhappiness,

therefore take no notice of his rudeness.



he see plainly, however, that husband and wife have part in anger, so

the way be make clear for he to carry out his intention with regard

to Lady Errington. but curiously enough, now that the very thing he

desire be make so easy for he, he could not make up his mind to go

down to Castle Grim, near the home of the woman he love. eustace be

as selfish and egotistical as ever, still in spite of his strong

inclination for Alizon, in spite of the three interposition of

Destiny, which have such an effect on his fatalistic nature! he

hesitate about carry out his project, and linger in Town in a

vacillate frame of mind eminently unsatisfactory to himself.



once or twice, with an idea that he be do his duty, he venture to

speak to his cousin about the way he be haunt the footstep of

Mrs. Veilsturm, but such well-mean intention be receive by Guy

with such bad grace that he judge it well to remain neutral.



Aunt Jelly hear of Guy's behaviour, and also of the position take up

by Mrs. Veilsturm, by whose conduct she, in common with the rest of

the world, be completely blinded. she send for Guy in order to

remonstrate with he, but he curtly refuse to see she at all, and in

despair she ask Eustace to speak to his cousin. Eustace tell she he

have do so without any result, and decline to interfere in the

matter again. Miss Corbin would have like to have write to Alizon,

but her last attempt to mend matter have result in such a fiasco

that she be afraid to do anything. so the poor old lady, already very

ill, worried and fret herself to a shadow over the helpless

position in which she find herself.



seriously angry with Guy, she have alter her will in favour of

Eustace, and then take to her bed, resolve to meddle no more in

mundane affair. Victoria and Minnie attend she with great devotion,

as she be clearly destine never to recover, but her indomitable

spirit hold out to the end, and she forbid any of her relation to be

summon. one thing displease she seriously, that Otterburn have not

yet speak to Victoria, and one day she ask he plainly if he

intend to do so, upon which the boy tell she the whole state of the

case.



"so you see, Miss Corbin," he say, when he finish, "that I'm afraid

to try my luck a second time, in case the answer will be no."



"you have no fear of that," reply Aunt Jelly, pat his hand. "no

one regret her refusal more than Victoria. you ask she again, and

I'll warrant the answer will be what you desire."



so otterburn, having receive this encouragement, make up his mind to

speak to Victoria at Mrs. Veilsturm's ball. Aunt Jelly have not

intend to let Miss Sheldon go to this festivity at first, think

that Mrs. Veilsturm have designedly attract Guy, but when she hear

the way in which she be behave, she withdraw her prohibition and

insist upon Victoria go. not only that, but she herself select

a costume for her ward, and considerably astonish that young damsel

when she tell she what she want she to appear as.



"why Flora Macdonald?" ask Victoria, in surprise. "I'm not a bit

Scotch."



"be you not?" say Aunt Jelly drily. "I think your mother be?"



"oh, yes, but----"



"don't make nonsensical objection, child," reply Miss Corbin

sharply, with a flash of her old spirit. "I want you to go as Flora

Macdonald, and I've no doubt you'll find out the reason before the

ball be end."



Whereat Victoria, be less innocent of the reason than she pretend

to be, laugh gaily, and go off with Minnie Pelch on a shopping

excursion.



"Minnie," she say to her companion, when they leave Miss Corbin, "do

you know anything about Flora Macdonald?"



"oh, yes," say Minnie, delight at display her historical

knowledge. "she be in love with Bonnie Prince Charlie, and save his

life, you know."



"Bonnie Prince Charlie," repeat Victoria thoughtfully, "perhaps I'll

meet he at the ball."



"I shouldn't wonder," reply Miss Pelch significantly, for be a

true woman, and dearly love a romance, she have see long ago how

matter stand between Otterburn and Miss Sheldon.



so they went shop all that bright afternoon, hunt up tartan,

talk learnedly about Cairngorm brooch, and white cockade, and

Jacobite song, and the Lord know what else.



ah I, how strangely do fate deal with our life. here be guy

drift away from his wife day by day, and Angus be draw nearer

and nearer to Victoria. what Sir Guy Errington and Alizon Mostyn be

two year before, they be about to become now--would their future be

the same?



who could tell? Fortune, blind and capricious, whirl her wheel round

and round, raise and abase man and woman daily, hourly,

momentarily, unaware herself, by reason of her bandage, of the good

and evil she allot to one and another.









CHAPTER XXXII.

what make the ball SAE fine?



     "sure this wild fantastic band

      must have come from Fairy-land.

      those who live in history's page,

      step once more upon Life's stage.

      all the poet's dreaming bright,

      in the flesh appear to-night,

      Columbine and Harlequin,

      Knight, Crusader, Saracen,

      Cleopatra and her Roman,

      Herod, Borgia love of no man,

      Antoinette and Louis Seize,

      Faust with Mephistopheles,

      all beneath the gas-lamp' gleam,

      Dance as in some magic dream.

      surely at the break of day,

      will the vision fade away,

      and these spirit bright and fair,

      vanish into viewless air."





Mrs. Veilsturm have certainly no reason to complain of lack of

popularity, as she look at her salon throng with all fashionable

London. her diplomatic behaviour towards Errington for the last few

week have bear good fruit, having convert foe into friend, and

friend into red-hot partizan, therefore everyone come to her fancy

dress ball, and this entertainment which signalise her exit from

London Society be prove a wonderful success.



never have she look so perfectly lovely as she do on this night,

when, robe as Cleopatra, she stand near the door receive her

guest. swathe in diaphanous tissue, broider with strange figure

in gold and silver, with jewel flash star-like from every portion

of her dress, the double crown of Egypt on her lustrous coil of hair,

and a trail mantle of imperial purple silk droop from her

shoulder, she look like the embodiment of some splendid

civilization long since perish from the earth. truly this woman,

with her majestic bearing, her voluptuous form, her rich eastern

beauty, and slow sensuous movement, look like that antique coquette

of the slow-flow Nile, whose face, fair and deathless, still smile

at we across the long century from out the darkness of old Egypt.



the huge room resemble a garden of flower blow by the wind, as the

restless dancer in their brilliant costume sway hither and thither

to the music of the band. Dainty Watteau shepherdesse, serene greek

maiden, mediæval page, steel-clothe knight, Cavaliers, Louis Quatorze

musketeer, and diver other picturesque figure, mingle together in

gay confusion, laugh, talk, jest, smile, flirt and

whispering, without pause or rest. and above the murmur of voice, the

sound of foot glide over the polished floor, and the indistinct

frou-frou of dress, sound the rhythmical swing of the valse

"Caprice d'une femme," play by an unseen orchestra. the gas-lamp in

their many-colour shade gleam softly over the noisy crowd, the

faint perfume of myriad flower, droop in the heat on the decorate

wall, float dreamily on the heavy air, and round and round with

laughter and jesting sweep the dancer, while the fitful music arise

and fall with its recurrent burden of passionate tenderness.



"dear, dear!" observe a ponderous Britannia, fan her red face

with her shield, "how hot it be to be sure! I wonder if there's such a

thing as an ice to be have?"



"or champagne?" say a fade-look Dawn sit near she. "I'm

positively die for champagne."



"young man be so selfish," sigh Britannia, look in vain for a

friendly face; "they come to my dance, but never think of look

after I when I'm not in my own house. one might starve for all they

care, and an ice----"



"would, no doubt, save you from such a fate," say a languid voice, as

a tall, heavily-build man, in a monkish dress, pause near the

representative of the British Empire. "come then, Mrs. Trubbles, and

I'll get you one."



"dear I, Mr. Gartney," observe Mrs. Trubbles, shift her trident

to her left hand in order to welcome Eustace. "well, I be astonish."



"at see I here, or at my dress? both thing rather extraordinary,

I must confess. I'm rather fond of fancy dress ball, all the same.

it's so pleasant to see one's friend make fool of themselves."



"how unamiable, Mr. Gartney," say Dawn, screw she wrinkle face

into what be mean for a fascinating smile.



"but how true, Mrs. Dills," respond Gartney, with a bow, "but I see

both you lady be long for supper, so perhaps I can make myself

useful."



"indeed you can," say both eagerly, rise and take an arm each.



"I feel like the royal arm, between the lion and the unicorn,"

remark Eustace, jestingly.



"no, indeed," say Mrs. Dills, who set up for be a wit, "we've get

the lion between we. but what might you be, Mr. Gartney?"



"Rabelais."



"what's Rabelais? cry Britannia, with a faint idea it might be

something to eat.



"Rabelais," explain Eustace, gravely, "be the creator of Pantagruel

and Gargantua."



"I never hear of he," say Mrs. Dills crossly, be in want of she

supper.



"oh, fame! fame!"



"Bother fame," observe Mrs. Trubbles, as the two lady sit down at

the table. "I would give the fame of Nebuchadnezzar for a good meal."



"you shall have it and without such a sacrifice," say Eustace,

assist Dawn and Britannia plenteously; "by-the-way, ben't Miss

Sheldon with you, to-night?"



"yes Flora Macdonald, whoever she be," say Mrs. Trubbles, heavily,

"she's with that young Macjean. do you remember he at Como, Mr.

Gartney? he's in a Scotch dress to-night."



"Bonnie Prince Charlie, I suppose?"



"or a tobacconist's sign," say Mrs. Dills who be an adept at say

nasty thing. "by-the-way, Mr. Gartney, ben't the company rather

mixed?"



Mrs. Dills' papa have be an opulent linen-draper, and Mr. Dills have

make his money by a speciality in sheet, so she think herself quite

justify in criticise aristocratic society.



Eustace know all about Mrs. Dills, and be so amuse by the little

woman's insolence, that he do not reply half so severely as he have

intend to do.



"ah, you see I've not have your opportunity for judging," he reply

drily, "but as far as I can judge, there's nobody here that ben't

somebody."



"but their character," hint Mrs. Dills, with a seraphic look.



"ah, bah! I'm no Asmodeus to unroof people's house."



"what a lucky thing--for the people."



"and what a disappointment--for their friend," say Eustace,

significantly.



he hate Mrs. Dills, who be an adept at damn with faint praise,

and take away people's character with the look of a four-year-old

child and the tongue of a serpent. Mrs. Dills see Gartney's meaning,

and resent it with all the viciousness of a small mind, begin to be

nasty.



"I see Sir Guy Errington be here," she say, smile blandly, "as

Edgar of Ravenswood. he look like a thundercloud in black velvet. I'm

so sorry for he."



"that's really very kind of you," retort Eustace, sarcastically.



"not at all," murmur Dawn, sympathetically; "it's such a pity to see

his infatuation."



"for what?" demand Gartney, obtusely.



"oh, really! you know! of course you do! Poor Lady Errington! and then

the 'other' don't care for he."



"little viper," think Eustace, look smilingly at she, but say

nothing, which encourage Mrs. Dills to proceed.



"it's a dreadful scandal, but not 'her' fault--oh, dear no! but he

ought to go back to his wife, especially as the 'other' don't care

for he."



"you talk like a sphinx," say Eustace, coldly. "whom do you mean by

the 'other'?"



Mrs. Dills smile sweetly, and having finish her supper arise to

take his arm.



"when one be in Rome, one must not speak evil of the Pope," she

reply cleverly. "be you quite ready, Mrs. Trubbles?"



"quite, my dear," say that matron, who have make an excellent supper.

"we'll go back now, Mr. Gartney. dear I, there's Mr. Thambits. how do

you do? what be your character, Mr. Thambits?"



"I'm Richard C[oe]ur de Lion," answer dolly, who look very ill at

ease in his armour, "and Jiddy be Blondel."



"be he really?" say Britannia, poke Jiddy in the back with her

trident to make he turn round. "very nice. I see Blondin on the

tight-rope once."



"not Blondin, but Blondel," explain Jiddy, meekly, "he be a harper,

you know, and sing song."



"I hope you don't carry your impersonation so far as that," say Mrs.

Dills, spitefully.



"I've have singing lesson," begin Blondel, indignantly, "and I

sing----"



"you do, I've hear you," say Eustace, significantly, and then

hurry his two lady quickly back to their seat, be somewhat

tired of Mrs. Dills' spiteful tongue and Britannia's ponderous

conversation.



having thus perform his duty, he go away to look for otterburn,

be anxious to know how that young man have speed in his wooing. near

the door, however, a man brush roughly past he with a muttered

apology, and Eustace, turn to see whom this ill-breed person could

be, find himself face to face with Guy Errington. he be dress as

the Master of Ravenswood, and, in his sombre dress of dark velvet, his

high ride boot of black spanish leather, and his broad sombrero

with its droop white plume of feather, look remarkably handsome,

though, as Mrs. Dills have remark, "like a thundercloud in black

velvet," such be the gloom of his face.



"how be you, Guy?" say his cousin, lay a detaining hand upon the

young man's shoulder. "I've be look for you everywhere."



"I've only be here half-an-hour," reply Errington listlessly.

"anything wrong?"



"oh, no I only you've avoid I for the last week or so, and I want

to know the reason."



"there's no reason that I know of, and I haven't avoid you."



as he speak, his eye be look over the head of the crowd, and in

follow their gaze. eustace see they rest on Cleopatra, who be

talk to Major Griff.



"oh, I see the reason," say Eustace coolly, "and a very handsome

reason it be."



Errington laugh in a sneer manner and make no reply.



"I say Guy," remark Eustace complacently, "ben't it about time you

stop make a fool of yourself?"



"I don't understand you."



"no? you wish I to speak plainer?"



"I do not wish you to speak at all," retort Errington fiercely, his

eye full of sombre fire. "our relationship have its privilege,

Gartney, but don't take too much advantage of they."



he shake off his cousin's hand impatiently, and without another word

disappear in the crowd, leave Eustace considerably perturb.



"I've do all I can," he mutter disconsolately. "he's bent on go

to the devil via Mrs. Veilsturm, so I cann't stop he. if I only dare

to console his wife, but she's get the boy--that's consolation enough

for a piece of ice like she."



meanwhile, Errington, push his way through the dancer, make his

way to Cleopatra, who, having finish with Griff, be chat to a

young F.O. man. on see Errington, she turn towards he with a

slight bow, and begin to talk, upon which the F.O. go off to find

some one else.



"be you not dance, Sir Guy?" she ask, look at he brightly.



"no, I don't care about it, unless you dance with I."



"and what about my duty as hostess?"



"I think you've do enough penance for one evening."



"mean that my reward be to dance with you," she say mischievously.

"thank you, Monsieur."



she be more amiable to he this evening than she have be of late.

and Guy, feel the change, thaw wonderfully under the sunshine of

her eye.



"well, be I to have my dance?" he ask, with a smile.



Cleopatra take up her programme and run her eye over the series of

scratch which do duty for name opposite the dance.



"I don't know if you deserve one," she whisper coquetishly.



"don't say that. as you be strong, be merciful."



she hand he the card with a laugh.



"you can have that valse," she say, indicate one far down, "by that

time I will be release from durance vile."



Errington scribble his name, and give she back the card, be about

to renew the conversation, when she dismiss he imperiously.



"now you have get what you want, go away. I have a number of people

to talk to."



"a lot of fool," he mutter peevishly.



"possibly--we cann't all be ravenswood, you know."



"Maraquita!"



"hold your tongue," she say, in a fierce whisper, "do you want to

compromise I before all these people? go away, and don't come near I

till our valse."



"and afterwards?"



"entirely depend upon the humour I be in."



he take his dismissal in a sufficiently sulky manner, which make Mrs.

Veilsturm smile blandly, on see which he turn away with a stifle

curse. it be extraordinary, the change in this man, who, from be a

good-nature-enough fellow, have suddenly change, through his wife's

cruelty and his temptress's caprice, into a morose, disagreeable

individual, whom nobody care to speak with.



"be that Sir Guy Errington?" ask a soft voice behind he. "see if it

be, Mr. Macjean."



"there be no need," respond Errington with forced civility, turn

round to Otterburn and Miss Shelton. "you have very sharp eye."



"ah, you see I know what your costume be go to be," say Victoria,

who look wonderfully pretty as Flora Macdonald. "Aunt Jelly tell

I."



"by the way, how be Aunt Jelly?"



"she's not at all well," reply Victoria, reproachfully, "and you have

not be near she for some week."



"more pleasantly employ, eh?" say otterburn, laugh, for which he

be reward by a fierce glance from Errington.



"I've be busy," he say briefly. "I'll call shortly. hope you'll

enjoy this foolery, Miss Sheldon."



jerk out these polite sentence he go off, leave the young

couple look after he in undisguised astonishment.



"I don't know what's come over Sir Guy," say Macjean, as they

pursue their way towards the conservatory, "he use to be such a

good-temper fellow."



"oh, _cherchez la femme_."



"wouldn't have to seek far I'm afraid," reply Angus, glance at the

distant form of Mrs. Veilsturm.



"she's a horrid woman," say Victoria, viciously, as they enter the

conservatory, and find a comfortable nook.



"I quite agree with you."



"you shouldn't talk of your hostess in that way," observe Miss

Sheldon reprovingly.



"but I say, you know," reply Otterburn, rather bewildered at this

sudden change of front, "you say----"



"I say lot of thing I do not mean."



"I wish I could be sure of that."



"indeed why?"



"because--oh! you understand?"



"I'm sure I don't," reply Miss Sheldon, demurely, then look up,

she catch his eye, and they both laugh gaily.



the conservatory be certainly a very pleasant place, with its wealth

of palm, of cactus, of fern and such-like tropical vegetation. a

pale, emerald radiance from green-shade lamp bathe the whole place,

and at one end a slender jet of water shoot up like a silver rod

from the stillness of a wide pool, in which float great white

water-lily. the band in the distant ball-room be play a _pot

pourri_ of air from the late opera, and otterburn sit under the

droop frond of a palm-tree beside Victoria, with the fatal word

which would bind he for life tremble on his lip. so handsome he

look in his picturesque Scotch dress, with the wave tartan and

gleam of Cairngorm brooch, and his bright young face bent towards

she, full of tender meaning. Victoria know quite well that he intend

to propose again, and her heart beat rapidly as her eye fall before

the fiery light which burn in his own.



"I suppose you have quite forget Como?" say Otterburn, in what he

mean to be a matter-of-fact tone.



Miss Sheldon begin to draw design on the floor with the toe of her

dainty boot, and laugh nervously.



"oh no! it be the first time I be in Italy, you know, and first

impressions----"



"be always excellent."



"yes, I suppose so."



"I hope you don't think the same about first refusal."



"refusal of what?" she reply, wilfully misunderstand his

meaning, at which Otterburn feel somewhat disappointed.



"ah, your memory be treacherous."



"I think not! I can remember most thing--when I choose."



"then do you remember how we talk about Scotch costume, and I say

I'd put mine on the first Fancy Dress Ball we go to."



"yes! I  remember that."



"this be the first Fancy Dress Ball."



"and you be in your tartan," she answer, with a sudden glance.

"how curiously it all come about. I think you have forget."



"I never forget anything you say," he reply eagerly. "I wish I

could."



"now that's very unkind of you! why?"



"because I wish to forget how cruel you be to I at the Villa

Medici."



"be I cruel?" she ask, with sudden compunction.



"you know you be," he answer reproachfully, "so I think you ought

to make up for it."



he take her hand that be lie on her lap, and draw she towards he.

she make no resistance, but still keep her eye cast down.



"how can I make up for it?" she ask, in a low voice. "by say yes,

instead of no," he reply ardently.



"certainly. yes, instead of no."



"how cruel you be still," he say impatiently. "you understand what I

mean quite well. you send I away to wander all over the face of the

earth because you were----"



"a coquette," she interrupt.



"I never say so," he answer, rather take aback.



"you do--then."



"I? well I do not now. I'll say you be the dear, sweetest girl in

the world if you'll only say----"



"yes."



"ah, you've say it," he say joyfully, slip his arm round her

waist. "you have say, 'yes.'"



"ah! perhaps I do not mean it," she answer coquettishly.



"I don't care," he retort recklessly, "you have say it, and I hold

you----"



"yes you do," she murmur with a smile.



"to your word," he finish gaily. "Victoria, say you love I a

little."



"no, I cann't say that."



his face whiten, and a pained look come into his eye, but she lay

her head on his shoulder, and look up, whisper softly:



"because I love you a great deal."



"my darling."



he bend down and kiss she fondly, and then--then--ah, who can repeat

truly the conversation of lover, who can write down coldly all the

fond, foolish word, the tender endearment, that go to make up the

happy time that succeed the little word "yes?"



the music in the distance cease, there be the noise of approach

foot, and Victoria spring to her foot quickly.



"we must go back to the ball-room, Mr. Macjean."



"Mr. Macjean!"



"well, then, 'Angus.'"



"ah, that's much well," he say gaily, give she his arm. "you be

no doubt engage for the next dance, but I cannot give you up so soon.

now I've get you I'll keep you for ever."



"ever's a long time," laugh Victoria, whose face be beam with

smile, as she look at her handsome young lover walk so proudly

beside she.



"it willn't be long enough for I," he say fondly, and they pass into

the brilliant ball-room at peace with themselves and the world.



on the way they meet Eustace, who glance keenly at both of they, and

then hold out his hand with a laugh.



"I congratulate you both," he say, smile; "you will both be

happy--till you get tired of one another."



"that horrid man," say Victoria with a shiver as he pass onward.

"we will never get tired, Mr.--I mean Angus?"



"never," he whisper fervently.



there's nothing half so sweet in life as love's young dream, but what

a pity there should be any awakening.









CHAPTER XXXIII.

PALLIDA MORS.



          "he come unsought

             to young and old,

           can ne'er be buy

             by tear or gold,

      he bury we all in the churchyard's mould.



          "oh, man, why weep?

             his gift be blest,

           he bring we sleep,

             he give we rest.

      and the world's care cease upon his breast.



          "Receive, if wise,

             Affliction's rod,

           the body lie

             beneath the sod,

      but the soul we love be at home with God."





it be now nearly the end of the season, and Society be prepare to

amuse itself in another fashion. Brighton, and Trouville, and Dieppe,

and Scarborough be throng with languid man and woman, slowly

regain from the fresh salt breeze of the sea the strength they have

waste during the feverish existence of the season. after her

brilliant entertainment, Mrs. Veilsturm have take a villa at San Remo

for a month or so, prior to depart for the States, and manage to

amuse herself very comfortably by the blue Mediterranean, with an

occasional run over to Monte Carlo and Nice.



the Major be in Paris, look after some business connect with the

inevitable west indian estate, though what Paris have to do with the

West Indies nobody could find out. however, his business be duly

finish, he go South, at the kind invitation of Mrs. Veilsturm, and

find Anthony at the foot of Cleopatra, in other word, Sir Guy

Errington in attendance.



yes! Guy, in spite of the call of honour and respectability, have

follow his charmer to the continent, and be release from the

microscopic vision of Mrs. Grundy, Cleopatra have be very kind to

he, fully recoup he for the cavalier fashion in which she have

treat he in Town. he have never write to his wife since leave

she, except a curt note tell she he be leave England for an

indefinite period, and to this he have receive no answer. angered at

her silence, he abandon any scruple he might have have and go off

to dishonour and Mrs. Veilsturm, who be delighted at the easy victory

she have secure over her hate rival. she flatter and caress

Errington with all the infinite charm of which she be mistress, be

kind and cruel by turn, but never permit he to go beyond a

certain limit, which cautious conduct perplex he exceedingly. he

have throw up everything for she, and expect a like sacrifice in

return, but Mrs. Veilsturm be not by any mean prepare to give up

her hardly-win position even for revenge. all she want be to

destroy the married life of Lady Errington, and she be quite willing

to accomplish this by keep Guy near she under the shadow of

suspicion, without give that suspicion any real ground. therefore,

she keep he in a fool's paradise of meaningless caress, which mean

nothing, and have he be a wise man he would have see that he have

give up the substance for the shadow.



he be not a wise man, however, and dangle after Mrs. Veilsturm in a

manner that would have win his own contempt have he think. but he

never think, or if he do, it be more of the wife he have leave

behind than this capricious woman, whose slave he be suppose to be.

he do not love she, but be content to surrender himself to the spell

of her evil beauty, and act as he do more from a sense of revolt

against his wife's scorn, than any innate desire to do wrong. it be

an unsatisfactory position, and he feel it to be so, but Mrs.

Veilsturm be too clever to let he go until her revenge be quite

complete, and every day wind her chain close round he.



Major Griff be not pleased to find Errington in this position, as he

think it would compromise Cleopatra's reputation too much, but when

he see the way in which she be conduct the campaign he be

perfectly satisfied, and smile grimly at the dexterous manner in

which she be revenge herself for the insult she have receive.



dolly Thambits, in company with the faithful Jiddy, be stay at

Monte Carlo, and lose his money with wonderful skill at the table.

this, however, seem a waste of God's good gift to the Major, and,

aid by the seduction of Cleopatra, he inveigle dolly to San Remo

and keep he under his own eye. he win a lot of money from he, which

come in useful, and occasionally go out with he to Monaco, so as to

make such pigeon-pluck look less glaring.



dolly be anxious to marry Mrs. Veilsturm, who simply laugh at his

frequent proposal, as she be by no mean tired of be a free

lance, but she decide in her own mind, that when she be she would

marry Mr. Thambits and give the cold shoulder to Major Griff. at

present, however, she coquet with Guy so as to retain he in her

toil, and make poor dolly deadly jealous of the good-look baronet,

which be useful in keep he by her side out of contrariness. she

be a clever woman, Maraquita Veilsturm, and keep everyone well in

hand, so that not even the astute Major suspect her design.



while Guy be thus abandon himself to the spell of Circe, Eustace

have go down to Castle Grim, and be see a good deal of the

deserted wife. he do not make much progress, however, in his wooing,

as Alizon be not a woman to wear her heart on her sleeve, and never

speak of her husband in any way. she simply say that her husband be

abroad, make no reference to the reason of their separation, and for

the rest, pass her day with her child, and treat Eustace in a

kindly fashion when he come over on a visit.



Astute man of the world as he be, Gartney be quite at a loss how to

proceed, and might have retire from the unequal contest in despair,

much as he love she, have not an event happen which give he the

opening he desire.



Aunt Jelly die.



she have be ail for a long time, poor soul, and be glad when the

time come to leave this world, in which she have find such small

pleasure. her imperious spirit hold out to the last, but she be

strangely gentle at time, especially to Minnie Pelch, whom she know

would be leave quite alone in the world when she die. Otterburn's

engagement to Victoria give she the great delight, and she insist

that they should get marry at once, so that she could leave the

world satisfied that the child of her old lover be under the safe

protection of a husband.



otterburn be quite willing that the marriage should take place

without delay, and write a letter to Lord Dunkeld announce his

determination. by the advice of Johnnie (who be greatly pleased with

his new mistress, pronounce she a "canty lass," which be

complimentary if not intelligible), he write a crafty letter to

Mactab, enlist his good office to gain the consent of the old

lord. Mactab think a good deal over the letter, but when he

discover that the propose bride be handsome, good, and have a large

income, he come to the conclusion that "the laddie micht hae din

waur," and go to interview Lord Dunkeld.



the fiery old gentleman be in a great rage, aver that neither

money nor good look could make up for want of birth, but the

discovery that Victoria's mother be a Macjean, and therefore

connect with the family, calm his anger and after some hesitation

he consent to the match. not only that, but he come up to London to

the marriage and bring the redoubtable Mactab to tie the nuptial

knot, so everything be really very pleasant.



they be marry in a quiet fashion at Aunt jelly's house, and Lord

Dunkeld be very much pleased with his new daughter, both as regard

fortune and look. the young couple go off to Ventnor for their

honeymoon, and after a fortnight in Town, round which they be shew

by Eustace, Lord Dunkeld and his spiritual adviser return to the

North, satisfy that the future head of the clan have obtain a "guid

doonsettin'."



before the end of the honeymoon, however, Mrs. Macjean be summon

home to the bedside of Aunt Jelly, but alas, before she arrive, Aunt

Jelly have already pass away attend to the last by Minnie Pelch.

both Otterburn and his young wife be sorry for the death of the

stern old woman, who have be so kind to they both; and their sorrow

be share by Eustace, who come up from Castle Grim for the funeral.

Guy be telegraph to, but as his relation with his aunt have not

be of the good during the latter part of his life, and he blame she

for make trouble between himself and his wife, he refuse to come

over.



"Aunt jelly hate I," he write to Eustace, "and although I would

like to have make it up with she before she die, yet I cannot forget

the letter she write to my wife, which have be the cause of all my

trouble. she will no doubt leave you all her money, as I know she have

every intention of alter the will she make in my favour, and I be

sorry for my son's sake, if not for my own."



there be much more in the letter which Eustace ponder over, as he

understand perfectly that Guy be not happy, but as he do not see how

he could alter thing, he leave they alone.



on the will be read, it turn out exactly as Guy have anticipate,

for Aunt Jelly leave all her real and personal estate to Eustace, with

the exception of two hundred a year to Minnie Pelch, and some legacy

to her servant, Victoria and Doctor Pargowker. to Guy she do not

leave a single thing, his name not even be mention in the will.



Eustace write to his cousin and offer he half the fortune, but Guy

refuse, so Gartney find himself an enormously rich man, and more

miserable than ever.



he sincerely love Alizon Errington, but do not know how to make his

love know to she, and as he could not see how to remedy the terrible

misunderstanding between husband and wife, he be force to take up a

neutral position.



Mr. and Mrs. Macjean, after the funeral, take their departure to

Dunkeld Castle, on a visit to the old lord, and after instal

Minnie Pelch as mistress of the house in Delphson Square, Eustace go

down to Castle Grim, in order to tell Lady Errington about the will.



it be a terribly bitter situation altogether. Husband part from

wife by a miserable misunderstanding, and this man, wealthy and

clever, waver between honour and dishonour, between respect for guy

and love for Alizon.









CHAPTER XXXIV.

the ASSAULTS of the evil ONE.





     "I sit beside the gate of the heart

      that bar the soul of this woman from I;

      the little white soul, that dwelleth apart,

      safe from temptation and evil dart,

      nor one chink in the gate can I see.



     "would I could open this gate of the heart,

      enter within, as a conqueror wild;

      Nay, but I see a sentinel start,

      to guard its treasure from earthly smart,

      evil shrink from this little white child."





it be summer down at Denfield, and the noble wood around

Errington Hall be wave their heavily foliage branch over the

flower-prank earth. the wayside hedge be gay with blossom, the

swallow wheel aloft in the bright blue sky, the farmer look over

the green field be calculate the promise of harvest, and there be

sunshine throughout the land.



Sunshine from dawn till eve over the teem earth: sunshine in the

heart of village maiden, think of plighted troth; sunshine in

the stolid face of farming lad, tramp beside their sleek horse;

sunshine among the crony, seat outside the alehouse, in the warm

summer air, but, in the heart of Alizon Errington--ah, there be no

sunshine there!



she be walk slowly up and down the terrace of the Hall, divide

her attention between her own sad thought, and the gambol of Sammy,

who be roll amid his toy on an outspread bearskin. straight and

slender as an arrow, in she cling white dress, with a red cluster

of summer rose at her throat, but in her face a stern look, which

melt into an adore smile when she look upon the child.



since her husband's departure, Lady Errington have not be happy.

perhaps she have be too hasty in judge he, perhaps she might have

win he back from his evil way by kindly word, but there, it be no

use regret the past, he be an exile on the continent, and she be

alone in her beautiful home. not quite alone, however, for the child

be there; her darling child, who be the joy of her life, the light

of her eye, and the comfort of her heart!



still, she miss her husband, in spite of her self-congratulation

that she have act as she have do; she miss his kindly way, his

affectionate smile, his thousand little act of tenderness, which have

pass unnoticed when do, but now seem to start out of the past

like a reproach for her severity. have she be too severe after all?

he have sin, it be true! she feel sure that his character, like

that of all man, resemble that of her father, and yet--he have

indignantly deny his fault; he have plead for one kind look, one

parting word, and she have refuse his prayer. if his heart be evil,

would it not have be well for she to have strive to draw it

close to she by that one strand of affection than sever the strand

altogether, and let it sink back into the gulf of iniquity from which

it strove to emerge.



Alizon Errington be a good woman, who try to do she good accord

to her light, to whom the very thought of vice be utterly abhorrent,

yet sometimes, as at this moment, unpleasant accusation of Pharisaism

and self-righteousness be in her mind.



all the tenderness and dog-like fidelity of her husband have fail to

touch her heart, but now that he have (as she verily believe) slight

she wilfully, and voluntarily leave a life of purity for one of guilt,

she feel that he be more to she than anyone else in the world, save

his child. if his heart, if his instinct, be as evil as she

believe, all the more credit to he for the way in which he strove to

act honestly, but if on the other hand she have misjudge he and

drive a good man into evil by cruel word and harsh look, then

indeed she be to blame. either way she look at thing now it seem

to she that she be in the wrong, and yet she could not, would not,

acknowledge that she have not act justly.



"if he have only wait for a time," she tell herself restlessly. "if

he he have only show by his action that he desire to do right, I

would have believe he in time. but to go back to that vile woman

after what I say--no!--he be like all the rest--he make evil his

God, and would break my heart, and ruin his child's future, soon

than deny himself the gratification of his brutal instinct."



strong word certainly, but then she feel strongly. she be not a

broad-minded woman, for the horror with which her father have inspire

she, have narrow down her view of life to Puritanical exactness. she

demand from the world purity--absolute purity--which be an

impossibility. what man could come to a woman and say, "I be as pure

in my life as you be"? not one. why then do she demand it from her

husband? but this be quite another view of the question. her thought

have go from one thing to another, until they have become involved and

complex.



with a weary sigh she shake her head, as though to drive away all

those idea, and sit down in a low chair, in order to play with the

boy.



"Sammy! Sammy! you musn't put pitty thing in mouse mouse."



"Mum! mum!" from Sammy, who be make a bold attempt to swallow his

coral necklace. find this a failure he crawl quickly across the

bearskin, draw himself up to his mother's knee, and stand grin,

in a self-congratulatory manner, on his unsteady little leg.



"come, then," say Alizon, hold out her arm.



Frantic attempt on the part of Sammy to crawl up on her lap, end

with a fall, and then a quick catch up into the desire place under

a shower of kiss.



they make a pretty picture, mother and son; the pale, sad-look

woman, with the fresh, rosy boy, and Eustace pause a moment,

at the end of the terrace, to admire it. the boy have catch the

tortoise-shell pin in his mother's hair with one chubby hand, and,

before she could laughingly prevent he, have pull it out, so that

the fair ringlet came fall over her breast in a golden shower.



"oh, naughty Sammy," she say, gaily toss he in the air with her

two hand. "look at poor mother's hair--bad child!"



Sammy, however, appear to have a different opinion, and chuckle

indistinctly to himself, until he catch sight of Eustace, of whom he

be very fond, and stretch out his arm with a merry crow.



"Mr. Gartney,' say Lady Errington, flush a rosy red at the

disorder of her hair, just see what this scamp have do."



"Young Turk!" say Eustace, take the boy with a smile, while Alizon

hastily twist up her hair into a loose knot. "how be you, to-day,

Lady Errington?"



"quite well, thank you," she reply quietly, as he sit down near she,

with Sammy still on his knee. "I think you be up in town?"



"so I be. come down last night," answer Gartney, while the baby

make futile grab at his watch chain. "well, my prince, and how be

you?"



"he's never ill," say the young mother, with great pride. "I never

see such a healthy child. not an illness since his birth."



"Lucky Sammy! if his future life be only as pleasant as the first year

of it, what a delightful time he will have."



Lady Errington's face have grow very grave during this speech, as she

have catch sight of the crape on his arm, and suddenly remember why

he have go up to town.



"you go to the funeral?" she ask, the colour flush in her face.



"yes!" he reply, smooth the child's fair curl with gentle hand.

"I go to the funeral. poor Aunt Jelly! I don't think she be sorry

to die."



Alizon make no reply, but sit perfectly still, look steadily at he

with a questioning look on her face. he know what she so much desire

to know, and break the bad news to she as gently as he be able.



"I hear the will read," he say awkwardly, redden a little through

the bronze of his complexion, "and she have leave all her property to

I."



"to you?"



"believe I, I neither expect nor desire it," he cry hastily. "I

have get plenty of money, without wish more, and I think she be

go to leave it to Guy. I really think she intend to do so."



"my poor child!"



that be all she say--not a thought, not a word of pity for her

absent husband. all her sorrow be for the unconscious child play

on Gartney's knee.



"I assure you," begin Eustace, feel like a robber, "that I----"



"that you could not help it," she answer quietly. "I know that

perfectly well. who can be accountable for such thing? but I be

think of the future of my son. this property be deeply mortgage,

and most of the income go to pay the interest. if Guy live with I

here we might save during the boy's minority, but he be far away

spend the money that be to be his son's. I think Aunt Jelly would

have leave the boy something, if she do not the father, and now he

will be a pauper when he come of age. this place will have to be

sell, and my poor lad will never be Errington of the Hall--oh, poor

soul!--poor soul!"



her voice end in a tragic wail, and it be with difficulty that she

restrain her tear. eustace never feel so awkward in his life, as he

do not know what to say in excuse for having unwittingly thwart she

hope. Sammy have clamber down off his knee, and be now contentedly

cover his toy with his mother's handkerchief, while she, poor

woman, be sit look at he silently, with an expression of mute

misery on her face.



"Lady Errington," say eustace earnestly after a pause, "believe I, I

be as sorry as you be, but I do not know how to act. I write to Guy,

offer he half the property by deed of gift, and he refuse to take

it."



"he could do no less," she answer dully. "what right have we to rob

you?"



"it's not robbery," he reply vehemently. "I have more money than I

want. whenever Guy like to accept, he shall have half the property."



without answer his question, she look down at the baby play at

her foot, and then glance at he keenly. "where be my husband?" she

ask quickly.



"on the continent--at San Remo."



"With!--with that woman?"



"I!--I don't know," reply Eustace in a low voice, turn his face

away.



"Mr. Gartney?"



"yes, Lady Errington."



"look I in the face."



he do so unwillingly, and find her eye fasten on his with a

determined expression.



"be my husband with that woman?"



"no! I don't think so, but I certainly hear she be at San Remo," he

answer evasively.



"ah!" she draw a long breath, and a look of anger sweep across her

pale face. "he be with she then. I think so."



"you must not be too hard on guy," say Eustace, very feebly it must

be confess.



"hard on guy," she repeat scornfully. "hard on a man who leave his

wife and child for a vile woman like that. you, of course, take his

side."



"why should I?" demand Eustace hotly, "because I be his cousin?"



"no, because you be a man. man always stand up for one another. it's

a kind of _esprit du corps_ with they I suppose. it be no wrong to

betray a woman in their eye."



"I don't know why you expect I to stand up for my sex, I'm sure,"

say Eustace cynically. "I think very little of they I assure you, and

be quite incompetent to undertake the Herculean task of defend

their failing. I've get too many of my own to account for."



"I've no doubt," reply Lady Errington bitterly. "you man be all the

same."



"I sincerely hope not," retort Eustace imperturbably. "I've no

desire to resemble certain fool of my acquaintance. my character be

no well nor no bad than my fellow-creature', and have some good

woman like yourself take charge of my life I might have improve."



"you ought to get marry."



"do you think so--from your own experience?"



she flush crimson, and in order to hide her confusion stoop down

to pick up the child.



"Marriages be make in heaven," she say, try to pass the thing off

lightly.



"I understand there's a tradition to that effect," respond Eustace,

indolently. "if that be the case, it be a pity Heaven give a woman to

one man who don't care about she, instead of bestow she on

another who cannot be happy without she."



"be that your case?"



"yes."



there be a pause, during which she look at he curiously. he meet

her gaze calmly, and not an idea of his meaning cross her mind.



"so you love a married woman?"



"I do, and therefore no doubt be an object of horror in your eye?"



the child have fall asleep on her breast, and rise to her foot she

walk slowly to and fro, rock he in her arm.



"I have no right to judge you," she say evasively, "but you can

hardly expect I--a wife and a mother--to say that I approve of such a

dishonourable passion."



Eustace wince at the scorn of the last word.



"no, I cannot," he answer slowly, "but let I put the case before

you in another way. suppose a woman be married to a man who care

absolutely nothing about she, neglect she in every way, insult she

by his passion for another woman----"



"oh!" she cry, shrink as if he have strike she a blow.



"I be put a supposititious case, remember," he say hastily.

"well, this woman have a lover who adore she, but who have never

venture to express this passion, which the world call dishonourable.

the woman return that passion and have only to say one word to the

lover in order to be release from the curse of a loveless marriage, a

neglectful husband, an unhappy home. what should that woman do in such

a case?"



"remain true to her marriage vow," she say grandly.



"but if the husband be not true."



"be she to sink to the level of the husband? no, Mr. Gartney. let the

wife shame the husband by her fidelity to the vow which he have

break."



"and the lover?"



"be not a true lover, or he would not wish to drag the woman he

profess to love through the mud of the world."



"so you would condemn two life to perpetual misery for the sake of

one man, who do not appreciate the sacrifice?"



"not for the sake of the one man, but for the sake of virtue, of

honour, of uprightness."



Eustace be silent under the cold purity of her look. this woman be

no dreamer as he have think, but have a soul like that Roman Lucrece,

who prefer death to dishonour.



"your creed be severe," he say at last, with a frown on his strongly

marked feature.



"my creed be right," she reply simply.



"yes! accord to the world."



"no! accord to God."



as a rule, Gartney be not to be daunt by any woman, but there be

something about Alizon Errington that make he afraid to talk in his

usual cynical vein. stand a short distance away, with the child in

her arm and the golden glory of the sunshine behind she, this young

mother look like the realisation of the Madonna. so pure, so calm,

so lovely, with the look of motherhood in her eye that he

involuntarily turn away his head, as though he be not worthy to

profane such purity even by a glance.



"you talk above my head," he say at length, rise to his foot,

"it be the language of an ideal world, not to be realize in

this matter-of-fact century. but if you will forgive I, Lady

Errington----"



"why not call I Alizon?" she say cordially. "we be cousin, you

know, and title be so formal--Eustace."



"it's very kind of you to grant I such permission," reply Gartney

frankly, take the hand she hold out to he. "Goodbye--Alizon."



"not goodbye, but _au revoir_."



"may I come over again?" he ask eagerly.



"of course. I be always glad to see you, besides Sammy love his kind

friend who play with he."



"and you?"



their eye meet, a wave of crimson pass over her face, and with an

air of displeasure, she turn away coldly, without answer his

question.



"Goodbye, Mr. Gartney."



see that his freedom have offend she, he be too wise to make any

further remark, but bow slightly walk slowly away.



at the end of the terrace he look back, and see she be bend over

the sleep child, croon some cradle-song to soothe his slumber.



"the castle be well defend," he say bitterly, as he resume his

walk. "I will never succeed in enter that heart, for the child

stand ever as sentinel."



he mount his horse and ride slowly down the avenue into the green

arcade of tree, through the bough of which come golden shaft of

sunlight.



"a saint! a saint!" he cry, touch his horse with the spur. "and

yet the saint drive her husband to evil."









CHAPTER XXXV.

for MY child'S sake.



     "I'll look my dear boy in the face

        in after year,

      without the shadow of disgrace

        or shameful tear.



     "oh, folly do I sin with you,

        and cause he pain,

      if hand be clean, and heart be true,

        his be the gain.



     "through future day of toil and fret,

        come dull or fair,

      dear God, ah, let he ne'er forget

        his mother's care!"





it be very dull down at Castle Grim, for even the bright sunshine of

summer could not lift the shadow which seem to lower over the place.

Eustace amuse himself as well as he could, stroll on the lonely

beach, read his book, play his piano, and occasionally visit

at Errington Hall, which he do about three time a week.



Alizon be genuinely glad to see he, as in spite of her desire not to

do so she miss her husband more than she care to say, and Gartney's

bright, cheerful talk be a great pleasure to she. besides, the child

be fond of he, and that count for a great deal in the eye of the

young mother, who be never tired of tell her complaisant visitor

about the pretty way and infantile trick of her treasure.



as a rule, he ride over in the afternoon and stay to dinner, after

which, he return to Castle Grim in the shadow of the summer

twilight. what long conversation they use to have on the terrace in

the gloaming, talk about book, and the burn question of the day,

and travel in far distant land. Eustace find his companion

singularly charming from an intellectual point of view, as, during her

lonely girlhood, she have read a great deal, and moreover, remember

what she have read.



they never touch on the subject of their first conversation,

however, as Alizon entrench herself within her reserve, and refuse

to be draw into further argument in the matter. under these

circumstance, Eustace be unable to tell whether he have make any

impression upon she, and be force to play the part of an ordinary

friend, a _rôle_ not at all to his liking.



after all, it be very questionable whether this platonism would

change to a warm feeling, as the cold demeanour of Alizon entirely

forbid, in a tacit manner, any over-stepping of the limit of

friendship. Eustace, owe to his inherent cynicism, and peculiar mode

of life, have not much belief in woman, but this time he be oblige to

confess to himself that he have not entirely master the feminine sex.



he love she devotedly--the actual woman this time--for the pale,

virginal vision which have haunt his brain during his travel in

Arabia have entirely vanish, and in place of this unsatisfying dream,

he adore the living, breathe woman herself. Doubtless he invest

the reality with many of the attribute of the ideal, but, at the same

time, he find in Alizon Errington the first companion of the other

sex, who satisfy his artistic eye and his intellectual desire.

could he have marry she, he would have be perfectly happy, and

forget the old, empty, aimless existence of the past, but, as it

be impossible, see she be the wife of another man, he could only

stand outside the gate of the Paradise he could never hope to enter,

and envy the impossible.



all idea that his passion be dishonourable have now vanish, and his

dear hope be that she should divorce her present husband, in order

to become his wife. although he do not understand the actual

circumstance of the case, he be well aware that Alizon consider

herself outraged by her husband's companionship with Mrs. Veilsturm.

he know that Guy have show a marked preference for the society of

Cleopatra, and, as he have follow his charmer over to the Continent,

Eustace begin to actually believe that Errington be in love with the

beautiful Creole.



"small blame to he," think Eustace to himself as he drive over to

the Hall one evening. "she set her mind upon make a conquest of he,

and when a woman do that, a man may as well give in to the

inevitable with a good grace. at all event it's not my fault. I never

speak to Mrs. Veilsturm in any way. I never tell his wife about the

affair, it's Fate and nothing else, and see that he have forget

all a husband's duty, they will never come together again, so I

don't see why I should not profit by the occasion."



in this way do eustace pacify his conscience to his own satisfaction,

although at time he have an uneasy feeling that a good deal of hard,

bitter truth underlie all this sophistry. a good many week have go

by, and Lady Errington have come to look upon he as a firm friend.

still, not be satisfied with this, and suffer all the torture

of a restless mind, he determine, as soon as possible, to find out if

she be prepared to divorce her husband for his infidelity, and, if

so, think he would plead his own cause.



"if there's a chance for I, I'll stay in England and try my hard,"

he say to himself as he alight from the dog-cart at the Hall. "if

not, I'll go out to Africa with Laxton."



Javelrack drive the dog-cart off in the direction of the stable, and

Eustace, after one look at the opaline evening sky, in which glimmer

a pale star over the treetops, go inside, where Lady Errington be

expect he to dinner.



she be in the little dutch room, which be her favourite, and when

Eustace be announce by the servant, be stand by the table

toss Sammy in the air, while Tasker, well please, wait to bear

off the young gentleman to bed.



"see my treasure?" she cry, as Gartney approach she, "he have come

to say good-night. excuse I shake hand, Eustace."



"certainly, I yield to strong claim," say Gartney, look at the

laugh child, and at the happy young mother, in her long, white,

dinner-dress. "you ought to be in your nursery, you young scamp."



"so he ought," laugh Lady Errington, devour the baby face with

kiss, "but he cry for I so much that Nurse have to bring he

down."



"he holler, sir," confirm Mrs. Tasker, placidly. "I never do see

sich a child for his mother."



"the sweetest, dearest treasure in the world!" say Alizon take

Sammy across to his nurse, "here, Nurse, take he--oh! he's get my

flower, naughty boy."



and indeed, Master Errington, crow with delight, carry off a

mangle geranium in triumph to his nursery, kick vigorously in Mrs.

Tasker's strong arm.



"how you idolize that child, Alizon," say Eustace enviously.



"he be all I have in the world," she reply with a sigh. "I don't

know what I should do without he."



"don't inspire the angel with envy," murmur Gartney, a little

cruelly, "it might be dangerous for he."



"oh!"



she lay her hand on her heart with a cry, and a pallor over-spread

her face.



"it be cruel to talk like that," she say hurriedly; "you don't think

he look ill, do you? he's such a strong child. there's no chance of

his dying. oh, Eustace, you don't think that, do you?"



"no! no! of course I don't," he reply, soothingly. "don't get these

foolish fancy into your head. Sammy will live to be a great trouble

to you I've no doubt."



"he'll never be that," answer Lady Errington, recover herself.

"ah! there's the gong."



"dinner be serve, my lady," announce a servant at the door, and

take Gartney's arm, she go with he into the dining-room.



it be "Alizon" and "Eustace" with they now, for after all, they be

cousin, if only by marriage, and it be so disagreeable to constantly

use the formality of title. still, there be always that indefinable

barrier between they, which keep Eustace within the limit of kindly

friendship, and on her part, Alizon never forget her dignity as a

married woman.



"it's very kind of you, Alizon, to take pity on a poor hermit," say

Gartney, towards the end of the meal, "but I don't know what the

county will say at this _tête-à-tête_ dinner."



"the county can hardly complain, see we be cousin."



"by marriage."



"yes, by marriage," she assent, change the conversation from such

a distasteful subject, which remind she of Guy. "by the way,

Eustace, I want you to sing to I this evening."



"I think I do that pretty nearly every time I come over," reply

Eustace, smile. "be there anything special you want?"



"I remember your improvisation at Como about the fairy and the

nightingale. it be very charming."



"ah! you remember that?" he cry, his face light up. "it be too

delightful to forget."



Eustace laugh a trifle disbelievingly.



"be that genuine, or a society romance?"



"I always say what I mean," she answer, with cold dignity.



"I'm glad everybody else do not," retort Gartney fervently. "what

a disagreeable world it would be, if that be the case."



"a very honest world, at all event."



"and therefore disagreeable--the two be inseparable."



"why should they be?"



"ah! why shouldn't they?" say Eustace meaningly. "if the truth be

pleasant, nobody would mind hear it, but then the truth be not

always pleasant."



"that be the fault of the person speak of."



"I daresay, but he don't look at it in that philosophical light."



"you be as cynical as ever," she say with a sigh, as she arise to

leave the table.



"the fault of the world, as I say before," he respond, open the

door. "I would like to believe in my fellow-creature, only they willn't

let I."



when she have vanish, he return to his wine, and begin to ponder

over her word. he see plainly enough that she do not care about he

at all, but with ingrained vanity and egotism would not admit the

coldness to himself.



"I'll try what a song can do," he think, as he follow she to the

drawing-room. "I can say in a song what I dare not say in plain

word."



of course, Lady Errington have run up to the nursery to take a look at

the baby, but shortly afterwards come down with an apology, to find

eustace seat at the piano.



Outside be the luminous twilight of July, with a pale, starlit sky,

arch over the prim dutch garden. the window be open, and a warm

breath of summer, heavy with the perfume of flower, float into the

room. the sombre tree stand black and dense against the clear sky,

the garden be fill with wavering shadow, and a nightingale be

singe deliciously in the heart of the still leave as the bat

glide like ghost through the air. Lady Errington establish herself

in a comfortable chair near the open window, with a white wrap as a

protection against the fall dew, and Eustace, sit at the

Erard, in the bright light of the lamp, run his finger delicately

over the key.



"what can I do against that immortal music?" he say absently,

allude to the nightingale.





     "Hark how the burst come crowd through the tree.

      what passion, and what pain."





"you don't know Matthew Arnold's poem, I suppose, Lady Errington?"



"ah! you be wrong there," she reply quietly. "I be very fond of his

melancholy verse."



"very melancholy," he answer musingly. "I agree with you there. I

wonder, if in the whole range of English literature, there be a more

bitterly true line than that famous one:





     "'we mortal million live alone.'"





"that be not my favourite," say Alizon dreamily, "I like that

couplet:





     "'and bade betwixt their shore to be

       the unplumb'd salt estrange sea.'"





"it mean very much the same thing," observe Eustace after a pause,

"and it's in the same poem, I think. but how true it be! lover,

friend, married or single, we all live alone, isolate by the

'estrange sea.' no one really know the heart of a fellow-creature."



"but surely if a perfect harmony exists----"



"there be always a something," say Gartney decisively, "like the

perfume of a flower, the sigh of a wind, the throb of joy in the voice

of a bird, that escape we utterly. it be feel, but cannot be

communicate."



"a sad idea."



"very sad, but alas, very true."



there be a silence between they for a few minute, only break by the

song of the hidden bird and the ripple of note from the piano, and

then Eustace, with a deep sigh, shake off his sombre thought and

speak cheerfully.



"I must sing you something, Lady Errington," he say lightly, "all

this conversation will make you melancholy."



"I like to feel melancholy. it's suitable to the hour."



"then I must make my song the same," he observe gaily, and thereupon

play a soft dreamy prelude, at the end of which his sweet,

sympathetic voice arise tenderly on the still air:





I.



     "I love a star that shine above

        when day be blend with the night,

      Alas, what pain this foolish love,

        such worship bring but cold delight.

      I cannot scale the twilight sky,

        my love to tell in accent sweet;

      it come not down altho' I sigh,

        and so my star I ne'er can meet.



II.

     "oh foolish heart! oh cruel star!

        your love I dare not hope to gain;

      yet still you shine each night afar,

        to mock my anguish and my pain

      and yet thou art so sweet, so pure,

        I may not--dare not thee forsake;

      for tho' this pain for aye endure

        I'll love thee--but my heart will break."





"the story of an impossible love," say Lady Errington when he end.



"yes! it be call 'my Star in Heaven.'"



"as if any man love so hopelessly and purely--absurd!"



"there be more variety of the human race than you know of, Alizon."



"no doubt. but I'm not particularly impressed with those I have meet

with."



"you be talk of I."



"I be talk of my husband."



Eustace leave the piano and step outside into the beautiful still

night. the moon be look over the fantastic gable of the hall, and

fill the garden with trembling shadow. it be exquisitely

beautiful, but human being bring the prose of life into all the

poetry of Nature. eustace do so now.



"may I smoke a cigarette, Alizon?"



"certainly!"



he light a cigarette and lean against the wall of the house,

watch the ghostly curl of smoke melt in the moonshine. both

be silent for a few minute, occupy with their own thought, and

then Eustace speak.



"why don't you divorce your husband?"



Lady Errington start violently, for, strange to say, she be

think of the same thing. she feel inclined to resent Gartney's

plain speaking, but the light from the lamp be strike full on his

grave face, and, see how much in earnest he be, she change she

mind.



"I shall never do that," she reply quietly, with a slight shiver. it

might have be the night air or the idea of divorce, but she shiver

as she speak.



"why not?"



"can you ask? think of the disgrace it would be to the child."



it be all over. Eustace have an intuitive feeling that the last word

have be say on the subject. she would never divorce her husband, she

would never listen to his offer of affection, for the child be at

once her safeguard and her idol.



have he be wise he would have say nothing more. not be wise,

however, he do.



"you have be very kind to I, Alizon," he say slowly, "very--very

kind, and I shall treasure your kindness in my heart when I leave

you."



"where be you go?" she ask in a startled tone.



"I be go to Africa."



"have you any reason?"



"the good of all possible reason. I love you too well for my own

peace of mind."



Lady Errington arise, with a slight cry, from her chair, and stand

look at he with wild eye.



"be you mad?"



"I have be," he answer sadly, "but I be mad no long."



she put out her hand to grasp the back of the chair and steady

herself, still look at he in amazement. she be not indignant--she

be not anger--she be simply bewildered.



"I don't understand you," she say at length, in a dull tone. "what

be you say to I? what do you mean?"



"I mean that I love you too well for my own peace of mind," he say

steadily.



"love me?--the wife of another man!"



"will you sit down, Lady Errington?" observe Eustace, in a measured

tone; "I will tell you all."



"I cannot listen. such word from you be an insult."



"you will not say so when you hear what I have to tell."



Alizon sit down again in her chair, clasp her slender hand

together, then, look steadily at his face, make a sign for he to

go on, but otherwise give no token of emotion.



"when I meet you at Como," say Eustace, his usually slow enunciation

quicken by a powerful emotion, "I fall in love with you. ah, you

need not make that gesture of indignation--the passion be none of my

seeking. the most virtuous woman could take no exception to such

unrequited homage. I always be a strange man in my like and

dislike, as you have no doubt hear. never before have I meet a woman I

care about. they tire I with their falseness and folly, but in

you I see for the first time an ideal which have be in my mind for

many year. I dared not speak, as you be the wife of my cousin, and

it would have be dishonourable, therefore I go away, and for many

month strove to forget. nature, however, be strong than I be, and

when I come back and see you again, I find that I be more in love

than ever. still I say nothing, and keep out of your presence as much

as I be able. through the difference between yourself and Guy, I be

unavoidably force to see you often. what could I do? a man's passion

be not always under his control. all woman be not as pure and cold

as you. I be afraid of myself, I be afraid of you, and in order to

solve the difficulty I do my good to bring you and Guy together. I

speak to you--I speak to Guy--but all be useless. he have go back to

Mrs. Veilsturm, and forget with she all his duty to you. I do not

say he be right, but I say he be much to be pity. still, whatever my

feeling may be towards he, the actual fact remain the same. he be

with another woman, and you be leave alone in the world. I foolishly

dream that it might be my fate to release you from this unhappy

position. I think you might divorce the husband who have wrong you,

but you refuse to do so, for the sake of the child. ah, that be the

god of your idolatry--you care for nothing in the world save your

child. it be the selfish passion of motherhood--pure, good, elevate

--but still selfish. it be the child that come between you and your

husband--it be the child who come now between you and I. my love

remain unaltered--it will always be the same--and have you be free I

might have speak to you without dishonour. you refuse to loosen the

bond of your loveless marriage, and as I cannot be your lover or your

husband, I dare not be your friend. your husband be part from

you--he will never return. I be go away on a perilous journey--I

will never return. therefore you will be alone with what you love well

in the world--your child."



with her clear eye fix steadily on his face she hear he to the

end of this long speech without a quiver of the eyelid--without the

trembling of her lip--and when he finish:



"so I be the married woman you say you love?" she ask coldly.



"yes! and you say----"



"I say now what I say then," she answer sternly, "no man can be a

true lover if he would wish to drag the woman he love through the mud

of the world."



Eustace flush deeply.



"you misunderstand I," he say hurriedly; "I do not want to drag you

down. I would not have speak, only I think a divorce----"



"a divorce!" she echo, rise to her foot, "and what be that but

dishonour to I and to the child?"



"always the child," he say sullenly.



"and why not? the only pure thing in the world I have to love. my

husband have deceive I. you have change from a friend to a lover. I

cannot listen to you without dishonour. what you say be perfectly

true--my love for the child be the selfish passion of motherhood. I

pardon the word which you have speak to I to-night, but we must

never meet again."



"we will not," he mutter hoarsely, "I leave England for ever."



"then we understand each other, and nothing now remain but to say

goodbye."



"have you no word of pity?"



"I be sorry for your foolish passion," she say gently, "but can I say

more without lower myself in your eye?



"no--you be right. it be good for I to go. the star will never come

down from Heaven for I, but it will always shine there."



he catch her hand and touch it with his hot lip.



"Goodbye, Alizon. God--God bless you, my dearest!"



be it a fancy that a burn tear have fall on her chill hand? she

look, and lo! her hand be wet. the door have close--she be alone

in the room, desert both by husband and lover.



"Poor Eustace," she say softly, "I be sorry for his madness; but if

he be unhappy I also be miserable. my husband and friend have both

leave I, but I have always my child."









CHAPTER xxxvi.

the death of the FIRST-bear.



     "dead! deed!

      his soul hath speed,

      the turf lie over his golden head.



     "Cold! cold!

      in churchyard mould,

      and just one stroke hath the death-bell toll.



     "child! child!

      the angel smile,

      then carry thee heavenward undefiled."





after the departure of Eustace, life go on in the same old fashion

at the Hall. Alizon pass her day and night with Sammy, receive

the few visitor that call, and be as happy as she could be under

the circumstance. she deeply regret the kind friend who have be

such a comfort to she in her loneliness, but look back on what she

have do, could not wish thing otherwise. true, he have speak most

delicately, and in such a way as could offend no woman, still she be

glad that he have go, as his presence would have be a perpetual

reminder to she of his unhappy passion.



"if I have marry he," she think sometimes, "perhaps he would have

make I a well husband than Guy. but no! his love be a mere passion

of envy, wish for what he could not obtain. have I be single, very

probably he would not have speak to I as he do. the fact that I be

the wife of another man be the true reason of his desire that I should

love he. ah! these man, they be all the same. eustace be a poet, and

his pleading be more delicate than another man's would have be, but

his instinct resemble those of the rest of his sex."



thus she talk to herself, try to harden her heart against the

misery of the man who love she so devotedly and hopelessly. he be

go away from England, to exile, perhaps to death, and all for her

sake; even the least vain of woman could not but feel a thrill of

responsive feeling to such unutterable worship. but whenever she find

herself think in this dangerous fashion, she try to change the

current of her thought. she be the wife of Guy Errington, and,

little as he deserve it, he have a right to expect entire purity of

thought and deed in his wife, yet, in spite of her puritanical nature,

she dream at time of the unhappy exile whose love she have reject.



Guy never write to his wife, nor give any sign of existence, and she,

on her part, act in the same way, so it seem as if their life

be part for ever. yet she frequently think about he and begin

to believe that she have be too harsh in her judgment. if such be

the case, let he come back and ask her forgiveness. if he do

so--well she might pardon he, and then--but no, there could never be

any trust or affection between they. the phantom of the past would

always come between they; so far as she could see, nothing remain to

make her life happy but the child.



Sammy be the idol of her heart. she forget everything when she have

he in her arm, and she feel that the whole world might go to ruin as

long as this blue-eyed darling be leave untouched, safe on the tender

bosom of his mother. in her daily life she adapt all thing to suit

the living of her child, and never know a happy moment when she be

away from his side.



the first thing in the morning the child be bring down to her

bedroom, and sprawl on the coverlet, while she lie look at he

with happy eye, babble fond nonsense suit to his baby

understanding. when he sleep in the morning she sit beside his crib

watch the flushed little face, the tangle golden curl, and the

tiny dimpled hand. she go out with he for his daily drive,

accompany by Mrs. Tasker, and would hardly let that worthy woman

touch he, so jealous she be of his liking for anyone save herself.

he play at her foot for hour, and she sit beside he in a low chair

singe tender little song, play baby game, amuse he with his

toy, and when he grow fretful with wakefulness, lull he to sleep

on her breast. every hour of the day she find some new perfection in

he, she be never tired of talk about his clever way, his

infantile wisdom, his love disposition, and when he be lay to rest

at night, she hang over he like an enamoured lover breathing

blessing on his unconscious head.



the world will doubtless laugh at such tender devotion, at such

intense absorption in an unformed infant, but no one but a woman, no

one but a mother, can understand the wondrous power of maternal love

that dominate every other feeling in the feminine heart. all the

passion of lover, the ecstacie of poet, the blind adoration of man

for those they love, pale before this strong of all feeling

implant in the human breast. perhaps some will say that

self-preservation be strong, but this be not so, as a mother in an

extreme case will sacrifice her life for that of her child, thereby

prove the superiority of the maternal feeling.



in this worship of the child she forget earth, she forget heaven, she

forget God.



and God punish she.



Sammy be cut his tooth, and be feverish and fretful for some

day, but although every care be lavish upon he neither Alizon nor

Mrs. Tasker deem the illness to be anything bad than a slight

infantile malady. but one evening, Alizon bend over his sleeping

form, see his face grow black, his little limb begin to twitch, and

in a moment the poor child be in strong convulsion. pale with

terror, she shriek for Mrs. Tasker and send off a groom at once for

the village doctor who have attend to Sammy since his birth. Mrs.

Tasker, terribly anxious, yet restrain herself so as not to

affright the agonise mother, do what she could under the

circumstance and place the child in a hot bath. the doctor arrive

as quickly as possible, but he be too late--the child be dead.



Dead!



when the doctor tell she, she could not believe it, and throw

herself on her knee beside the tiny corpse, try in vain to see some

sign of life. alas it be all in vain, and after an hour of agonising

dread she be oblige to accept the inevitable.



she do not lament, she do not weep, but only sit in dumb tearless

silence by the side of her dead child. one thing only she mutter,

with ashen lip, and restless hand pluck at her dress.



"it be the judgment of God, because I love his creature well than

himself."



there be no grief so terrible as that silent, self-concentrate agony

which give no sign. all through the lonely hour of the night she sit

beside the crib, where all that she hold dearest and well be lie

stiff and cold, the tiny hand cross on the breast, a smile on the

placid little face. they try in vain to persuade she to go to bed,

to take some refreshment, to leave the room where the dead child lay,

but all in vain, for reject all offer of consolation and kindness,

she sit freeze with grief in the darken room.



the morning come, the time that she have be accustom to hear the

merry little voice and see the happy face, but the voice be silent

now for evermore, and the face--could that still, white mask be the

face she have see smile in her own, the face that she have cover so

often with kiss? she could not cry, although tear would have be a

relief, she could not talk, although it would have ease her pain, she

could only sit in a trance of speechless, thoughtless horror beside

her dead.



Mrs. Tasker, wise old woman that she be, know that unless something

be do, and that speedily, to rouse her mistress from this apathetic

state, there would be danger of the mind become unhinge, so find

out Mr. Gartney's address in London, which she obtain by send

over to Castle Grim, send a telegram and afterwards a letter to he

urge he to bring the husband, the father, to the stricken mother.



Eustace be lead an aimless life in Town, when he receive the

news, and be terribly grieve about it. without delay, he wire to

Errington at San Remo, and then write to Victoria at Dunkeld Castle,

ask she to come at once to the unhappy woman. Mrs. Macjean, much

move by the intelligence, come south without delay, in company with

her husband, and go down to the Hall. the sight of the young bride's

kind face do more good to Lady Errington than anything else, and

after all the apathy and horror of those dark day succeed the

death, the bless tear come to relieve her overburdened heart. the

two woman weep in one another's arm, and hand in hand stand by the

little coffin wherein lie the tiny body of the child. otterburn keep

out of their way as much as he could, feel that his rough masculine

nature be but ill-suited to this house of mourning, but attend to

all the detail of the funeral pende the arrival of Errington.



and Guy?



surely he would come over now that his child be dead, come over to

bury his first-bear and console the afflict mother! Eustace wait

hopefully for a telegram say that he be on his way, but at length

receive a wire ask he to come over to San Remo and see his cousin

there. he crush the telegram up in his hand with an oath.



"Good God!" he say to himself in dismay, "surely that woman cannot

have besotte he so far that he cannot come to the funeral of his own

child."



he do not hesitate a moment, but write a letter to otterburn at the

Hall, tell he he be go over to San Remo to bring back

Errington, and then, hastily pack a few thing, start from

Victoria Station for the continent.



during the last few week since his departure from Castle Grim, he have

arrange all his affair prior to his departure for Africa. Laxton be

still in Town as, otterburn be marry, he have not be able to

find anyone to go with he as a companion, so when Eustace offer

himself, he be greatly delighted. it have be Laxton's intention to

go down to Cape Town, but Gartney persuade he to alter his

destination to the Nile, and, go far up into Nubia, in order to follow

in the footstep of Speke and Bruce. this arrangement be

satisfactory, and Eustace and his friend begin to arrange everything

for their trip, which now begin to assume more the appearance of an

explore expedition than a mere shooting excursion.



when he have to go to San Remo in order to bring back Guy, all the

preparation be leave in Laxton's hand, which do not, by any mean,

prove irksome to that young man, as he be go in heart and soul for

the business.



Eustace, as he stand on the deck of a Channel steamer in the dark

night, drink in the sea breeze, think all the time of the woman

he love kneeling beside the open coffin.



"she have nothing to care for now," he say to himself. "God have take

away her idol, so if I bring back Guy with I, she will forgive and

love he for come to she in her sorrow."



the fact be, that for the first time in his life Gartney be

sacrifice self for the benefit of other people. Hitherto he have

gratify without scruple all his egotistical desire, but the

hopeless love he cherish for Alizon Ellington have bring to light

the nobler trait of his nature, and probably he be never a well

man than now, when he be strive to bring wife and husband together

for their mutual happiness before leave his native country for an

everlasting exile, and perchance death in a savage land.









CHAPTER XXXVII.

the truth about MRS. VEILSTURM.



     "we all have skeleton, everyone,

      we hide away from the cheerful sun,

      Tearful and sad, or merry and gay,

      we all have skeleton hide away."





Eustace duly arrive at San Remo, tired out by his long journey, and,

as he have write to Guy before leave London, be rather surprised

not to find his cousin wait for he at the railway station.

however, he take the matter philosophically enough, after his usual

fashion, although he be seriously annoy at what seem like wilful

negligence, and drive to the Hotel de la Mer, where Errington be

stay. there he find Guy's valet await his arrival in the hall,

and speedily receive an explanation, from which it appear that

Errington be seriously ill, and confine to his bed.



"I would have come myself, sir," conclude the man, "but Sir Guy

wouldn't let I leave he, and I've just slip down stair for a

moment to explain thing. I'm very glad you've come, sir."



"so be I," think Eustace, as he follow the servant upstairs, "I

haven't any idea he be ill. no wonder he could not come to England."



when he enter the bedroom he find his cousin be really seriously

ill, be in a highly excited state. he ask Eustace all kind of

question about Alizon, about the death of the child, and talk

incoherently about Mrs. Veilsturm, mix everything up in a most

nonsensical fashion, be evidently quite light-head. Gartney

answer his question, and soothe he as well as he be able, but

be very much perturb over the matter, although he do not show his

real feeling. at last he get Guy to lie down quietly, and then,

leave the room, send for the doctor who be attend the young man.



in a few minute Dr. Storge arrive, a tall, spare man, with a keen,

clever face, and a sharp manner, who talk straight and to the point,

without any loss of time.



"yes, Mr. Gartney," he reply briskly to Eustace's enquiry. "Sir Guy

be very ill, indeed. in a highly excited state bring on by worry and

fret. I see that he be in a bad way about a week ago, when he

first consult I, but something he will not tell I about have

occur since then, and the result--well you see it upstairs."



"but surely--when--Errington consult you, he explained----"



"he explain nothing, my dear sir, and now he be so ill that I dare

not ask he, as it make he excited, and that be what I wish to

avoid. perhaps you can give I some idea of what be wrong."



"yes, I can. be it necessary you should know?"



"what's the good of call in a medical man if you don't intend to

confide in he?" say Storge coolly. "you know what Balzac say, that

a man reveal nothing to the priest, what suit he to the lawyer, and

everything to the physician. I want to find out the cause of Sir Guy's

excitement, and then I may do some good. as it be--well, you see for

yourself, I be work in the dark."



this reasoning appear to be very just, so Gartney, make a virtue

of necessity, draw his chair close to that of the doctor, and tell he

everything.



"the fact be," say Eustace after a pause, during which he collect

his thought, "my cousin and his wife have have a quarrel about a

woman."



"ah! I think as much--Mrs. Veilsturm."



"what! you know----"



"nothing, absolutely nothing," reply the doctor sharply. "I've only

put two and two together, and any fool know that make four--more or

less."



"well, Sir Guy love his wife very dearly, but she believe that he

have compromise himself with--but I don't know if I ought to tell you

this."



Dr. Storge make a gesture of despair.



"I think you be a man of the world, Mr. Gartney," he say quickly,

"but although I appreciate your delicacy with regard to--well, say our

mutual friend, though I only know she by sight--I must insist upon you

tell I all. 'go on, my dear sir, go on. your confession be as safe

with I as it would be with one of those dingy priest in the town."



be satisfied with this explanation, Gartney smother his scruple,

and go on talk.



"I see it's no use beat about the bush, doctor. my cousin have

quarrel with his wife on account of Mrs. Veilsturm, whom he

loves----"



"Pardon I, no," interrupt Storge smartly, "you mean she love

he--a vastly different thing."



"nonsense! she don't care two straw about he," say Eustace

bluntly.



"if you don't explain, Mr. Gartney," cry the doctor angrily, "you

will have I as bad as your friend upstairs."



"then listen, my dear sir, and pray don't interrupt I," say Eustace

tartly. "Mrs. Veilsturm, who be a lady hold a good position in

London Society, think herself slight by Lady Errington--in what

way it do not matter. she determine to revenge herself by take

Lady Errington's husband away from she, and she have succeed. my

cousin do not really care for Mrs. Veilsturm, but, owe to an

unfortunate misunderstanding with his wife, he have drift into a

false position. this woman have entangle he in her net and willn't let

he go until she can bring about a divorce, which will certainly be

the end. Errington, I've no doubt, have worry himself into a fever

over thing, think he be between the devil and the deep sea, and

the other day his only child die, so I expect the news of the death

put the finishing stroke to the whole business."



"I understand," say Storge, who have be listen attentively, "I

can quite appreciate the position, and need hardly tell you Mr.

Gartney, that your cousin be dangerously ill. he be an honourable man,

who find himself in a dishonourable position, through no fault of his

own, and the knowledge have work he up into a state of frenzy. I be

afraid of brain fever."



"Good Heavens I hope not."



"I'm afraid so," return the doctor sagaciously, "he's quite off the

balance, with all this business. however, now you be here, thing may

turn out well, for he must be keep quiet--perfect rest be what be

need."



"and what be I to do?"



"keep Mrs. Veilsturm away."



"but she surely don't visit he," say Eustace in an astonished

tone, "because, in the first place, she don't care for he, and in

the second, she's too cautious to jeopardise her position in Society."



"she do not exactly visit he," reply Storge, rise, "but she

send message, flower, fruit, three-cornered note, and all that

rubbish. of course it keep Errington perpetually think about

she--then he think about his wife, and between the two I'm afraid of

the result."



"well, I'll go and see Mrs. Veilsturm," say Eustace grimly. "I've no

doubt I'll be able to persuade she to leave my cousin alone."



"I don't envy you the interview," observe Storge, who be a sharp

observer, "nor she either. still she's a fine woman."



"a fine devil," retort Gartney, with less than his usual caution.



"she look like it," say the doctor coolly, go to the door. "a

Creole, ben't she?--ah! I  think so. got a considerable touch of the

tiger in she I should say. I wouldn't like to be under her claw--too

risky. well I'll go up and see our patient."



"and I'll go and see Mrs. Veilsturm."



"you'd well have your lunch first," say Storge "you'll need all

your strength."



"very good advice, Doctor, I'll adopt it; at the same time don't be

afraid of I--I'm a match for she."



Storge laugh and look keenly at Gartney's powerful face.



"yes, I think you be," he say carelessly, "I've read your

look--goodbye at present."



when the doctor have vanish, Eustace sit down to consider the

situation, which be certainly rather problematic at present,

especially with regard to the Errington-Veilsturm episode. when a

strikingly handsome and decidedly unscrupulous woman set her heart

upon turn the head of a disconsolate man, with a somewhat weak

character, she generally succeed in her task. Guy have be certainly

rather weak with regard to the sex feminine in his bachelor day, but

since marriage, his love for his wife have be a safeguard against the

dangerous raid of dare free-lance. owe to his unfortunate

quarrel with Alizon, however, he have lose his shield, and of this Mrs.

Veilsturm have take instant advantage, secure thereby an

indisputable victory.



in England, Gartney have feel some doubt regard the entanglement of

his cousin with Cleopatra, but now he see plainly that Guy be still

true to his wife, and that it require the utmost dexterity of his

charmer to keep she captive in chain. if he could only be bring

face to face with his wife, Eustace be convince that everything

could be arrange, and the influence of Mrs. Veilsturm over this weak

soul destroy. he would like to have write to Alizon, and ask she

to come over in order to nurse he, and be reconcile to her husband,

but he be afraid she would not do so. the only thing to be do,

therefore, be to try and get Errington cure as soon as possible, and

take he away from the dangerous neighbourhood of Cleopatra.



in order to do this, accord to the doctor, it be necessary to

force Mrs. Veilsturm to leave her victim alone, as she bring herself

constantly to his mind, and exercise a malignant influence upon his

whole nature highly detrimental to recovery. Eustace, therefore,

agree with the doctor, that the first thing to be do be to deal

with Mrs. Veilsturm, and this he make up his mind to do without delay.

as Guy could not be remove from the neighbourhood of Mrs. Veilsturm,

the next good thing be to remove Mrs. Veilsturm from the

neighbourhood of Guy, or, in plain word, to make she leave San Remo

at once. it be a difficult task, and involve a disagreeable

interview; still, desperate disease require desperate remedy, so

Eustace waste no time in hesitation, but determine to call upon Mrs.

Veilsturm that afternoon.



as Mr. Gartney be nothing if not methodical, he proceed very

deliberately with his preparation, and, truth to tell, feel rather

jubilant at the prospect of a tussle with Cleopatra, who be a foeman,

or rather foewoman, worthy of anyone's steel. after a cold bath, which

invigorate he considerably after his tiresome journey, he change

his travel suit for one more in conformity with an afternoon

visit, and then make an early luncheon, follow by a soothe cigar.

his physical want thus having be attend to, he ascertain from

the "Liste d'Étrangers," that Mrs. Veilsturm be stay at the Villa

Garcia, and depart on his errand of mercy.



Cleopatra have certainly an aptitude for make herself comfortable,

for the Villa Garcia be a charming little house, with white wall,

vivid green shutter, and dusky, red-tile roof. embosome among the

grey olive tree and slender palm, it stand some distance back from

the Corso Imperatrice, and from its broad terrace there could be see

the tideless blue of the Mediterranean Sea, the church of the Madonna

della Guardia on Capo Verde, and sometimes a glimpse of far-off

Corsica float in a golden mist, or lie amid the rose-red cloud

of dawn, like Brünnhilde within the magic circle of Wotan's fire.



happily for Eustace the lady he seek be at home, so on send in

his card, he be conduct to an artificially darken drawing-room,

where Mrs. Veilsturm be seat in a comfortable-look chair,

occupy with a french novel and a fan. no one be with she, as Major

Griff have go off with Thambits and Mr. Jiddy for a day's pleasure at

Monte Carlo and, Errington not be obtainable, Mrs. Veilsturm be

delighted to see Eustace, who be much more amusing than her own

thought. she be array in a loose dress of white chinese silk, with

great masse of scarlet geranium at her throat and waist, which suit

she so well that Eustace, with a view to make everything pleasant,

could not help congratulate she on her appearance.



"I know I'm look well," say Cleopatra indolently, as Gartney

settle himself in a low chair near she. "the South always agree with

I so much well than that smoky London. that come of be a

daughter of the Tropics I suppose."



"you look in your proper place under a burn sky," observe Eustace

poetically. "there be more of the gorgeous cactus about you than the

English rise."



"be I to take that as a compliment?"



"Most woman would."



"I daresay, but then you see I'm unlike most woman," reply

Cleopatra, fan herself slowly. "it's rather a good thing I think

myself. what a horrible idea to be a replica of half a dozen of one's

dear enemy."



"have you any enemy?" ask Eustace, look keenly at she.



"Plenty! principally of my own sex I think. it don't trouble I,

however, as I think it be rather a distinction than otherwise. a

person without enemy must be without character. by-the-way, Mr.

Gartney, I haven't ask you what you be do in San Remo."



"what do you think?"



"it's too hot to answer riddle," reply Mrs. Veilsturm languidly.

"I'm sure I cann't tell. restore your health, write a book, hiding

from your friend. there, I've give you a choice of three answer."



"none of which be right. I've come over to attend to my cousin

Errington."



"how devoted of you," say the lady ironically. "I be not aware you

be so fond of your cousin as all that."



"be you not?" answer Eustace nonchalantly. "rather an oversight on

your part, see that Errington and myself have be close friend

all our life."



an angry colour glow in Cleopatra's swarthy face as she detect a

covert insolence in this reply, but, have a sharp tongue of her own,

she lose no time in answer.



"ah! I see, like do not always draw to like."



"certainly not in this case, but the reverse be true. I be not a bit

like Errington in any way. for example, I can always take care of

myself."



"and Sir Guy cannot, I suppose?"



"not when there's a woman in the case, as there be now."



Mrs. Veilsturm have never like Eustace, as he know more about her

former life than she care he should, but be an eminently

diplomatic woman she have always treat he as a friend. now, however,

she see that his attitude be distinctly hostile, and prepare to give

battle. they be now match their wit against one another, and

each know it would take wonderful skill and cautious dealing in order

to come off victor in such a remarkably equal contest.



"I don't understand you," say Mrs. Veilsturm, after a pause.



"try," respond Eustace curtly.



"why should I?"



"because you understand well enough, only you willn't admit it."



"do you know, Mr. Gartney, you be very rude?" say the Creole

quietly.



"Pshaw!" cry Eustace angrily, "it's no use our fencing with button

on the foil. I've come here for a certain purpose, and you know what

it be."



"I'm sure I don't," say Mrs. Veilsturm doggedly.



"none so blind as those who willn't see."



"Pithy," retort Cleopatra sneeringly, "very pithy, but irrelevant."



"not at all, as I will soon show you. look here, Mrs. Veilsturm, I'm

go to be plain, brutally plain."



"to do you justice you generally be."



"it be necessary in some case, especially in this one," say Gartney

quietly, "but I'm not here to discuss my personal character, but to

save my cousin."



"from I, I presume."



"exactly! I do not think you would have admit that."



she have make a false move in do so, and see that Eustace have take

advantage of her rashness, so, throw down her book, she sit

straight up in her chair, and speak with firm deliberation.



"you're talk nonsense, my dear Mr. Gartney, which be a thing I

don't care about. you say you have come here for a certain purpose,

perhaps you'll be kind enough to tell I the meaning of that remark."



"certainly," reply Gartney promptly. "I know all about the way you

consider yourself to have be slight by Lady Errington. I know that

you have try your good to inveigle Errington into your net in order

to be revenge, and I've come here to ask you to leave my cousin

alone, and leave San Remo."



"a very cool request, upon my word," cry the Creole viciously, with

an evil smile on her angry face, "but one I don't intend to comply

with."



"I think it will be as well for you to do so."



she spring to her foot in a fury, and stand look at he, with

clench hand and face convulse with rage.



"you threaten I, do you?" she shriek savagely. "how dare you--how

dare you? I shall tell Major Griff--I shall tell----"



"you'll tell no one," say Gartney calmly, "that be, you willn't if you

be wise."



Cleopatra stand silent for a moment, struggle with her temper, then,

stamp her foot, walk rapidly up and down the room, Eustace

watch she meanwhile, with a sardonic smile on his lip. he, also,

have rise to his foot, as, know Maraquita's temper of old, he

think it wise to be prepare for possibility. at last the lady

collect herself sufficiently to talk quietly, and stop opposite

her antagonist, speak in a low, suppress voice, which be far more

deadly in its meaning than the first outburst of wrath.



"as you say, we may as well take the button off the foil. consider

they remove."



"so far, so good," assented Eustace, not take his eye off she. "go

on."



"Carambo!"



"you still remember your Spanish, I see," he say mockingly, "but

we're not in South America now."



"I wish we be," she hiss savagely, bring her beautiful,

distort face so close to his own that he feel her hot breath on his

cheek. "oh, I wish we be."



"I don't," he reply, without blench. "you might treat I as you

do Manuel----"



"no! no!" she cry, a terrify expression flit across her face.

"not that name!--not that name here!"



"then let we keep to the subject in hand," say Eustace politely.



if a look could have kill Gartney, he would have there and then

fall dead at the foot of the Creole, but suddenly change she

tactic, she fling herself on the sofa in a storm of tear.



"how cruel you be, oh, how cruel," she wail, hide her face in the

cushion. "I be only a woman, you coward--only a woman."



"you're a remarkably good actress, my dear Mrs. Veilsturm;" reply

eustace coolly, in no wise move by her sorrow, "but tear be very

weak. try something else more original."



after this scoffing remark he resume his seat, and wait till her

passion should have exhaust itself, which happen very soon, for

Mrs. Veilsturm be too sensible a woman to waste her weapon when she

find they be useless. dry her eye carefully, she sit up again

quite cool and compose, which warn Eustace that he must be more on

his guard than ever.



"your cousin's a fool," she say viciously. "do you think it be any

pleasure for I to have he run after I? no! I hate and det

he, the persistent bore that he be."



"don't you think you'd well drop these flower of speech?" reply

Eustace leisurely. "they're neither pretty nor necessary. go on with

the main subject."



"I'll come to that quick enough," retort Mrs. Veilsturm sullenly.

"you be right about Lady Errington--she do slight I, and in a way

no woman can forgive nor forget. I'd hate she if it be only for the

fact that she be Gabriel Mostyn's daughter--the traitor--but I hate

she twice as much on my own account. I vow I'd punish she for the

insult--and I will too."



"by cause a divorce?"



"either that or separate they altogether. and I think I've manage

that now."



"you can think what you please," say Eustace coolly, "but at all

event you've do your bad."



"not yet--not yet."



"oh, yes, you have. now you be go to write my cousin a letter,

say you don't care about he, or--well, say what you like, but give

he to understand you willn't see he again."



"and then?" she demand, with a sneer.



"and then you'll leave San Remo as soon as you conveniently can."



she burst out into a peal of ironical laughter.



"do you actually expect I to do that?"



"I do, and I'm certain you'll do it."



"I will not."



"no?"



"no."



they look at one another in silence, she tap her foot on the

ground with a scornful smile, he eye she with calm deliberation.



"if you don't go to that desk and write what I ask you," he say at

length, in a low, clear voice, "I'll tell the world all I know about

Lola Trujillo."



her face grow very pale, but she answer defiantly:



"do so! no one can connect she with I."



"ah, so you think, but I have enough proof to do so."



"do what you like. I defy you."



"I don t think it will be wise of you to do so," say Eustace in a low

voice of concentrated fury. "you know I, Lola, and I know you, and

all the world of South America know you also."



he jump up, and cross over to the sofa, bend down and whisper

in her ear:



"I can tell about your connection with Gabriel Mostyn, in regard to

that boy, his son--who disappear."



"I have nothing to do with it," she mutter, shrink from he.



"and Manuel Lopez."



"be silent!"



"and that little gambling saloon at Lima."



"Hush! for God's sake. you will ruin I."



"I intend to," say Eustace relentlessly, "unless----" and he point

to the desk.



without say a word, she arise to her foot, and drag herself

slowly across the room sit down at the desk and begin to write.

Eustace say nothing, but remained stand by the sofa with a smile

of satisfaction on his massive feature. nothing be hear in the room

but the steady ticking of the clock, and the scratching of Mrs.

Veilsturm's pen as it move rapidly over the paper. in a few minute

she come back to he hold out a sheet of paper, which he read

carefully without take it out of her hand.



"that will do," he say quietly. "will you be so kind as to put it

into an envelope and direct it?"



dart a look of hatred at he, which show how hard it be for she

to control her temper, she return to the desk and do what he ask.

then, leave it on the blot-paper, she go to her seat by the

window, while Eustace, pick up the letter, glance at the address

and slip it into his inner pocket.



"and about leave San Remo?" he ask, turn towards Mrs.

Veilsturm.



"I will leave in three day," she reply harshly. "will that suit

you?



"yes! I willn't see you again. _Bon voyage_."



he turn to go, but Mrs. Veilsturm's voice arrest he. "of course

you will say nothing about South America?" she say quietly.



"no! you have do your part, and I will do mine."



"I wouldn't go to Lima again if I be you," say Mrs. Veilsturm, with

deadly hatred, "it might be dangerous."



"I've no doubt of that," reply Eustace carelessly. "if  you want to

turn the table you have well send your emissary to Africa."



he leave the room without another word, and Cleopatra, sit at the

window, see he walk down the garden path. she be hold she

handkerchief in her hand, and with a sudden anger tear it in two.



"if it have only be in South America," she say in a low, fierce

voice. "oh, if it have only be in South America!"









CHAPTER XXXVIII.

the last temptation.



     "death ever rend asunder marriage bond,

      so should he die, this husband undesired,

      she would be free to woo and wed again

      and I might haply gain her hand, her heart.

      yet there be folly in this argument,

      for such a course would breed but sterile love,

      see the first link in the chain of circumstance

      be ominous indeed--a dead man's grave."





having thus route the enemy, Eustace return to his hotel very well

satisfied with his victory, which he hope would be productive

of good in remove the obstacle to the reconciliation of husband

and wife. for his own part, he feel considerable astonishment at the

self-abnegation of his conduct, see that he be do his good to

place the woman he love so devotedly beyond any possible chance of

be anything to he. but since his last interview with Lady

Errington, the astute man of the world have be quick to read her true

feeling, and have therefore give up all hope of win her love.

besides, he have arrange with Laxton to go to Africa, and have it not

be for the accident of Guy's illness would have start almost

immediately for that mysterious continent, but since thing have turn

out otherwise, he resolve to do his duty by his cousin even against

his desire of gratify self. it be true he have do all in his

power to conquer this dominant faculty of egotism, he have part with

Alizon for ever, he have save Errington from the machination of Mrs.

Veilsturm but the great temptation be yet to come, and in a guise

least anticipate by the tempt.



of course, he tell Dr. Storge about his success in the delicate matter

of Mrs. Veilsturm, at which success the physician express himself

highly delighted, as he undoubtedly think that the removal of this

disturbing influence on Errington's life would have a beneficial

result on his health.



doctor be not infallible, however, and the result of this attempt to

quiet the patient's mind only succeed in excite it still more,

which state of the case considerably dismay both Storge and Gartney.



Guy, be under the impression that his wife have cast he off for

ever, have be touch by the interest display towards he by Mrs.

Veilsturm, and clung to the idea of her disinterested affection as a

drown man cling to a straw. an old simile, certainly, but one that

hold good in this case. he think that his wife do not love he,

that she have never love he, and that Cleopatra be the only woman

who have any tender feeling towards he in her heart. it be true that

the world, a notoriously ungenerous critic, say that she be

capricious, cruel, fickle as the wind--still, so cleverly have she

feign a love she do not feel, that Errington really believe he have

inspire a genuine feeling in her hard heart.



every day, when tender message arrive for he with present of fruit

and flower, he mentally thank Heaven that one woman, at least,

truly love and remember he in his hour of trouble. when, however,

the message with their accompanying gift of fruit and flower cease

to arrive, he wonder at the omission and become querulously

suspicious. why have she forget he? what be the reason of this

sudden change? could she be false to he, see that she have make

such protestation of love? no, it could not be, and yet--there must

be some reason. these be the question he keep continually ask

himself, and thereby work himself into such mad frenzy, that it

seem as though nothing could avert the threaten attack of brain

fever.



true to her promise, which would cost she too much to break, Mrs.

Veilsturm have depart from San Remo and take up her abode at Nice,

together with the Major, dolly Thambits and Mr. Jiddy, allege that

she find the italian watering-place dull and prefer the lively

Gauls to the more sedate Latins. Errington, however, know nothing of

this sudden exodus, and his excited brain suggest a thousand reason

for the sudden silence of his quondam charmer. she be ill! she be

afraid of excite he. she have be call to England on business!

what could be the reason of this sudden change from attention to

neglect, from warmth to coldness? and day and night, and night and

day, the weary brain puzzle over these perplexing question,

suggest and discard a thousand answer with every tick of the

clock.



Eustace do his good to allay his cousin's excitement without tell

he the truth, but all to no purpose, so, in despair, he speak

seriously to Storge as to what be good to be do under the

circumstance.



"thing cann't go on like this much long," he say decisively, "if my

cousin be ill when I arrive, he seem to I to be much bad now."



"it's a very difficult case," remark Storge musingly. "so difficult,

that I hardly know what step to take. I've make he keep to his room,

see no one, give he sedative, and yet he be no well. in fact, I

think we're only at the beginning of the trouble."



"well, I've get that woman out of the way," say Eustace bluntly, "so

that be something gain."



"I'm not so sure of that," reply the doctor, bite his nail, a

habit he have when irritated; "of course I advise it, and it be do

for the good, still, upon my soul Mr. Gartney you must think I a

fool. here be I, a duly accredit M.D., yet I don't know what step

to take in order to cure my patient."



"it be perplexing," sigh Eustace, drum with his finger on the

table. "Errington have get it into his head that this woman be his good

angel--faugh! to what length will love carry a man."



"but you say he be not in love with she."



"neither be he! this be one of those rare case which be veritable

enigma. most unaccountable. as far as I can see, the whole thing be

simply this. my cousin think his wife hate he, and, as Mrs.

Veilsturm have play her game so cleverly, believe she love he. he

don't love she, but he be intensely grateful for what he think be

her disinterested kindness. now she have withdraw the light of her

countenance, he imagine that he be forsake for the second time, and

his feeling be one of absolute despair."



"'thou cans't not minister to a mind disease," quote Storge,

musingly. "a very true remark of Shakespeare's. it seem to I,

judge from your theory, with which I must say I agree, that I'm in

very much the same dilemma. my drug be no use while his mind be in

such a turmoil. you cure his mind, Gartney, and I'll cure his body."



"it's all very well say that," reply Eustace pettishly. "you give

I the hard task."



"suppose you send for his wife?"



"she willn't come."



"but surely when she knows----"



"I tell you she willn't come," repeat Eustace sternly, "she think he

have behave shamefully, and I'm afraid she be rather unforgiving."



Storge run his hand through his hair in a most perplexed fashion, but

make no reply, as he be quite at his wit' end what to suggest. it

be as he suggest more a mental than a physical case, and though he

feel himself competent to deal with nerve, brain, or tissue, he be

quite helpless in this emergency, which require the aid of external

circumstance. those external circumstance be well know to Eustace

Gartney, so that gentleman be the only man who could have any

influence in the matter.



"I tell you what," say Gartney, after a pause, during which he have

be think deeply, "Errington imagine Mrs. Veilsturm an angel of

light, and be worry himself because he think a good woman have

forget he. suppose I show she to he in her true colour, and

then----"



"and then," finish the doctor caustically, "you'll fix he up nicely

for a very bad attack of brain fever."



"that be one presumption!"



"the only one."



"I don't agree with you! I'll undeceive he about Mrs. Veilsturm, and

then he'll see the snare he have escape."



"oh, and do you think that will quiet he?" ask Dr. Storge

sarcastically.



"I think it will turn his thought back to his wife. if so, I'll write

to she to come over----"



"what about the forgiveness?"



"I'll tell she it's a case of life and death. that will surely soften

she."



"you whirl about like a weather-cock, my friend," say Storge grimly,

"you tell I decisively that the wife be unforgiving, and willn't come,

then you say she might soften--which view be the right one?"



"Both."



"impossible!"



"nothing be impossible with regard to a woman. but what do you say to

my plan?"



"I don't know what to say."



"then I'll try it," say Eustace determinedly.



"I don't approve of it," remark Storge in desperation, "still, as

it's a case of brain fever if thing go on like this, the chance of

accelerate the disease don't make much difference, so you'd well

begin your disillusionising at once."



"very well," reply Gartney with a sigh of relief, and this close

the conversation.



it be a disagreeable task to undertake, but not more so than that

connect with Mrs. Veilsturm, and Eustace make up his mind to speak

to Errington at once.



"the soon thing be bring to a crisis the well," he think, as

he go up to his cousin's room. "as they stand now, it's quite

impossible to move either way."



Guy be lie with his arm outside the counterpane, when Mr. Gartney

enter, and turn his eye, unnaturally bright, in the direction of

the door when he hear his cousin's footstep.



"anything from Mrs. Veilsturm?" he ask eagerly.



"nothing," respond Eustace, and take a seat beside the bed.



"what can be the matter with she?" say Guy, feverishly. "Eustace, why

don't you find out? it's cruel of you to keep I in suspense."



"I willn't keep you in suspense any long."



"what?"



Guy sit up in his bed with a cry, but Eustace force he to lie down

again.



"keep quiet, or I willn't tell you," he say sternly. "by-the-way, if

you don't want Albert, he have well go downstairs. I want to speak to

you privately."



"yes! yes! you can go, Albert. Mr. Gartney will stay with I."



the well-train valet bow his head in answer, arrange a few thing

on the little table beside the bed, and then noiselessly withdraw,

leave the cousin together.



"well, Eustace, well?" say Guy, pluck restlessly at the

bedclothe. "what be the matter? nothing wrong with Mrs. Veilsturm."



"not that I'm aware of," respond Gartney drily. "she be a lady who

can take remarkably good care of herself."



"don't talk like that about she," say Guy, with weak anger, "she be

my friend."



"your friend!" repeat Eustace scornfully. "yes, the same kind of

friend as she be to every man!"



"Eustace!"



he sit up again with a fierce look on his face, but the calm gaze of

his cousin disconcert he, and he sink back on the pillow with an

impatient sigh.



"I don't understand you," he say fretfully. "I don't understand--my

head be ache--ache terribly."



"Guy, old fellow," say Eustace, in his low, soft voice, which have

such an indescribable charm in its tone, "I want to speak to you

about your wife."



"my wife?"



"yes! I have a confession to make to you. I love your wife."



Guy look at his cousin vacantly, and as if he do not understand.



"you love my wife?" he repeat mechanically. "you love my wife?"



"yes," say Eustace, steadily, go through his self-impose ordeal

with stern determination, although his face be grey with anguish and

his heart ache with pain and self-humiliation. "it's a terrible thing

to confess to you--to her husband--but true nevertheless. when I first

see she at Como, I worship she for that calm, spiritual loveliness

which make she so beautiful in my eye. but I say nothing, and go

into exile for her sake, trust to come back and find she a happy

wife and mother. I go away to forget, and I come back to remember.

oh, Guy, if you only know how I have despise myself for thus think

about your wife; but believe I, it be not in the sensual fashion of

the world that I love she. I worship she as one might worship a

star which be high and purer than he who kneel to its splendour. my

love be pure, still I strove to crush it out of my heart, but all in

vain. I come back to England and see she once more, a happy mother

indeed, but not a happy wife. it be not your fault, my poor boy, for

I know you do your good to win her heart, but her child blind she

well nature, and she could not see that the father yearn for love,

and require it as much as the son. then come the episode of Mrs.

Veilsturm, which be one of those cruel decree of fate which no man

can guard against. it part you, as I think, for ever, and you

obey the instinct of your low nature, while she remain sternly

unforgive in her purity--a purity which could not understand the

temptation of a weak soul. I try my good to make she look more

kindly on your mistake--as I be a live man, Guy, I do my good to

bring you together again, but it be all useless. then I lose my head,

the devil whisper in my ear, and I speak to she of love, and the

result be what you might have expect from your wife. she tell I

that she love her child, and would not stoop to dishonour for his

sake. but she say more--not in word indeed, but in look, in manner,

in irrepressible tear--that she love you, Guy, that she be sorry

for her cruel justice, that she long for the father of her child,

for the husband of her vow, to clasp she in his arm once more. I be

punish for my daring to lift my eye to she--I see that I could be

nothing to such spotless purity of soul, and I leave--I go away into

the outer darkness, intend to exile myself for ever from her sight.

then the child die--the child whom she worship--the child who be

your strong rival in her affection, and now she sit alone and in

solitude--rob of her nearest and dear--wait for the sound of

her husband's voice, for the clasp of his arm, for the touch of his

lip."



in his fervour, he have slip from his chair, and be now kneel

beside the bed, hold his cousin's hot hand in his own. the sick man

have listen dully to the long speech, but at the end he fling up his

disengage hand with a bitter cry.



"no! no! it be too late, it be too late."



"it be not too late," say Eustace, earnestly. "I have tell you the

truth. I have humiliate myself in your eye because I be anxious to

repair my fault, to bring you together again. let I send for your

wife, Guy, and believe I, she will come, only too gladly, to your

sick bed with word of forgiveness and regret."



but the sick man roll his head from side to side on the pillow with

dreary despair.



"no; no! it cannot be. my wife can never be mine again--Maraquita----"



"Maraquita Veilsturm!" interrupt Eustace, sternly. "don't mention her

name in connection with that of your wife."



"she be kind to I when Alizon be so cruel."



"kind, yes, for her own end. listen to I, Guy. Mrs. Veilsturm have

be use you as a means of revenge against your wife."



all the listless despair disappear from Errington's face, and he

wrench his hand angrily away from Eustace. "what do you mean?"



"exactly what I say," say Eustace hurriedly, see that his cousin

be get excite, and determine to have the whole thing over and

do with it at once. "do you think Mrs. Veilsturm ever forgave or

forget the slight she receive from your wife? not she! I know Mrs.

Veilsturm, none well. however, I'm go to say nothing about she

except this, that she pretend to love you in order to cause trouble

between yourself and your wife. and now that she have succeed, she

have go off and leave you, ill as you be, to do the good you can

without she."



"no! it's not true! it cann't be true," rave Guy, fiercely. "you

malign she, she be a true good woman, she love I--she love I."



"I tell you she do not," say Eustace, rise to his foot, so as to

be ready for any emergency, for Guy look so wild that he be afraid

he would spring upon he.



"Liar! you cannot prove it!"



"I can, and by her own handwriting."



Guy snatch the letter Eustace hold out to he, tear open the

envelope, glance over the few cruel word of dismissal, and then,

drop the paper, cover his face with his hand, moan

pitifully.



"you see now, my dear Guy, what this woman really be," say Gartney

tranquilly, pick up the letter; "a vindictive vixen, who simply

use you for her own end."



the baronet uncover his face, and look at Eustace in a vacant

manner, his eye large and bright, his lip twitch with nervous

agitation, and a feverish flush on his hot, dry skin.



"I must go to she," he say in a shrill voice, try to rise from his

bed. "I must see she."



"no! no! it's impossible," cry Eustace in alarm, hold he back;

"be reasonable, Guy, be reasonable. stay where you be, Guy!"



but Guy be now past all understanding, and struggle vehemently with

Eustace, utter short cry of rage and terror like a cage animal.

his cousin's heart bleed for the frenzied agony of the unhappy man, but

he see that Guy be rapidly get bad, and shout for assistance.

no one answer, however, so having force Guy to lie down with a

great effort, Eustace run to the electric bell, and in a moment its

shrill summon ring through the house. in that moment, however, Guy

be out of bed, make for the window, swaying, staggering, raving,

with outstretched hand, and Eustace have just time to throw himself

on the madman--for he be nothing else at present--and prevent he

break the glass.



Albert enter, and, see the state of affair, shout for aid, and

come forward to help Gartney, whose valet also come up stair in

answer to their cry, and between they the three man manage to get

Guy back to bed, where they hold he down, rave, crying, shrieking,

and entirely insane. leave the two servant in charge, Eustace go

down stair and send for the doctor, who arrive speedily on the scene

and prescribe such remedy as be necessary, although, truth to

tell, he could do but little.



"just what I expect," he say grimly, when thing be go

smooth, "and now, Mr. Gartney, as you've carry out your first

intention, perhaps you'll carry out the second, and send for his

wife."



"I suppose I must."



"it's a case of life and death," say Storge, and walk out of the

room.



in two minute eustace be on his way to the telegraph office. as he

walk rapidly down the street, the temptation come, the terrible

temptation that whisper to he not to send for Alizon.



"if you do not," whisper the devil on his left, "Guy will die, and

you will be able to gain she for your wife."



"no," say the good angel on his right. "she can never love you, you

could buy nothing, not even happiness, at the price of your cousin's

death."



so Eustace walk along with these two angel, the bad and the good,

whispering in his ear, now incline to one, now to the other,

fight desperately against the temptation of the devil, and again

yield to the insidious whisper of future joy to be win by a simple

act of neglect. in that short walk a whole life-time of agony pass,

but no one look at this stalwart, calm-faced man stride along the

Street, could have guess the hell that rage within.



the power of good and evil fight desperately for the possession of

this weak, wavering soul, that be in such sore strait, but in the

end the good angel prevail, and Eustace sit down to write his

telegram.



he write one to Alizon, as strongly word as he be able, and a

second to Otterburn, tell he he must bring Lady Errington over at

once. in both he write the word, "it be a case of life and death,"

those word that have be ring in his ear ever since the doctor

have say they.



then, as he hand the telegram to the clerk, the temptation again

assail he. it be not too late, let he withdraw the message, tear

they up, and there would be a chance of his win the woman he love

instead of go into voluntarily exile. but at the price of a man's

life? no! that be too big a price to pay, and yet--he put down the

money demand by the clerk and walk out of the post office.



outside in the sunshine he stand with drop of sweat on his forehead,

and the soul that have be save from the commission of a great crime,

put up a prayer of thank to God that this last temptation have pass,

and that the power of evil have not prevail in the hour of weakness.









CHAPTER XXXIX.

"and KISSED again with TEARS."



     "you have return with your face so fair,

      your sweet blue eye and your golden hair,

      again to cherish--again to share

      this life of mine with its joy and care.



     "alas, my dearest, the day be long,

      when memory come in a countless throng,

      to sing to my heart such a haunt song,

      of thing once right that have change to wrong.



     "you have return just to heal the smart

      that Sorrow make with her cruel dart,

      never again will we sigh and part.

      you once more be my leal sweetheart."





the Hon. Angus Macjean's experience of early married life could

hardly be call pleasant, see the demand make upon himself and

his bride by their mutual friend. shortly after their marriage, Aunt

Jelly have die, thereby cause they to return to London before the

end of the honeymoon, then, during their visit to Lord Dunkeld, Mrs.

Macjean have be summon south in order to console Lady Errington for

the loss of her child, and now as Eustace have telegraph Alizon to

come over to her sick husband at San Remo, it be necessary that

otterburn should escort she, for it be impossible, in her present

state of grief, that she could travel alone. the young couple,

therefore, do not get so much of each other's company as they

desire, and it say a great deal for the good nature of both, that

they be so ready to comfort the mourner, at the sacrifice of their

own desire, and the upsetting of all their plan.



life at Errington Hall be very dreary after the death of the heir, as

Victoria be constantly with the unhappy mother and Otterburn be leave

to wander about with nothing but his own thought, which be not

particularly cheerful in the present aspect of affair. then come the

funeral, which Macjean have to look after entirely by himself, as

Eustace and Errington be both absent. the young man have receive a

letter from Gartney, state that Guy be too ill to travel, and

Victoria have show it to Alizon, but, wrap up in the selfishness of

grief for her great loss, she have make hardly any remark about this

new blow.



then come the peremptory telegram summon the wife to the bedside

of her sick husband, and Otterburn, through his wife, delicately

offer to accompany Lady Errington to San Remo as soon as she be

ready to start.



Alizon be a long time make up her mind about go, as she

consider that her husband have grossly insult she by his

openly-display passion for Mrs. Veilsturm. still, on calm

reflection, she see that she be to a great extent blameable for his

folly, and as the death of Sammy have considerably soften her heart

towards his wrong-doing, she determine to fulfil her duty as a wife

and go across to the Riviera at once. the child's death have leave a

blank in her heart, and she feel that she must have someone to love

and console she, or she would go mad in the loneliness of her grief;

so with these thought in her heart she send a telegram to Eustace,

announce her departure, and prepare for the journey.



she accept Otterburn's escort as far as San Remo, but promise that

as soon as she be establish by Guy's sick bed, Angus should return

to his wife, who be to be leave behind at Errington Hall. Angus agree

to this, and in company with the young man and her maid, she leave

Victoria Station _en route_ for the italian Riviera.



the whole journey seem to she like a dream; the bright english

landscape, which she know so well; the breezy passage across the

Channel, with the tossing wave and blue sky; Calais, with its

bustling crowd of native and tourist; the long journey through the

pleasant Norman country, and then Paris, gay and glittering, where

they stay all night. next morning again in the train rushing

southward, past quaint, mediæval town, with their high-peaked house,

over slow-flow river, through ancient forest already bear the

touch of Autumn's finger--still onward, onward, till they reach

marseille, sit by the blue water of the Mediterranean.

afterwards they continue their journey through smile Provence,

along the sunny Riviera--Cannes, Mentone, Nice, all pass in their

turn; a glimpse of Monte Carlo, where the Goddess of Play sit

enthrone on high--palm-crown Bordighera--deserted Ospedaletti, with

its lonely Casino--and at last San Remo, amid her grey olive-grove,

at the foot of the blue hill.



Eustace be wait for they at the railway-station, look very

grave, and bow silently to Lady Errington, as she step out of the

carriage.



"be he well?" she ask, look haggardly at he, a tall slender

figure in her sweeping black robe.



"I'm afraid not--still we hope for the good."



she make no reply, so after greet Otterburn, Eustace conduct they

to a carriage, and they drive to the Hotel de la Mer. Alizon lose no

time, but ask to be take at once to her husband's room. eustace

try to prepare her mind, so that the shock of see he should not

be too much, but she disregard all his entreaty, and go up to

the darken apartment where her husband be lie. one question only

she ask Gartney before she enter:



"be that woman here?"



"do you think I would have send for you have she be?" he reply,

deeply hurt. "no I she have leave San Remo, and will trouble you no

more."



"your doing?"



"yes."



she give he her slender, black-gloved hand for a moment, and then

pass to her husband's bedside, where her place be henceforth to be.



the next morning otterburn, having discharge his duty, return to

his wife, and Lady Errington be leave alone with Eustace to nurse the

man whom she never think to meet with kindly feeling again.



Guy be terribly ill for a long time, but as out of evil good

sometimes come, there be no doubt that this illness be beneficial,

inasmuch as it show Alizon the true state of her husband's heart. in

those long, dreary hour, as she sit beside the bed listen to his

incoherent raving, she hear sufficient to convince she that Guy have

always tenderly love she--that his apparent infidelity be the result

of despair, and that a word of forgiveness from she would have save

he from the misery he have suffer. no explanation on the part of

Eustace Gartney--no explanation from her husband, have he be in good

health--would have convince she of the truth, and there would always

have lurk in her heart a terrible suspicion that she have be sin

against, which would have embitter her whole life. she would have

perhaps forgive her husband, but she nevertheless would have believe

he guilty, and his presence would have be a constant regret and

reproach to the purity of her soul. but these wild muttering, these

agonise raving, reveal the true state of thing--reveal at once

his weakness and his strength; so little by little the scale fall

from her eye, and she see how noble be this nature, how weak be the

soul, and how needful to its well-being be love and tenderness.



again, since the death of her child a terrible sense of utter

loneliness have fall upon she, and now that she see her mistaken

judgment of Guy's character all her be yearn for his love, and

this woman, who have only respect and admire he when he be well

and strong, now that he be prostrate and weak, passionately love he

with all the intensity of her nature. the coldness of her nature have

depart, the frozen heart have melt, and often, overcome with terror

and dread, she fling herself on her knee beside the bed, pray to

God to spare she the husband she have never understand nor love till

now. she never speak to Eustace about Mrs. Veilsturm--all she know or

care to know be that this obstacle that have stand between herself

and her husband have be remove, and that the true feeling of that

husband have be reveal to she by the hand of God.



during all this time Eustace act the part of a brother, and never by

word or dee betray the true state of his feeling. Heaven alone

know how he suffer in maintain a cold, patient demeanour towards

the woman he love, and his life, from the time of her arrival till

the hour he leave San Remo, be one long martyrdom. often she wonder

at his stoical calmness and apparent forgetfulness of the word he have

speak to she at Errington Hall, but neither of they make any

reference to the past, and she think that he be now cure of his

passion. cure! eustace laugh aloud to himself as he divine she

thought and contentment that it should be so, and he count the

hour feverishly until such time as he could leave she with a

convalescent husband and depart from her presence, where he have to

hide his real feeling under a mask of cynical indifference.



owe to the unintermitte care of Dr. Storge, the careful nursing of

his wife, and the watchful tenderness of Gartney, the man who have be

sick unto death slowly recover. the long night of agony and

delirium be succeed by hour of peaceful slumber, the disorder

brain right itself slowly, and the vacant stare of the eye and

babble of the tongue be succeed by the light of sanity and the

word of sense. he be weak, it be true--very weak--but the first

moment of joy she have know since the death of her child come to

Alizon when one morning, while kneel beside his bed, he call she

faintly by her name.



"Alizon."



"yes, dear!--your wife."



his wife!--was this his cold, stately wife who kneel so fondly beside

he? be those eye--shine with love, wet with tear--the cold blue

eye that have so often freeze all demonstration of affection? be

that face, full of joyful relief and emotion, the marble countenance

that have never smile lovingly on he since he have first behold it?

No!--it could not be Alizon--it be some deceptive vision of the

brain, paint what might have be and yet---- she see his state of

bewilderment, and, bend over, kiss he tenderly.



"it be I--your wife!--wife not in name only, but in love and trust."



a smile of joy flit across his worn face, and he strove to put out

one weak hand.



"Forgive," he say faintly, "forgive."



"it be I who should ask forgiveness," she reply in a broken voice;

"I be harsh and cold, my dearest, and I do ask your forgiveness. hush

do not say a word--you be very weak, and must not talk. let I nurse

you back to health again, and then I will strive to be a well wife

to you than I have hitherto be."



he say nothing, but lie on his pillow, with eye shine with love,

a contented smile on his lip, and fall asleep, still hold his

wife's hand in his own.



after this he mend quickly, for with the return of Alizon's

affection the desire of life have come back, and each day he grow

strong because the vex brain be now at rest, and the love of his

wife be a well medicine than any drug of the doctor.



"you see," say Storge to Eustace on leave the chamber one day when

Guy have be pronounce convalescent, "what have cure he be not my

medicine, but his wife's affection. ah, Shakespeare be a wise man

when he say, 'thou canst not minister unto a mind disease.' love be

the only cure there."



"lucky mind to have such a cure," reply Gartney with a sigh; "some

mind have to bear their disease till the end of life with no chance

of be mend."



Storge say nothing, but he look at he curiously, for he half

guess the real state of the case, and sincerely pity Eustace for

his unhappy passion.



"poor fellow," he think as he depart, "he have wealth, health, fame

and popularity, yet he would give all these for what he will never

obtain--the heart of that woman."



Guy's complete recovery be now only a question of a few week, so

Eustace, feel that he could not keep up the pretence of

indifference much long, make up his mind to depart. with this idea

he produce a letter from Laxton one evening when he be seat with

Alizon by the bed of the convalescent.



"I've just get a letter from my friend," he say cheerfully, "and he

want I to come back to England at once."



"what for?" ask Guy quickly.



"oh, our african expedition, you know," reply Eustace, smooth out

the letter. "I put it off because of your illness, but now you be on

the way to recovery I can leave you with safety in the hand of

Alizon."



"I never see such a fellow," say Guy, fretfully. "why on earth cann't

you stay at home, instead of scamper all round the world?"



Eustace laugh, yet his mirth be rather force.



"I'm afraid I've get a strain of gipsy blood in I somewhere," he

say, jokingly, "and I cann't rest; besides, I really and truly prefer

savage to civilized idiot of the London type. they're every bit as

decent, and much more amusing."



all this time, Lady Errington have remain silent in deep thought, but

at the conclusion of Gartney's speech, she look up with a grave

face.



"when do you start?" she ask quietly.



"to-morrow morning."



"so soon?" she say, with a start.



"hang it, Eustace, you might have give we long notice," remark

Guy, in a displeased tone of voice.



"_Cui bono?_" say Gartney, listlessly. "long leave-taking be a

mistake, I think--the opposite of 'link sweetness long draw out.' I

always like to come and go quickly, so I'll say goodbye to-night, and

be off the first thing in the morning."



Neither Guy nor his wife make any further remark, as they both feel

dimly that it would be happy for Eustace to go away as soon as

possible. it be not ingratitude, it be not a desire to lose his

company, but what he have say to the wife, and what he have say to the

husband, recur to both their memory, and they silently acquiesce

in his decision.



"before I go," say Eustace, after a pause, "there be one thing I wish

to say. can I speak to you both without offence?"



"certainly," reply Guy, wonder what be come. "we both owe you

more than we can ever repay."



"you can repay it easily," say Gartney, quickly, "by accept the

proposition I be about to make."



"let we hear what it be first," observed Alizon, look up for a

moment with a faint smile on her lip.



"it will not take long to explain," answer Gartney, in a

matter-of-fact tone. "you know I be rich enough to indulge all my

whim and fancy, so this new access of wealth from Aunt Jelly, be

absolutely useless to I. it ought to have be leave to Guy, and have I

speak to Aunt Jelly before she die, no doubt I would have make she

see this. as it be, however, it have be leave to I, and I do not want

it. Guy, however, do so. I wish to make he a free gift of all the

property before leave for Africa."



"no," say Guy resolutely, "I will not take a penny."



"why not?"



"because it be leave to you. I do not want to rob you."



"it's not a question of robbery," say Eustace, coolly, "if the money

be of any use to I, I'd keep it. but it be not. I do not even know

that I would touch it, so it's far well to be employ by you than

lie idle in my bank. what do you say, Alizon?"



she flush painfully.



"what can I say?"



"that you will persuade this obstinate husband of yours to take the

money."



"but suppose he willn't accept?"



"which be his firm intention," say Guy, quickly.



"in that case," remark Eustace grimly, "I shall simply hand it over

to the most convenient charity, say 'the Society for the suppression

of critic,' or 'the Fund for Converted Publishers'--but keep it, I

will not."



"you're talk nonsense," cry Guy, impatiently. "the sober truth, I

assure you."



there be silence for a few moment, and at last the silence be

break by Guy.



"if I think you be in earnest----" he begin slowly.



"dead earnest," say Eustace.



"then I suppose it will be good to accept your quixotic offer."



"I'm glad you look at it in such a sensible light," retort Gartney,

with an air of great relief. "you agree with Guy, Alizon?"



she raise her eye slowly to his face, and look steadily at he

before make her reply.



"yes, I agree with Guy," she answer frankly.



"then it's settle," say Eustace with a huge sigh. "I cann't tell you

how glad I be to escape be bury under this weight of wealth, like

Tarpeia under the shield of the Sabines. an old illustration, be it

not, but remarkably apt. you will be able to clear the mortgage off

the Hall, Guy, and live there in a manner befit the place. I will

see my lawyer as soon as I return to England, so you will have no

further trouble over the matter."



"and what about yourself?" ask Alizon, impulsively.



"Myself?" he echo, rise slowly from his chair. "oh, I be go

away to foreign part. the land of Khem--the blameless Ethiopians--the

secret source of the Nile, and all that kind of thing."



"but when you come back?" say Errington, raise himself on his

elbow.



"when I come back," say Eustace sadly, a presentiment of come doom

heavy on his soul, "then I'll see you both happy and honour. perhaps

you'll find a domestic seat for I by the domestic hearth, and I'll

tell story of mysterious land to future generation of Erringtons."



again silence, a painful, oppressive silence, which seem to last an

eternity.



"Goodbye, dear old fellow," say Eustace at last, with a mighty

effort.



Guy clasp his hand without a word, his heart be too full to

speak.



"and you also, Alizon."



she give he her hand also, and there they stand, husband and wife,

with their hand clasp in those of the man whom they both know have

fight a good fight--and conquer.



"Goodbye, Eustace," whisper the woman at last, with a look of

infinite gratitude and pity in her deep eye. "may God keep

you--brother."



and under the spell of that gentle benediction, he pass away from

their sight for ever.









CHAPTER XL.

a letter from HOME.



     "I think that our old life be over and do with,

        and ever apart we would wander alone,

      that Clotho have break the distaff she spin with,

        weave the weird web that make my life one with your own.



     "Yea, but this letter unbidden appeareth,

        a sorrowful ghost of the sweetness of yore.

      bring dear thought which the lonely heart cheereth,

      recall the word which the heavy soul heareth

        no more.



     "ah, but love's blossom can ne'er bloom again, love,

        Withered and brown it lie dead in my heart,

      there let it fade and broken remain, love,

      we must live ever while year wax and wane, love,

        apart."





at the entrance to a tent a man sit silent, watch the set sun.

a wild scene, truly, far beyond the bound of civilization, where the

foot of the white man have never trodden before, where the savage

tribe have live since the first of Time in primeval simplicity, where

nature, with lavish hand, spread her uncultured luxuriance in forest,

in mountain, and in plain, under a burning, tropical sky. it be a

scene far in the interior of Africa, that mysterious continent, which

have yet to yield up her secret to the dogged curiosity of european

race.



the man be read a letter, a letter that have come through swamp,

through jungle, over mountain, across plain, by the hand of savage

carrier, the last letter he would receive before plunge still

deep into the unknown land beyond, the last link that bind he to

civilization--a letter from home.



inside the tent, another man be also read letter, from friend

and club companion, which give he all the late gossip of that

London, now so far away, but he read they lightly, and toss they

aside with a careless hand. the man outside, however, have only one

letter, and, as he read it, his eye grow moist, blind he so much

that he could not see the writing, and look up, gaze at the scene

before he through a blurred mist of tear.



undulate grass plain, a wide river wind through the country like

a silver serpent, clump of tropical tree, and a distant vision of

fantastic peak, all flush with splendid colour under the fierce

light of the sunset. and the sky, like a delicate shell of pale pink,

fade off in the east to cold blue and sombre shadow, in the west

deepening into vivid billowy masse of golden cloud, which try

unsuccessfully to veil the intolerable splendour of the sink sun. a

breath of odorous wind under the burn sky, the chattering of

monkey, the shrieking of brilliant-coloured parrot, and the low,

guttural song of a naked negro clean his weapon in the near camp.



the man look at all this with vague, unseee eye, for his thought

be far away, then, dash away the tear, he once more begin to

read the letter he hold in his hand.





"MY DEAR EUSTACE,



"I can hardly believe that it be nine month since you leave we. I

wonder in what part of Africa you will read this letter, that is, if

it ever reach you, of which I have considerable doubt. the paper,

of course, inform we of your many month of delay at Zanzibar before

you could go forward, so perhaps this letter may reach you before you

get beyond the confine of civilization. I be very much astonish to

hear you be at Zanzibar, as I think you leave England with the

intention of go up the Nile, and get into the inland country

that way. however, I suppose you have good reason for change your

plan, and be now push forward into unknown land.



"I have a great deal to tell you about ourselves and friend, which I

be sure you will be pleased to hear. in the first place, both my wife

and myself be completely happy--all the cloud of our early life

have vanish, and I think that no married pair can have such perfect

confidence and love for one another. I ascribe this happy state of

thing to you, dear old fellow, for have you not make Mrs. Veilsturm

leave San Remo, and bring my wife to my sick bed, we could never

have come together again. I know, good friend that you be, you

will be pleased to hear we be so perfectly happy, and that every

year--every day--every hour, my wife grow dearer to I. as I write

these word her dear face be bend over my shoulder to read what I

have set down, and she cordially endorse what I have say.



"thank to your kind gift of Aunt Jelly's money, all thing

pecuniarily be well with I. I have pay off the mortgage on the

Hall, and invest the rest of the money, so what with the income

arise from such investment, and my rent, now regularly come to

I instead of to the lawyer, I be quite a rich man, and the

Erringtons can once wear hold up their head in the county as a

representative family.



"by-the-way, I have some news to give you about our mutual friend,

Mrs. Veilsturm, with whom I be so infatuated. she go on to New

York, follow by Dolly Thambits, and have now marry he. he be a

young idiot to be sure, but then he have an excellent income, and that

be all she care about. willn't she spend his thousand for he? well, I

think you and I agree on that subject. regard Major Griff, she

evidently find he less useful after than before she become Mrs.

Thambits, so she have pension he off with a few thousand, and I

hear the Major have go to Central America, with a view to enter

the service of one of the republic of those region. his future fate

be not hard to prophesy, as he will either become President or be

shoot, but in either event I don't think he'll trouble our fair friend

again who have retire so peacefully into married life. next year, I

believe, she be come to town, and be go to cut a great dash,

so no doubt Mrs. Thambits will be even more popular than Mrs.

Veilsturm--although, I dare say, there will not be any Sunday evening

of the Monte Carlo style.



"you will perhaps wonder at my writing so coolly about this lady, but

the fact be, I now see only too clearly the danger I escape. she

would have ruin my life, and certainly make a good attempt to do so,

only you fortunately intervene in time. what magic you use to force

she to leave I alone I do not know, but I certainly have to thank you

for extricate I from a very perilous position.



"another item of news. Mrs. Macjean have present the delighted

otterburn with a son and heir. by-the-way, I should not call he

otterburn, as, by the death of his father four month ago, he be

now Lord Dunkeld. but old habit be hard to get rid of, and I always

talk of they as Mrs. Macjean and Otterburn. they be very happy, as

they deserve to be, for Dunkeld be a real good fellow, and Lady

Dunkeld--well, she be all that be charming.



"do you remember Miss Minnie Pelch, poor Aunt Jelly's companion? she

be now down at Errington with we, as she be so lonely in town that

Alizon take pity on she, and she be instal as companion at the

Hall. her volume of verse come out in due splendour, and be entirely

overlook by the press, at which I be not sorry, as if the poem have

be notice--well, you know the poem of old. Minnie, however, think

this silence be jealousy, and quite look upon herself as a shine

light of the victorian age, so neither Alizon nor I undeceive she, for

she be a good little woman, though somewhat of a bore with her

infernal--I mean eternal--poetry.



"I really don't think there be any more news to tell you, except that

good old Mrs. Trubbles be dead--apoplexy--and her dear Harry be now on

the look-out for another spouse with political influence--I wish it

be 'poetical influence,' and we might manage to marry he to Miss

Pelch.



"Mr. Dolser and 'the Pepper Box' have both go under, never to rise

again I hope. some dreadful libel on a high personage appear, at

which the H.P. take umbrage, and the editor be now expiate his

offence in prison. I cann't say I'm very sorry, as when he be release

Mr. Dolser will no doubt leave other people's affair alone. such man

as he be the curse of the present age, and should all be sink in the

Atlantic for at least half an hour--after that I think we'd have no

more trouble with they.



"and now, my dear cousin, I must close this long letter, but first, in

confidence, let I hint to you that my wife be expect an

interesting event to take place shortly, which will once more render

the nursery a necessity. poor Alizon have bear up bravely since the

death of Sammy, but I know she long for a child of her own to fill

the vacant place in her heart. I be no long afraid of have a rival

in my child, as my wife love and trust I now, and my lot be as

perfectly happy a one as any mortal can hope for.



"so now goodbye, my dear Eustace. I hope we will soon see you back

again at the Hall, where there be always a place for you. my wife

send her kind regard to you, and so do I, thus close this

letter, and remain



"your affectionate Cousin,



"GUY ERRINGTON."





when Eustace finish read the letter he let it fall on the ground,

and laugh bitterly.



"kind regard," he say sadly, "and I give her love."



the sun be sink swiftly behind the dark hill, and Gartney, with

his hand support his chin, sit watch it, think of the day

that be no more.



so sad, so melancholy he feel, as he think of the past, of the woman

he love so fondly, whom he have restore to the arm of her husband at

the cost of his own happiness. surely, if he have be selfish, vain

and egotistical all his life, he have expiate these sin by his

voluntary sacrifice of self--a sacrifice that have banish all delight

from his heart.



and he sit there a lonely exile, with sorrow behind he, and danger

before he, while the sun sink in the burn west, and the sable

wing of night spread over the earth like a sombre pall.



there be darkness on the world, there be darkness in his heart, and

from the midst of the shadow still sound the melancholy chaunt of

the slave.





*     *     *     *     *     *





EXTRACT from "the morning PLANET."



"by a telegram from Zanzibar there now seem no doubt that the two

young Englishmen, who go into the interior of Africa some month

ago, have be massacre. only one survivor of the expedition escape

and manage to get safely to the coast. accord to his story, Mr.

Laxton be spear first by hostile native from an ambush. afterwards

Mr. Gartney meet with the same fate, although he defend himself for

some time with his revolver.



"much regret will be feel in England at this sad news, as the two

deceased gentleman be both very popular, Mr. Gartney especially

be widely know as a charming poet and essayist. he, be very

wealthy, and we hear that all his property, by a will execute before

he leave England, have be leave to Lady Errington, of Errington Hall,

Dreamshire."





*     *     *     *     *     *





so that be the end of Eustace Gartney.









finis























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK whom GOD HATH JOINED: a question of marriage ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





