The project Gutenberg eBook of the Man with a secret: a novel

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Man with a secret: a novel



author: Fergus Hume



Release date: August 21, 2017 [ebook #55404]



language: English



credit: produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by the

        Web Archive (the Emory University--Robert W. Woodruff

        Library)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the man with a secret: a novel ***









produce by Charles Bowen from page scan provide by the

Web Archive (the Emory University--Robert W. Woodruff

Library)























Transcriber's Notes:

     1. page scan source: the Web Archive

        https://archive.org/details/24181300.2250.emory.edu

        (the Emory University--Robert W. Woodruff Library)













the MAN with a secret.

a novel.







BY

FERGUS HUME



Author of

"the mystery of a hansom CAB," "MADAME MIDAS,"

"the girl from MALTA," "the PICCADILLY

PUZZLE," ETC., ETC.









there be those in this world whose egotism be so

profound, that they look upon creation as design for

their sole benefit, and take advantage of all opportunity

furnish by Fate, to gain unto themselves exceed rich

and honour, although prosperity to one may mean ruin to many.









_THIRD EDITION_.







LONDON:

F. V WHITE & CO.,

31, SOUTHAMPTON STREET, STRAND.

1892.













print BY

KELLY and CO., LIMITED, GATE STREET, LINCOLN'S INN FIELDS,

and KINGSTON-ON-THAMES.













content.



CHAP.



I.        an Unexpected Meeting

II.       his evil Genius

III.      Village Gossip

IV.       an Extraordinary Patient

V.        the Family Circle

VI.       a Morning Walk

VII.      the Housekeeper

VIII.     the Blind Organist

IX.       the view of a cynic

X.        the Ghost of a Dead Love

XI.       Mr. Beaumont make a Discovery

XII.      the Parable of the Sower

xiii.     Dick's Opinion

XIV.      the diplomacy of Basil Beaumont

XV.       a Fantastic Theorist

XVI.      the Village Concert

XVII.     Anteros

XVIII.    the Fall of Man

XIX.      Jam, Jam efficaci do manus scientiae

XX.       when in Doubt--play Trumps

XXI.      the Good Samaritan

XXII.     Phantasmagoria

XXIII.    the end of all thing

XXIV.     Mr. Beaumont win his case

XXV.      a Dexterous Arrangement

XXVI.     Una make a Confession

XXVII.    the Squire's will

XXVIII.   the Bitterness of Death

XXIX.     from Dr. Nestley's Point of View

XXX.      a Mother's Affection

XXXI.     Psalm, cvii. 19

XXXII.    London

XXXIII.   Circe's Cup

XXXIV.    a word in Season

XXXV.     a Voice from the past

xxxvi.    the Calm before the storm

XXXVII.   a ruined life

xxxviii.  Mater Dolorosa

XXXIX.    Father and Son

XL.       Beaumont play his last card

XLI.      a woman's heart

XLII.     the Dawn of a New Life













to



my Dear Father,



JAMES HUME,



this Book be affectionately dedicate

by his Son,



FERGUS.













  the mocking fiend who near we stand

     entice we to evil deed;

  he bind our soul in sensual band

     the mocking fiend who near we stand;

  but some good woman-angel plead

     for mercy at Almighty hand;

  with such for guide what mortal heed

     the mocking fiend who near we stand?













the man with a secret.









CHAPTER I.

an unexpected meeting.



   "with anxious dread have I avoid thee,

    Thou haunt evil of my early day,

    yet by some trick of Fate we meet again;

    I pray thee, sir, let I go far away.

    and place the roar sea between we twain,

    there be but sorrow in our comradeship."



it be the high road to the village of Garsworth, wide, deeply rut,

and somewhat grass-grow, with a tall hedge of yellow-blossom gorse

on the one side, and on the other a ragged, broken fence, over which

lean a man absorb in meditation, his eye fix upon the setting

sun.



the fence, rotten and moss-tufte, run along the edge of a little

hill, the slope of which have be lately reap, and be now cover

with bristly yellow stubble, variegate by bare-look patch of

brownish earth.



at the bottom of the hill flow the narrow river Gar, with its

sluggish water roll lazily along between the low mud bank,

border by row of pollard willow and lush rank grass which hide

the burrow of the water-rat. beyond, towards the distant hill,

stretch the damp, melancholy fen-land, with their long line of

slimy ditch, still pool of black water, and scatter clump of

stunt tree. still far away appear a scanty fringe of forest,

above which could be see the square, grey tower of a church, and over

all glare an angry red sky bar with thin line of heavy cloud,

loom intensely black against the accentuate crimson light behind.



an evil-look scene it be, for over the brood loneliness and

desolation of the fen-land flare the fierce scarlet of the sunset,

turn the slender line of the river and the sombre pool of water to

the tint of blood, as though they have be smite with the egyptian

plague.



a chill wind, heavy with the unwholesome miasma of the fen be

blow over the moist earth, and across the plain float a vaporous

white mist, make the stunt tree look weird and spectral behind

its shadowy veil.



the man, lean over the fence, take a cigarette out of his mouth and

shiver slightly.



"Ugh!" he mutter, with an uneasy shudder, "it's like the Valley of

the Shadow of Death." then, replace the cigarette, he continue

contemplate the uncanny-look landscape to which the term be

singularly applicable.



it be a curious face upon which shine the red sunlight, be long

and narrow, with lantern jaw and a thin, hawk-like nose. thread-like

black eyebrow in a straight line above pierce dark eye and a

scanty black moustache twist jauntily at the end over

tightly-close lip. curly hair, the colour of ebony, wear long than

usual, and touch at the temple with grey, appear from under his

soft wideawake, around which be twist a blue handkerchief with

white spot. a livid, cadaverous-look face, with the haggard

expression of one who have live a fast life; nevertheless it appear

full of animation and nervous energy.



he be tall, be much above the average height, with slope

shoulder and a slender, well-knit figure, clothe in a rough suit of

grey homespun, which he wear with a certain natural grace. his foot

be well-shaped and neatly shod in tan-colour boot, and his hand,

long and slender, be those of an artist.



not strictly handsome, perhaps, but with a certain insolent dash of

recklessness about he which suit his spanish-look face, and

stamp he at once as a Bohemian. a man who care for no one so long

as his personal desire be gratify, a man who would stop at

nothing to gratify those desire, in short, a man who have live

forty-five year in the world without make a single friend; which

fact speak for itself. a thorough scamp, ever on the edge of an

abyss, yet by some miracle never lose his balance, Basil Beaumont

have fascinate many man and woman, but they always find his

friendship too expensive to maintain; therefore the result be ever

the same, they retire, soon or later, on some pretext or another,

leave he solitary and alone.



Mr. Beaumont be smoke a cigarette--he be always smoke

cigarette--morn, noon, and night those deadly little roll of paper

be between his thin lip, and though doctor warn he of the

danger to his nerve, he laugh at their croaking.



"nerve, my dear sir," he say lightly; "man in my position cann't

afford to have nerve; they be a luxury for the rich and foolish. why

should I have nerve? I don't drink; I don't run away with other man's

wife; I don't fret over the unavoidable--bah! smoking be my one

redeem vice."



he have a number of other vice, however, as many young man find to

their cost. true, he himself do not drink, but he lead other to do

so, nor do he covet his neighbour's wife, yet he be by no mean

averse to play the part of Sir Pandarus of Troy, provide it be to

his own interest to do so. moreover, he gamble.



it be in this terrible passion--rarely, if ever conquer--that he

find his great delight. the green cloth-cover table, the paint

hieroglyphic of the card, the hope, the fear, the gain, the

loss, be all to he but a representation of his daily life on a

small scale. he gamble with man as he gamble with card, meeting

varied fortune in both, and risk his luck as recklessly in the

game of Life as in the game of baccarat. he be a scamp, a scoundrel,

a blackleg of the deep dye, bankrupt in pocket and in illusion;

yet he always keep within the limit of the law, and, moreover, sin

in an eminently gentlemanly manner, which rob the sordid, feverish

life he be lead of its most repulsive feature.



why this artificial man, who live only in the glare of the gas-lamp,

and, owl-like, shun the searching light of the day, have come to

such an out-of-the-way village as Garsworth be a puzzle, but

nevertheless a puzzle easy of solution. his object be two-fold. in

the first place, he have leave London to escape the demand of

persistent creditor, and in the second, be a native of the dull

little hamlet, he have return to visit the scene of his youth not

see by he for three-and-twenty year.



it be not a sentimental longing--no, Mr. Beaumont and sentiment have

long since part company; but Garsworth be a dead and alive place

where no one would think of look for he, so he could stay there in

safety until he see a chance of arrange his pecuniary affair and

leave the Arcadia he detest for the London he love.



an artist by profession, though he have not touch a brush for year,

he find it necessary to resume his old employment as a reason for his

sojourn in Garsworth, for the honest rustic be somewhat suspicious

of Basil Beaumont, his character having be none of the good when he

leave his native place to seek his fortune. so he live quietly at the

principal inn of the village, dawdle about the field, sketch

picturesque landscape in a desultory manner, and in the meantime

correspond with a dear brother hawk in Town as to his chance of

return to the metropolis.



his cigarette burn down rapidly as he lean over the fence

thinking of his future, so throw away the stump, he take out his

tobacco-pouch and a little book of rice paper, in order to manufacture

another, talk to himself meanwhile as be the fashion of solitary

man.



"two week," he say musingly, while he deftly roll the tobacco in

his slender finger, "two week in this blessed place--well, there's

one good thing, the rest will do I good, and I'll go back to Town as

steady as a rock; the medicine be disagreeable, but the result will be

excellent. what bad luck I've have lately--everything seem against I.

I'll have to make a big effort to get some cash, or I'll end my day

in a workhouse--ugh!" shiver again, "not that--God, how I dread

poverty! never mind," he go on gaily, shrug his shoulder,

"there be plenty of fool in this world, and as everything be

create for a special purpose, I presume _le bon Dieu_ make fool to

feather clever man's nest."



he laugh softly at this cynicism, then, light the cigarette,

place it in his mouth and resume his soliloquy.



"forty-five and still live on my wit. ah, Basil, my friend, you've

be an awful fool, and yet, if I have to live my life over again, I

don't know that I would act differently. circumstance have be too

strong for I. with a certain income I might have be an honest man,

but fate--pish!--why do I blame that unhappy deity whom man always

make a scapegoat for their own shortcoming? it's myself, and none

other, I should curse. well, well, rich or poor, honest man or

scoundrel, I'll go with all the rest of my specie through the valley

of the shadow."



he raise his eye once more to the melancholy scene before he, when

suddenly his quick ear catch the sound of footstep come briskly

along the road, and he smile to himself as the invisible pedestrian

begin to whistle "Garryowen."



"plenty of spirit," he mutter, flick the ash off his cigarette,

"or perhaps not enough, see he have to cheer himself with irish

melody."



the footstep come near, and shortly afterwards a man pause in the

centre of the road as he see the still figure lean indolently

against the fence. a fair-haired ruddy-face man, of medium height,

array in a walking suit, with a knapsack on his shoulder, and a

heavy stick in his hand.



"Hullo!" he cry, tap his stick on the ground, "how far be it to

the village?"



Basil Beaumont start slightly when he hear the voice, then an evil

smile cross his face as he turn lazily round to answer the

question.



"about one mile, Nestley," he reply distinctly.



as he speak the pedestrian give a cry, and with a muttered oath sprang

forward to where the other stand.



"Beaumont!" he whisper, recoil at the sight of that mocking,

mephistophelean countenance smile at his emotion.



"at your service," say Beaumont, carelessly put his hand in his

pocket. "and what be you do in this part of the country, Doctor

Duncan Nestley?"



Nestley do not answer, but stare fixedly at the artist as if he be

turn into stone, but the other meet his gaze steadily and seem

rather amused at the scrutiny.



"you take a long time to recognise an old friend," he observe at

length, blow a thin wreath of smoke.



"Friend," echo Nestley, with a deep sigh, recover himself. "yes,

you be my friend, Basil Beaumont."



"why 'be'?" ask the artist coolly.



"because it be you who so nearly ruin my life," reply Nestley in

a deep voice.



Beaumont smile in a saturnine manner.



"I," he say in a gibing tone. "my good fellow you do I too much

honour. I would never dare to ruin so celebrate an individual as

Duncan Nestley, F.R.C.S., and deuce know what other letter of the

alphabet."



the pedestrian turn on he fiercely, and, step forward,

confront he with clench fist. the artist never blench, but

eye his angry antagonist steadily. so Nestley, with all the wrath

die out of his face, fall back into his former position with a

dreary laugh.



"you have the one virtue of a scoundrel, I see," he say bitterly.

"Courage."



"man of one virtue and ten thousand crime," quote Beaumont, easily.

"Faith, it's something to have even one virtue in this degenerate age.

where be you go?" he add, as Nestley turn away.



"go?" echo the doctor, fiercely. "anywhere, so long as it be away

from you."



Beaumont raise his eyebrow in affected surprise, then, shrug his

shoulder, take out his watch.



"it be now between five and six o'clock," he say, put it back

again, "and it will be dark by the time we reach Garsworth, which be

the near village. I be stay there, but if you choose to go back

again in order to avoid the moral leper, I daresay you'll reach

Shunton by twelve o'clock."



"I'm not go with you," reiterate Nestley, resolutely, as the

artist step into the road.



"'nobody axe you, sir,' she say," retort Beaumont, with a sneer,

saunter on. "good-bye; a pleasant journey."



Nestley look at the sky, out of which the red light be rapidly

die. a few star glimmer in the pale flush of colour, and the

chill breeze be grow cold while the mist lie over the fen land

like a thick white veil. he be cold and hungry, so the prospect of

get something to eat and a night's rest instead of trudge back

wearily to Shunton, decide he. he shake himself impatiently, make a

few step forward, then pause irresolutely.



"Bah! why should I mind?" he say angrily to himself. "Beaumont can do

I no harm now. after five year I hardly see how his influence can

affect I. I'll chance it, anyhow."



away in the distance he could see the tall form of the artist

stroll easily along, so, having pause a moment to light his pipe,

he stride rapidly after he. even as he do so there flash across

his mind, with the rapidity of lightning, the phrase, "lead we not

into temptation," and a shiver, not cause by the chill wind, pass

over his body, but he dismiss the warning with an uneasy laugh and

walk on quickly in the track of his evil genius.









CHAPTER II.

his evil geniu.





   "much sorrow didst thou bring to I of old,

    taint my life by poisonous word and deed,

    turn holy thought to evil--make I dread

    to face the fearless look of honest man,

    lest they should spy my quick learn devilry,

    and cry, 'off, off; this fellow be a knave.'"





Garsworth be one of those queer, old-fashioned village which, owe

to their isolated position, yet retain the primitive simplicity of

early age. the near railway station, Duxby Junction, to which

steam and electricity continually carry the news of the world, be

fully twenty mile distant, so that in this out of-the-way village the

rustic hear but little of the doing of the nation, be content

to remain in a state of arcadian ignorance as their forefather have

do before they.



there be not even a stage-coach to Duxby, and the only mean of

communication be by the carrier' cart, which go weekly along the

dusty high road, draw lazily by their sleek horse. the near

market town be Shunton, almost as quiet and primitive as Garsworth,

and the sturdy farmer go there on market day sell their cattle

and wheat, pick up such small item of news as have drift thither

from Duxby, then return to their home perfectly satisfied with life

and with themselves. well-to-do folk be these yeoman, for many rich

farm lie hide in the wide fen land--farm which have descend from

father to son through many generation, and as neither agrarian

agitation nor vex question of rent have penetrate to this remote

spot, they till their land, look up to their landlord, and

pursue their monotonous life in peace.



the village, build on a primitive plan, consist of one long, wide

street, with a similar one run crosswise to it, so that the little

town be divide into four almost equal section. where the four road

meet appear a large open space do duty as the village green, in

the centre of which stand an antique stone cross with elaborate

carving thereon, much wear by time, say to have be erect by one

Geoffrey Garsworth on his return from the third crusade. as a proof of

this, there could be see amid the carving, representation of palm

branch and scallop shell, both symbolical of eastern vegetation and

pilgrim wandering; but Dr. Larcher, the vicar of Garsworth--an ardent

archaeologist--maintain that the cross have be place there by the

cistercian monk, who once occupy a monastery near the village. the

worthy vicar, be of a somewhat polemical nature, be willnot to wax

warm on the subject, and hold strong opinion as to the cross and the

church, which opinion he be willing enough to impart to any curious

stranger who might chance to have antiquarian leaning.



and a beautiful old church it be, of irregular architecture, with

heavy stone pillar support both round and pointed arch of the

Norman Romanesque style, remarkably fine stain glass window, and a

high, elaborately carve roof of dark oak. stand at the end of the

village, near the bridge, the graveyard in which it be place slope

down to the river's edge, and at time the mighty shadow of the square

tower fall across the stream.



a little far down be the vicarage, build of grey stone in the

quaint Tudor fashion, enclose a green square on three side, while

the fourth be open to the Gar. from its ground could be see the

graceful span of the bridge, a somewhat modern structure, which lead on

to a wide common overgrown with golden gorse, and far away in the

distance amid a thick forest of beech and elm and oak, arise the

tower of Garsworth Grange, wherein live the Lord of the Manor.



the village possess only one inn, quaintly entitle "the House of

Good living," an ancient building as fantastic as its name. stand

somewhat back from the street it be build of grey stone, with heavy

beam set into the wall in the old-fashioned style, and the upper

storey project over the low one in a cumbersome manner, apparently

threaten every moment to overbalance itself. there be wide,

diamond-pan casement, with row of flower-pot contain bright,

scarlet geranium stand on the broad ledge, and on the left a tall

gable jut out some distance from the main building, while in the

corner, thus form, be the huge porch, with its cumbersome bench

for the convenience of village crony. the space in front be of

cobble stone down to the street, and there stand the tall pole with

the swinge sign, whereon be bravely paint a baron of beef and a

tankard of beer as an earnest of the good cheer within. the roof be

of thatch, grey and weatherworn, neatly trim round the window and

eave, while above tower the great stack of twisted, red-tinge

chimney. altogether, a typical English inn of the stage coach period,

severely respectable and intensely conservative.



it be quite dark when Dr. Nestley reach this haven of rest, but the

generous light within gush from the window in ruddy stream with a

most invite air of comfort. the door stand wide open, let out a

flood of mellow light into the chilly darkness, and the new comer

could hear the murmur of man's voice, with every now and then a

coarse laugh, while the smell of stale tobacco permeate the

atmosphere. evidently the village gossip be hold high festival,

and as Nestley pass into the porch he see dimly through the

smoke-cloud air a number of they seat in the taproom, puff

steadily at their pipe and drain their tankard with great

contentment.



Job Kossiter, the landlord of this house of entertainment, soon make

his appearance in answer to Nestley's imperative summon, and stand

waiting order in stolid silence. a large, fat man be Mr. Kossiter,

with a large, fat face ruddy with health, a brain of bovine slowness,

and a habit of repeat all question ask in a meditative manner,

in order to give himself time to consider his answer.



"I want a bed for to-night, landlord," say Nestley, lean against

the wall and survey the rotund proportion of mine host, "and at

present, something to eat."



Mr. Kossiter fix his ox-like eye on the stranger and repeat the

word slowly like a child learn its lesson.



"he want," observe Job stolidly, "a bed for to-night and summat to

eat; sir, you can have 'em both."



"right you be," reply the doctor cheerfully. "get something ready

at once and show I to a bedroom. I want to wash my hand."



"he want," repeat Kossiter mechanically, "to wash his hand.

Margery!"



in answer to this call, a bright, brisk-look young woman, in a neat

print gown, step forward and confront Nestley.



"he want," say Job look from Margery to Nestley, "a bed, summat

to eat, a room and a wash;" then, having give all the requisite

information he roll slowly away to attend to the want of the

rustic in the taproom, while, Margery in a voice as sharp as her

appearance, invite Nestley to follow she to his room.



"Lor, sir," she say shrilly, trip lightly up the stair, "if I'd

only know as you be comin', I'd have get thing a bit straight, but

father never do tell, father don't."



"he don't know I be come," reply Nestley as he enter the

bedroom and take off his knapsack. "I'm a bird of passage--bring I

some hot water."



"yes, sir," reply Margery, pause with her hand on the handle of

the door, "and anything to eat, sir?"



"of course--cold beef, pickle--whatever there be. I'm too hungry to

be dainty."



"you willn't have supper with the other gentleman, sir, will you?" ask

Margery, "Mr. Beaumont, sir."



"no, no," reply Nestley harshly, a dark shadow cross his face. "I

want to be alone."



"very good, sir," say Margery, rather alarmed at his tone of voice.

"I'll bring the hot water, sir--yes, sir."



she close the door after she, and Nestley, sit down on the bed,

gnaw his moustache savagely.



"under the same roof," he growl viciously. "I don't know if I'm

wise--pshaw, it don't matter, he willn't do I any more harm, I've

get no money, and Beaumont don't care about do anything for

nothing--my poverty be my good shield against he."



at this moment Margaret knock at the door and hand in his hot

water, so he postpone his idea on the subject of Mr. Beaumont while

he make himself respectable. having wash the dust of the road from

his face and hand, he brush his clothe, arrange his hair, and

then descend to the parlour of the inn, where he find a

plentifully-spread supper-table await he and Margery light the

lamp.



the parlour be a quaint, low-ceilinge room, all angle, with queer

cupboard and unnecessary alcove in unexpected place, heavy, black

oak furniture, basket of wax fruit and paper flower, a small

harmonium in one corner and a general air of intense cleanliness and

comfort. dismiss Margery, Dr. Nestley make an excellent supper from

a round of corned beef, but push away the tankard of ale which

stand near he, he fill a glass with water and drink it off. his

meal be end he light his pipe, and draw his chair up to the

fire, with a sigh of gratitude, give himself up to his reflection.

the lamp shine with a dim, yellow light, but the ruddy glare of the

fire light up the room and gleam on the polished furniture and

plaster ceiling. truly a pleasant place to dream in, but judge by

the frown upon Nestley's face his thought be anything but

agreeable, for as a matter of fact he be think about Basil

Beaumont. whether a sympathetic feeling or a vein of animal magnetism

draw the subject of his reflection towards he it be hard to say, but

in a very short time the door be push silently open and Mr.

Beaumont, cool and complacent, saunter into the room.



this unwelcomed intruder walk across to the fireplace and, lean

against the mantelpiece, look down at the indignant Nestley with a

bland smile.



"enjoy your supper?" he ask coolly, remove his cigarette.



"none the well for see you," growl the doctor, draw hard at

his pipe.



"our excellent Duncan," observe Mr. Beaumont, airily, "be rather

cross."



at which impertinent observation Nestley begin to show anger.



"what right have you to come into this room?" he ask savagely.



"the good right in the world," retort Basil, smoothly. "it be a

public room; I be one of the public--ergo, I use it."



Dr. Nestley frown again, and his rather weak mouth quiver

nervously as he look at the placid countenance of the man lean

against the mantelpiece. on his part, Beaumont slip his hand

into his pocket, cross his long leg and, after glance

curiously at the figure cower in the arm-chair begin to talk in a

delicately-modulate voice, which be one of his great charm.



"we be friend five year ago, Nestley, yet now we meet as enemy.

I be not, as a rule, curious; but I confess I would like to know the

reason."



"you know well enough," say Nestley, sulkily.



"ah! let I see. I think in the road to-night you accuse I of

ruin your life. pray tell I how--I don't think," observe Mr.

Beaumont, reflectively, "I really don't think I borrow money from

you."



Dr. Nestley remove his pipe, and put his hand up to hide the nervous

quivering of his mouth. the artist go on smoking placidly, wait

for the other to speak, so see this, Nestley, with a great effort,

sit up in his chair and look steadily at he.



"listen to I, Basil Beaumont," he say, slowly. "five year ago, when

I meet you, I be only a boy----"



"yes, an awful cub," reply Beaumont, insolently. "I teach you all

you know."



"you do," retort Nestley, bitterly, rise to his foot. "you teach

I thing of which I have well have remain ignorant. I have a little

money----"



"fairly win by I at card," murmur Beaumont, coolly.



"I don't mind that," say Nestley, who be walk up and down the

room in a state of uncontrollable agitation, "you have that, and

welcome--one must pay for one's experience, I suppose. no; it be not

the money, but I do blame you for teach I to drink wine to

excess."



"I!" say Basil, in surprise, "why, I never drink wine to excess, so

how could I teach you?"



"ah!" reply the other, significantly, stop in his walk, "your

head be too strong--mine be not. I be a clever boy, and likely to do

well in my profession. you meet I when I come up to London--like I

for some inexplicable reason, and undertake to show I what you call

life. with my weak constitution and highly-string organization drink

be like poison to I--it turn I into a maniac. I do not care for

it--I have no hereditary love for alcohol, but you be always at my

elbow, tempt I to have another glass. my weak will be overcome

by your strong one. I take drink, and it make I mad, cause I to

commit a thousand folly for which I be no more responsible than a

child. I get into the habit of take drink all day. you encourage

I--God know why, except for your own selfish end. have I remain

with you, I would have be in a lunatic asylum or in the gutter but,

thank God, my well angel prevail, and I break the spell you hold

over I. leave you and the mad life I be then lead, I become a

total abstainer, at what cost I need not tell you--no one can ever

understand the struggle and agony I underwent, but I conquer in

the end. for five year I have not touch a drop of liquor, and

now--now that I have subdue the devil that once possess I I meet

you once more--you who so nearly ruin I, body and soul."



Beaumont do not move during this long speech, deliver with intense

emotion by Nestley, but at its conclusion shrug his shoulder and

address himself to the task of make another cigarette.



"a very excellent lecture," he say, scoffingly, "very excellent,

indeed, but quite wrong. I do meet you in London, and out of kindness

introduce you into decent society, but I certainly do not teach you

to make a beast of yourself, as you do!"



"you be always urge I to drink."



"hospitality only. I ask you to drink when I do, yet I do not make

a fool of myself."



"true! you only make a fool of I. what you could take and I could

take be two very different thing. what be drunkenness in I be

sobriety in you."



Beaumont laugh and light the cigarette he have just make.



"you be an idiot," he say, politely. "when you find drink do you

harm you should have leave it off."



"ah! you think that an easy task?"



"it would be--to I."



"to you!" cry Nestley, vehemently, "yes, a practised man of the

world like you have his nerve and passion well under control. I be

young, inexperienced, enthusiastic, you be cool, calculate and

cynical. you drink three time as much as I ever do, but the effect

on our nature be different you be look upon as a sober man,

I--God help me!--as a drunkard!"



the artist smile sarcastically.



"well," he say, coolly, "all this be five year ago--why be you so

disagreeable now?"



"I cannot forget how you try to ruin I."



"Humph!" observe Beaumont, walk to the door, "there's nothing like

put our sin on other people's shoulder; it save such a lot of

unnecessary trouble. however, I don't wish to argue any long. you

reject my friendship, so I've nothing more to say. I daresay you'll be

go by the time I rise in the morning, so, as we're not likely to

meet one another again in this life, I'll say good-bye."



he open the door just as Nestley be about to answer he, when

suddenly there be a noise--the voice of man laugh uproariously,

then the sharp bark of a dog, and in another moment a large black cat,

with her fur all on end, dart into the room, follow by an eager

fox-terrier in a state of great excitement.









CHAPTER III.

village GOSSIP.





     it's very odd the pride we take

     in find out our neighbour' life,

     Tho' idle word a heart may break,

     it's very odd the pride we take

     in say this one be a rake,

     and that one's luck thro' evil thrive

     it's very odd the pride we take

     in find out our neighbour's life.





snarling and spitting, with blaze eye and bushy tail, the cat flew

round the room rapidly, do a steeplechase over several chair, and

finally take refuge on the mantelpiece, where she stand with arched

back, spit freely, while the fox-terrier, yelp sharply, try,

unsuccessfully, to leap up.



"what a beast of a dog," say Beaumont, tranquilly; "it's muffin, of

course."



"rather," cry a laugh voice at the door, "do you ever know

muffin when he ben't worry a cat or kill a rat or do

something disreputable?"



the owner of the voice be a tall young fellow of twenty year of age,

with curly fair hair, a fresh complexion and merry blue eye. he be

positively bubble over with good nature and excitement, and appear

the embodiment of robust health and animal spirit. suddenly he catch

sight of Nestley, who stand near the fireplace look on at the scene

with an amused smile.



"awfully sorry about my dog, sir," he say, take off his cap with a

gay laugh and stride across the room to where muffin be perform

leap worthy of an acrobat, "but he believe his mission in life be to

kill cat, so at present----"



"he be perform his mission with great zeal," finish Nestley with

a smile.



"by the way," interpose Beaumont, raise his voice, "I'd well

introduce you two man, Mr. Richard Pemberton--Dr. Duncan Nestley."



Nestley bow somewhat stiffly, as he think Beaumont be take an

unwarrantable liberty in act as he be do, but Pemberton, with

the ingenuousness of youth, catch the doctor's hand and shake it

heartily.



"glad to see you," he say look at Nestley, "you will be a perfect

God-send in this dull place."



his manner be so cordial that without be positively rude Nestley

could not refuse to be gracious so see that he have attain his

object of introduce Nestley as his friend, Mr. Beaumont saunter

out of the room with a cynical smile on his thin lip.



"you'll measure sword with I, will you?" he say to himself with a

short laugh. "I wouldn't advise you to try that game, my friend."



meanwhile Pemberton catch hold of Muffins, who be make frantic

attempt to seize his feline enemy, whereupon the cat, see the

coast clear, spring down and dash out of the room, but the wary

muffin, wriggle himself free, race after she, nose on ground, with

an occasional sharp yelp.



"there," say Pemberton gaily, "muffin be provide with an amusing

evening, for he'll never leave the cat till he run she down."



"I'm sorry for the cat."



"you'll be sorry for Muffins when you see he return scratch all

over," retort the lad, whereupon they both laugh.



"stay here long?" ask Pemberton eye the doctor in a friendly

manner.



"only to-night--I'm on a walking tour," reply Nestley carelessly.



"lucky devil," say the other, thrust his hand into his pocket.

"I've get to stay here."



"be it your home."



"in a sort of way, yes--pupil at the vicarage and all that shoot,

don't you know--it's a five-act funeral of a place, but we manage to

get some tra-la-la out of it."



"who be we?" ask the doctor, mightily amuse at Mr. Pemberton's

colloquialism.



"oh! I forget you're a stranger here--why, Reggy Blake, myself, and

Priggs."



"Priggs?"



"one of the pupil," explain the communicative Richard, "a

jolly ass--write poetry--line to Chloe, and all that sort of

thing--hasn't get an idea beyond the Muses as he call 'em--beastly

old frump--Reggy's a good sort of chappie--he's in the taproom

now--come and see the fun--we often stand beer to the rustic and they

sing we song--twenty verse long and no stop."



"do you know Beaumont well?" ask Nestley, follow his youthful

guide to the taproom.



"not very, he's only be here a fortnight, but the vicar know he;

he's a native of these part, not a bad sort of chap but awfully stand

off the grass; get up on his hind leg pretty freely. do you know

he?"



"to my cost," reply the doctor bitterly.



Pemberton stare and be about to ask the meaning of this strange

remark, when a burst of laughter sound from the taproom, so

postpone his inquiry until a more favourable period, he open the

door and enter, follow by Duncan Nestley.



the doctor's eye smart somewhat with the pungent tobacco-smoke, but

when he become more accustomed to the cloudy atmosphere, he find

himself in a long low-ceilinge room round which about fifteen man

be seat on bench, smoke vigorously. on a long, deal table in

the centre stand a number of pewter tankard contain beer and a

large jug fill with the same generous beverage stand at the end. a

kerosine lamp hang from the ceiling, diffuse a dull yellow light,

and the floor be cover with saw-dust, with spittoon place about.



on the end of the table sit Reginald Blake, who be as dark as

Pemberton be fair. a somewhat mournful countenance when in repose,

but now sparkle with life and animation. decidedly handsome, with an

olive complexion, closely-crop black hair and a small moustache of

the same colour. as he sit there swinge his leg and show his

white tooth with every laugh, Nestley think he be a very striking

figure, although somewhat out of place in that homely room.



"look like an italian," he think, look at the tall, lithe figure

as Reginald Blake slip off the table to greet he. "must have be

bear in the South, or perhaps he's a Greek bear in England, like

Keats."



Dick Pemberton lose no time, but then and there introduce Nestley to

his friend.



"this be Dr. Nestley, Reggy--stranger here--get the blue, so I

bring he here to see the fun."



"rather homely fun I'm afraid," say Blake hold out his hand with a

frank smile. "I'm very pleased to see you, Dr. Nestley. you'll find

this noisy but it's amusing."



"what would the vicar say if he know two of his pupil be here?"

ask Nestley mischievously.



both the young man laugh heartily.



"oh, the dear old boy wouldn't mind," say Pemberton produce a cigar

case, "he trust we, besides, we work hard all the week and only get

off the chain on Saturday night."



"then," observe Reggy, help himself to a cigar from his friend's

case, "we study mankind----"



"as see in the public-house," finish the doctor smile.



"as see in the public-house," assent Mr. Blake gravely, light

his cigar. "Dick and myself be student of human nature."



"it's great fun," observe Dick confidentially. "if we be in Town

I've no doubt we'd go to a music hall, but here we amuse ourselves

with rustic simplicity."



"say simplicity be mythical," say Blake satirically, "but the

singing be amusing--I say Jarx," he add, raise his voice, "sing we

that ditty of your."



Jarx, a huge, good-temper giant, excuse himself bashfully, but on

be press, take a long drink of beer, wipe his large mouth with

his sleeve and fix his eye on the ceiling begin to sing. first he

start too low so that his voice sound as if it come from his

boot, then, apologise in a sheepish manner to the company, he begin

again in a high key. this be the other extreme be find equally

unsatisfactory, but on make a third attempt he strike the happy

medium and start off into a rustic ditty the chorus of which be

solemnly sing by the company while they rock slowly to and fro:





     "there's the hog tub and the pig tub

      and the tub behind the do-o-r

      she's go away with t'other chap

      and she'll never come back no more."





full chorus after long pause. "she won't--"



this song average about ten verse which the singer conscientiously

deliver with the chorus to each verse, first as a solo, afterwards

with the full strength of the company, who sing impartially in

different key, so that the result be anything but harmonious. by

this simple mean the song last about a quarter-of-an hour, much to

Nestley's amusement and that of the young man, who join in the

chorus with great gusto, Dick gravely conduct with his cigar.



Mr. Jarx having finish his melody, resume his seat, his pipe and

his beer, amid great applause, and in response to a general demand, a

local favourite with a shrill voice sing a ditty about "four irish

girl who come from the Isle of Wight," which also have the additional

attraction of a dance, the music of which be provide by the

performer whistling, he be his own orchestra. this double display

of genius be receive with great rapture and, at its conclusion

Nestley, turn to the young man, ask if either of they sing.



"Reggy do," say Dick promptly; "he's get a voice like a

nightingale."



"Bosh!" retort Reggy, redden under his dark skin. "why I never

have a lesson in my life."



"no, self-teach genius," say the incorrigible Dick. "come, old man,

out with it."



thus adjure by his friend and be press by the doctor, Blake

consent and sing "you'll remember I," that old-fashioned song which

contain such a world of pathos.



a tenor voice, pure, rich and silvery as a bell, not cultured in the

least, but with rare natural power and an intensity of dramatic

expression. one of those sympathetic voice which find their way

straight to the heart, and as Blake sing the appeal word of the

song, with their haunting, pathetic tenderness, Nestley felt strangely

stir. even the rustic, dull as they be, fall under the spell of

those resonant note, and when the last word die away like a

long-draw sigh, sit silently ponder, not dare to break the charm

with applause.



"you have a great gift," say Nestley, when the singer cease. "a

wonderful voice."



Blake flush with pleasure at this word of praise from a stranger,

and Dick delight with the eulogy of his friend's talent chime in

delightedly.



"'tis--isn't it jolly? and he sing comic song--give we one old

chap."



Blake would have consent, particularly as the rustic seem anxious

to hear something more suited to their comprehension than the

precede ballad, but Nestley hastily intervene.



"no, no," he say quickly, unwilling to spoil his first impression of

that charming voice by hear it lower to the level of music hall

singing, "don't do that, it will spoil everything."



the young man look at he in surprise.



"I don't care much about they myself," say Reginald frankly, "but

people down here like they well than sentimental ditty."



at this moment, Job Kossiter announce to the assemble company that

it be time to close the bar, so in a few moment the room be empty

of all save Nestley and his two companion. Dick ask he to have a

glass of ale but he refuse.



"I never drink," he say bluntly, "I'm teetotal."



they both open their eye at this, but be too polite to make any

comment, so in order to relieve the awkwardness of the situation, Dr.

Nestley begin to speak.



"I suppose you've get some queer character down here," he say,

fill a fresh pipe of tobacco.



"rather," say Dick, promptly, "old Garsworth for instance."



"be that the squire you're talk of?" say a drawling voice at the

door, and on look towards it, the trio see Mr. Basil Beaumont

stroll into the room. Nestley grow a shade stiff in his manner as

his enemy come towards they, but Dick Pemberton turn his merry face

to the new comer and nod an answer.



"do you know he?" he ask.



Beaumont take up his favourite position in front of the fire and

smoke complacently.



"yes. when I leave this place twenty-three year ago, I hear a lot

about he."



"he's a miser," say Blake meditatively.



"he be when I leave, and I presume he still be," reply Beaumont,

"but from all I've hear, he use to be pretty gay in his youth."



"Youth," echo Dick scornfully, "be he ever a youth?"



"I believe he be, somewhere about the Flood. why he must be ninety

now."



"over seventy," say Blake.



"thank you for the correction," answer Beaumont, cast a sidelong

look at he; "over seventy, yes, I should say seventy-three or four,

as he be about fifty when I leave; he have live a riotous life up to

the age of forty, then he suddenly take to save money, why, nobody

know."



"oh yes, they do," say Reginald, take his cigar out of his mouth.

"it's common gossip now."



"tell we all about it," say Nestley, settle himself in his chair.



"it's a curious story," say Blake leisurely. "Squire Garsworth lead a

fast life, as Beaumont say, till he be forty, then he stumble on

some book about the transmigration of the soul."



"Pythagoras?" ask Beaumont.



"yes, and Allan Kardec, spiritualism and re-incarnation; he learn

from those book to believe that his soul would be incarnate in

another body; from long study of this theory he become a monomaniac."



"in one word--mad," say Beaumont.



Nestley do not want to speak either directly or indirectly to

Beaumont, but this observation appeal to his professional pride,

therefore he speak.



"Monomania do not necessarily mean madness, though it may become so;

but so far as I can understand Mr. Blake, it seem to I that squire

Garsworth have make a hobby of this study, and from long concentration

upon it, his hobby have become a mania; and again, the disease, as I

may call it, have now assume a more dangerous form and become

monomania, which really mean madness on a particular subject."



"then it be madness," insist Beaumont.



"in a sort of a way yes," assent Nestley; "but in a general sense I

would not call he mad from simply concentrate his mental power on a

single subject."



"you'll call he mad when you hear all about he," say Dick grimly;

"fire away Reggy."



"Mr. Garsworth," say Blake, "accept the doctrine of re-incarnation

with certain modification. Kardec, Pythagoras and Co. believe that a

newly incarnate soul be in ignorance of its previous existence, but

the squire think that it know all about they, consequently he

believe that when his soul--at present incarnate in the Garsworth

body--leave say body, it will become re-incarnate in another body

of the same sex, and remember the time when it be the guide

intelligence of Squire Garsworth. do I make myself clear?"



"very clear," reply Nestley, "but if the squire believe that the

soul do not lose its memory, what about his previous existence?"



"he's get a whole stock of 'em," break in Dick quickly, "range from

the Pharaohs down to the middle age, but I think the Garsworth body

be the first time his soul have use any fleshly envelope in our modern

day."



"curious mania," say Nestley reflectively, "if he ben't mad he's very

near it."



"but what have all this incarnation humbug to do with his miserly

habit," say Beaumont impatiently, "he don't want to pass his

existence in be miserable."



"that's the very thing," explain Reginald calmly, "it appear that

in some of his previous existence he suffer from poverty, so in

order to arrest such a calamity, he be save up all his money in this

existence to spend during his next incarnation."



"oh, he's quite mad," say Nestley decisively.



"but how do he propose to get hold of the money?" observe Beaumont

disbelievingly; "he'll be in another body, 'and willn't have any claim

to the Garsworth estate."



"that's his secret," say Dick Pemberton, "nobody know; queer yarn,

ben't it?"



"very," say Nestley, deeply interested. "I should like to study the

case. do he live by himself?"



"no, his cousin, Una Challoner, live with he," interpose blake

hurriedly, the colour flush in his face.



"ah," think Beaumont, note this, "case of love, I see. I suppose

Miss Challoner do not believe in his mad theory?" he add aloud.



"hardly," say Dick contemptuously, "she's too sensible."



at this moment Job Kossiter enter the room, and, after slowly

survey the group, address himself to Reginald:



"if I may make so bold, Mr. Blake, sir," he say, in his thick voice,

"would you ask the vicar to go to the old squire?"



"what's up?" ask Blake, rise.



"he's very ill, sir, as Munks say," say Kossiter, scratch his

head, "and Doctor Bland, sir, he's ill, too, sir, and cann't go, so as

there ben't a doctor to see he, I think the vicar----"



"not a doctor?" interpose Beaumont, quickly. "nonsense! this

gentleman," indicate Nestley, "be a doctor, so he can go at once."



"oh, I'll go," say Nestley, rise, rather glad of the opportunity to

study the case.



"then, sir, Munks be wait outside with the cart," observe

Kossiter, move to the door.



"who on earth be Munks?" ask Nestley, follow the landlord.



"the squire's servant," cry Dick, "and a cross-grained old ass he

be."



"I don't suppose as you need tell the vicar now, sir," say Mr.

Kossiter to Reginald.



"no, of course not," reply Blake, "this gentleman will do more good;

it's the doctor he need--not the clergyman."



"I wouldn't be too sure of that, Reggy," say Dick, as they all go

out. "he need a little spiritual consolation."



"I think a strait waistcoat would be good," say Beaumont quietly, as

they stand at the door, "judge from your story."



the two lad say good-night, and go homeward, while Mr. Beaumont

retire into the inn, and Nestley, step up into the high dog-cart,

drive off into the darkness of the night on his unexpected mission.









CHAPTER IV.

an EXTRAORDINARY PATIENT.



                                     mad?

     not what the world call madness--he be quiet

     Raves not about strange matter--curb his tongue

     with wond'rous wisdom--ponder ere he speak,

     and yet I tell you he be mad, my liege;

     the moon be regnant at his birth and all

     the planet bow to her strong influence.





if Dr. Nestley have be imaginative he might have think that he be

be drive by one of the statue out of the old church, so grim and

stiff be the figure beside he. Munks have a hard-feature face, and

an equally hard manner, and in his suit of rough grey cloth he look

like Don Juan's Commandantore out for an airing. he devote himself

exclusively to the raw-boned animal he be drive, and reply to Dr.

Nestley's question in what might be call a chippy manner, his

answer be remarkably monosyllabic.



be the squire ill?--very! what make he ill?--Did not know! how many

people live at the Grange?--Six! what be their names?--The squire,

Miss Una, Miss Cassandra, Patience Allerby, Jellicks and himself.



as Nestley do not find this style of conversation particularly

exhilarating, he relapse into silence, and the stony Munks devote

his attention once more to the raw-boned horse.



the dog-cart spin rapidly through the sleep village with the

dark-windowe house on either side--over the narrow, vibrate bridge

under which sweep the sullen, grey river--across the wide common,

where the gorse bush look fantastic and unreal in the moonlight,

with only the silent sky overhead and the silent earth below--tall

tree on either side, some gaudy with the yellow and red of their

autumnal foliage, and other gaunt and bare, their leafless branch

ready for the winter snow. so still, so silent, with every now and

then the sad cry of some night bird from the lonely marsh, and the

steady beat of the horse's hoof on the hard, white road. the scenery,

grey and colourless under the pale light of the moon, change with the

rapidity of a kaleidoscope. first the tangle, odorous hedge that

separate the road from the closely-reap field, afterwards a grove

of beech, cast fantastic shadow on the ground, and then,

suddenly start out of the earth as if by magic, the thick, dark

wood which surround Garsworth Grange, as though it be the

enchant palace of the sleep beauty. the rusty iron gate be

wide open, and they drive into the park between the tall white post

with the leopard sejant thereon--up the broad, wind avenue with

the tree toss their leafless branch in the chill wind--while

here and there at interval the cloudy white form of statue appear

indistinctly. the wheel crunch the dead leave that thickly

carpet the path--a wide sweep of the avenue, and then a low, broad

terrace of white stone, to which a flight of shallow step lead up

through urn and statue to Garsworth Grange.



Nestley have no time to take any note of the architectural beauty of

the place; for, hastily alight, he run up the step, while Munks,

still grimly silent, drive off, presumably in the direction of the

stable. so here, Nestley find himself alone in this ghostly white

world, with the keen wind whistle shrilly in his ear, and before

he a monstrous, many-pillare porch with a massive door scroll

grotesquely with ironwork, like the entrance to a family mausoleum.

whilst he be search for a bell to ring or a knocker to knock with,

the door slowly swing open with a surly creak, and a tall, slim

figure, hold a flickering candle, appear.



be it one of the cold, white statue in the lonely garden that have by

some miracle awake to life?--this sudden vision of lovely, breathing

womanhood stand out from the darkness amid a faint halo of

tremulous light, the rose-flush face with its perfectly-chisel

feature delicately distinct under the coronet of pale, golden hair,

one slender arm raise aloft, hold the faintly-glimmer candle,

one eloquent finger place warningly upon the full red lip, while the

supple body, clothe in a loose white dress, be bend forward in a

graceful poise. not Aphrodite, this midnight goddess, for the face be

too pure and childlike for that of the divine coquette, not Hera in

the imperial voluptuousness of undye beauty, but Hebe, bright,

girlish Hebe, with the smile of eternal youth on her lip, and the

vague innocence of maidenhood shine in her dreamy eye.



the goddess evidently expect to see the familiar face of the village

doctor; for she start back in astonishment when she behold a

stranger, and seem to demand an explanation of his visit. this he

speedily furnish.



"Doctor Bland be ill, I understand," he say, politely, "but I be a

medical man stay at the inn, and as the case seem urgent, I come

in his place."



the goddess smile, and her frigid manner thaw rapidly.



"it's very kind of you, Doctor--Doctor----"



"Nestley," say that gentleman, "Doctor Nestley."



"it's very kind of you, Doctor Nestley," she say, in a musical voice,

"and, indeed, the case _be_ very urgent--please come in."



Nestley step inside, and the young lady, close the heavy door,

secure the innumerable fastening. catch Nestley's eye, as he

look on, rather puzzle, at the multiplicity of bolt and chain,

she laugh quietly.



"my cousin be very much afraid of thief," she remark, as she

turn round, "he wouldn't rest in his bed if he don't think the

front door be lock--by the way, I must introduce myself--Una

Challoner!"



"I have hear of you, Miss Challoner," say Nestley, look at she in

admiration.



"from whom?" she ask quickly.



"Mr. Blake and Mr. Pemberton."



she flush a little, and bow with some hauteur.



"will you come upstairs with I, Doctor," she say, turn away from

he.



Dr. Nestley be about to follow, when his attention be arrest by

the unexpected apparition of a small, stout lady, by no mean young,

who be, nevertheless, array in a juvenile-look gown of pink with

the remarkable addition of a tea-cosy perch on her head which give

she the appearance of be half extinguish. she also hold a candle

and stand in front of the doctor, smirk and smile coquettishly.



"introduce I, Una, dearest," she cry, in a thin, pipe voice which

seem ridiculous, come from such a stout person. "I'm so fond of

doctor. Most people aren't--but then I'm odd."



she certainly be, both in appearance and manner; but, Una be use

to her eccentricity, evince no surprise, but, look down on the

grotesque figure from her tall height, smile gravely.



"Doctor Nestley, this be my aunt, Miss Cassandra Challoner," she say,

in a soft voice.



Miss Cassandra shake her girlish head and make an odd little bow, to

which the doctor politely respond, then suddenly recollect the

tea-cosy, snatch it off with an apologetic giggle, thereby

display a head of frizzy yellow hair.



"Draughty house," she say, in explanation of her peculiar head-dress.

"I get neuralgia pain down the side of my nose and in my left eye.

I'm sure it's the left, doctor. very odd, ben't it? I wear the

tea-cosy to keep the heat in my head. heat be good for the nerve, but

you know all about that, be a doctor. how very odd. I mean, it

ben't odd, be it?"



how long she would have ramble on in this aimless fashion it be

impossible to say, but, fortunately, a third woman, bear a candle,

appear descend the stair, which put an end to Miss Cassandra's

chatter.



"it's jellick," say Miss Challoner quickly, "the squire must be

bad."



jellick be an ugly old woman of about sixty, with a wither,

wrinkle face, rough, greyish hair, and a peculiar kind of wriggling

movement, something like that of a dog who have do wrong and want to

curry favour with his angry master. she wriggle down the stair,

writhe up to Una, and, with a final wriggle, deliver her message in

one word and a whisper.



"Wuss!" she hiss out in a low, sibillant manner.



Dr. Nestley be begin to feel bewildered with the strangeness of

his position. this cold, vault-like hall with its high roof,

tesselate black and white diamond pavement, massive figure in

suit of armour on either side, seem to chill his blood, and the

three candle hold by the three woman dance before his eye like

will-o'-the-wisps. a musty odour permeate the atmosphere, and the

flickering light, which only serve to show the darkness, assume to

his distorted imagination the semblance of corpse candle. shake off

this feeling with an effort, he turn to Miss Challoner.



"I think I have well go up at once," he say in a loud, cheerful

voice. "every moment be precious."



Miss Challoner bow in silence, and precede he up the stair,

follow by the wriggle jellick and the girlish Miss Cassandra, who

decline to be leave behind.



"no; positively no," she whimper, shake her candle and replace

the cosy on her head. "it's like a tomb--the 'Mistletoe Bough,' you

know--very odd--he might die--his spirit and all that sort of

thing--nerve, doctor, nothing else--chronic; mother's side--dear,

dear. I feel like a haunted person in what's-his-name's book? Dickens.

Charming, ben't he? so odd."



and, indeed, there be a ghostly flavour about the whole place as they

walk slowly up the wide stair, with the darkness close densely

around they. every footfall seem to awake an echo, and the paint

face of the old Garsworths frown and smile grotesquely on they

from the wall as they move silently along.



a wide corridor, another short flight of stair, and then a heavy

door, underneath which could be see a thin streak of light. pausing

here, Una open it, and the four pass into Squire Garsworth's

bedroom, which strike the doctor as be almost as chill and ghostly

as the hall.



it be a large room with no carpet on the polished floor, hardly any

furniture and no light, save at the further end, where a candle,

stand on a small round table, feebly illuminate a huge curtain

bed set on a small square of carpet on which be also the round table

aforesaid and two heavy chair, the whole form a kind of dismal

oasis in the desert of bare floor.



on the bed lie the squire, an attenuate old man with a face look

as though it be carve out of old ivory, fierce black eye and

scanty white hair flow from under a black velvet skull cap. a

multiplicity of clothe be heap on the bed to keep he warm, and

his thin arm and claw-like hand be outside the blanket pluck

restlessly at the counterpane. beside he stand a woman in a

slate-colour dress, with an expressionless white face and smooth

black hair, draw back over her finely shape head. she keep her eye

on the floor and her hand fold in front of she, but, on hear a

strange footstep, turn to look at the doctor. a strangely mournful

face it be, as if the shadow of a great sorrow have fall across it

and would never more be lift. Nestley guess this to be Patience

Allerby, so the number of the extraordinary individual who occupy

Garsworth Grange be now complete.



hear the doctor enter, Squire Garsworth, with the suspicious

celerity of a sick man, raise himself on his elbow and peer

malevolently into the darkness, look like some evil magician of old

time.



"who be there?" he ask in a querulous voice, "someone to rob I;

thief and rogue--all--all rogue and thief."



"it be the doctor," say Una, come close to he.



"what do he bring? what do he bring?" ask the sick man, eagerly,

"life or death? tell I, quick."



"I cannot tell you till I ask a few question," say Nestley, step

into the radius of light.



"ha!" cry Garsworth, with sudden suspicion, "not Bland. no; a

stranger. what do you want? where be Bland?"



"he be ill," say Nestley distinctly, come close to he, "and cannot

come, but I be a doctor and will do as well."



the old man look at he anxiously, seem to devour he with the

fierce intensity of his gaze.



"weak," he mutter, after a pause, "very weak, still there be

intellect in the face."



then he suddenly put out his hand and grasp that of Nestley in his

thin, claw-like finger.



"I will trust you," he say rapidly. "you be weak, but honest. save

my life and I will pay you well."



"I will do what I can," reply Nestley simply.



the squire, with an effort, sit up in bed, and wave his hand

imperatively.



"turn they all out," he say sharply, point to the woman. "I must

tell you what I wo'nt tell they. a physician be more of a confessor

than a priest. go away and leave I with my confessor."



Nestley be about to remonstrate, but Una place her finger on her

lip, and all three woman noiselessly withdraw, bear their candle.

when the door close after they the immense room be quite in

darkness, save for the feeble glimmer of the taper by the bed, which

shed its light on the pallid countenance of the old man now lie back

exhausted on his pillow. it be certainly a very strange situation,

and Nestley, modern physician though he be, feel little thrill of

superstitious awe run through he. he be about to speak when the

squire, turn on his side, look at he earnestly and commence to

talk.



"I do not want you to diagnose my case," he say, in a low, feverish

voice. "I can tell you all about it. your task be to supply remedy.

I be an old man, seventy-five year of age. it's a long life, but not

long enough for what I want. the sword have wear out the scabbard--my

soul be encase in a wear-out body and I want you to sustain the vital

force of the body. I can look after the soul; you mind the body."



"I understand perfectly," observe Nestley, feel his pulse. "nerve

exhaustion."



"aha! yes, that be it. I have be work too hard and overtax my

nerve. you must restore they to their normal state. Tonics,

electricity, rest--what you will, but give I back my vital power in

their pristine vigour."



"it be impossible to do that," say Nestley, quickly, "you be not

young, remember, but I will give you some medicine that will replace

the waste tissue and afford you relief, if not health; but you will

never be strong again."



"not in this body," exclaim Garsworth, raise himself on his elbow,

"no, but in my next incarnation I shall be--ah, you look surprised,

but you, no doubt, have hear of the mad squire. mad! poor fool, my

madness be their sanity. I shall be young and vigorous in my next

body, and I shall be rich. all this life I have be work for the

next, but I have not gain enough money. no, not half enough. make I

well again, that I can complete my work, then I will gladly leave this

wear-out body for a new one. I will pay you--oh yes--I will pay you."



he fall back exhausted on the pillow, wear out by the rapidity of his

speech, and Nestley call out loudly for assistance. Patience Allerby

enter the room, and, by the doctor's order bring some wine in a

glass. this Nestley hold to the sick man's lip, while the

housekeeper, at the other side of the bed, hold the candle for he to

see by. the wine infuse a fictitious life into the old man, and

see he be easy, Nestley determine to go back to Garsworth in

order to get some medicine.



he put the clothe over the squire and bend down to speak.



"you must lie quiet," he say, in a slow voice, "and take some wine

whenever you feel exhausted. I will send you a sedative to-night, and

to-morrow morning will call and see you."



the sick man, too exhausted to speak, make a motion with his hand to

show he understand, and lie back white and still, in complete contrast

to his former restlessness. Nestley see that the effort have fatigue

he greatly, and be the more anxious to give he some soothe

draught, as every paroxysm of excitement exhaust the nerve and

render he weak. but even in his anxiety, as he look at he

lie so still with the candle on either side of the bed, he could

not help compare he, in his own mind, to a corpse lay out

preparatory to burial. the thought be a horrible one, but the

atmosphere of the house seem to engender horrible thought, so he

hurry to the door, anxious to leave this nightmare castle.



Patience Allerby, soft-footed and silent, light he downstairs, and

having see he safe in the hall turn back without a word.



"a strange woman," think Nestley, look after she, "and a strange

house;" then he turn to Una and Miss Cassey, who be anxiously

wait his report.



"I have give he a little wine," he say, put on his glove.

"keep he as quiet as possible and I'll send some opiate from

Garsworth; he be in a very exhausted condition and must be keep quiet.

how can I send the medicine?



"Munks will bring it when he drive you in," say Una quickly. "you

will come again?"



"yes, to-morrow morning," he reply as she open the door, and be

about to depart when Miss Cassey arrest he.



"I'll take some of the medicine myself, doctor," she say. "I'm so

easily upset--nerve again--it's in the family; come and prescribe

for I to-morrow--I'm so odd, I think it's the house--lonely, you

know--bromide be good, ben't it? yes, Doctor Pecks, in London, tell I

so. do you know him?--No--how odd--clever on nerve--my nerve--don't

forget to-morrow--good-night--charming moon--yes--so odd."



after hear this incoherent speech, Dr. Nestley manage to get away,

and say good-night to Una, go down the step. the dog-cart be

wait for he, and Munks, the Mute, drive he back grimly the whole

way. it be quite a relief get into the cool fresh air, and

Nestley half think the lonely house and its fantastic occupant be

phantom, so unreal do they seem.









CHAPTER V.

the FAMILY CIRCLE.





     but turn from these scene of beauty rare

     the family circle next demand our care,

     that fireside kingdom where the father bland

     his sceptre sway with firm and gentle hand.

     obedient child clust'ring round his knee

     perform with pleasure all his mild decree,

     with willing heart upon his order wait

     thus show example to the parent state.





Dr. Larcher, the vicar of Garsworth, be a fine type of what be call

muscular christianity. tall, broad-shoulder and burly, he look

more like a cavalry officer than a parson, and he preach his

sermon, which be generally plain and outspoken, in a loud assertive

tone of voice. be fond of archaeology and long walk he know every

inch of the country for mile round, and be as well acquainted with

the poor cottager as with the lord of the soil. simple,

large-minded gentleman that he be, he admirably suit his position

in life, and if the rustic of Garsworth have not a sound belief in the

tenet of the Church of England, it be by no mean the fault of the

worthy vicar, who thunder out practical Christianity in ponderous

johnsonian sentence, with the zeal of a Savonarola and the eloquence

of a Bossuet. he be also a great latinist and plentifully season

his discourse with quotation from Horace, for which bard he profess

great admiration.



on the morning after the visit of Nestley to the Grange, Dr. Larcher

be seat at the breakfast-table talk eagerly about a bronze sword

which have just be bring to he, having be disinter from some

ancient british tumulus. his present congregation consist of Dick

Pemberton, who be rather disposed to laugh at the important

discovery, Reginald Blake, look somewhat preoccupy, Ferdinand

Priggs, the poet, a sallow youth with dreamy eye and a deep voice,

and Miss Eleonora Gwendoline Vera Bianca Larcher, the sole child of

the vicar and his wife.



these name, decidedly alarming one, have be give to she by Mrs.

Larcher, who have select they from the "Family Herald," her favourite

journal, but Dr. Larcher, who have no fancy for high-sound title,

call his daughter Pumpkin. this unhappy cognoman have be bestow

on the child by the nurse, in despair at be unable to master the

legitimate name, and the vicar be so pleased with the oddity of the

title that he there and then adopt it. Mrs. Larcher, however,

obstinately refuse to accept this innovation, and call her daughter

Eleonora Gwendoline, but generally Miss Larcher answer to the name

of Pumpkin, her aristocratic name be only bring out on company

occasion.



she be a pretty, plump girl, with dark eye and a rosy face. endow

with a large amount of common sense, her taste lie in the direction

of make pudding and mend clothe, whilst she evince a great

contempt for poetry and such-like thing. Mrs. Larcher, be an

invalid, leave the management of the house entirely to Pumpkin, who

rule the servant with a rod of iron, look after the creature

comfort of her father and his pupil, and be besides a bright,

lively girl whom everyone adore.



as to Mrs. Larcher, she be always ill, but why she should be so be a

mystery to everyone save herself. it be either her nerve or her

liver or her spine or her laziness, most probably the latter, as she

mostly pass her life alternate between the sofa and her bed.

occasionally she stroll out, but always come back feeling weak and

bad, to be strengthen with strong tea and hot muffin, after which

she would bewail her delicate constitution in a subdue whimper. her

unknown malady be know to all as "the affliction," that be a

generic name for all kind of disease, and Mrs. Larcher herself

allude to her ill health by this title as be a happy one and

necessitate no special mention of any one infirmity. Pumpkin look

after everything and be the good fairy of the vicarage, while Mrs.

Larcher lie all day on her sofa read novel and drink tea, or

gossip with any visitor who might drop in.



at present Mrs. Larcher be safe in bed upstairs and Pumpkin preside

at the breakfast-table, which be now cover with an array of empty

dish, as the male portion of the vicarage inmate, with the

exception of the poet, have large appetite. Dr. Larcher, however, have

be too excited to eat much, and have his eye intently fix upon his

newly-discover bronze implement.



"it's a wonderful example of what the ancient Britons could do," he

say grandiloquently, "and to my mind, I prove no mean standard of

civilisation."



"even in that age of barbarism," observe the poet enthusiastically,

"they cultivate a love for the beautiful."



"oh, bosh," say Dick irreverently, "they want something to knock

the stuffing out of an enemy."



"well, I think that sword could do it," remark Pumpkin with a smile.

"suppose we try it on you, Dick."



"no, thank," retort that young gentleman, grimacing, "I'll agree

without practical proof."



"I shall write an article on this," say Dr. Larcher, delicately

balance the sword in his hand. "such a discovery will be a distinct

gain to our knowledge of the aborigine of that dead and bury time

of so long ago--_Eheu fugace Postume labuntur anni_."



"it breathe the very spirit of the age," cry Ferdinand with an

inspire air:





     the age of Bronze, the age of Bronze

     where Boadicea----





"Loved and sing," finish Dick. "I say old chap, you're crib from

the Isles of Greece."



Whereupon Ferdinand enter into a lively discussion with Dick to

prove that he have not plagiarise from Byron while Dick in reply

mercilessly chaff the unhappy poet with such success that he flee

from the room, pursue by his laughing antagonist.



"what be the matter, Reggy?" ask Pumpkin, see how quiet Blake have

remain, "anything wrong?"



"oh no," he reply hastily, "but I be wonder how the squire be

this morning."



"you'd well go over and see, Blake," say the vicar, look up. "I

hope that strange doctor do he some good. by the way who be this

doctor?"



"I don't know, sir," answer Blake, turn towards Dr. Larcher, "he

say he be on a walking tour, and I fancy be a friend of Beaumont's."



the vicar frown.



"bird of a feather," he say decisively. "I don't think much of

Beaumont, Blake, and if this Dr. Nestley be his friend, I'm afraid

he's not much good."



"that be severe, papa," say Pumpkin.



"my dear," reply her father emphatically. "I hope I be the last man

in the world to speak ill of my fellow creature, but I be afraid that

Basil Beaumont be not a good man--you can hardly call he '_integer

vitæ_,'--I know he before he leave the parish, and even then his

nature be not all that could be desire, but now his bad trait of

character have become develop in the pernicious atmosphere of London

life, and as I be the guardian of three youth whose mind be

naturally open to seductive influence it be but right that I should

take a severe view of the matter; if Basil Beaumont become the

companion of my pupil I should tremble for the result--_ille die

utramque ducet ruinam_."



"but Dr. Nestley, papa?"



"as to Doctor Nestley," say the vicar majestically, "I do not yet

know he--when I do, I will be in a position to judge of his

character--but like draw to like and I fear--I fear sadly," finish

Dr. Larcher shake his head sagaciously, "that no one of strictly

upright principle can be an intimate friend of Basil Beaumont's."



"I don't think they be very intimate friend," say Reggy

thoughtfully, "rather the opposite."



"ah, indeed," reply Dr. Larcher, "well, well, we shall see;

however--_non hæc jocosæ conveniunt lyræ_--you can go over to the

Grange, Blake, and inquire after the squire's health."



at this moment a tapping be hear on the floor above which signify

that Mrs. Larcher require some little attention, whereupon Pumpkin

leave the room with alacrity in order to see what "the affliction"

want. leave alone with the vicar Reggy be about to retire, when Dr.

Larcher stop he.



"by the way, Blake," he say gravely, "I wish to speak to you on a

serious subject."



Reggy flush red and bow without say a word, as he intuitively

guess what be come.



"I be aware," observe the vicar in his ponderous manner, "that I may

be about to interfere in your affair in what you may consider a most

unjustifiable manner."



"not at all, sir," answer Reginald warmly, "no one have such a right

to speak to I as you have--my second father--I may say my only

father."



Dr. Larcher smile in a gratified manner and look at the tall young

man stand near he with approval.



"I be glad to have your good opinion," he say, politely bend his

head, "but in order that you may understand I clearly you must permit

I to recapitulate as shortly as possible the story of your life--this

be a very critical period of your career--remember Horace, _Tu nisi

ventis debis ludibrium cave_."



Blake turn pale, then, with a forced smile resume his seat and

wait for the vicar to proceed, which that worthy gentleman do, not

without some embarrassment.



"of course you understand," he say clear his throat, "that I be

quite unaware of your parentage--whether your father and mother be

alive I do not know--about two-and-twenty year ago you be bring

to I by Patience Allerby, your nurse, who have just then return from

London, where she have be in service. she tell I that you be the

son of a poor literary man and his wife, whose servant she have be,

they go away to France and--I understand--die there. she be leave

with you on her hand so bring you down here and deliver you to my

charge; since then you have be an inmate of my house."



"the only home I ever know," interpose Blake with emotion.



"I will not deny," say Dr. Larcher, "that I have receive through

your nurse certain sum of money for your education which lead I to

believe--in spite of her denial--that your parent may be still alive.

this be well enough in the past, but now you be twenty-two year of

age and I wish to make some arrangement about your future career--you

will of course choose your own vocation in life--but meantime I wish

you to ask Patience Allerby about your birth and obtain from her all

information regard your parent which may be of use to I--you can

do so when you go over to the Grange to-day--and then let I know the

result; afterwards we can discuss way and mean regard your

future."



"it's very kind of you, sir to talk like this," say Blake in a low

voice, "and I feel deeply grateful to you. I will see Patience and get

she to tell I all she know, but I'm afraid I can expect nothing from

my parent, even though they be alive--a father and mother who could

leave their child to the mercy of stranger all these year cannot

have much humanity."



"do not judge they too harshly," say the vicar hastily, "there may be

reason."



"I've no doubt of that," reply Blake bitterly, "reason which mean

shame."



"not necessarily--a secret marriage----"



"would have be declare long before the lapse of twenty year," say

Reggy quickly. "I'm afraid there be bad than that and my birth be

my mother's shame."



there be a cloud on the good vicar's brow as the young man speak, but

he delicately refrain from say anything. go over to Blake he

pat he gently on the shoulder, a mark of kindliness which touch

the young man deeply.



"Come! come, Blake," he say cheerfully, "you must not cherish these

morbid fancy. you be young and clever, with the world before you,

who know but what you may achieve success, and then your unknown

parent, if they live, will acknowledge you only too gladly. do not be

so easily cast down. what be the manly advice of the Venusinian?





     'Rebus angustis animosus atque

      Fortis appare.'"





"I don't think Horace be ever call upon to bear trouble undaunted,"

say Blake rather sadly, "but if my belief be true it will cast a

shadow on my life."



"Morbid! morbid!" reply the vicar gaily, "do not go out in a coach

and four to meet your trouble, my lad--see Patience first--if your

thought prove true there will be time enough to lament they, but with

youth and brain on your side you should not turn recreant in the

battle of life."



"nor will I," say Reggy, grasp the kind hand hold out towards he.

"whatever come or go I have at least one man who have be to I

father and mother both."



then, overcome by his emotion, he hastily leave the room, while the

vicar, take up the bronze sword, prepare to follow.



"ah!" say the worthy gentleman with a sigh. "I trust his foreboding

may not prove true, but Patience Allerby know more than she tell,

and I fear for the bad; however, _non si male nunc et olim sic

erit_, and the boy have at least have a few happy year--what say

glorious John?





     'not heaven itself over the past hath power

      for what hath be hath be,

      and I have have my hour.'"





and with this somewhat pagan sentiment Dr. Larcher go away to

discuss the Bronze period, illustrate by the newly-find sword, with

a certain old crony who always differ from he and constantly say

"no," to the vicar's "yes."









CHAPTER VI.

a MORNING WALK.





     a snake you be in other day

       Ere you attain the human state;

     still in your vein the snake blood play

       which lead you now to gloze and hate,

     the magic of the serpent gaze

       Lurks in your eye to fascinate.





as it be a holiday the pupil be leave to their own device, and on

go outside, Blake find Dick Pemberton amuse himself with muffin

and a fishing rod. Ferdinand having be worst by the volatile Dick,

have long since depart to work at a tragedy he be compose, and Mr.

Pemberton be evidently get ready for a fishing excursion in

company with Muffins.



"now what do you think you be do?" ask Reggy pause at the

door.



"none so blind as those who willn't see," retort Dick coolly. "I'm

goin' fishin'."



"fishing?" repeat Reggy with emphasis.



"with the accent on the 'g'," reply Richard gaily. "don't be a

pedant, old chap--fishin' mean the same thing as fishing, and not so

much trouble to say. I suppose I ought to call Muffins 'muffing.'"



"oh, bosh!" retort Reggy politely, walk down to the gate.



"quite right--it be bosh, oh king. where be you off to?"



"Grange?"



Dick arch his eyebrow, shake his head, and whistle, at which

Reginald flush a little.



"what do you mean?" he ask, turn round.



"Nothin', nothin'," say Dick demurely; "you're 'goin' a-courtin',

sir, she say,' I suppose."



"what nonsense, Dick," say Blake angrily, "as if Una----"



"oh! ho!" reply Pemberton; "sit the wind in that quarter? I never

mention the lady's name. you ought to get our one and only poet to

write you some verses--



     'oh, I could spoon a

      Girl like dear Una

      Aileen Aroona,'



--bad poetry, but beautiful sentiment."



"I wish you'd be serious, Dick," say Reginald in a vex tone; "I be

only go over to the Grange to ask after the squire's health."



"all right," reply Dick good-naturedly; "give old Cassy my love, and

tell she I'm go to propose to she--odd, ben't it?--so very odd."

and with a capital imitation of Miss Cassandra's fidgety manner, he

walk away follow by muffin, while Reginald go out of the gate

on to the village street.



the interview with Dr. Larcher have touch he more nearly than he

like to confess even to himself, and his frivolous conversation with

Dick have be somewhat of a relief to he, but now, be alone, he

relapse into sombre thought. he be dissatisfied with his position,

and long to know more about himself--who be his parents?--were

they dead or alive?--why be he thrust into the world as an outcast?

the only person who could explain the mystery of his life be Patience

Allerby; he determine therefore to apply to she for the explanation.



fill with these dismal thought, he saunter slowly up the street

as far as the bridge. here he pause, and lean over the parapet,

begin to think again. it be a curious thing that this young man,

bring up in a quiet, christian household, should let his thought

run on such a morbid idea as the possibility of his be a natural

son. he have no experience of vice, and should therefore have accept

the marriage of his unknown parent as a fact, especially when his

nurse assert that they have be marry. but the strangeness of his

position lead he to believe that there must be some motive for

concealment, and this motive, he determine in his own mind, be the

want of a marriage certificate.



the real cause, however, which lead to this morbid analysis of the

possible relation between his parent, lie in a discovery which he

have lately make--a discovery which change the simple manly life he

be lead into a rage hell of doubt and self-torturing.



he be in love--and Una Challoner be the woman he love. it be not

that sickly evanescent affection common to adolescence, know by the

name of calf love--no; but that strong overwhelming passion of the

soul which have no limit and which dominate and sway the whole

nature. draw in the first place towards Una by simple admiration of

her beauty, he learn later on to discard this passion without soul,

and find in the kindre sympathy of her spirit with his own that

ideal union which so rarely exist. she, on her part, have be

attract to he by the same quality which he find in she, and this

perfect agreement develop in each a pure and spiritual adoration.



his love thus be pure, he would not dare to offer she anything but

purity, and anxiously begin to examine his life in order to discover

all flaw which mar its whiteness. he be not an ideal young man,

still he discover nothing in his life which could embarrass he to

explain, so feel quite easy in himself, but now this shadow of

possible illegitimacy seem to threaten disaster. he would not dare

to offer to the woman he love and respect a name which be not

legally his own.



however, it be no use indulge in self-torture when it could be

end by get a proper explanation of the circumstance of his

birth from Patience Allerby. Hitherto he have shrink from do this

with the vague hesitation of a man who dread to hear the truth, but

now it be imperative he should learn all, be it good or evil, and

shape his course accordingly. at this moment of his life he stand at

the junction of two road, and the explanation of Patience Allerby

would decide which one he be to take. having come to this logical

conclusion, he resolutely banish all dismal thought from his heart,

and walk rapidly across the common in the direction of Garsworth

Grange. it be the quest, not for El Dorado or the Holy Grail, but for

the secret which would make or mar his whole life.



Dull and heavy be the day, with a cold grey sky overhead, a humid

wind blow chill with the moisture of the fen, and a sense of decay

in the atmosphere. the gaunt, bare tree with their slender branch

and twig outline with delicate distinctness against the sad grey

sky--the withered leave with their vivid red and yellow which

carpet the ground--the absence of song of bird or cheerful lowing of

kine--all weigh down and depress his spirit. the uniform tint of

the landscape with their absence of colour and life seem like a type

of his own existence at present; but lo, when he raise his eye a

golden shaft of sunlight be above the distant tower of the Grange,

where he hope to find the talisman which would change the grey

monotony of an uneventful past to the glory and joy of a happy future.

it be an omen of success, and his eye brighten, his step grow

springy and he clutch his stick with determination as he stride

towards the glory of the sun, leave the grey mist and desolate

landscape behind he.



as he walk on he see a short distance ahead the tall figure of a

man, and on come abreast of he, he recognise Basil Beaumont, who

be listlessly stroll along, think deeply. remember the

vicar's dislike to the character of Beaumont, he be about to pass on

with a conventional nod, when the artist speak, and he could not with

courtesy refuse to answer.



"good morning, Blake," he say in a friendly tone. "take a

constitutional?"



"not exactly," reply Reginald, fall into the leisurely walk of

the artist; "the vicar want to know how Squire Garsworth be?"



"have I meet you early I could have save you the walk," say Beaumont

indolently; "he be much well--they send to Nestley this morning to

tell he about it."



"where be Dr. Nestley now?" ask Blake.



Beaumont point to the Grange with his stick.



"over there," he answer, "see his patient. I expect he'll have to

remain down here for some time--the Squire have take a great fancy to

he--rich man's liking be poor man's fortune."



"good. I wish someone would take a liking to I," say Blake with a

sigh. "I need a fortune."



"you've get one."



"indeed! where?"



"in your throat!"



Reginald laugh and shake his head.



"I hardly think that," he answer gaily.



"don't be so mock modest, my dear boy," say Beaumont with a shrug. "I

assure you I'm not one to praise unnecessarily. you need training,

severe training, to bring your voice to perfection; but you've get a

wonderful organ to work on--not that voice be everything, mind you;

I've know people with good voice to whom such a gift be absolutely

worthless."



"why?"



"because they've get no talent. to make a singer need more than

voice--it need great perseverance, powerful dramatic instinct, an

educate mind, and a strong individuality."



"I don't think I've get all that," say Reggy rather disconsolately.



"let I see," observe Beaumont deliberately, "you've a good voice and

dramatic instinct, as I know from the way you sing that song last

night--you be educate, of course, and I can see for myself you have

an individuality of your own--there only remain perseverance. have

you perseverance?"



"I think so."



"ah! doubtful. I'll put the question in another way. be you

ambitious? if you be, you must have perseverance--one be the natural

outcome of the other."



"how so?"



"logically in this way--an ambitious man want to succeed--he cann't

succeed without perseverance--ergo, he persevere to succeed in his

ambition. now then, be you persevere or ambitious?"



"I'm not sure."



"no!" Beaumont do not seem disappointed at this reply, but go on

talk. "then you have no incentive; you be in the chrysalis stage;

get an incentive, and you will change to a butterfly."



"what incentive can I obtain."



"that depend upon your temperament--the desire to leave the dull

village--the desire to have money, and above all, the desire to be

love by some woman."



"ah," say Blake, whom this last remark sting sharply, "at least I

have that incentive."



Beaumont laugh.



"then the result must follow, you will persevere and succeed."



Blake be much impressed with Beaumont's remark, for a vision rise

before he of a bright future and a famous name with Una for his wife.

then the recollection of the dark secret of his birth come back to

he; if what he surmise be true, he would have nothing to work for

as there would be an insuperable bar between he and the girl he

love. the roseate scene he have conjure up vanish, and in their

place he only see the sorrow of a lonely life. he sigh

involuntarily, and shake his head.



"it all depend on one thing," he say sadly.



"and that one thing?" ask Beaumont keenly.



"it be at present a secret," reply Blake curtly, whereupon Beaumont

laugh lightly in no wise offend, and they walk on for a short

distance in silence.



they be now near the Grange, and Beaumont be go to turn back

when he see Nestley come down the road.



"here be Nestley," he say carelessly, "so you can learn all about the

squire from he, and need not go to the Grange."



"I must go to the Grange," reply Blake.



Beaumont smile and whistle the air of "Love's Young Dream," for he

have hear rumour in the village which lead he to believe that Blake

be in love with the Squire's beautiful cousin.



Reginald understand he, and be about to make some angry remark, when

Nestley come up to they and put an end to the conversation.



"well, doctor," say Beaumont lightly, "and how be your patient?"



Nestley's face wear a frown as he recognise Beaumont, but he

evidently determine not to give his enemy the pleasure of see his

annoyance, so, smooth his feature to a bland smile, he reply in

the same conversational manner:



"well--much well--he'll be all right soon--less excitable--but the

body be wear out."



"and the brain?" ask the artist.



"oh, that's all right--he's get a wonderful brain."



"slightly crack," interpose Blake, nod to Nestley.



"just slightly," reply Nestley, coolly. "but his madness have a good

deal of method in it. he's get queer idea about the re-incarnation of

the soul--but we've all queer idea more or less."



"particularly more," observe Beaumont, indolently. "be you come

back, Nestley? I'll be glad of a companion."



Nestley hesitate. he do not like Beaumont, and mistrust he.

still, there be a wonderful fascination about the man which few could

resist, and in spite of his dislike Nestley rapidly find himself

fall once more under the old spell of that suave, cynical manner.



"I don't mind," he say, carelessly, "particularly as I want to give

you a message from the squire."



"to I?" say Beaumont in surprise. "what about?"



"a picture. the squire want his portrait take, and----"



"you think of I," say Beaumont, with a cold smile; "how charming

you be, my dear Nestley. I'll be delighted to paint the squire, he's

a rembrandtian study, full of light and shade and wrinkle."



"where be you go to, Mr. Blake?" ask Nestley, abruptly turn

to the young man and eye he keenly.



"to the Grange," reply Blake carelessly, "to see the squire. good

morning, gentleman," and with a cool nod, the young man stroll away

in the direction of Garsworth Grange.



Nestley stand look after he oddly.



"to see the squire," he repeat. "yes and Una Challoner."



"ah," say Beaumont cynically. "you've see that, my dear fellow."



"yes. do you know Una Challoner love he?"



"not exactly. I know he love Una Challoner."



"she return it," say Nestley gloomily. "I find that out from her

manner this morning."



Beaumont smile and look strangely at the downcast face of the

doctor.



"I understand," he say, light a fresh cigarette.



"understand what?" ask Nestley angrily.



"that you also love Una Challoner."



"Absurd, I've only see she twice."



"Nevertheless----"



"what?"



"oh nothing, nothing," reply Beaumont airily. "I'll tell you all

about it in a week."



Nestley do not reply, but stand silently look at the ground, on

see which, Beaumont draw his arm within his own, with a gay laugh.



"come along," he say cheerfully, "we'll walk back to Garsworth, and

you can tell I all about the squire and his picture."









CHAPTER VII.

the housekeeper.





     like a lone mountain white with virgin snow,

       which hold within its breast eternal fire

     this woman cold and pale with face of woe

       yet feel at heart an unappeased desire.





Reginald Blake walk briskly up the avenue. it have an excessively

dreary appearance, for the black look tree with their angular

branch seem starve and attenuate while the leave underfoot be

sodden with rain. the marble statue which be stand here and

there, wear a disconsolate look, as if they long for the sunny sky

of their native Italy, and mutely protest against this misty climate

which discolour and mar their beauty.



when he arrive at the terrace, the long white façade of the house

seem grim and uninviting. no smoke ascend from the slender

chimney, no face appear at the bare stare window, and the

terrace, which should have be throng with gay company, be silent

and desert, chill the very soul with its mute sense of

desolation.



the young man ring the bell in the monstrous porch, and before the

harsh jangling have cease to echo through the dreary house, the door

be open by Jellicks. on recognise Blake, she wriggle a welcome

and admit he into the vault-like hall which still retain the

musty smell observe by Nestley. outside the grey sky, inside the grey

twilight, it seem as though the sun have not warm this dismal place

with his cheerful beam for century.



"I want to see Miss Challoner," say Reginald, when the heavy door be

once more closed, "be she at home?"



Jellicks reply that she be, in a serpent-like hiss, and then, still

more like a serpent, she wriggle along the dark corridor on the

ground floor follow by Blake, who feel depressed by the surround

atmosphere of decay.



at length she stop midway in the passage and on knock at a door

be bid by a thin voice, seemingly that of Miss Cassy, to enter.



Reginald do so, and jellick having twist herself apologetically

out of the room, he step forward to greet Una and Cassandra, who

be seat in the wide window look out on to the white terrace and

dreary landscape.



Una, flush with life and beauty, seem somewhat out of place in

this charnel house though, truth to tell, the room have a more homelike

appearance than the rest of the Grange. not very large, panel

with carve oak, dark and solemn-look, it be hang round with

picture in tarnish gilt frame, the floor be cover with a

comfortable-look carpet of reddish tint. in the huge fireplace

burn a goodly fire, which somewhat warm the chill atmosphere. the

furniture be quaint and old-fashioned, of all date, range from

heavy oak table of Tudor day to spindle-legged chippendale chair

and curiously inlay cabinet of more modern construction. there be

only one window in the room, a deep oriel with bench set in its

depth and its diamond pane rich with brightly tint escutcheon of

the Garsworth family. a quaint room of ancient and incongruous

appearance, yet have withal a quiet beauty of its own, a tone of

intense restfulness, which be not without charm.



"good morning, Miss Challoner," say Reginald politely, mindful of the

presence of Miss Cassy. "I have call by the desire of Dr. Larcher to

see how the squire be."



"oh, well, much well," interpose Miss Cassy before Una could

speak. "I say it be nerve all along--so very odd--quite excitable

he be, but the dear doctor's medicine you know--so soothing, really

very soothing--I don't know what the dear squire will do without the

dear doctor."



"he's not go to do without he, aunt," say Una with a smile; "my

cousin be afraid of get ill again, so have ask Dr. Nestley to

stay down here for a few week to complete the cure."



"what about his own practice?" ask Reginald.



"oh, he say that will be all right, as he have leave it in charge of

his partner. have you meet Dr. Nestley?"



"yes, at the gate; he have go back to Garsworth with Mr. Beaumont."



"Beaumont," say Miss Cassy with vivacity, "that be the painter, very

odd, ben't it? he's go to paint the dear squire's picture--how

nice."



"why do the squire want his picture paint?" inquire Blake.



Una laugh.



"not for his beauty, at all event," she say mischievously, "but, you

know, there be only one picture of he in the gallery--as a young man.

I presume this will be for the sake of contrast. do you know Mr.

Beaumont?"



"slightly. he's a stranger here," reply Blake, a little coldly. "I

should say he be a very clever man--but he be hardly the style I care

about."



"he look wicked," say Miss Cassy, nod her head sagely; "worn,

you know--oh, shocking!--but very handsome--just the kind of man I

would like for a son."



"oh, aunt!" say Una, slightly shocked.



"well, I would, Una. you know I should like to have be marry--I'm

sure I don't know why I haven't be marry," say the poor lady,

pathetically. "I'm sure anyone can see I'm not make for a

spinster--it's so odd, ben't it?"



Blake, be directly appeal to, suppress a smile, and, and

assent politely; whereupon Miss Cassy resume:



"it's so hard for an unmarried girl to know when to leave off be a

girl--I'm sure I don't know--ivy, you know, I feel like it; I'm make

to cling to a manly oak--no, I mean an oakly man--no! not that--mix,

you see! I mean a man like an oak--yes, that's it, and then I might

have have twelve stalwart son--all oak! Odd, ben't it?--most

peculiar."



"my dear aunt, what curious thing you say!" say Una, look

reproachfully at Reggy, who be try to smother his laughter.



"yes, I know, dear," reply Miss Cassy, complacently, "we're all

odd--nerve--quite chronic; anyone can see that it come of be an

ivy--I mean a woman--so very nice--yes, I always say so--don't you,

Mr. Blake?"



Reginald could not exactly say he do, as he be in doubt as to what

Miss Cassy mean, but make some confused answer, and then ask to see

Patience Allerby.



"she's in the housekeeper's room, I think," say Una. "auntie will

take you there, and when you be do with she I'll go to Garsworth

with you."



"will you, really? I'm so glad!" say Reginald, eagerly.



"I want to see Cecilia in the church," reply Miss Challoner, "about

the concert."



"what concert?"



"don't you know? oh, we're go to have a concert in the school-room

shortly. you be to be ask to sing."



"delighted."



"Cecilia will play a piece--she don't like the piano as much as the

organ, but we can hardly get that out of the church."



"I'm go to sing also," say Miss Cassy, shake her curl, "so

nice--quite operatic. I'll sing a duet with you, Mr. Blake, if you

like."



Blake hastily excuse himself, as he have great dread of Miss Cassy's

vocal performance, which be, to say the least, somewhat screechy.

the lady accept his apology graciously, and then lead he out of the

room to find the housekeeper, leave Una to get ready for the walk.



Miss Cassy, be delighted to have a charming young man for audience,

chatter all the way in a disconnected fashion.



"so damp, ben't it--quite chilly. I never do like the weather. very

watery--rheumatic, you know. I mean the weather, of course--not

myself! I think Patience be in her room--so kind of you to see

your old nurse--quite delightful! light of what's his name, you

know--Moore--exactly; irish melody--so pretty! this be the door. oh,

Patience--you be in--so glad--here be Mr. Blake to see you! the

squire's easy--yes, nerve, of course--I know it. I'll go back to

Una, Mr. Blake, and see you later on--very pleased, indeed--quite a

treat to see a male. sound like the post--very odd, ben't it?--yes!"



and Miss Cassy, close the door after she, depart leave Reginald

alone with his old nurse.



the tall, placid woman, stand near the fireplace, make a step

forward, as if to embrace Reginald, but restrain herself, as though

doubtful how to proceed. Blake, however, cross over to she and

kiss she affectionately, which seem to awaken a feeling of emotion

in her breast, for she flush a little at the caress, and smile

lovingly at he. in her demure, slate-colour dress, with the white

apron and pale, rigid face, she look like a woman who have never

know what it be to love or be love; but every now and then a flash

in the sombre depth of her eloquent eye betray the fiery nature

hide beneath that calm exterior. the young man's kiss seem to warm

her frozen soul to life, and, as she resume her seat, her face be

rose-flushed, her eye soft, and the hard line about her mouth

disappear under the magic of Reginald Blake's presence. he, dark and

handsome, lean against the mantelpiece, look down at she

curiously, as if puzzle how to begin the conversation.



"I be so glad to see you, Master Reginald," she say, the hard voice

in which she habitually speak become soft and tender. "I have not

see you for a long time."



"a whole week, Patience, that's all," he reply, carelessly. "you see

I'm busy with my study."



"that's right, dear!" she say, eagerly. "work--work hard, and make a

name in the world.



"for whose sake?" he ask, a little bitterly.



"for mine!"



there be a world of tenderness in the way in which she speak the

word, and her eye seem to devour he as she gaze. he move

restlessly, and with a supreme effort plunge straight into the object

of his visit.



"why not for my parent' sake?"



the woman's face lose its look of tenderness, and become hard and

rigid as she press the arm of her chair convulsively, and look up

into his face.



"who have be speak to you about they," she ask fiercely.



"Doctor Larcher."



"and the reason?"



"simply this: I be two-and-twenty year of age, so it's time I have

some aim in life. before I do this I want to know all about my

parentage. be my parent alive or dead?--who be they?--why be I

place in your charge?--can they, or their relation, assist I to get

on in the world? I cannot move until I know who and what I be."



he speak vehemently, and as he do so the woman seem to shrink back

into her chair with a nameless dread in her eye. there be no sound

for a moment. at last she break the silence.



"your parent be my master and mistress," she say at length, in a

low, harsh voice, "marry against their parent' wish."



"they be marry, then?"



"who say they be not?" she demand, fiercely.



"no one. but the mystery of my birth lead I to think there might

be----"



"Shame!" she interrupt, vehemently. "you be wrong. there be no

shame--they keep the marriage secret, for if know they would have

lose their property. when you be bear, they go over to France for

the sake of your father's health, leave you in my charge. I be to

keep you till they could acknowledge you as their son; but before they

could do so they die."



"die!"



"yes. your father die of phthisis at canne six month after he leave

England, and your mother very soon follow he to the grave."



"she die of what?"



"a broken heart," reply Patience, in a low voice, "a broken heart,

poor soul."



"Good God!"



"I hear of it shortly afterwards," she go on, rapidly, "and as your

birth have never be acknowledge I determine to bring you up without

let anyone know the truth. after stay some time in London, I

bring you to Doctor Larcher, and he have have charge of you since."



"why do you come here?"



"because it be my native place. I only intend to stay for a time,

and then return to service in London, but Squire Garsworth want a

housekeeper, so I take the situation in order to remain near you."



"why do you not tell I this before."



"there be no need to," she answer, coldly, "and even now it be

useless. your parent be dead, and the property have go to distant

heir."



"but I be the heir."



she shake her head.



"no, the property be not entail--it be leave by will, and you have

no claim on the present holder."



"who be my father?"



"he have be in the army, but sell out when he marry, and become a

writer."



"what be his name?"



"Reginald Blake--the same as your own."



"it's my real name, then?"



she look at he in surprise.



"of course! why should you not take your father's name? there be no

reason."



"so I be alone in the world?"



"yes, except for I."



he step over to she, and place his arm caressingly on her

shoulder.



"ah, you have be a mother to I," he say quickly, "and I shall

never forget it. no one could have act with more kindness and

fidelity."



Patience wince and shrink away from his caress while he walk up and

down the room, talk cheerfully.



"now my mind be at rest," he say, with a sigh of relief. "I think

the mystery of my birth involve some stain, but since I have the

right to bear my father's name, why! I feel quite happy. I can make my

way in the world by myself, can ask the girl I love to be my wife."



"the girl you love," she repeat jealously.



"yes, I will tell you her name, though no one else know it--Una."



"Miss Challoner," say the woman, start up; "impossible!"



"why impossible?" he retort gaily. "you think I be not rich enough.

never mind; I carry a fortune in my throat, and will soon be able to

keep she in comfort. she love I and I love she, so we shall be quite

happy."



"I hope so," she say fervently. "may God's blessing rest on your

effort. yes, marry Una Challoner if she love you, and make your own

way without troubling about the dead."



"I never know my parent," say Reginald, sighing, "so I can hardly

regret they, but with Una to work for I will forget the past and look

forward to the future. I have nothing to offer she now but a stainless

name. never mind; ambition can perform miracle. now, good-bye, nurse;

I must get back to Garsworth."



"good-bye," she say, kiss he eagerly. "come again soon, my dear

boy; and although Una Challoner love you, do not forget your old

nurse."



"of course not," he reply gaily, and walk away hum an air.

Patience Allerby wait till the door be close and the sound of his

voice have die away, then fall on her knee, beat her breast with

her hand and weep bitterly.



"God! God!" she cry, amid convulsive sob, "pardon my sin. it be

for his sake, for his dear sake, not for my own. let the dead past be

forget. let he never know anything but what I have tell he, and

bless he, oh God, in his future life."



there be a crucifix of black ebony against the wall, and from it,

with pity eye, look down the face of the Lord at the stricken

woman kneel before he. the ineffable sorrow of the sacred face

seem to calm her spirit, for she cease to weep and her lip move

in a prayer which seem to come from her heart.



"_forgive we our trespass, as we forgive they that trespass against

us_."









CHAPTER VIII.

the BLIND organist.





   "naught have I see of the earth, for mine eye have be darken

    since I be bear to this life, with its toil and vexation,

    yet hath the Maker, in mercy, bestow compensation,

    Music, and love of sweet singing to lighten the burden.

    here, at the loud-swell organ, my soul be responsive

    to passion and grandeur of music, and sighing melodious,

    it burst from its prison of gloom, soar upward rejoicing,

    Borne on the stormy, majestical breath of the organ."





as a rule, the conversation of lover be hardly worth recording,

consist, as they mostly do, of incoherent rhapsody of love and

devotion, with very little of that useful quality call common sense.

but Reginald and Una be the most sedate of sweetheart, and talk

of other thing besides the ardour of their passion. in this instance

they be discuss their future and the chance of their marriage.



it would have be difficult to find a handsomer pair as they walk

along; she fair and slender, with a charming smile on her face; he

tall and dark, with a touch of haughtiness in his manly dignity. they

look like two lover who have stray from the enchant garden of

Boccaccio, with nothing to talk about but the pain and passion of

Eros, but, alas, such thought be impossible, save under the magic

influence of twilight; and this youthful pair, who seem the

incarnation of romance, be talk in a most prosaic fashion.



"you see, dear," say Reginald, after he have explain everything to

Una, "it be not the slight use my depending on my relation, even

if I be to find they out."



"I don't think it's much use in any case," reply Una decisively.

"it's far well for you to depend upon yourself. but how do you

intend to proceed?"



"it's rather difficult to say. I have no money and no chance of

obtain any. Patience have a certain sum which she pay to Doctor

Larcher for my education. I believe," say the young man, somewhat

bitterly, "that I've be mostly bring up by the vicar out of

charity."



"Doctor Larcher have never say so."



"no, he be too kind-hearted and generous for that, but I feel sure

that such be the case. never mind; should it ever lie in my power I

will repay his charity a thousand fold."



"do you think he will like you become a singer?" ask Una

apprehensively.



"I don't fancy he'll approve of it--at first," say Reginald bluntly,

"but what else can I do? the law, the church and medicine all require

money to make a start, and even then it be a difficult game to play. I

know a good deal about music, and, accord to Beaumont, who be

certainly no flatterer, I have an excellent voice. so it be my only

chance."



"if the vicar approve, what will you do?"



"I'll ask he to lend I some money. I shall then go to London and

place myself under a good master, and if my voice be good, with hard

work I'll soon be able to do something."



"it seem very risky," say Una, with a sigh. "many fail."



"and many succeed. if a man be sober, industrious and observant, he

can hardly help succeed. beggar must not be chooser, and if I

don't use the only talent I've get, what else be there for I to do? I

cannot remain here all my life on the bounty of Dr. Larcher. if I do,

there would be small chance of our marriage."



"I have a little money," she begin timidly.



"yes, I know," he answer hastily, "but I'm not the man to live on my

wife. it be your dear self I want, not your money; though, as the

squire's heiress, you be far above I."



Una laugh.



"I'm very doubtful about my be an heiress," she say gaily. "it be

true I be the squire's next-of-kin, and should inherit, but you know

how eccentric he be. the property be not entail, so he can do as he

like."



"you mean he be go to leave it to his other self. nonsense! that be

the phantasy of a madman's brain. no court of law would uphold such a

will. how he be go to leave it to himself when his _alter ego_ be

not in existence, I don't know."



"nor I," reply Una frankly. "I know, of course, he be mad, quite

mad, and that any will make on the principle of his hallucination

would be set aside, but lately he have drop hint about a son."



"a son? why he be never marry."



"no; but he say he have a son who be somewhere about, and he intend

to leave the property to he."



"indeed. then what become of his great scheme of enjoy the money

in his re-incarnated body?"



"it's a mystery," say Miss Challoner, laugh.



"I should think it be, and whatever will he make now, leave the

property away from you, would not hold good, for he certainly be not

in his right sense. you could claim as next-of-kin."



"and I certainly should do so," reply Una, with decision. "but it be

my opinion he'll live for a good long time yet."



"Humph! he's very ill."



"creak door hang long. but do not let we speculate on his

death. I would rather we make our own fortune."



the use of the plural member have a delicious sound for Reginald, and

he felt strongly tempt to there and then kiss his lady-love, but as

they be now cross the bridge and several people be about, he

restrain himself until a more convenient season.



"never mind the squire and his money, dear," he say fondly, "for your

sake I be go to be the Mario of the future."



"I'm sure you will," reply Una with the trustfulness of love, "you

know I live a long time in Germany and hear a number of good

singer--your voice be quite as good as any, if not well."



"Flatterer!"



"well, we'll see, Signor Reginald Mario," she say gaily, as they

enter the churchyard, "when you be enchant London audience you

will remember my prediction. you should cross the poor gipsy's hand

with silver."



"cann't, mum," he retort laugh; "I'm stone break. however, there's

no one about, so I'll do well--cross the gipsy's lip with kiss,"

and before she could draw back, this audacious young man put his word

into action.



"oh, Reginald!"



"oh, Una," he mimic lightly, "don't say a word or I'll take

another. come along, here's the church, and by Jove," as the sound of

music break on their ear, "there's Cecilia at the organ."



"and she's play the Wedding March," cry Una blushing.



"it's a good oman, dear," he whisper, as they walk up the aisle,

"this be like a rehearsal of marriage, ben't it?"



they both laugh gaily, and as their young voice ring through the

empty church the organist turn round on her seat rapidly to the

direction from whence the sound proceed.



Cecilia Mosser be one of those light-colour woman who bear the same

relation to a full-coloured blonde as a fireless opal do to the same

stone with the red spark glow under its opaque whiteness. while Una

have all the characteristic of a true blonde, flush with the roseate

hue of a strong vitality, these same characteristic be reproduce

in Cecilia with a distinct want of colour and of life. she have the

same pale complexion, the same golden hair and the same blue eye,

but the complexion be a dead white, and lack the opalescent

transparency of Una's, the golden hair be dull in appearance, without

any lustre, and the azure eye be coldly blue, though in this latter

case, be sightless, they naturally do not reflect the soul within,

have therefore a lifeless appearance. a sad, patient face it be,

stamp with that expression of mute appeal so common to the face of

the blind. she be dress in a dark gown, with a collar and cuff of

white linen, her bleached-look hair be coil smoothly at the

back of her head.



"how be you, Cecilia?" ask Una, ascend the chancel step. "I

have come to see about the concert."



"yes, I be expect you, Miss," answer the blind girl in a soft,

fluty voice which, though low, be distinct and clear. "be Mr. Blake

with you? I think I hear his step."



"oh, I'm here," say Blake, advance towards the organ. "what be the

matter--eh?"



"I want you to sing at the concert," reply Cecilia, lightly touch

the yellow key of the organ; "Miss Una, of course, also."



"let we sing a duet," suggest Una; "'oh, that we two be maying,'

or something of Mendelssohn's."



"the first be the good," say Reginald quickly. "I think every one

will like that. who else be go to perform, Cecilia?"



"Miss Cassandra and Mr. Priggs," she reply, touch off the name

on her finger. "Mr.----"



"what! be Priggs go to sing?" interrupt Blake laughing.



"no; recite a piece of his own."



"I hope it will be intelligible."



"how severe you be," say Una smile.



"ah! you don't know Ferdinand's poetry," reply Reginald

pathetically; "I do. it's a mixture of Keats, Thompson, Browning,

Shakespeare----"



"and Priggs," finish Una.



"no, by Jove--that's the only thing it don't contain, unless you

call halt verse and interminable poem Priggian," say the young

man gaily. "well, go on with the list, Cecilia."



"Dr. Larcher be go to give we a reading," say Cecilia, who have

be listen to the analysis with a quiet smile, "and Mr. Pemberton

sing a sea song; I think that's all, except Miss Busky and Simon

Ruller."



"last, but not least," remark Una lightly. "the programme be

excellent--let we hope the performer will be as good. it's next week,

ben't it?"



"no; on Thursday fortnight," answer Cecilia. "oh, I forget, the

choir sing a glee."



"and you play a piece, of course," say Reginald gravely. "this be

capital. well, now we've finish business, let we go in for pleasure.

I want you to play I the 'Cujus animam.'"



"what for?" ask Una.



"I'm anxious to try my voice," say Blake to she in a low tone, while

Miss Mosser turn to the organ. "you know why--you must give I your

candid opinion about it--so go down to the end of the church and tell

I what you think."



"I'll be a very severe critic," observe Una, as she go away.



"the more so the well," call out Blake; "don't spare I--imagine

you're the _Musical Times_."



Una laugh, and ensconce herself in a comfortable pew at the far

end of the church just near the white marble font.



the quaint old church, with its high oaken roof and narrow,

stain-glass window with their vivid tint, be fill with great

masse of shadow, which produce a faint, misty twilight, eminently

suit to the sacred character of the place. at interval on either

side of the wide nave arise the heavy, grey stone pillar, their

elaborately carve entablature be hardly apparent in the

semi-gloom overhead.



the flag of the centre aisle, wear by the foot of pious generation,

make a broad path of whitish tint lead up to the chancel, end at

a flight of long, shallow step, in the centre of which stand the

brass lectern, in the form of an eagle. between the nave and the

chancel be a lance-shape arch, on which gleam a slender ribbon of

gold, inscribe with a biblical text in vermillion. the sombre

appearance of the choir seat, with their overhang canopy, be

somewhat relieve by the white glimmer of the communion table carve

out of pure marble, on which stand a large crucifix of ebony, look

black and sharply define against the great paint window at the

back. through the fantastically paint window, with their bizarre

figure of red, yellow and green, creep the grey light of the day, but

suddenly a shaft of sunshine burst into the church, touch the tomb

of a crusader with rainbow tint, while from the tall organ-pipe

flash gleam of golden fire. all be faint and shadowy, like the

confusion of a dream, and the dusky atmosphere seem to be fill

with the subtle perfume of the incense which have curl up from silver

censer in the old romish day.



through the sombre shadow steal the rich, swell note of the organ

which wake to life under the skilful finger of the blind girl. a few

great note peal from the mighty mouth of the pipe--Cecilia play

the majestic melody, which float grandly through the church--and

then the volume of melodious sound sink downward to a low-breathe

whisper as Blake begin the "Cujus animam" with one resonant note which

ring out like the sound of a silver trumpet.





     "Cujus animam gementem

      Contristantur et dolentem

      Pertransivit gladius."





the voice of the singer seem to float high in the air like that of

some unseen angel hide in the golden cloud, while far below the

roll and thunder of the organ seem to rise and fall like sullen

surge beat upon a lonely shore. Una close her eye as that superb

voice with its penetrate sweetness ring out the mournful word with

an intensity of dramatic feeling which go to her very soul with its

strong religious fervour. as the last note die away Una hear a voice

behind her say "Bravo," and on turn her head see Dr. Nestley

stand close to she accompany by a tall dark man whom she

recognize at once as Basil Beaumont.









CHAPTER IX.

the views of a CYNIC.





     to rule mankind be all I crave

       and at my foot to see they curl,

     for if you make the world your slave

       you'll ne'er be slave unto the world.





evidently Dr. Nestley have become friendly with his quondam enemy, for

both gentleman now seem to be on the good of term with one another.

either the doctor have succumb to the wonderful personal fascination

of Beaumont, or the artist have convince Nestley that he be wrong in

regard he in a hostile manner.



on recognize Miss Challoner, the young physician come forward to

greet she, while Beaumont remain in the background lose in

admiration at the wonderful beauty of her face, which appeal

strongly to his artistic nature.



"I don't expect to find you here, Miss Challoner," say Nestley

eagerly; "my friend and I hear the singing and come in to listen; by

the way, will you permit I to introduce Mr. Beaumont?"



Una bow a little coldly, for she remember what Reginald have say

about the artist, but, hear his name mention, Beaumont come

forward and be formally present. in spite of her distrust, Una

could not but admire the handsome, tired-look face she beheld and

be still far impress by the peculiar _timbre_ of his voice when

he begin to talk. Beaumont certainly possess in no small degree that

wonderful fascination of manner attribute to the ill-fate Stewarts

of Scotland which atone so much for their fickleness, treachery and

ingratitude.



"it be Mr. Blake who be singe, I think," observe Basil idly, "he

have a wonderful voice."



"yes," answer Una with a pleased smile. "I have never hear a

finer--not even in Germany."



"ah! you have be in Germany, Miss Challoner?"



"for some year--I stay at Munich."



"a charming city which afford great opportunity for study art

both in music and painting."



"do you study either, Miss Challoner?" ask Nestley, who seem

rather annoyed at the impression Beaumont have make.



"a little of both," she answer. "I be educate in Munich, but I'm

afraid my learning be rather desultory--I sing a little--paint a

little--and do both badly."



"that would be impossible," say Nestley desirous of pay a

compliment, but Una frown at the remark.



"don't, please," she say coldly, "I dislike insincerity."



Nestley redden a little at the tone of her voice and the obvious

rebuke, on see which Una hold out her hand to he with a charming

smile.



"you must not mind what I say, Dr. Nestley," she observe, bend

forward, "I'm afraid I'm dreadfully rude."



"and wonderfully charming," think Beaumont, who, however, keep his

opinion to himself, warn by the fate of his friend.



the young doctor, meanwhile, have hastily assure Una that he do not

mind her severity, in fact rather like it, and would doubtless in all

sincerity have commit himself again only that Blake commence to

sing "Come, Marguerite come," from Sullivan's "Martyr of Antioch," and

they all listen attentively.



Cecilia play the graceful accompaniment of _arpeggi_ lightly, while

above this constant sweep of dissever chord, rise and fall

with the voice, the high, penetrate note of the singer flow

smoothly onward and, as the organist play softly, the full purity of

the voice could be hear with marvellous effect. owe to want of

training, Blake's voice lack in a great measure the power to give a

perfect rendering to the melody, but the richness and mellowness of

his note be undeniable.



when he have finish Beaumont's face betray the pleasure he feel,

and Una, who be watch he closely, ask his opinion.



"a wonderful voice," he say critically, as the three walk up the

aisle, "but of course it require a great deal of cultivation."



"I think it's charming," interpose Nestley, eager to curry favour

with Una by praise one whom she evidently regard as a brother.



"of course you would think so," reply Beaumont a little

contemptuously, "because you know nothing about the subject; to an

uncultivated ear Blake's voice sound well because he have a

wonderfully fine organ, but to a musician there be a crudeness of

style, a want of colour, and a lack of refinement which make he

regret that such a great natural gift be not train to its full

capability."



"but you're not a musician?" say Nestley, nettle at the superior

tone adopt by his friend.



"no," answer Basil complacently, "but I have hear a great deal, and

as most of my life have be pass among musician I have pick up a

general knowledge of the technicality of the art. Shakespeare never

commit a murder, yet he write Macbeth and Hamlet. Balzac do not

fall in love till somewhere about the forty, but, he write 'Modeste

Mignon,' and 'La Lys dans la vallee,' before that age--one do not

need to be an artist to possess the critical faculty."



by this time they have arrive at the chancel, and Reginald come

forward to meet they, blush a little with modesty on discover

three listener instead of one.



"I must congratulate you on your voice once more," say Beaumont

look at he, "my advice be to go to London at once and study."



"London!" echo Blake disbelievingly, "why not Italy?"



"a tradition only," reply the artist calmly, "because Italy be the

land of song every singer think he or she must study there, but I

assure you it's a mistake--London and Paris have as good teacher as

Milan and Rome--I may say well, for everyone go to the place where

the large income be to be make."



"how cynical," say Una playfully.



"and how true--this be not the golden age, Miss Challoner, but the age

of gold--there be a vast difference between Arcady and Philistia, I

assure you."



"I think I'll take your advice," observe Blake gaily, "perhaps I've

get a fortune in my throat, who know?"



"who, indeed?" say the artist gravely, "they pay nightingale well

now-a-day."



"all the well for Mr. Blake," say Una lightly, "but how rude I be,

I must introduce you two gentleman to the organist--Miss Mosser--Dr.

Nestley and Mr. Beaumont."



Beaumont, not know Cecilia be blind, merely bow, but Nestley

take the fragile hand of the girl and grasp it warmly.



"I enjoy your playing so much," he say heartily, "where do you

learn?"



on hear his voice the pale face of the blind girl colour, and a

painfully eager look cross her feature, as if she be try to

see the speaker's countenance in spite of her infirmity.



"what a beautiful voice," she murmur softly, and Nestley have to

repeat his question before she answer:



"at the school for the blind at Hampstead," she say turn towards

he, which reply give Nestley a painful shock as he realize her

misfortune. with delicate tact, however, he pass the answer off

lightly in a conversational manner.



"I don't know much about music myself," he say easily, "it seem such

a complicated affair--be you fond of it?"



"very," answer the blind girl quickly. "you see it be the only

pleasure I have. when I go out on to the common and feel the fresh

wind and smell the perfume of the gorse, I come back here and try and

put it all into music. I often thank God for be able to play the

organ."



it be deeply pathetic to hear her talk in this strain; shut out by

her affliction from all the beauty of Nature, she could yet thank

God for the one gift which enable she in some measure to understand

and appreciate what she have never behold. doctor, as a rule, be not

very soft-hearted, but Nestley could hardly help feel move at the

thrill of sadness which run through her speech. this she perceive,

and with a light laugh, hasten to dispel the illusion she have

create.



"you must not think I be sad," she say cheerfully, "on the contrary,

I never be so happy in my life as I be here. I be bring up all my

life in London, and when I be appoint organist here, you can have

no idea of the pleasure I feel. I have the common and the organ, while

everyone be kind to I, so what have I to wish for? now, Doctor

Nestley, I must ask you to go, as I be about to practise. I think Miss

Challoner and your friend have go."



they be wait for the doctor at the low end of the church, so

after say good-bye to Cecilia, he hurry away into the dusky

atmosphere, and as he reach Beaumont, the organ roll out the

opening chord of a mass by Pergolesi. Reginald go outside with

Nestley as he wish to speak to he about the squire, and Una be

leave stand with Beaumont in the grey old church. they listen in

silence to the deep thunder of the bass note echo in the high

roof, when suddenly in the middle of a crash chord the sonorous

tone die away and a sweet, pure melody thrill through the silence,

which seem almost oppressive after the tempest of sound.



"after the fire there come a still small voice," quote Basil

dreamily. "do you remember how perfectly Mendelssohn have express

that idea in music?"



"yes, I hear the Elijah at the Albert Hall," reply Una in a

matter-of-fact way, be a healthy english girl and not move by the

subtle meaning of the sacred music which touch so quickly the

highly-string nerve of this man.



"the Albert Hall," he repeat with a shrug. "oh yes, very fine I've

no doubt, but to my mind it secularize sacred music to hear it

there--one hear a volume of sound--an immense number of voice in

chorus and solo by the good artiste; but where be the soul of the

work? one only find that in a church. the Messiah be first hear in

England in Westminster Abbey, and it be there, follow the example

set by the king, that the whole audience arise at the Hallelujah

Chorus, but it be not the music alone, grand as it be, that produce

this sudden burst of emotion, it be the august fane grey with

century of tradition, the presence of the mighty dead sleeping

around, and to crown all the dramatic grandeur of the chorus. all

these together work on the feeling of those present and they do

homage to the sublimity of the music--such a thing would be impossible

in the Albert Hall."



"don't you think you're give all the praise to the surrounding and

nothing to the musician," say Una quickly; "a true composer could

impress his idea on his hearer without any other aid."



"I've no doubt he could," reply Beaumont carelessly, "and no doubt

plenty of people have feel emotion at Handel's music in the Albert

Hall, but even Handel's genius would never have create such an effect

as I have describe anywhere but in a church; of course I haven't

mention the memorable shaft of sunlight which deserve praise for

its share in the affair."



something in the flippancy of this remark jar upon Una's feeling,

so she make no reply but walk outside into the cool fresh air,

follow by Beaumont.



he accompany she as far as the lichgate and then raise his hat.



"I willn't go any far, Miss Challoner," he say. "I'm in a

meditative mood and will take a look round this old place. I hope to

see you again soon at the Grange."



"the Grange?" she question, look at he inquiringly.



"yes, I'm come to see the squire about paint his portrait you

know."



"of course," she reply quickly. "I remember Patience tell I."



"Patience," he ask in a startled tone, "do you say Patience?"



"yes, Patience Allerby, the housekeeper," say Una gaily. "how pale

you look, just as if you have see a ghost--I dare say it's the effect

of the church and music; good-bye, at present," and she walk quickly

away.



he raise his hat mechanically and stand stare at the ground,

look pale and haggard.



"Patience Allerby," he say in a low voice. "after all these

year--Patience Allerby."









CHAPTER X.



the ghost of a dead love.





     be this the face I love of yore,

       Ere year have run;

     alas! I care for it no more

       old love be do;

     we soon forget what we adore

       at twenty-one.





it be now about four o'clock in the afternoon and the short autumnal

day be rapidly close in, the grey veil of the sky be rent here and

there show a patch of pale cold blue, while the set sun be

tint the ragged cloud in the west with iridescent hue.



Beaumont stand in the long, rank grass of the graveyard, think

deeply, his eye fix dreamily on the ancient tombstone around

with their half-obliterate inscription and weed-grow mound of

earth. behind he be the old church, its grey wall cover with

close-cling ivy from out which peer the grotesque face of the

gargoyle, leer demoniacally at the silent figure. the great square

tower, build of rough stone, stand out massively against the dull grey

sky, and round it every now and then flash the pigeon who live

therein, gleam white in the faint light of the sun. he could hear

the hoarse murmur of the river flow past, the shrill voice of the

child in the street, and at interval the rise and fall of the

organ music within. all this touch his artistic sensibility and he

fall into a strain of half-melancholy, half regretful reflection

which, for the moment, give he a well nature than the bitter

cynicism of his usual thought.



this man be not altogether bad; he have originally start in life

with the good intention, but his nature have be warp and twist

by misfortune and temptation into its present state. it be true

that he be to all appearance thoroughly bad, and that many have cause

to regret his friendship, yet occasionally he would do a kind action

or help a poor struggler, which show that some of his early belief

in humanity yet remain in his world-wear heart.



he be think now,--thinking of a woman--a woman he have love and

leave many year before, and the thought evoke be anything but

pleasant. with an involuntary sigh he walk down to the Gar and,

seat himself on a flat tombstone which set forth the virtue of

Susan Peller, deceased, he let his chin sink on his hand, and give

himself up to dead memory--the memory of youth, of love, and of

disappointment.



a sudden flash of the die sunlight gleam over the river, turn

its sullen, grey water to a sheet of gold, and the sight bring back

to his mind an hour when he be young, and he lean over the parapet

of a balcony, with a woman by his side, both look at the shimmering

Thames, golden in the sunset. he could recall it vividly, even after

the lapse of these many year--the shine river, the confused mass of

house huddle under the dusky cloud of London smoke, and far away the

swell dome of St. Paul's look aerial and fairy-like against the

twilight sky, while above the great mass gleam the golden cross

shine in the firmament like the visionary symbol of Constantine.

they be poor, not very well house or feed, but the glamour of

youth and hope be about they, and they see in the shine river

sweeping under the golden cross an omen of a happy future. then the

dream-picture grow faint and blur, cloud sweep across the golden

heaven, and from amid the sombre gloom there look forth a tearful

woman's face with pitiful, appeal eye.



with an impatient sigh Beaumont rouse himself from his day dream to

find himself seat on a cold stone under a sky from whence the glory

of the sunset have depart; and beside he silently stand a veil

woman. he jump to his foot in surprise, feel somewhat cramp,

and be about to speak when the woman throw back her heavy veil,

show he the pitiful face of his dream.



"Patience Allerby!" he gasp, recoil a step.



"Patience Allerby," she reply, sternly, fold her hand in front

of her black dress, "the very woman, Basil Beaumont, whom you love,

ruin and desert in London more than twenty year ago."



Beaumont, with an effort, throw off the glamour of past thought which

have haunt he all the afternoon, and, with a sneer laugh,

relapse once more into the bitter-tongue, cynical man of the world.

he rapidly roll a cigarette and, having light it, begin to smoke,

gaze critically meanwhile at the stern white face look at he

from out the shadowy twilight.



"More than twenty year ago!" he repeat, thoughtfully. "Humph! it's

a long time--and now we meet again! you've alter, Patience--yes,

alter a great deal--for the bad."



she laugh bitterly.



"I hardly think the life I have lead since you leave I be the kind to

enable I to retain my good look."



"no?" he say, interrogatively, "and why not? you be housekeeper to

Squire Garsworth, I understand--not a very weary position! trouble

tell more on woman's beauty than year; so, as you have have no

trouble----"



"have no trouble!" echo Patience, in a low, harsh voice. "Man, man!

do you think one need to live in the world to know what trouble be?

you be wrong. down in this seclude village I have pass many a

bitter hour thinking of you."



"and why?" he ask, cynically.



"I think you can guess the reason. when I leave Garsworth to go to

service in London you say you love I, and I think the son of a

gentleman be to be my husband."



"you always do expect too much."



"you come to London shortly afterwards and meet I there by

appointment. I leave my situation and live with you."



"as my mistress, yes; not my wife."



"no! you be too cowardly to do justice to the woman you ruin. a

child be bear--a boy whom I idolize. but, instead of that be a

bond to draw we close together, you leave I--leave I to starve with

my child in the street of London."



"I leave you because I see a chance of make money," he say,

complacently. "you be a drag on I, and I could not endure poverty,

even with you, my dear. as to starve, I leave you what money I could

spare."



"five pound!" she say, coldly. "the price of a woman's heart,

accord to your calculation; it enable I to pay the landlady and

bring myself and the child to Garsworth."



"why do you not stay in London?"



"because I do not want to sink deep than I have do. I be bring

up by pious parent, Basil Beaumont, and the sin I commit with you

seem to cut I off for ever from all hope of mercy. I resolve to

sin no more--to expiate, if I could, by prayer and charity the evil

life I have lead in London. when I come down here, my parent be dead,

and I be alone in the world."



"you have the child."



"yes, I have the child--your child and mine--but no one ever know I be

his mother; no, I do not wish our sin to be visit on his head. I

do not want he to be point at as a nameless outcast."



"very creditable of you, I'm sure," say Beaumont, with a sneer, "and

what do you do?"



"I invent a story that I have be in the service of the child's

parent, who have afterwards go to France and die there. I say I

be the child's nurse, and place he in the care of Doctor Larcher to

be bring up. what little money I could spare out of my salary as

housekeeper be give to the vicar as money leave to the child by his

father, and to this day the vicar do not suspect the truth."



"quite a romance," say Beaumont, lightly. "I have no idea you have such

inventive power. but there be one thing I would like to know--the

child's name."



"in order to claim he?" she ask, bitterly.



"my faith! no; I've get enough to do in look after myself, without

troubling about a hulking boy. you need never be afraid of that,

Patience. come, tell I the boy's name."



"Reginald Blake."



the cigarette drop out of Beaumont's nerveless finger, and his

white face grow a shade whiter.



"Reginald Blake," he whisper under his breath; "the young fellow who

sing?"



"the same."



Beaumont remain silent for a few moment, think deeply.



"I have certainly no reason to be ashamed of my son," he say, coolly,

look at Patience. "you deserve credit for the way you have bring

he up."



"I have do so as some expiation for my sin."



"Bah! don't be melodramatic!" he say, coarsely. "you bring he up

because he be your son--not because of any expiation rubbish!--he

don't know who he be?"



"no. I have spare he that knowledge of shame; let we bear our sin

alone."



"Humbug! our sin, as you call it, don't trouble I in the slight.

in fact, I'm rather pleased than otherwise."



"what do you mean?" she ask in alarm.



"Mean--that he's get an uncommonly fine tenor voice, and I don't see

why money shouldn't be make out of it."



Patience spring towards he like an enraged tigress, her eye flash

fire.



"not by you," she hiss, with her mouth so close to his face that he

could feel her hot breath upon his cheek. "not by you--I've bring

he up all these year by myself without trouble you for money--he

think his birth be honourable and have every chance of make a career

for himself, so you be not go to mar it for your own vile end."



"don't lose your temper," he say coolly, "I'll do what I please."



"I have your promise not to claim he," she pant with a look of

despair in her eye, "your sacred promise."



the artist laugh in a gibe manner.



"Bah! that for my promise," he say, snap his finger in the air.

"I'm not go to lose the chance of make money out of he for any

sentimental rubbish."



"you will tell he you be his father?"



"I will."



"and that you desert we both in London?"



Beaumont wince at the sting of her word.



"I'll tell he what I think fit," he say angrily, "and make he do

what I please. I be his father."



"will you, indeed?" she observe jeeringly, though her face work in

convulsive rage. "you be the father who desert he when a child and

now want to make money out he; you would disgrace he in his own eye

by tell he the real story of his birth. I tell you no, Basil

Beaumont, you'll do no such thing."



"who will stop I?"



"I will."



"a very laudable intention, but how do you propose to carry it out?"



"I will tell he the whole story of my sin," she say deliberately.

"how I love you and be betray, how you leave both he and I to

starve in the street of London and only claim he as a son to make

money out of his one gift. I'll tell he all this, and then we'll see

if he respect and obey you."



"he be my son."



"over whom you have no authority; he be of age and you cannot make he

your slave. as to the rest, I'll take care that everyone in the

village know the story and you'll be drum out of the place as the

scoundrel you be."



Clever as he be, Beaumont see Patience hold the trump card, so

suddenly forsook his dictatorial manner and speak blandly.



"very well, I'll say nothing to he at all just now."



"you'll never say anything to he," she say sternly. "stay in this

village if you like, but do not dare to reveal my secret to Reginald

Blake--if you do it will be the bad for you; I'm not go to have

he ruin for life by your treachery."



"but, Patience--my own son."



"Bah!" she snarl, turn on he viciously, "don't talk like that to

I--a scoundrel you be and a scoundrel you be--don't touch I,

don't come near I, but breathe one word of my secret and as sure as

there's a God above we I'll do what I say."



Beaumont make a step forward as if to seize she, but with a gesture of

loathing she draw her dress around she and flee away into the darkness

leave he stand alone by the river. he remain silent for a few

moment then his brow clear and he resume his nonchalant manner,

though his face still remain pale and haggard.



"my son Reginald," he say, lightly roll a cigarette, "I have no

idea of such luck. ah, you she cat, I'll cut your claws yet; I'll make

money out of the voice yet, in spite of your threat my fine madame."



suddenly a thought strike he as he light his cigarette and he

laugh softly.



"good heaven!" he say with a shrug. "I admire Miss Challoner, so

do he--it appear," continue Mr. Beaumont saunter away; "then

I'm the rival of my own son."









CHAPTER XI.

MR. BEAUMONT make a DISCOVERY.





     when one be play in the game of life

     'tis wrong to throw away a single card,

     Lest by some odd mistake of circumstance

     the card despise--if play with dext'rous hand--

     should gain an unexpected victory.





when Basil Beaumont come to think over thing, it strike he as

somewhat strange that Patience should have voluntarily tell he a

secret, for the concealment of which she have several excellent

reason. firstly, she must have have a great struggle with her pride

before bring herself to address the man to whom she owe her ruin.

secondly, on inform Beaumont that Reginald be his son, she must

have know there be great chance of he reveal the whole story

to the young fellow out of sheer devilry; and thirdly, know that

Reginald be clever, she must have expect his penniless father would

try and make money out of his talent.



Beaumont be too astute a reader of character to blind himself to the

fact that Patience must have be aware of these three thing, hence

his wonder at she tell he what she do not want know. but the

artist, clever as he be, still lack discernment to recognise the

full subtlety of a woman's instinct, else he would have readily see

that Patience fear his ignorance of the real state of affair more

than his knowledge.



she hear that he be in the village and acquaint with Reginald

Blake, and she be also aware that he be come to the Grange to

paint Squire Garsworth's portrait. have he see she there he would have

make inquiry concern her position, and among other thing would

doubtless have ascertain that she be Reginald's nurse. know that

she have leave London with her own son, such a weak story as she tell

about Blake's parentage would not have impose upon he for a moment,

and by put two and two together he would have discover

everything, with the natural result that he would have recognise

Blake as his own child, seek he out and tell he the whole story of

his birth.



in order to avert such a calamity, she determine to boldly take the

bull by the horn and tell Beaumont everything, at the same time

warn he that she would embitter Reginald's mind against he should

he dare to speak out. the result of her interview in the churchyard

be as she expect. Beaumont be too cunning to risk the dislike of

his own son, and thereby lose any chance of influence he for his

own end, so he quietly acquiesce in the line of conduct she lay

down. Patience return to the Grange thoroughly satisfied that she

have disarm Beaumont by point out how she could turn Reginald

against he, so the astute man of the world, abandon his desire to

play the part of a long-lose father, determine to wait for a few

week and see how thing turn out. then he intend to let his plan

be guide to a large extent by circumstance, and have no doubt that he

would then be able to out-man[oe]uvre Patience by a little dexterous

generalship.



a few day after his curious meeting with Patience in the churchyard,

Beaumont set out for a long walk in the morning, as he want to think

over the aspect of thing, and pedestrianism always stimulate his

brain. it be a bright, fresh morning, with a deeply blue sky, a

cheerful sun shine and a keen, fresh wind blow across the common

on to which he stroll. the gorse be in bloom, and every breath of

wind bring the odour of its peach-like scent to his nostril. how

often, in his bohemian life have that odour recall the wide, bare

common with its mile of gorse-cover ground, and make he long half

regretfully for the quiet country village where his youth have be

pass.



but now that the common be actually before he, by some curious

contradiction of nature he do not feel the least regret or longing

for his youth, but on the contrary stroll over the waste ground,

hatch all kind of plot and plan in his busy brain.



all at once, as he stand on the edge of a gentle slope, where the

ground be hollow out like a cup and surround by the dark green of

the gorse with its golden blossom, he see a woman seat on a grassy

bank, apparently bask in the sun. her hand be lie idly in her

lap, and with her face turn upward to the bright sunshine, she be

drink in the sweet, keen air which sweep over the wild moorland.

Beaumont see that it be Cecilia Mosser who sit there, and for a

moment half envy the blind girl in spite of her great sorrow, for

her pleasant enjoyment of nature.



"she look like the Goddess of Desolation," murmur Beaumont, as he

descend the slope, "or some eyeless destiny that see nothing, yet

govern all!"



lightly as he walk over the soft, green grass, the blind girl hear

the sound of his muffled footstep, and turn her face in the

direction from whence she hear they come, with a questioning look on

her placid face.



"how do you do, Miss Mosser?" say Beaumont, tranquilly. "I be take

a stroll on the common, and see you sit here alone, like the

Genius of Solitude."



"I often come here," observe Cecilia, placidly, fold her hand.

"this be a favourite spot of mine--I know every inch of the way."



"you be not afraid of lose yourself?"



"I be at first," say the blind girl, with a quiet laugh, "but I soon

get to know my way about. I could find my way here on the darkest

night."



"like Bulwer Lytton's Nydia," remark Beaumont, idly cast himself

down on the grass.



"yes. like she, it be always darkest night with I," reply Cecilia,

with a sigh. "still, I have my compensation, for I can hear many

sound that very likely escape the notice of you fortunate people who

can see."



"what kind of sound?" ask the artist, more for the sake of make a

remark than because he care to know.



"the flowing of the river, the whispering of the wind, the humming of

the bee and the rustle of the gorse--they all seem to I to have

human voice and tell I story. I can well understand those old

legend where mortal hear voice everywhere, and understand the

saying of the wave and the melancholy voice of the night wind."



"as Siegfried understand the language of bird," say Beaumont. "you

require no dragon's blood to teach you that, I suppose?"



"I don't know what you mean, exactly," reply Cecilia, in a puzzle

tone, for she have never hear of the Niebelung's Ring, "but the bird

do speak to I--that be, I fancy they do--I love to hear the cuckoo

and the throstle, then the lark--ah! the lark be the most charming of

all!"



"so the poet think. there be no bird who have inspire more poetry

than the lark--from Shakespeare down to Tennyson--and I suppose you

put all your fancy into music?"



"yes, I often try to do so, but I don't think anyone understand the

meaning but myself," answer Cecilia, with a faint smile. "you know

the English be not a music love nation."



"that depend on how you define music," say the artist, cynically.

"the great B. P. like something with a tune in it, but when they hear

anything they cann't understand, such as Bach and Spohr, they admire it

all the same. I'm afraid the B. P.'s a humbug."



"you be terribly severe," say Cecilia, laugh. "I hope you willn't

criticise our concert?"



"no. I assure you I be the most lenient of critic; I will come to

admire beauty, not to find out fault. besides, Blake be go to

sing--and his voice be charming."



"yes, it be," reply the blind girl, cordially, "and Miss Challoner

sing very well, also. she be go to sing a duet with Mr. Blake, if

she can get away for one night from the squire."



"oh, that will be easily arrange, I've no doubt," say Beaumont,

carelessly. "Doctor Nestley will attend to that."



as he utter this name a vivid flush pass over the pale face of the

girl, and Beaumont notice it with secret amazement.



"Hullo!" he say to himself, "I wonder what this mean? I must find

out."



it be curious that he should trouble himself about such a trivial

matter; but Beaumont be a wise man, who never overlook the small

thing he think might prove useful to he. at present an idea have

suddenly shoot into his scheme brain--it be only an embryo idea,

still it might help he in some way. he be completely in a mist as to

what he be go to do, but Cecilia's blush have give he a clue to

something tangible, and he immediately begin to artfully question the

blind girl so as to obtain some possible result.



"you know Doctor Nestley, of course?" he say, look keenly at she

face, from whence the red flush have die away.



"yes, I meet he a few day ago; he be in the church when Mr.

Blake be singe," observe Cecilia, in a low tone. "I hear he

speak--what a beautiful voice."



"ah! I know the reason of the blush, now," think Beaumont; "she

love he. Good Heavens! what a hopeless passion! she love Nestley,

and he love Una Challoner. how tricky Dan Cupid be, to be sure."



as he have make no answer, the blind girl go on speak.



"as I cannot see a face, I always guess what it be like by the voice.

Doctor Nestley have a beautiful speak voice--be his face handsome?"



"rather handsome," say Beaumont, now seize with a cruel desire to

fan the flame of hopeless love which burn in this blind woman's

heart. "yes, I suppose a woman would call his face handsome--but it's

rather sad."



"sad!" echo Cecilia, in a startled tone; "why be his face sad?"



Beaumont shrug his shoulder.



"Ouf!" he reply, coolly, "how should I know?--because his soul be

sad, I presume. the face be the index of the mind, you know. I daresay

it run this way--his face be sad because his soul be sad, and the

soul-sadness be cause by a sad life."



"be he unhappy, then?" ask Cecilia, breathlessly.



"I should say not--now," say Beaumont, with emphasis, "but when I

know he in London a few year ago he have meet with many reverse of

fortune."



"Poor Doctor Nestley," sigh the blind girl, seize with a sudden

desire to comfort this unhappy man, of whom she know absolutely

nothing save that he have a beautiful speak voice. "do you know his

story."



Whereupon Beaumont, who know from Shakespeare that "pity be akin to

love" set himself to work to awaken Cecilia Mosser's pity, and tell a

marvellously pathetic story of Nestley's early life in which truth and

fiction be so dexterously blend that the hero himself would have

be puzzle to say which be real and which false. he attain his

object, however, for he see by the varied emotion that pass over

the blind girl's expressive face how moved she be by the story.



"Poor Doctor Nestley," she say again, "poor, poor Doctor Nestley."



"oh, but all his misery be past now," say Beaumont, lightly, "he have

weather the storm, and will, no doubt, some day marry a woman who

will make he happy."



the blind woman lay her hand on her heart, as if she feel there a

cruel pain, then speak to Beaumont in a strangled kind of voice.



"you must think I a curious creature, Mr. Beaumont," she say,

rapidly, "to take such an interest in a man of whom I know nothing,

but remember I be blind, and be kind to my failing. I can only judge

people by their voice, and Doctor Nestley's voice have affect I

more than any one else's. why, I do not know. of course I be preclude

by my misfortune from many thing, but--but--you understand--ah, you

must understand how difficult it be for I to conceal my feeling. he

be a stranger, I be a blind woman, but his voice rous in I a

strange feeling I cannot explain even to myself. I know I be foolish

talk like this, so forget what I have say. you will forget, will

you not?"



"Miss Mosser," say Beaumont gravely, rise to his foot, "you may be

sure I will respect what I have hear as a sacred confidence."



"thank you, thank you, very much," cry the poor woman, while the

tear run down her cheek. "I know I be foolish. you must despise I

for the way I've speak. still, I'm blind--blind."



Beaumont feel a pang of pity in his hard heart at the anguish of this

unhappy woman, shut out from all love as between man and woman by her

misfortune, and he be about to speak when Cecilia lift her head.



"will you go now, Mr. Beaumont?" she say, in a low voice. "please

leave I. I will be all right soon, and can then go home. but you will

not forget your promise?"



"my promise be sacred," say the artist slowly, and turn away he

leave the blind woman seat in the hollow with her hand clasp on

her lap, and her sightless eye look up to the blue sky.



"strange," he think, as he light a cigarette, "that girl have

fall in love with a voice, and do not even know she be in love,

although she half guess it. she know nothing of Nestley and yet she

love he. why? because he have a charming voice. I suppose we must

call it a woman's instinct--ah if she only know how hopeless her love

be--Nestley be too much bewitch by Una to waste a thought on she."



this discovery, slight as it be, gratify Beaumont's keen sense of

intrigue, as it give he another card to play in the game against

Patience. if he could do nothing with Reginald because he be

embitter against he by his mother, still he could separate he from

Una by circulate a few skilful falsehood. if Cecilia ever learn

that Nestley love Una, she be too much of a woman to keep silent in

the matter, and through her Una would hear of Nestley's infatuation;

and, again, to secure Nestley to herself, Cecilia, know Reginald

adore Una, would tell he of this new complication, with the result

that Nestley and Reginald would quarrel over Miss Challoner, and,

perhaps, in the end, such a quarrel would part Una and her lover for

ever. it be all very vague and intangible as yet, still Beaumont feel

in some mysterious way that the knowledge of the blind girl's love for

Nestley might prove useful to he in weave his net around his son

so as to secure he entirely to himself.



"Reginald and Nestley both love Una," he muse, as he saunter home.

"Cecilia Mosser love Nestley. yes, the material for a complication

be there. how, I don't see at present--still the more card I have to

play against Patience Allerby the soon I'll win the game."









CHAPTER XII.

the parable of the SOWER.





     "the sower scattereth his seed

        in rich or barren ground,

      and soon the earth in place of weed

        with golden corn be crown."





meanwhile the old squire be much well in health, owe to the skill

of Dr. Nestley, but dread a relapse he insist upon the young

doctor stay with he for a time, and, though miserly as a rule, yet

pay he a handsome sum for his service, so great be his dread of

death. as Nestley's practice be not a very large one he look upon

this whim of the squire's as an unexpected piece of good luck, so make

a hurried visit to the country town where he live and, having

arrange with his partner about the carrying on of their joint

business, return to Garsworth and take up his abode at the Grange as

the medical attendant of the old man.



the village doctor do not give in to this arrangement without a

struggle, but Squire Garsworth, who consult no man's feeling or

interest when they clash with his own desire, soon reduce the

local Sangrado to silence.



Mr. Beaumont come daily to the Grange in order to paint the portrait

of its master, and be now deeply interested in the picture, which

be begin to have a wonderful fascination for he. in truth the

squire be no commonplace model, for his keen, ascetic face with the

burn eye and his spare figure wrap in a faded black velvet

dressing-gown make a wonderfully picturesque study. besides, Basil

like to hear the wild extravagant talk of the old man, who talk in

a desultory sort of manner, mingle gay story of his hot youth,

with mystical revelation of mediæval alchemist and whimsical

theory of spiritual existence. that he be mad, Beaumont never for a

moment doubt; nevertheless, his madness be productive of a certain

fantasy of thought that prove most alluring to the poetic nature of

the artist, weary of the commonplace thing of the work-a-day world.



with regard to Reginald the artist treat he in his usual manner,

and neither by word nor dee betray the relationship which exist

between they, but nevertheless use all his power of fascination to

attain a mastery over the young man's mind.



in this he be partially successful, for nothing be so flattering to

the vanity of an unformed youth as the notice bestow upon he by a

cultured man of the world. the artist tell he story of London and

parisian life, describe the famous man he have meet, the beautiful

woman he have know, and the keen excitement of bohemian life, thus

invest an unknown world with a magic and glamour which could not

fail to attract a nature so clever, ardent and impressionable as that

of this unsophisticated lad.



Patience Allerby, live in a state of almost monastic seclusion,

congratulate herself upon her foresight in defeat Beaumont's

possible plan, little dream that he be now enmesh her son in

subtle toil which would render he the willing slave of his heartless

father. it be true that Una, with a woman's keen instinct, distrust

the brilliant adventurer, and venture to warn Reginald against he,

but the young man receive such a warning with somewhat ill grace and

talk about the need of experience. Beaumont, with his keen power of

penetration, soon discover that Una distrust he, and as it be

his aim to gain she over to his side he soon hit upon a plan by which

he hope to achieve his end.



one morning, after he have be work at the squire's portrait, he

be stroll out on the terrace when he meet Una lean over the

balustrade, look at the still pool of water, encircle by a marble

rim, in the centre of which be a group of Naiads and Tritons which

should have spout water in wreath of foam from their conch shell,

but as the source of the fountain be dry up there only remain the

stagnant water in the basin, reflect their enforce idleness.



Una be think about Beaumont when he appear, and in no very

generous strain, as she be afraid of his rapidly increase influence

over the plastic mind of her lover--therefore when the artist pause

beside she she be by no mean prepare to receive he with that suave

courtesy with which she generally greet everyone.



"I'm glad to see you, Miss Challoner," observe Beaumont lift his

hat, "as I want to speak to you about Blake."



"about Mr. Blake," say Una rather coldly, "yes?"



"of course you know how I admire his voice," remark Beaumont

leisurely, "and think it a pity he should waste its sweetness on

the desert air of Garsworth I write up to a friend of mine in London."



"that be very kind of you, Mr. Beaumont," say Una in a more cordial

tone, "and what do your friend say?"



"he want Blake to go up to London, and will take he to Marlowe, who

be a very celebrated teacher of singing; if Marlowe be satisfied,

Blake can study under he, and when he be consider fit can make his

appearance."



"it will take a lot of money," observe Una thoughtfully.



"oh! I've no doubt that can be arrange," say Beaumont quietly.

"Blake and myself will come to some agreement about thing, but I be

anxious that Blake should benefit by his talent."



"what do you mean?" ask Miss Challoner in a puzzled tone, "I do not

understand."



"of course you do not," answer the artist smoothly. "you do not

understand the world--I do--and at the cost of expenditure of money,

and sacrifice of illusion. Blake have an exceptionally fine organ and

great musical talent; if he go up to London unprovide with

money--of which I understand he have not any great store--he would very

likely be pick up by some hanger-on of musical circle who would do

he more harm than good, perhaps force he to sing before he be

mature and thus run the very probable risk of a failure--or if he be

teach by a good master and make a great success, unless he be very

careful, some impresario would entice he into some agreement to last

for year which would be eminently disadvantageous to he in the end."



"but surely no man be so base?"



Beaumont shrug his shoulder.



"my dear lady, they don't call it baseness but business--the only

difference be in the name however--and how would leech live if there

be no one for they to live on? the Genius very often have no business

capability and no money, the Leech, as a rule, have both, and as poor

Genius cannot get himself or his work before the public without the

help of Mr. Middleman Leech, of course that gentleman expect to be

well-pay for his trouble, and generally pay himself so well that

Genius get the bad of it--the Middleman get the money, the public

get the pleasure, and the Genius--well, he get next to nothing,

except the delightful thought that his work have enrich one man and

please another. Genius be a fine thing, no doubt, but the capability

of be a leech be fine."



"and yet you propose to be the middleman between Mr. Blake and the

public," say Una, look at he keenly.



"only to save he from other," observe Beaumont quickly. "for all I

know, Blake may be an exceedingly clever business man and quite

capable of hold his own against the tribe of Leech and Middleman,

still he have no money wherewith to bring his voice to that perfection

which will make it a saleable article. I can supply that money, and as

the labourer be worthy of his hire, I expect a fair remuneration for

my trouble, but I will act honestly towards he, and neither force he

into singing before he be fit, nor bind he for any term of year; if

he make a financial and artistic success through my help, I be

willing to receive what be my just due, but if he go to London with

no influence--no friend--no money--with nothing but that fine voice,

well then, unless he be as I say before a clever business man, there

will be some fine picking for Mr. Leech."



"it's a dreadfully wicked world," sigh Una.



"it be as God make it," rejoin Beaumont cynically, "I don't think

mankind have improve it much, but I daresay we're no bad now than

we ever be, the only change I can see be the art of concealment--it

be fashionable to be wicked in Borgian Rome, so accordingly everyone

proclaim his or her darling sin from the housetop, now it be

consider the correct thing to be decent, so we sin in private and

preach in public; the wickedness be with we all the same, but we hide

it carefully and prate about the morality of nineteenth century

England compare with sixteenth century Rome."



"you be rather pessimistic."



"my misfortune, not my fault, I assure you," return the artist

carelessly. "very likely if I have go through life wrap up in the

cotton wool of position and money I would have find human nature all

that be honest and true. unfortunately Poverty be a deity who take a

pleasure in destroy the illusion of youth, therefore I see the

world in a real and not in an ideal sense--it's unpleasant but

useful."



"I hope Reginald will never cherish such harsh thought," murmur

Una.



"that depend upon the great god Circumstance, but if he come to

London I'm afraid he will be disenchant. Arcady may be find in this

isolate village I've no doubt, but London soon disillusionise the

most generous and confide nature, however, let we hope for the

good--but what do you say about my offer, Miss Challoner?"



"well really," say Una with a laugh, "what can I say? it be Mr.

Blake's business and not mine."



"still, you take an interest in he," observe Beaumont keenly.



"as a very clever man I do," reply Una serenely, for she be

determined not to betray her love to this cold-eyed man of the world.

"I think it be a pity he should be condemn to stay down here."



"I think so also," say Beaumont cordially, for he be too crafty to

press a question he see might prove distasteful to the proud woman

before he, "so I'll speak to Blake."



"and how be you get on with my cousin's picture?" ask Una,

dexterously turn the conversation as they walk down the terrace.



"oh, very well indeed--it will make an excellent picture, and I enjoy

talk to the squire, his idea be so very strange."



"the effect of solitude I've no doubt," reply Una absently, "a

solitary existence generally engender strange thought."



"exactly. I'd rather talk to a recluse than to a man or woman of the

world, for although the idea of a hermit may be old fashioned they

be infinitely fresh."



"don't you like Society then?"



"sometimes I do--man be a gregarious animal you know--but Society

people as a rule be fearful humbug. I suppose a certain amount of

deception be necessary to make thing go smooth. a tell b lie and b

know they be lie, still he believe they, because to preserve a

necessary friendship with a it willn't do to tell he he's a liar; if

all our friend be put in the Palace of Truth it would be a mighty

unpleasant world, I assure you."



"but you don't think it be necessary to tell lie to make thing go

smoothly?" say Una rather shock.



"I daresay that's the plain, brutal truth," retort Beaumont coolly;

"lie be the oil which diplomacy pour on the troubled water of

Society. Lord, what a world of humbug we be to be sure."



"well, good-bye just now," say Una laughing, as she turn away,

"don't forget to tell Mr. Blake about London."



"oh no, I willn't forget," reply Beaumont, and take off his hat, he

stroll away down the avenue, very well satisfied with the result of

his conversation.



"I think I've succeed in pacify she," he murmur to himself,

"now she see how anxious I be to help she lover she willn't distrust I

any more--it's the parable of the sower over again--a little seed sow

in fruitful ground bear a goodly crop--now I be sow the seed--when

I get Reginald in London I will reap the harvest."









CHAPTER XIII.

DICK'S OPINION.





     "I like he not--his subtle smile

      conceal beneath some purpose vile,

      Tho' bland his gaze and fair his speech

      oh trust he not, I do beseech;

      for as a seem simple flower

      may hide a scent of evil power,

      which lure with its envenomed

      the trusting wearer to his death;

      so tho' his tongue may kindly prate,

      he oathe thee with undying hate."





now that Basil Beaumont have succeed in gain Una's gratitude, if

not her friendship, he determine to next win over Dr. Larcher to his

side. he have already manage to gain a certain influence over Reginald

Blake, but he see plainly that the worthy vicar be not prepossess

in his favour, and, as he would prove an invaluable ally should

Patience prove dangerous, Beaumont be anxious to impress he with a

good estimate of his character.



the cynical man of the world seem to have change altogether since

his interview with Patience Allerby, and no one see the interest he

take in the simple pleasure of village life would dream that behind

all this apparent simplicity he conceal a subtle design. his acting

be in the high degree artificial, yet so thoroughly true to nature

that everyone be deceive and never see the ravenous wolf hide

under the innocent skin of the lamb.



of course, Patience Allerby have too minute a knowledge of his real

nature to be deceive by the mask of innocence and gaiety he now

choose to assume, and as Basil Beaumont know this only too well, he

be anxious to lose no time in raise up to himself an army of

well-wisher against the honest indignation of the woman he have

desert should she interfere with his scheme. Mrs. Larcher, Miss

Cassy, Una and Reginald have now all an excellent opinion of he, so he

be anxious to secure the good wish of Dr. Larcher, thus leave

Patience to fight her battle single-handed against the crowd of

friend he have so dexterously secure.



notwithstanding the lateness of the season it be a very pleasant day,

with a certain warmth and brightness in the air despite the keen wind

which be blow, and on his arrival at the vicarage Beaumont find

the young people play lawn-tennis; Pumpkin and Ferdinand Priggs

hold their own in a somewhat erratic fashion against Reginald and

Dick Pemberton.



Beaumont saunter on to the lawn with his everlaste cigarette

between his lip, but throw it away as he be hail joyously by

Reginald and the four player, who pause for a moment in the game.



"how do you do, Miss Larcher?" say Beaumont, lazily raise his hat,

"this be a comprehensive greeting, and include everybody. I've call

to see the vicar."



"Papa's out just now," observe Pumpkin, "but he will be back soon.

will you wait, Mr. Beaumont?"



"thank you--I will," answer Beaumont, sit down on a garden

bench.



"have a game?" cry Reginald, fling his racquet into the air and

catch it dexterously in his hand.



"too much like hard work."



"then have some tea," suggest Pumpkin persuasively.



"ah, that be well, Miss Larcher," reply Beaumont gaily; "yes, I

should like some tea."



"bring it out here," say Dick, who have throw himself down on the

soft green grass, "it will be jolly have a spread outside."



"how you do misuse the Queen's English," murmur Mr. Priggs as Miss

Larcher go inside to order the tea.



"only in prose," retort Dick coolly, "think how you mutilate it in

poetry."



"I'm afraid you're rather severe on Priggs," say Beaumont, who be

anxious to conciliate everyone, even the poet, for whom he have a

profound contempt.



"you wouldn't say so if you see his poetry," reply Pemberton

laugh.



"oh, come now, Dick," say Reginald lightly, "that's rather hard--some

of Ferdinand's poetry be beautiful."



"and gruesome."



"Dick care for nothing but music-hall song," explain the poetic

ferdinand loftily.



"oh yes, I do--for cake and tea, among other thing, and here it

come. make a rhyme on it, Ferdy."



"don't call I Ferdy," say Priggs sharply.



"then Birdie," observe Dick, in a teasing tone, "though you're more

like an owl than any other bird."



"now don't fight," say Pumpkin, who be now seat in front of a

rustic table on which the tea-thing be set out. "milk and sugar,

Mr. Beaumont?"



"both, thank you," say Beaumont, bend forward. "by-the-way, I see

Miss Challoner to-day--we be talk about you, Blake."



"be you indeed?" observe Reginald, rather irritated at the free and

easy manner of the speaker.



"yes--about your voice. I get a letter from a friend of mine in Town,

of which I will tell you later on."



"I suppose Reggy will be leave we all for London soon," say Dick

enviously.



"Lucky Reginald," sigh Ferdinand, "I wish I be go to London."



"what, with a bundle of poem in your pocket?" say Reginald laughing.

"I'm afraid you wouldn't set the Thames on fire--poetry don't pay."



"nor literature of any sort," observe Dick, "at least, so I

understand."



"then you understand wrong," say Beaumont coolly, "you go by Scott's

say, I presume--that literature be a good staff but a bad

crutch--all that be alter now."



"not as regard poetry."



"no--not as regard poetry certainly, but success in literature

greatly depend on the tact of a writer; if a young man go to London

with a translation of Horace or Lucian in his pocket he will find his

good be not want; if Milton go to Paternoster Row at the present

time, with the MS. of 'Paradise Lost' in his hand, I don't believe he

would find a publisher. we talk a great deal of noble poem and

beautiful thought, but it's curious what unsaleable article even the

good of they be."



"then what do sell?" ask Ferdinand.



"anything that please the public--a sensational novel--a sparkle

Society poem--a brilliant magazine article--a witty play--you'll get

plenty of chance to make money with these thing; you see people live

so rapidly now that they have no time to study in their play hour,

therefore they want the very froth and foam of the time serve up to

they for their reading, so as to take their thought off their work.

we praise 'Tom Jones' and 'Clarissa' immensely, but who read they

when they can skim the last three volume novel or the late pungent

article on the state of Europe?--no one want to be instruct

now-a-day, but they do want to be amuse."



"how do people live in London?" ask Pumpkin, who, be an

unsophisticated country maiden, be absolutely ignorant of anything

connect with the great metropolis.



"they live with a hansom cab at the door and their watch in their

hand," retort Beaumont cynically; "they give two minute to one

thing, five minute to another, and think they be enjoy

themselves--get a smattering of all thing and a thorough knowledge of

nothing--the last play, the last book, the last scandal, the late

political complication--they know all these thing well enough to

chatter about they, but alas for the deep thinker who put his view

before the restless world of London--he will have a very small circle

of reader indeed, because no one have any time to ponder over his

thoughtful prose."



"still the power of the stage as a teacher," begin Ferdinand, "be

really----"



"be really nothing," interrupt Beaumont sharply; "the stage of the

present day be mean to amuse, not teach--no one care to go to school

after school hour; we be not even original in our drama--we either

translate from the french stage, or reproduce Shakespeare with fine

scenery and tea-cup and saucer actor."



"well, you cannot object to Shakespeare," observe Reginald, who be

much interested in Beaumont's remark.



"certainly not. Shakespeare, like other thing, be excellent--in

moderation. I quite agree that we should have a national theatre,

where the Elizabethan drama should be regularly act, but our

so-call National Theatre devote itself to gingerbread melodrama,

and try to hide its poverty of thought under a brilliant

_mise-en-scene_; but when you have Shakespeare's play at three or

four theatre and french adaptation at a dozen other, where do the

local playwright come in?"



"but from what I hear there be so few good local playwright," say

Dick quickly.



"and whose fault be that?" ask Beaumont acidly, "but the fault of

the english nation. France have a strong dramatic school because she

produce her own drama to the exclusion of foreign writer; if the

english people, who pride themselves on their patriotism, be to

refuse to countenance french and german adaptation, the manager

would be force to produce English play write by english

playwright, and though, very likely, for a time we would have bad

workmanship and crude idea, yet in a few year a dramatic school

would be form; but such an event will never happen while one of our

lead playwright adapt Gallic comedy wholesale and another

dramatise old book of the georgian period. England have not lose she

creative power but she's do she good to stamp it out."



"how terribly severe," say Ferdinand.



"but how terribly true," retort Beaumont carelessly. "however, I

will not preach any more as I'm sure you must all be tired of my

chatter--and see, there be Doctor Larcher come."



he arise to his foot as he speak, for the vicar came stride across

the little lawn like a colossus.



"Tea and scandal, I suppose," he roar in his hearty voice as he

shake hand with the artist.





     "'hic innocentis pocula Lesbii

       Duces sub umbra.'"





"certainly innocent enough sir," observe Reginald lightly, "but the

fact be we have be listen to Mr. Beaumont."



"and the discourse?" ask the vicar, take a cup of tea from

Pumpkin.



"the decadence of Literature and the Drama in England," reply

Beaumont with a smile.



"ah, indeed. I'm afraid, Mr. Beaumont, I know nothing of the drama,

except the Bard of Avon----"



"whom Mr. Beaumont like, in moderation," interrupt Pumpkin

mischievously.



"certainly," assent Beaumont gravely. "I like all thing in

moderation."



"even Horace," whisper Dick to Reginald, who laugh loudly and then

apologise for his untimely mirth.



"as to literature," say Dr. Larcher ponderously, "I'm afraid there be

rather a fall off--we be frivolous--yes, decidedly frivolous."



"I wish we be anything half so pleasant," remark Beaumont, "I'm

afraid we're decidedly dull."



"the wave of genius which begin with this present century," say the

vicar pompously, "have now spend its force and to a great extent die

away--soon it will gather again and sweep onward."



"if it would only sweep away a few hundred of our present writer, I

don't think anyone would mind," say the artist laugh.



"_Sed omne una manet nox_," observe Dr. Larcher with a grim smile.



"what, all our present day scribbler? what a delightful thing for the

twentieth century."



Dr. Larcher smile blandly as he set down his cup, for he like his

Horatian allusion to be promptly take up, and begin to think

Beaumont rather good company. he nod kindly to the whole party, and

be about to turn away when a sudden thought strike he.



"do you want to see I, Mr. Beaumont?" he ask look at the artist.



"yes, I do," reply that gentleman, rise leisurely to his foot. "I

wish to speak to you about Blake, and also I wish Blake to be

present."



"oh, I'll come," cry Reginald, spring forward with alacrity, for

he guess what the conversation would be about.



"come then to my study," say Dr. Larcher. "Pumpkin, my child, you have

well come inside, as the night be come on."



as the three gentleman walk towards the house, Pumpkin commence

put the tea-thing together in order to take they inside. Dick,

who have rise to his foot, be stare after Beaumont with something

like a frown on his fresh, young face.



"what's the matter, Dick?" ask Pumpkin, pause for a moment.



"Eh?" say Dick, start a little, "oh, nothing, only I don't like

he."



"whom?"



"Mr. Beaumont," say Pemberton thoughtfully. "I think he's a humbug."



"I'm sure he's a most delightful man," observe Ferdinand loftily.



"oh, you'd think anyone delightful who praise your poetry," retort

Dick rudely, "but I do not like Beaumont; he's very clever and talk

well, no doubt, but he's an outsider all the same."



"what make you think so?" say Pumpkin, look at he with the tray

in her hand.



"oh, I can size a man up in two minute," observe Dick in his usual

slangy manner, "and if I be Reggy I wouldn't give that chap the slant

to round on I; he say a lot he don't mean, and if he's go to

run Reggie's show the apple-cart will soon be upset."



owe to Dick's lavish use of slang, Pumpkin be quite in the dark

regard his meaning, so with a quiet smile walk indoor with the

tray.



"Reggy can look after himself all right," observe the poet in a

placid tone.



"and a jolly good thing too," cry Dick, eye the poetic youth in a

savage manner, "but prevention's well than cure, and I wouldn't let

Beaumont have a finger in my pie if I be Reggy."



"ah, you see you're not reggy."



"I'm uncommonly glad I'm not you," retort Dick politely. "it must be

an awful disagreeable thing for you to know what an arrant idiot you

be."



"I'm not an idiot," say Priggs haughtily.



"not an idiot!" echo Dick derisively, "why you be such an idiot you

don't even know you be one."









CHAPTER XIV.

the diplomacy of BASIL BEAUMONT.





     Astute be he who mere brute force despise

     and gain by subtle craft all worldly prize.





when the three gentleman be comfortably seat in the vicar's study,

Beaumont, without further preamble, explain his errand.



"you know, sir," he say to genial Dr. Larcher, "that Blake have a very

fine voice--a phenomenal tenor voice, which, when properly train,

will make his fortune. Blake tell I he have not decide what line of

life to take up, so I propose he should be a singer."



"oh, I should like it above all thing," cry Reginald with the usual

thoughtless impulse of youth.



"wait a moment," observe the vicar cautiously. "I be not much in

favour of a theatrical career for you, Reginald, and, this be too

important a matter to be decide lightly, so I would like to hear Mr.

Beaumont's view on the subject."



"oh, my view be easily explain," say Beaumont coolly. "I know

very well your objection to a theatrical career, Doctor Larcher,

and no doubt it be full of temptation to a young man, still,

Blake need not sing on the stage, but make his appearance on the

concert-platform--good tenor be rare, so he will soon have plenty of

work and make an excellent income."



"and what do you propose to do?" ask the vicar thoughtfully.



"that be the point I be come to," explain Beaumont quickly. "I be

not a rich man myself, but I know many people in Town who be wealthy;

if Blake will come up to Town with I, I will undertake to find

sufficient money to give he a first class training as a singer; when

he make a success--and I have very little doubt he will do so--he can

pay I back the money advance and a certain percentage for the loan

and risk: then of course he will have an excellent profession and be

able to earn his own living."



"London be full of temptation to a young man," observe Dr. Larcher

doubtfully.



"a young man must take his chance about that," reply Beaumont

satirically. "of course Blake will be with I and for my own sake I

will do my good to keep he out of harm's way; but you surely don't

want he to stay in this village all his life, wrap up in cotton

wool?"



"I'm not in the habit of be wrap up in cotton wool," cry

Reginald, pique at the artist's tone, "and I daresay if I be in

London I could look after myself without anybody's help."



"I've no doubt you could," reply Beaumont cordially, "all I offer

you be assistance. now what do you say, Dr. Larcher?"



"at present, I can say nothing," answer the vicar slowly. "Reginald

be as dear to I as if he be my own son, and the choice of a career

be not lightly to be decide upon. I have hope he would become a

curate, and then there would have be no necessity for his leaving

I."



"I don't think I would have make a good curate," say Blake shake

his head, "and though I love this dear old village very much, yet I

want to see a little of the world--my voice be my only talent, so the

soon I make use of it the well."



"_Quod adest memento componere aquus_," quote the vicar

significantly.



"_Dum loquimur, fugerit invida ætas_," reply Reginald quickly.



"fairly answer," say the vicar with a half sigh. "yes, I suppose

you must take advantage of fly time and it be no use for you to

waste your life in idleness. would you like to be a singer?"



"I think so," say Blake after a pause. "of course I be anxious to

make my own way in the world, and unless I make use of my one talent I

do not see how I be to do so."



"I wish I have your one talent," observe Beaumont, rather enviously;

"I would not rail against fate--well Doctor Larcher, and what be your

decision?"



"I cannot give it to you now," say the old man rise, "it be too

important a matter to be dismiss lightly. I will let you have an

answer in a few day. still, Mr. Beaumont, I must thank you for your

kind intention regard Reginald."



"only too glad to be of service," reply Beaumont, with a bow.



"meantime," say the vicar genially, "you must stop and have some

dinner with we."



"delighted," respond Beaumont, and go away with Reginald, very

well satisfied with the result of the interview.



after dinner, hear that a visitor be in the house Mrs. Larcher,

who have be lie down all day under the influence of "The

Affliction," make her appearance and greet Beaumont with great

cordiality.



"so pleased to see you," she say graciously, when she be establish

on the sofa amid a multiplicity of wrap and pillow; "quite a treat

to have some one to talk to."



"come, come, my dear, this be rather hard upon we," say the vicar

good-humouredly.



"I mean some one new," explain Mrs. Larcher graciously. "I be so

fond of company, but owe to my affliction see very, very few people;

it's a great deprivation to I I assure you."



"no doubt," assent Beaumont, rather bored by the constant flow of

Mrs. Larcher's conversation, "but I hope you will soon quite recover

from your illness and then you can mix with the world."



"never, ah never," murmur Mrs. Larcher, look up to the ceiling.

"I'm a wreck--positively a wreck--I will never, never be what I be--I

suffer from so many thing, do I not, Eleanor Gwendoline?"



"you do, mama," reply that damsel who be seat at the piano. "but

you would not object to a little music, would you, dear?"



"if it's soft, no," answer the invalid wearily, "but dear Reginald,

do not sing loud song, they be so bad for my nerve."



"all right," reply Reginald, and forthwith sing a sentimental ditty

call "Loneliness," which have dreary word and equally dreary music.



"I do wish song writer and their poet would invent something new,"

observe Beaumont when this lachrymose ballad come to an end, "one

get so weary of broken heart and all that rubbish."



"I quite agree with you, Mr. Beaumont," say Dr. Larcher emphatically.

"I observe in the song of the present day a tendency to effeminate

bewailing which I infinitely deplore. we have, I be afraid, lose in a

great measure, the manliness of Dibdin and the joyous idea of the

jacobean lyricist."



"what about the sea song?" ask Dick, "they be jolly enough."



"no doubt," reply Beaumont, "'Nancy Lee' and the 'three Jolly

Sailor Boys,' have a breezy ring about they, but this sugar and water

sentimentality now so much in vogue be simply horrible--it's a great

pity a reaction do not set in, then we would have a more healthy

tone."



"still there be a fascination about sorrow which neither poet nor

musician can resist," observe Ferdinand Priggs, who be anxious to

read one of his poem to the company.



"I dare say," say Beaumont quickly; "but there be a great tendency to

morbidness, too much use of broken heart and minor key, in fact the

whole tendency of the age be pessimistic--we be always regret the

past, deplore the present, and dread the future."



"I think that have be the case in all age of the world," observe

the vicar; "man have invariably talk of the prosperity of the past,

and the decadence of the present."



"the past be past, and the dead be dead," murmur the poet

thoughtfully.



"a quotation?" ask Beaumont, strike with the remark.



"from a poem of my own," say Ferdinand quickly, "which I would like

to read."



"by all mean, my boy," assert the vicar heartily. "read on."



all the company glance at one another and Dick groan audibly, while

Mrs. Larcher settle herself in her pillow with a sigh of

resignation. but the poet rejoice that he have succeed in gain a

hearing, and produce from his pocket a carefully write manuscript

read the following poem in a carefully modulate voice:--





a ballade of dead day.



I.



   Oh, I be weary of idle song

     of lord and lady and olden time,

   all their mirth to the past belong,

     Sorrow sound in our present rhyme.

     Joy-bell change to the death-bell's chime,

   Age be bitter and youth hath flee,

     Gone be the season of hope sublime,

   the past be past, and the dead be dead.



II.



   lady I love in those far-off day,

     where be ye now with your golden hair?

   my lock be white neath a crown of bay,

     but youth's rose-crown be to I more fair.

     my heart be capture in many a snare

   enmesh in ringlet of gold outspread,

     now in my heart lurk a bleak despair.

   the past be past, and the dead be dead.



III.



   many the goblet of wine I quaff

     to health of dame who be fair and frail,

   a kiss of the hand and a plumed hat doff.

     then away to the war in a coat of mail.

     but, ah, that armour could not prevail

   against your eye and your lip so red,

     Nay, but such thought be a twice-tell tale,

   the past be past, and the dead be dead.



ENVOI.



   Time, wilt thou never let I forget

     those perish day till I'm case in lead?

   Folly to dream with such vague regret,

     the past be past, and the dead be dead.





"the style be Villon, I see," observe Beaumont, when the poet end.



"it's more than the genius be," mutter Dick, who cherish a deadly

hatred of Ferdinand's poetry.



"I like your refrain, my dear ferdinand," observe the vicar

graciously; "it have a certain pleasant lilt about it, but I'm afraid

your verse be somewhat gruesome. still, they have merit. oh, yes,

they have merit."



"I'm glad you think so," say the modest poet humbly, to whom praise

be as rain on thirsty flower. "I hope to do well soon."



"I've no doubt you will," say Beaumont, rather sorry for the poor

youth, who be blush painfully. "your verse be, to a certain

extent, an echo of Villon, still you have a musical ear, and that be a

great thing. if I may be permit to give an opinion I rather think

your view be a trifle pessimistic."



"just what we be talk about," cry Reginald gaily. "a regret for

the past and a lament for the present."



"it be the spirit of the age," sigh Ferdinand, put the poem in

his pocket. "it be hard to escape its influence."



"if any one have a chance of escape it you ought to be the

individual," say Beaumont, with a smile. "in London, where the late

idea be float in the air, it be difficult to be original, but out

here, where the work be stand still, you ought to have strike out a

new line. I'm afraid your poetry come from book, not from Nature."



"why so?" demand Ferdinand, rather nettled.



"by the very fact that you use in that ballade an exotic form of

rhyme, and the idea therein be the dreary, hopeless sorrow of a

wear-out world. sing, like Herrick of the thing around you,





     'of brook, of blossom, bird and bower,

      of April, May, of June and July flower,'





then you will probably strike a new note."



"I don't think much of Herrick," mutter Ferdinand proudly.



"too cheerful, perhaps?" say Beaumont sarcastically. "that's a pity,

as I see you be in danger of join the dyspeptic school of poet,

of whom we have be talk. don't have too much gaslight about your

muse, my dear boy, but let she be the buxom nymph of that charming old

pagan, Robert Herrick."



"your remark be very sensible," observe the vicar heartily, as

Beaumont rise to go. "if poetry must be write, let it be natural

poetry. there be too much of the dissecting-table and charnel-house

about our modern rhymist."



"it's the dead world of the past which press on the die world of

the present," say Ferdinand, gloomily.



"oh, bosh!" cry Dick, in disgust. "your liver's out of order, my

dear chap, that's what's the matter with you."



the outraged poet withdraw in haughty dignity, while Beaumont take his

leave of this kindly family circle, who press he to come again, so

much have they enjoy his company.



"come again," mutter Beaumont to himself, as he stroll back to the

inn, with a cigarette between his lip. "I should rather think so.

I've win the vicar's heart by my disinterested affection for his

_protégé_. it's wonderful, the effect of a little diplomacy--so much

well than outward defiance. I think, my dear Patience, that should

you take it into your foolish head to malign I, you will find it a

more difficult task than you think. diplomacy be the only weapon I can

use against a woman like you, and it's an uncommonly useful weapon

when properly use."









CHAPTER XV

a fantastic theorist.





                              "he be a man

     full of strange thought, and fancy whimsical,

     who dream of dream that make his life a dream.

     and have he power supernal at command,

     would tumble heaven itself about our ear

     in his mad searching for--I wot not what."





the room which Beaumont have turn into a studio while paint Squire

Garsworth's portrait, overlook the terrace on to which the French

window open. it be the drawing-room of the Grange, and be

magnificently furnish in the ponderous style of the georgian period,

though now, be but rarely use, an air of desertion and decay

seem to linger about it. the window, however, be large and

curtainless, there be an excellent light to paint by, so Basil

establish his easel near the centre window, and place the squire at

one far along, in order that the full light should fall on his

withered face, show the multitudinous wrinkle and stern expression

that make it a study worthy of Rembrandt. Beaumont often glance at

the attenuate form lie listlessly back in the great arm-chair, and

wonder what curious event have change this man from an idle reveller

into an industrious scholar.



Above be the paint ceiling of the apartment, whereon god and

goddess, in fade tint, disport themselves among dingy blue

cloud, surround by cupid, sea-horse, rise sun and wane

moon, while, below, a threadbare carpet cover the polished floor

but imperfectly. a huge marble fireplace, cold and black-look,

heavy, cumbersome chair, solid-look table, a quaint old spinet

with thin leg and several comfortable-look sofa, fill up the

room. there be also grim-look face frown from the wall,

cabinet fill with grotesque china, now worth its weight in gold,

bizarre ornament from India and China, and many other quaint thing,

which make the apartment look like a curiosity-shop to the refined

taste of the artist. but in spite of the old-time magnificence of the

place, spider spin their webs in the corner, grey dust lie thickly

around, and a chill, tomb-like feeling pervade the room. even the

cheerful sunlight could not lift the heavy shadow which seem to

brood over it, and it seem, in its loneliness, to be a chamber of

some enchant palace, such as we read of in eastern tale.



nor be the proprietor out of place in this decay realm of former

grandeur, for he look old and weird enough to have be coeval with

the pristine splendour of the Grange. the worn face, the sudden

gleam of insane fire from the deeply-set eye, the snowy, sparse hair

that fall from under the black skull-cap, and the sombre robe, all

seem to be the semblance of some hoary necromancer rich in malignant

spell of magic.



have randal Garsworth mix with the world he would have be a

different creature. have he go abroad among his fellow man and take

an interest in their idea concern politic, literature, and music,

he would have retain a healthy mind by such generalization of his

intellect. but, shut himself up, as he have do, in a lonely

house, and concentrate his mind upon himself, he lapse into a

morbid state which prepare he for the reception of any fantastical

idea. while thus linger in this unhealthy life, he chance upon the

curious doctrine of metempsychosis, and it speedily take possession of

his diseased mind, already strongly inclined towards strange

searching. the weirdness of the pythagorean theory appeal to his

love of the whimsical, and he become a monomaniac on the subject.

under the influence of a lonely life, ardent study of the

philosopher who support the theory of transmigration, and his

selfish application of these wild doctrine to his own soul, the

monomania under which he labour deepen into madness.



to all appearance he conduct himself in a rational manner, though

slightly eccentric, but with his firm belief in metempsychosis, and

his preparation for his future incarnation he could hardly be call

sane. yet he conduct all business matter with admirable skill, and

in spite of the dilapidated state of the Grange, his farm be well

manage, and his tenant find no cause to complain of neglect on the

part of their landlord. like all madman, he be a profound egotist,

and absorb in his belief of a re-incarnation on this earth, he pay

no heed to the claim of relative or friend, neglect all social

duty in order to devote himself entirely to his favourite delusion.

such be the man who sit before Basil Beaumont, by whose skilful brush

and genuine talent the strange face of the recluse be rapidly be

transfer to the canvas in the most life-like manner.



"I hope this portrait will please you," say Beaumont, break the

silence which have last some minute, "it's the good thing I have

ever do."



"be it?" reply Garsworth, vaguely, his mind be far away, occupy

with some abstruse think. "yes, of course. what do you say?"



"I hope you'll like the picture," repeat Beaumont, slowly.



"of course I will," say the squire, quickly. "I want to see myself in

the future as I be now. some people look back on their portrait take

in youth, and see a faint semblance of their old age in the unwrinkled

face, but I will see this picture when in a new body which will have

no resemblance in its form to the wither shape I now bear."



"a strange doctrine."



"as you say--a strange doctrine," say Garsworth, warm with

his subject, "but a very true one. my body be old and wear out.

physically, I be an irreparable wreck, but my soul be as lusty, fresh

and eager as it be in the day of my youth. why, then, should not my

true entity shed this wear-out, fleshly envelope as a snake do its

skin, and enter into a new one replete with the vigour of youth?"



"a difficult question to answer," reply Beaumont, calmly, "very,

very difficult. we have no proof that such a thing can happen."



"you be a materialist?"



"Pardon I, no. a materialist, as I understand the word, deny the

independent existence of spirit; I do not. I believe our spirit or

soul to be immortal: but, as to this re-incarnation theory--it be a

dream of Pythagoras."



"it be a dream of many before Pythagoras, and have be the dream of

many since," rejoin Garsworth, coldly. "the Egyptians, the Hindoos

and the Buddhists all accept the doctrine, although each treat it

accord to their different religion. in our modern day lesse

believe in it; and if you have read the writing of Kardec you will

find that re-incarnation be the very soul of the spiritist belief."



Beaumont sneer.



"I cann't say I have much faith in the maundering of spiritualist.

table-turning and spirit-rapping may be very pleasant as an amusement;

but as a religion--bah!"



"you talk like that because you don't understand the subject. the

thing you mention be only the outward manifestation of spiritualism.

if you read Kardec's book you would find that the true theory of

spiritualism be transmigration. spirit be incarnate in human body

in order to work out their own advancement. if they resist temptation

while in the flesh, they enter into a high sphere, in order to

advance another step. if they fail to lead a pure life, they again

become re-incarnate in the flesh to make another effort; but they

never retrograde."



"and you believe in this doctrine?" ask Beaumont, incredulously.



"with certain reservation--yes."



"and those reservation?"



"I need not mention all, but I will tell you one as an example. the

spiritist deny that we remember former existence--I believe we do."



"oh! and you think in your next body you will remember your

incarnation as Squire Garsworth?"



"I do."



"do you remember your former existence?"



"some of they."



"why not all?"



"because some of the life I then live be base in the extreme, and

not worthy of remembrance, so I forget they--in the same way as you

forget disagreeable thing and only have thought of agreeable

event."



"will you tell I some of your former existence?"



"it would be hardly worth while," reply the squire, irritably, "as

you would only look upon my narration as a fairy-tale. but I can tell

you what I be--an egyptian prince, a roman soldier, a Spanish Moor,

and an english pauper in the reign of Elizabeth."



Beaumont look in astonishment at the old man, glibly run off

this fantastic list.



"and since the pauper stage?" he ask, smother a smile.



"I have be re-incarnate in this present form," respond the

squire, gravely; "it be because I experience poverty in my last

existence that I be save money now."



"I don't understand."



"to keep myself during my next incarnation."



the artist be become quite bewildered at hear this farrago of

nonsense utter in such a serious tone. however the conversation be

so extraordinary that he could not forbear humour the madman.



"a very laudable intention," he say, quietly, "but as you will be

someone else in your next incarnation, how be you go to claim

Squire Garsworth's money?"



"ah!" respond the squire, with a cunning smile, "that be my secret;

I have arrange all that in a most admirable way. I can claim my own

money without any trouble."



"but suppose you be bear a savage?"



"I will not be bear a savage--that would be retrogression, and spirit

never retrograde."



"well," say Beaumont, rise to his foot, and put his brush

away, "your conversation be get too deep for I, Mr. Garsworth. I

understand your metempsychosis theory all right, though I don't agree

with it; but I fail to see how you be go to arrange about get

your own money."



"no, no!" reply Garsworth, raise his form, tall and gaunt, against

the bright light outside, "of course not; that be my secret. no one

will know--not one! be your sitting finish?"



"yes, for to-day."



"come to-morrow--come to-morrow!" say the old man, come round to

look at the picture, "no time to be lose, I may die before it's do,

and then I willn't be able to see myself as I be: but Nestley will keep

I alive--good doctor--very good doctor--pay he handsomely--yes,

handsomely! good-bye for to-day, Mr. Beaumont. don't forget to-morrow;

I may die--no time to lose--good-bye!"



the old man shuffle tremulously out of the room, and Beaumont stood

look after he with a puzzled smile on his lip. he begin to put

his paraphernalia away slowly and talk softly to himself meanwhile.



"I wonder if there's any sense in the old fool's raving--I don't

believe in this incarnation rubbish--but he's get some scheme in his

head about that money--I'd like to find it out--there might be

something in it by which I could benefit--he's a madman sure enough

but still there be method in his madness--however, I'll try to

discover his secret somehow."



he light a cigarette and saunter out on to the terrace, think

over the chance of find out the squire's secret with a view to

turn it to his own account. apparently his cogitation lead to some

result, for after stand for a few minute at the end of the terrace

in a brown study, he remove his cigarette from his mouth and utter

one word:



"Hypnotism."









CHAPTER XVI.

the village concert.





     the viol sound in festal hall

     where come the merry mummer all,

     the minstrel sing their roundelay

     of doughty knight and lady gay,

     and as the carol music swell

     the jester shake his cap and bell,

     while lord and dame of high degree

     Approve the Christ-tide revelry

     and happy in the pleasant din

     Amazed the foolish rustic grin.





the school-room be a long, old-fashioned apartment, with plain oak

wall and a high roof. the wide window be set low down, and when

seat at their desk the scholar could look out and see the old

stone cross of the market-place and the heavily foliage elm that

wave their green leave in front of the queer red-tile house. the

wall be hang round with map of the five division of the world,

and above the teacher's desk, which be set on a raise daïs, appear

a map of the world itself. on this occasion the ink-splash desk of

the teacher be remove and in its place stand a small cottage piano.

dark red curtain hang down from brass rod on either side so that the

dais be transform into a very fair stage, while at the back

decorative effect be obtain by a Union Jack be gracefully

festoon over the royal arm, paint by the village artist.



the desk of the scholar be immovable be leave in their place,

and the audience--which comprise nearly the whole population of the

village--sit like row of elderly pupil ready to be instruct. form

and desk be range in the centre of the room and there be a narrow

walk on either side lead down to the wide door at the end of the

building which be continually open and shut to admit late

arrival and exclude a view of the festive preparation from the

penniless crowd outside who could not afford the necessary copper for

entrance fee. illumination be provide by six oil lamp, three on

each side, set in metal bracket, and from the centre of the roof over

the stage hang a large lamp, while the piano be far adorn with

two weakly-look tallow candle for the convenience of the musician.



the school-mistress, Miss Busky, a dry-up prim-looking little woman,

who resemble a cork fairy more than anything else, have far

ornament the bare room by wreathe round the map and lamp string

of coloured paper flower manufacture by artistically incline

pupil, and even the leg of the piano be swathe in these tissue

paper decoration. over the stage there be also a large placard

bear the word "welcome" wreathe with artificial flower, so that

Miss Busky on survey her handiwork feel quite content with the

general effect of luxury produce by herself and her satellite. the

programme be neatly write out by the good writer in the school,

and hand only to favour visitor as these effort of penmanship

be few in number. the visitor themselves, red, lusty country folk,

have come from far and near to the concert, and the little school-room

be uncomfortably full, but owe to the fierce effort of Miss Busky,

who bounce about like an india-rubber ball, everyone be at last

comfortably settle.



Mrs. Larcher and Pumpkin take no part in the performance be

accommodate with front seat, together with many of the country

gentry, who always patronise these entertainment at the urgent

request of the vicar, who greatly believe in good feeling and

friendliness exist between the lord of the soil and their tenant.



and now amid a great clapping of hand and stamp of heavily shod

foot the popular vicar himself appear on the stage as chairman, and

take his seat beside a small table adorn with a jug of water, a

glass and a programme.



Dr. Larcher make a short speech, end with a quotation from his

favourite poet:





     "et thure et fidibus juvat

      Placare,"





which hardly anyone understand, and then the serious business of the

evening commence.



the concert be open by the indefatigable Miss Busky and Cecilia,

who play a duet by a popular composer on popular air, in which say

air be almost smother in variation, and blend one with the

other in a most surprising manner, for just as the audience recognize

"Rule Britannia" and have settle themselves down for an intellectual

treat the player break off into "the last Rose of Summer," and thence

burst into "Auld Lang Syne," melt, amid a perfect fire-work of

run, into "the british Grenadiers," which latter be play with

full force by four hand, the loud pedal press down, bring the

overture to an end in a noisy manner which delight the audience.



Reginald then sing "come into the garden, Maud," but this number

evidently do not please they very much as they could not make out

what it be all about and, prefer noise to delicacy, do not

appreciate the beauty of the singer's voice. Beaumont, however, who

be present, admire the item greatly, and say as much to Mrs.

Larcher who, arm with a fan and a smell bottle, sit next to he

fight with "the affliction."



"oh yes," sigh Mrs. Larcher when she have get "The affliction" well

under and do not feel inclined to faint, scream, or kick, or give way

to any other eccentricity which "the affliction" be fond of do

at unseasonable hour, "his voice be beautiful, no doubt, but so loud,

it go through my head and rattle my nerve. I love soft song that

soothe I--something cradle-like--a Berceuse, you understand. I'm

afraid you find I rather hard to please, but it's my affliction and

not myself. I assure you, Mr. Beaumont, that a loud voice often

prostrate I for day and leave I a perfect object, do it not,

Eleanora Gwendoline?"



Eleanora Gwendoline, alias Pumpkin, assent with alacrity to this

remark, upon which Beaumont observe that he never should have think

it to look at she, thereby incite Mrs. Larcher to a weakly spasm of

coquetry for she tap Basil feebly with her fan and say he be a

naughty man, then settle herself to listen to a glee by the choir.



the choirmaster, Simon Ruller, a long, thin individual, in a frantic

state of excitement, having reduce his chorus to a state of abject

nervousness start they off in the glee "Glorious Apollo," and after

two or three false start they manage to begin. having begin, their

great aim be to get over the ground as rapidly as possible, and they

rush it through at lightning speed, Mr. Ruller implore they in

fierce whisper to observe the rallentando, which advice, however,

they do not take. on disappear from the stage, chase off by the

excited Ruller, they be succeed by Miss Cassy, attire in a

startling costume of blue and yellow.



this lady's contribution to the proceeding be a milk and water

ballad of a semi-jocular kind, call "almost a case," and the way in

which she leer and smirk at the audience from behind her music in

order to point the meaning of the verse, be quite alarming. she pay

no attention to time, and poor Cecilia be oblige to stop one minute

and play furiously the next in order to follow Miss Cassy's spasmodic

idea of render the song.



"so flippant," comment Mrs. Larcher when the fair songstress have

retire, "a great want of decorum--she make my nerve jump."



"it's the style of song, mama," say Pumpkin generously.



"then why don't she choose less hoppy music?" retort the matron

fan herself vigorously, "it make I twitch to hear she. ah, if

she only have my affliction she wouldn't sing at all."



Beaumont privately think this would be an excellent thing for

everyone, but do not say so, know Mrs. Larcher to be a great

friend of Miss Cassy's.



Dick Pemberton give a sea song with great vigour, and receive genuine

applause, then Una and Reginald sing "oh, that we two be maying,"

which the audience do not care about. the vicar then read Poe's poem

of "the Bells" in a ponderous manner, which crush the airy line,

and after another song from Reginald, Mr. Ferdinand Priggs appear to

recite an original poem "my Ladye Fayre."



Mr. Priggs be usher in by a melancholy strain from the piano, and

place one hand in his breast and toss back his long hair with the

other he burst into a series of question about the fayre lady.





     "be it a dream of sadness

      that reel my brain to madness,

      or how

      do I see her brow

      with its crown of golden gladness?"





after ask these question Mr. Priggs prove conclusively that it

be no dream, but





     "a wild, weird, wandering, warn dame

      who set the ear of all aflame

      with loud acclaim."





the poet treat his audience to about twenty verse of this gruesome

production, and having end with a long sigh stand on the stage for

fully a minute. everyone wait to hear what he be go to say next,

but the poetic Ferdinand double up his limp body into what he call

a bow, and slowly drift out of sight, his leg apparently take he

wherever they choose to go.



on the conclusion of this dismal poem the full company sing "God save

the queen," and the concert end amid the congratulation of all

concern, as they decide it be a great success.



the vicar heartily congratulate the performer on the receipt, as

after pay all expense there remain fully five pound for the

almshouse fund, to aid which the concert have be get up.



"where be Doctor Nestley, to-night?" ask Beaumont as they go out.



"he have to stay with the squire," reply Una, who be lean on

Reginald's arm, "he's not at all well."



"nerve?" ask Mrs. Larcher anxiously, take a medical interest in

the case.



"oh, dear no," say Miss Cassy lightly, "though he have get nerve--so

very odd, ben't it? but this time the dear doctor say it's

lung--something go wrong--a kind of what's-his-name thing, you

know--if he don't take care he'll get that disease--so

odd--something about a moan."



"oh, pneumonia," observe Beaumont gravely. "I hope not, it's very

dangerous, and to an old man like the squire, doubly so."



"I have have it," say Mrs. Larcher, who by her own showing possess

every disease under the sun. "acute inflammation of the lung, it leave

I a wreck--a prostrate wreck--do it not, Eleanora Gwendoline?"



"it do, mama," reply the dutiful Pumpkin.



"it might come on again," say Mrs. Larcher, open she

smell-bottle. "I'll have a cup of hot tea when I go home, and a hot

bottle to my foot."



"I wonder she don't have a mustard plaster and a fly blister,"

whisper Dick to Una, "might draw some of the bosh out of she."



Una laugh, and the great lumber barouche of the Grange having

arrive, drive by the stony Munks, she prefer to enter it,

follow by the chatter Cassy.



"so cold, ben't it?" say that lady, "quite like the North Pole.

Captain what's-his-name, you know, Parry, put I in mind of

Paris--french style--so odd. I'll see you to-morrow, Mr. Beaumont, and

oh, Mrs. Larcher, will you come to tea next week--Thursday--what do

you say, Una? Friday, oh yes--Friday."



"if my affliction permit I," say Mrs. Larcher in a stately tone, "I

will try."



"so glad," reply the volatile Cassy, "and you come also Mr. Blake,

and of course Mr. Pemberton, not forget Mr. Beaumont; so

very nice to see one's friend. oh, yes, Munks, we're quite ready,

good-night--so pleased--delightful concert--odd--very odd."



far talk on the part of Miss Cassandra be check by the sudden

start of the barouche, and what with the uneven road and the wear-out

spring of the coach, Miss Cassy have enough to do to look after

herself without talk.



Mrs. Larcher, lean on the vicar's arm, walk home, follow by

Pumpkin and the three pupil, Dick chaff Ferdinand over his poem

till that poetic soul be nearly out of his mind with anger.



Beaumont, leave alone at the school-room door, light a cigarette, and be

about to go when he hear a faint sigh behind he, and on turn see

Cecilia and the lively Busky.



"I enjoy the concert very much, Miss Mosser," he say gracefully as

they pass he.



"I'm glad of that, sir," say Cecilia, who look tired, "it go off

very well. be--be Doctor Nestley here?"



"no, he have to stay with Squire Garsworth."



the blind girl sigh again, and after say good-night, go away

follow by Miss Busky, who bound along in the moonlight like a

marionette.



"poor girl," say Beaumont thoughtfully, "she love Nestley, and willn't

have the slight chance with he, he's too much in love with Una

Challoner. by-the-way, I must see Nestley; if I want to find out the

squire's secret, I'll have to arrange matter with he--I hate

watch-dog."









CHAPTER XVII.

ANTEROS.





     strong god thou art the enemy of god,

        a hater of blind Eros and his joy,

     Thy rule be bitter as the sting rod

        that scourge at Dian's feast the spartan boy;

     evil his soul who ask thine evil aid,

        and in revenge such evil aid employ,

     in sunder the heart of youth and maid.





the Garsworth family be never a very prolific one, but the estate

have always descend in a direct line from father to son. many a time

the race seem to be on the point of extinction owe to the

representative be an only child, yet though the line dwindle down

to depend on one life alone for its continuity it never absolutely

die out. in the event of such a thing take place it would have be

difficult to say who would have succeed to the estate, as the

Garsworth family seem to be averse to matrimony and their connection

with the county family be, to say the least, doubtful. besides, as

there be no entail, the estate be completely at the disposal of

the head of the family for the time being, and he could will they to

whomsoever he please. as hitherto son have always succeed father,

there have be no necessity for the exercise of such a power, but now

the sole representative of the race be unmarried he be at liberty

to use his own judgment in dispose of the estate.



in the opinion of right-minded people there could be very little doubt

as to who should succeed the Squire, for Una be the next of kin. she

be the only live representative of the young branch of the

family, be the grand-daughter of the Squire's aunt, and therefore

his second cousin. Miss Cassandra, although she constantly allude to

Randal Garsworth as "my cousin," be as a matter of fact only a

relation by marriage, be Una's paternal aunt.



Una's parent have die while she be a child and she have be bring

up by the kind-hearted though eccentric Miss Cassy, who send she to

Germany in order to complete her education. Miss Cassandra, have an

income of three hundred a year, dwelt in London, where she be know

among a select society of well-bear fossil who look upon she as a

mere child. Una, having finish her education, come back to England

and take up her abode with Miss Cassy, and have an income of some

two hundred a year join it to that of her aunt, and thus the two

woman manage to live very comfortably in a small way.



on see Una's beauty, however, Miss Cassandra have no intention that

she should live a dismal life in a smoky London suburb, without at

least one chance of see the gay world and marry as befit she

birth and loveliness, so she write to Squire Garsworth on the subject.

the old man send in reply a gracious message that Una could come down

and stay at the Grange, and that he would not forget she in his will.

Miss Cassy, not know the idiosyncrasy of the recluse, see in her

mind's eye a hospitable country house full of joyous company, so

persuade Una to accept the invitation, say she herself would go

also. after some demur Squire Garsworth agree to Miss Cassy come,

and in due time, having break up their London home, the two lady

arrive at the Grange.



their dismay be great at find the sordid way in which the squire

live, and Miss Cassy would have promptly return to London, only

Una, be touch by the loneliness of her kinsman, determine to

remain, persuade Miss Cassy to do likewise. so they live quietly at

the Grange on the somewhat begrudge hospitality of the old man, their

own income obtain for they any luxury they might require, as

they certainly receive nothing but the bare necessity of life from

their host.



in the mad pursuit of his delusion, Garsworth, in contrast to the

lavishness of his youth, have become absolutely penurious in his mode

of life. the large staff of servant necessary for such an immense

house as the Grange have be long ago dispense with, and Patience

Allerby, assist by jellick look after the household, while the

stony Munks exercise a grim sovereignty over the exterior

arrangement. the squire mostly live in his own study, and Una, aid

by Miss Cassy, manage to make one room habitable for themselves, but

the rest of the house be give over to the rat and spider, become

at last so lonely and eerie that Miss Cassy frequently declare it be

haunted.



Una having fall in love with Reginald, be quite content in her

dreary exile, but Miss Cassy, use to the lively entertainment of the

fossilized society in London, long to get away from the place, and

look forward to the Squire die with a certain ghastly eagerness,

as she think Una would then come in for all the estate and they

could once more live London.



on the morning after the concert Miss Cassy and Una seat at a late

breakfast, be talk seriously about the unsettled health of the

Squire, who be now obviously break up.



"he's about seventy-three now," say Miss Cassy thoughtfully, "I'm

sure he cann't live long.



"my dear Aunty!" reply Una in a shocked tone, "how can you talk so?"



"why not?" retort Miss Cassy indignantly. "he's not much use alive.

I'm sure he'd be more use dead."



"why?"



"because you'd get his money and we could go back to dear London."



"I don't want his money," say Una with great spirit, "and certainly

don't care about speculate on cousin Garsworth's death to gain it. I

wonder at your do so, Aunt."



"well, I'm sure, Una," whimper Miss Cassy, produce her

handkerchief, "you be so odd--I only mean to say I'm tired of this

place--it be dull--now ben't it? I need excitement, you know I need

excitement--and after I bring you up. I always dress you

beautifully--real lace--and keep you so clean. I always have your

nerve attend to--you blame I now--I want to see you rich--it ben't

odd--wish to see you rich, and I'm so dull here; really Una, you

be unkind--quite crush--I'm only an ivy--oh, why ben't I marry?

there's nothing for one to cling to--you don't want I to cling."



"my dear Auntie," say Una with a smile, "you be so sensitive."



"Ivy," sob Miss Cassy, "nerve--mother's side--you've get none--so

very odd."



"I don't want you to think of the Squire die, it willn't benefit I at

all."



Miss Cassy remove her handkerchief and gasp:



"quite ten thousand a year--he cann't take it away--you're his only

relative--no one could be so odd as to leave it to a what's-it's-name

asylum or a cats'-home."



"I don't know whom he'll leave the money to," say Una deliberately.

"I certainly ought to get it, but you know the Squire's delusion about

re-incarnation--you may depend his will be mix up with the idea, how

I don't know--but there will be some trouble at his death."



"such an idiot he be," groan Miss Cassy, "quite

eccentric--hereditary--I've see it in you--bad blood you know--it's

in all old family--our family be always sane."



to prove which sanity Miss Cassy arise from the table to go to her

room, and place the tea cosy on her head to protect she from cold.

the eccentric lady walk to the door talk in a broken fashion all

the time.



"I'm sure I don't want his money--small income but sure--yes--but it's

so dull--I love London--I cann't blossom here--I'm like a cabbage--in

Town I expand--such nice amusement--Madame Tussaud's and the Crystal

Palace--so exciting--it's food--food--oh, dear I, Dr. Nestley be this

you? how be my cousin? better?--so glad--it's very odd, ben't it? I

mean it's not odd I'm glad--no--quite so--oh, you want to see Miss

Challoner--yes--good-bye just now," and Miss Cassy, with the tea cosy

perch on her head, disappear, leave Nestley alone with Una.



the young man be not look well, as his ruddy colour have give

place to an unhealthy paleness, his skin have a flaccid appearance and

his countenance wear an anxious, haggard expression. his eye glance

restlessly round the room look at everything except Una, and he

move his hand nervously. even in his voice there be a change, for

in place of his former bold confident tone he now speak in a low

hesitate manner.



"I just come to tell you the squire be well, Miss Challoner," he

say in an agitated voice, keep his eye on the ground.



"it's very good of you, doctor," she reply courteously. "I hope he

will become quite strong again."



"I'm afraid not, his body be wear out and have not strength enough to

resist disease--of course, now he have only a slight cold, but any

chance exposure may affect his lung seriously and if pneumonia set

in I'm afraid he will have no chance."



"what be to be do?" she ask anxiously.



"I cannot do more than I have do, he must be keep quiet and warm.

I've persuade he to take some strong soup which will do he good--in

fact I think his ascetic manner of living have have as much to do with

his ill-health as anything else."



"I hope he will get well," say Una earnestly, "if he would only

change his mode of life I'm sure he would get well."



"yes," the young man answer absently, "of course, exactly," he

hesitate a moment then burst out in despair, "then I would have to go

away."



Una look at he surprised at his evident emotion.



"of course we would be very sorry to lose you," she say quietly, "but

you, no doubt, would be glad to get back to your home."



"no--I would not," he say passionately, come a step nearer,

"because you would not be there."



"I?"



Una Challoner rise to her foot in amazement at his word.



"I?" she repeat in a puzzled tone. "what have I to do with your

movement?"



"everything," say the unhappy young man with a gesture of despair.

"when I come here a short time since I be perfectly happy--I have

conquer all the evil and sorrow of my youth, and my life be a

pleasant one, but since I see you all be change. I can think of

nothing but you--morn, noon, and night, I see you before I--morn,

noon, and night, I only hear your voice."



he look at she defiantly and see her stand silent and indignant

before he.



"cann't you understand?" he burst out again rapidly. "I love you--I

love you! from the first moment I see you I love you--I want you to

be my wife, will you be my wife Una."



Miss Challoner feel perplexed--this man have only know she a

fortnight, she have speak very little to he, yet here he be ask

she to marry he in a vehement, masterful manner which rouse within

she all the pride of womanhood.



"what you ask be impossible, Doctor Nestley," she say coldly and

deliberately. "I have only know you a fortnight and--beyond this I be

ignorant of your life in every way. I never dream that you would

speak to I in this manner."



"then you don't love I?" he cry in despair, "you cold perfection of

womanhood, you don't love I?"



Una would have reply indignantly, but she begin to see the nervous

excitable temperament of the young man and recognise that, be

under the influence of a strong emotion, he be not answerable for the

way in which he speak.



"no," she reply gently, "I cannot love you, Doctor Nestley--even if

I do, I could hardly respond to your passion after so short an

acquaintance; come, doctor, you have be wear out by your nightly

attendance on my cousin, you be not well and speak without think,

forget the word you have speak and let thing be as they be."



it be a gracious thing of she to say, for, in spite of his evident

earnestness, she feel indignant at the manner in which he have speak

to she.



"thing can never be as they be," he reply dully. "I have see you

and that have change my whole life--be there no chance?"



"there be no chance," she reply coldly, and turn away to intimate

the interview be over. even as she do so, he spring forward with a

fierce light in his eye.



"you love another," he hiss out between his clench tooth.



Una turn on he in a dignified way with her eye blaze with anger.



"how dare you speak to I in this manner?" she say wrathfully. "do

not try my patience too far--I have give you an answer to the mad

word you speak--now go."



she point to the door with a commanding gesture and the young man

droop his head on his breast, move towards it.



"you don't know what you be do," he say in a dreary voice. "you

be destroy my life; whatever evil now drag I down, it will be

your fault."



"a cowardly speech," she say in a clear, scornful voice; "because you

cannot get the toy you long for you speak like a child. I have nothing

to do with your life, if you yield to evil it will be through your own

weak will, not through any fault of mine--not a word," she go on as

he be about to speak; "leave I at once and I will try and forget

what you have say."



he try to look she in the face, but see she stand tall and

straight as a young greek maiden, with nothing but scorn and

condemnation in her eye, he turn away with a sigh, and let his

head fall on his breast walk slowly out of the room, careless of

what happen to he now that he have place all his chance on the

casting of a die--and lose.









CHAPTER XVIII.

the fall of MAN.





     who stand so high that he may never fall,

     who lie so low that he may never rise?

     the lowly may one day win life's prize,

     the high thro' temptation lose his all.





Beaumont be a man who neglect no chance, however small, by which he

could benefit himself; consequently think if he discover Squire

Garsworth's secret it might prove of use to he, he determine to find

out all about it. he know perfectly well that no power of persuasion

would lead the madman to divulge his thought, so the only chance of

discover anything be to reduce he to a mere automaton, perfectly

powerless in his hand. this he hope to do by mean of hypnotism, of

which curious process he know a good deal.



while in Germany, some year before, he have by accident come across

Heidenheim's book on animal magnetism, which interest he so much

that he pursue the subject. after read the opinion of Grützner,

Berger and Baumler on hypnosis, he turn his attention to french

authority, eagerly follow the history of animal magnetism from

Mesmer and Puységur downward, and lead by such study to try his hand

on subject, he become quite an adept in this strange psychological

science. take it up at first merely as an amusement, on go deep

into the subject he soon see that such hypnotic power would be a

terrible weapon in the hand of an unscrupulous man, as, by reduce

the hypnotised person to the condition of a mere instrument, it

enable he to do act through such instrument for which he himself

could not be hold legally responsible.



in a book on the subject by MM. Demarquay and Giraud Teulon, entitle

"Recherches sur L'Hypnotism," he have come across a case in which a

lady in a condition of hypnotic hallucination begin to tell aloud

secret which compromise she exceedingly. take this case as an

illustration of what could be do during hypnosis, Beaumont

determine to throw the squire into a cataleptic trance, and by

question or suggestion lead he to reveal his secret. this being

do, he could restore he to his normal condition, absolutely

ignorant of his revelation, and he think if the secret be worth

anything, he could then do what he please.



having thus definitely settle his plan of action, the next step to

take be to guard against the possibility of Nestley surprise he in

any of his hypnotic experiment, with which, as medical attendant of

the squire, he would have a perfect right to interfere. although

Nestley have become much more friendly with Beaumont, he still regard

he with a certain amount of suspicion, so the artist's aim be now to

reduce he to the state of subjection in which he have be in London

five year before.



he know Nestley be a very clever man, but remarkably weak, and likely

to be lead astray. in London, under the influence of drink, he have be

a slave to Beaumont, and here in Garsworth the artist determine to

reduce he to a similar state of slavery. never for a moment do he

think of the clever brain he would destroy, or the life he would

wreck--all he want be the assistance of the young doctor in certain

plan beneficial to himself, and, at whatever cost, he determine to

carry they out. Beaumont, as a matter of fact, have in he a great deal

of the italian Despot nature as describe by Machiavelli, and with

cold, relentless subtlety, set himself to work to ruin the unhappy

Duncan Nestley body and soul for his own end.



Nestley be doubtless weak to allow himself to be so dominate, but

unhappily it be his nature. if nature endow a man largely in one

way, she generally deprive he of something else in equal proportion,

and while Nestley be a brilliant, clever man, who, if leave to

himself, would have live an honest and creditable life, yet his

morally weak nature place he at the mercy of any unscrupulous

scoundrel who think fit to play upon his feeling.



unhappily, circumstance aid Beaumont's nefarious plan, for after

leave Una the young doctor walk across the common to the village,

hope to pull himself together by a brisk walk.



at the bridge he find Beaumont lean over it, look at the water

swirl below, and on hear footstep, the artist look up with a

gratified smile as he recognise his victim.



"what's the matter, Nestley?" he ask after the first greeting; "you

don't look well."



"I'm not well," retort Nestley abruptly; "I'm nearly wear out by

that old man--morn, noon and night I've get to be beside he--if he's

pay I handsomely he's take his full value out of I."



"yes, I think he be," reply Beaumont deliberately, "you look quite

thin--not the man of three week ago. he must be a kind of mediæval

succubus live on the blood of young man. it would be wise for you to

leave he."



Nestley lean his chin on his fold arm, which be rest on the

parapet of the bridge, and sigh deeply.



"no--I cann't do that."



"oh! I understand," say Beaumont with a sneer, begin to smoke one

of his eternal cigarette.



"what do you understand?"



"why you willn't leave the Grange."



"there's no difficulty in guess that," retort Nestley angrily,

"my medical---- what the deuce be you grin at?"



"you, my friend," say Basil smile, "your

medical--what!--honour--knowledge--interest--what you like."



"don't talk rubbish."



"as you please."



"look here," say Nestley, turn round with a resolute frown on his

haggard face, "what be the reason I don't leave the Grange?"



"not be in your confidence I cann't say, but if I may guess, I

should think Una Challoner."



Nestley make a gesture of assent, and turn once more to gaze moodily

at the grey water of the river.



"if I only have the courage," he mutter harshly, "I would throw

myself into the water and end everything."



"More fool you," remark Beaumont cynically; "man have die from time

to time, and worm have eat they, but not for love. don't give

Rosalind's remark the lie."



"I've no doubt she love someone else," say Nestley bitterly.



"I've no doubt she do," reply Beaumont tranquilly, "but you seem

quite wear out between love and sickness, so come with I to the inn

and have something to eat."



"I don't mind," say Nestley listlessly, "but I cann't eat a thing."



"don't give way so easily, my dear fellow," say Beaumont scornfully,

as they walk along; "be a man, not a baby."



"you're not in love."



"true, oh king; but I've have the disease badly enough--it's all dead

and do with now. I've leave Venus for Plutus, and I think Mercury,

the god of trickster, have some of my worship."



Dr. Nestley make no remark, be occupy with his own sad thought,

so Beaumont say nothing more, and they walk along to the inn

silently. on arrive there they go into the parlour, and Nestley

take his seat near the window, stare idly out at the dusty road,

while Beaumont order a slight luncheon, and a bottle of champagne.



Job Kossiter's idea of wine be a very vague one, as he himself

habitually drank beer, but in deference to Beaumont's wish, he send

over to Duxby and obtain a few dozen case of champagne, whose

excellence satisfy even the fastidious artist. the table be lay

and the luncheon bring in, Beaumont fill two tumbler with

champagne, one for himself, and the other he place by Nestley's

plate. the young doctor, be wrap up in gloomy thought, do not

perceive this, and, when he take his seat at the table, have no idea

that the glass at his elbow contain wine instead of water. he try

to eat two or three mouthful of food, but not succeed, take up the

glass to drink, and so preoccupied be he that it be not until he have

swallow a mouthful that he perceive what it be. replace the

glass on the table immediately, he glare angrily at Beaumont, who,

feign not to observe his annoyance, go on eat his luncheon

with great enjoyment.



"why do you give I champagne?" ask Nestley harshly. "you know I

only drink water."



"I know you're an idiot," retort Beaumont coolly, "and don't know

what's good for you. in your present state of health a glass of

champagne will do you no harm."



"you forget the harm drink have do I already."



"five year ago," say the artist mockingly. "you've be a

teetotaller for five year, so I think you be entitle to a little

indulgence now. go on, drink it up like a man."



"no," reply Nestley resolutely, and he turn his head away. "I will

not drink."



"very well," say Beaumont indifferently. "please yourself."



his unhappy friend look again at the amber-colour wine in the

glass, and feel half inclined to yield. after all, he have not touch

liquor of any sort for five long year, and do not feel as a rule

incline to take it, but now the night of watch by the bedside of

the old squire have wear he out physically, and the disdain of Una have

make he wretched mentally, so he half determine to take this one

glass to cheer he up. his good angel, however, come to his aid at

this critical moment, and turn his head away with a shudder, he

go on make a pretence of eat. Beaumont, who have watch he

narrowly all this time, see the struggle that be go on in the

young man's mind, but with true craftiness, pretend to take no

notice, satisfied that his victim be gradually be lure into the

snare so artfully lay.



"so you love Miss Challoner," he say genially. "well, I can hardly

wonder at that. to tell you the truth, I fall in love with she

myself--merely in an artistic sense, I assure you," add the astute

artist with a laugh as he see the anger in Nestley's face. "she have a

lovely face which seem to wear the calm of those old greek statue. I

should like to paint she as Artemis--the inviolate Artemis before she

love endymion--with the serene light of chastity on her face and the

sweetness of night in her eye. it would be a wonderful picture."



"I wonder you don't ask she to be your model," growl Nestley,

sulkily.



"hardly worth while, for two reason," reply Beaumont lightly, yet

with a suspicion of regret in his tone. "in the first place she would

refuse, and in the second, my hand have lose its cunning. one need to

be young and enthusiastic to paint a classical picture. I be of too

earthy a nature to have such hopeless vision. well, be you go to

play the part of young endymion to this moon goddess?"



"no," answer Nestley bitterly, "she willn't have anything to do with

I."



"poor endymion!"



"don't be a fool, talk such classical stuff! I tell you I'm madly

in love with she, and she willn't have anything to do with I.

everything be against I. I'm poor, unloved and obscure. life ben't

worth live under such condition."



he look again at the sparkle wine, which seem to invite he to

try it as an anodyne for his pain. everything seem to his distort

imagination to be dull and dark. Wine would at least give he a few

hour' respite from these torture thought. he be master of himself

now. he would drink one glass and no more. after all, see that

everything be lose, what do it matter if he do fall once more? he

have nothing to live for now. a wild despair take possession of his

heart, and with a reckless laugh he seize the glass and finish the

wine to the last drop.



"_Evohé Bacchus_," say Beaumont, drain his glass. "there's nothing

like wine to cure a broken heart."



the insidious wine mount rapidly to the excitable brain of the young

man, and he no long feel regret at break the pledge he have make

five year before. the humdrum past of struggle and respectability be

do with. Wine would solace he. drink! who care for such a thing?

Anacreon be the head of a glorious band of poet, and praise the

wine. Wise Anacreon, he know the true virtue of the grape. the past

be dead, the future be uncertain. live--live only in the present, with

wine to make we as gods--_Evohé Bacchus_.



the stimulating wine have perform its work excellently, and the world

hitherto so gloomy now appear of a roseate tint.



"a broken heart!" he repeat, with a gay laugh. "Pish! heart don't

break so easily. a woman's no means yes. I'll ask again."



"nothing like perseverance," say Basil, observe with infinite joy

the flushed face and bright eye of the young man. "have some more

wine?"



"rather!" reply Nestley, hold out his glass, which Beaumont

fill. "I be a fool to give up this for water. I'm sick of total

abstainer--thin-blooded croaker. here's confusion to they!" and he

drink off the second glass.



Beaumont now see that his victim be in that obstinate stage of

recklessness which could not brook contradiction, so know well how to

proceed.



"well, we've finish the bottle," he say brightly. "suppose we go

out for a walk."



"no--no walk," return Nestley, with an imbecile grin. "you've stand

I a bottle. now it's my turn."



"I don't want any more," say Beaumont indifferently, "and I think

you've have enough also."



"I haven't," retort Nestley defiantly. "I'm as straight as a die. I

suppose you willn't drink with I?"



"oh yes, I will, if you insist upon it."



"I do insist," cry the doctor, bring his fist down on the table

with a bang. "you must drink to show there be no ill-will. we be

once friend, Basil."



"and be so still, I trust," say the artist, cordially.



"your hand," say Nestley, with an outburst of maudlin affection.

"give I your hand."



Beaumont suffer his hand to be shake violently by the doctor, and

then that gentleman, now in a hilarious state of excitement, walk to

the bell, ring it with unnecessary violence.



Margery appear in answer, and seem somewhat astonished at

Nestley's state, as he have always be so reserved and quiet in his

demeanour.



"another bottle of champagne," say Nestley in a thick voice, come

close to she. "you be a pretty girl."



he try to embrace she, but Margery, who be use to see the

rustic in a similar state, push he away with a hearty laugh, and

go off to get the wine.



Nestley resume his seat at the table, talk rapidly to Beaumont

about all sort of thing, and then begin to boast about himself.



"I can do anything--anything, I tell you," he say, look at

Beaumont, who be smoke. "my brain's worth a dozen of any other

fellow' don't you believe I?"



"oh, yes, I believe you," reply Beaumont, as Margery return with

another bottle of champagne; "but, if I be you, I'd take no more

wine."



"willn't I!" say Nestley in a defiant manner. "you'll see."



Margery retreat, laugh at the maudlin condition of the young man,

and fill his tumbler up to the brim with wine, he drink it off with

an air of drunken bravado. Beaumont, with a sneer on his thin lip,

sit calmly watch the grotesque antic of the man he have bring so

low, and only take a little of the second bottle. Dr. Nestley sing and

laugh and boast till his leg begin to get shaky, and then he sit

down and finish the rest of the bottle, thereby reduce himself to

a state of hopeless intoxication.



finally he fall asleep with his head on the table, whereupon Beaumont,

not without some difficulty, wake he up and half lead, half drag

he to the sofa. with noisy protest that he be all right, the

unhappy young man lie down, and in a few moment fall into a drunken

slumber, while Beaumont, feel no compunction at having reduce a

human be to the level of the beast, stand over he with a sneer.



"I don't think you'll give I much trouble," he say serenely. "you've

start on the downward path once more, and this time I expect you'll

never get back again."



he go out, calmly smoke his cigarette, and ask Margery to let no

one disturb his friend.



"he's take more than be good for he," he say apologetically.



"oh bless you, sir, that's nothing," return Margery stolidly. "a

sleep will put he all right."



"will it?" say Beaumont to himself when he be stand in the bright

sunshine. "a sleep will never put you all right again in this life,

Duncan Nestley."









CHAPTER XIX.

JAM, JAM EFFICACI DO MANUS SCIENTIAE.





                    I use no charm,

     ephesian letter, philtre, spell or rune,

     nor aught of necromantic devilry

     yet thro' the power of new-find science

     before my searching gaze I bare your soul

     and read the secret longing writ thereon.





owe to Nestley's skilful treatment the squire soon recover from

his illness, but the fact of twice be lay upon a bed of sickness

within a few week, show how susceptible his constitution have become

to the slight ailment, and how rapidly any such ailment might

terminate with fatal result.



to a young and vigorous frame such slight indisposition would be

comparatively unimportant, but the weak body of the old man, with its

wear-out-organization, be able to develop these disorder in a most

alarming tanner. the flame of life be very feeble, and it be only by

the utmost watchfulness that it could be keep alive at all.



in spite of his settle conviction regard incarnation in a new

body, the squire seem remarkably loth to leave his old one, and

obey the doctor's order in a most slavish manner, dread lest by

some chance his soul should slip away into the next world. he have

accumulate a large fortune, which accord to his delusion he hope

to enjoy when his soul have become incarnate in a new body, so he have

no trouble on that score. his great desire be now to get his portrait

finish, and to this end, in spite of his ill-health, he insist

upon leave his bed and sit to Beaumont accord to his regular

custom.



Basil having once more bring Nestley under his dominating will,

determined to proceed at once in his hypnotic experiment, and at this

final sitting judge it an admirable time to carry out his idea. all

he want be an opportunity to introduce the subject without rouse

the squire's suspicion, and the old man, during their conversation,

speedily afford he an opportunity of do so.



they be in the drawing-room as usual, and the squire, look more

wrinkle and wear than ever, be seat in his arm-chair, while the

artist dexterously put a line here and there on the paint face

before he.



"you don't seem well this morning, Mr. Garsworth," say Beaumont, as

the old man move wearily in his chair.



"no, sir, I don't," retort the squire in his harsh voice. "I don't

expect I'll leave my bed again when I once go back to it."



"oh, thing be surely not so bad as that."



"I'm afraid they be," reply Garsworth, shake his head. "I be

anxious to go into a new body and leave this wear-out frame with its

incessant pain."



"be you in pain now?" ask Beaumont, sympathetically.



"yes--I have a bad attack of neuralgia--the east wind always affect

I more or less that way."



"I think I could do you some good."



"nonsense--you're not a doctor?"



"I be not the rose, but I've live near it, my dear sir," say

Beaumont equably, "and I know something of therapeutic."



"a little knowledge be a dangerous thing," reply the old man

sneeringly.



"I can reply with another proverb," say Basil smile. "a drown

man will clutch at a straw--so take I as your straw and see what I

can do--I cannot cure you of your neuralgia, but I can give you some

relief."



"in what way?"



"by hypnosis."



"Bah!--Mesmer and charlatanism."



"not at all--I have study the subject, and I assure you there be

more truth in it than you imagine. Mesmer be not altogether a

charlatan remember--he be wise than Cagliostro."



"well--well--what do you propose to do?"



"hypnotise you."



"and then?"



"well--the neuralgia will go away after you've be in the trance some

time, then I'll wake you and you can retire."



"but the portrait?"



"it willn't affect the portrait in the least--I-can go on painting and

you will be free from pain."



the squire hate pain, and be moreover very curious to test

Beaumont's knowledge, so he consent to the idea.



"go on, sir," he say grimly. "I don't object."



Beaumont nod carelessly, delight thus to have gain his end, and

produce from his pocket a facetted piece of glass, he arise from his

seat and walk over to the old man.



take up his position at one side of the chair he hold the glitter

object just above the squire's forehead.



"look steadily at this," he say in a quiet tone, and on Garsworth

do so he wait silently for the result, which soon take place. the

eye become humid and brilliant, the gaze fix and the pupil

dilate, until the old man fall into a cataleptic state. as the glass

facet be still hold in front of his eye he soon pass into a

lethargic condition and fall backward in his chair with a sigh.



Beaumont take the glass away with a feeling of relief, as he doubted

be able to produce the hypnotic sleep so easily. he have now at his

command a will-less automaton who would do what ever he be tell. but

this be not what Beaumont desire, as he be unable to suggest the

secret to the helpless man before he, and without suggestion the

automaton would not do anything. he want to change this lethargic

sleep into a somnambulistic state, so that he could have the memory,

the intelligence, and the imagination of the squire at his command.

this he achieve by slightly rub his hand to and fro for a few

minute across the top of the head, and in obedience to the feeling

produce by this Garsworth rapidly pass into a state of active

somnambulism.



he arise from his chair, look quickly from right to left, while

Beaumont speak to he, and during the conversation that follow, be

in a state of perpetual movement. all that Beaumont have now to do be

to suggest thing to the somnambulist which would engender train of

thought, and these train of thought would be speedily act upon by

volition.



the tall figure in black sway rapidly to and fro while Beaumont

speak in a clear, deliberate manner, suggest the question he

want to be answer.



"you have a secret?"



"I have a secret," assent the somnambulist, in the same slow manner.



"you have arrange a certain affair so that you will be able to enjoy

your present fortune during your next incarnation?"



"yes."



"you think you have arrange everything necessary to carry out this

idea?"



"I think so."



"state to yourself the whole scheme so that you can see you have

forget nothing."



Garsworth remain silent for a moment, then begin to talk rapidly.



"I have arrange everything in a proper manner. I be sure I have

forget nothing. my will have be make some year, and in it I have

leave all my property to my natural son. such natural son do not

exist--at present he be a fictitious person. when I be re-incarnate

he will become a reality. I will be my own natural son, and the property

will pass to myself in the new body by the action of my will in this

present body. it will be necessary for I in my new form to prove

myself the person mention in the will. I do this in such new body by

produce a certain paper and my seal ring, which I have safely hide

away. retain my memory during my next incarnation I go to the

hiding-place, find the paper and the ring, produce they to the lawyer

who hold my will, and having prove my identity as natural son, can

become possessed of the property. yes, everything be all right."



he cease speak and Beaumont, having listen attentively, be much

strike with the ingenuity of the idea express in the delusion. this,

then, be the way in which he hope to carry out his scheme. be ever

madman so whimsical? the artist do not see much chance of benefit

by the discovery so far, still if he see the paper mention by the

squire, there might be something in they which would prove useful.

yes; he would get the squire to show he the hiding-place of the

paper.



"your scheme be perfect," he say slowly, "but some one may find the

hiding-place and steal the paper?"



"no, no," reply the somnambulist, in an exult tone. "no chance of

that. I've hide it too well."



"go and see if it be safe."



"safe! safe! be that paper safe?" mutter the old man, with a frown.

"I must see. I must see. but how can I go? I be too weak."



Beaumont instantly exert his power by suggestion.



"you be very strong. go at once and examine the paper."



ordinarily the squire use a crutch to walk with, but on hear the

remark about his strength from his hypnotiser, he at once became

imbue with the hallucination that he be physically a vigorous man,

and walk towards the door of the drawing-room with rapid, springy

step, follow by Beaumont.



the somnambulist lead the way up the stair, pause for a moment on

the first landing, then, turn round, walk towards the front of

the house on the first floor. at this moment Patience Allerby come out

of one of the room, and see the squire walk in such a rapid

manner, and Beaumont follow, look at they both in alarm.



"where be go sir?" she cry, as Garsworth brush past she, and,

put out her hand, try to grasp he. the slight touch she give

he appear to cause the somnambulist suffering and break the

hypnotic spell, for he pause at once. alarm lest the old man should

awake, Beaumont grip Patience by the wrist and drag she back

quickly.



"you be go for your paper?" he say to Garsworth.



"I be go for my paper," repeat the squire slowly, and then, in

obedience to the impulse engender, go on again. Patience would

have speak, but a devilish look on Beaumont's face seem to freeze

her blood.



"be silent," he say in a harsh whisper, shake her wrist. "I will

tell you all soon, but now be silent for your son's sake."



she wrench herself free and shrink back into the shadow with a cry,

while Beaumont, take no further notice, quickly follow the squire

who be now some distance ahead.



Garsworth open a large folding-door that stand a short distance away

from the stair and which lead into the ball-room of the Grange.

follow by the artist he go into the long, bare room, which

stretch nearly the whole length of the front wing of the house,

be light by eight large window, look out on to the park.



the room be chill and bleak, every footfall awake a responsive echo

and leave a mark on the grey dust that have accumulate on the floor

for many year. the wall opposite the door be adorn with

delicately-paint panel, represent the nine muse, each female

figure be twice life-size and rise from the floor to the arched

roof, between each of the eight window. at one end of the room the

panel represent the three Graces, at the other the three Fates,

while the remain wall display nine goddess of heathen

mythology. the arched roof be paint a deep blue, silver with

star, but nowhere appear any male form--nothing but the gracious

female figure of Hellas be to be see around.



the squire go straight to the extreme corner of the room, on the

leave hand of the door, and kneel down where there be a panel

represent Clotho spin the thread of life. he evidently touch

a spring conceal in the gold-emboss frame of the panel, for it

silently slide back, display a wall of rough stone. the upper block

of stone appear heavy and cumbersome, but the low one be much

small, and as Beaumont look he see Garsworth drag from its place a

smallish stone in the low centre of the wall, display only the

rough place where it lay, but no cavity where anything could be hide.

the squire, however, soon show how ingenious be the hiding-place he

have choose, for on turn round the stone which he have take out,

there appear a small hole hollow out and from this the old man

take a paper and a ring. he lay they down for a moment to lift the

stone off his lap, but at this moment Beaumont, exert his hypnotic

power, say abruptly:



"you be look at the paper."



under the influence of the hallucination produce, the squire look

earnestly at the stone on his lap, while Beaumont, pick up the real

paper, glance over it rapidly, examine the ring, then lay they both

down again by the somnambulist.



"you should put they back," he suggest distinctly. Garsworth pick

up the paper, and replace it in the stone, put it once more in its

former position, and then drag the panel along till it click on

the spring, thus resume its former appearance. no one, to look at

it, would think that such a large picture could be move in any way,

and even if the secret of the panel be discover, Beaumont feel

sure no one would think of examine the interior of the stone in the

wall. having now ascertain all he want to know, Beaumont's next

care be to get the squire back to his former position and wake he,

so that he would be unconscious of what he have do during his

hypnotic sleep. to this end he bend forward to the kneeling figure on

the floor.



"Mr. Beaumont be wait to finish your picture."



"yes, yes. I must have the picture do," say Garsworth, and, rise

to his foot, he leave the room, follow by Beaumont, who see the white

face of Patience peer from the shadow and frown at he in a

menacing manner.



place his finger on his lip to enforce silence, he glide past she

down the wide stair, across the hall and into the drawing-room, where

he find the squire have once more re-establish himself in his chair.



"well," say Beaumont to himself, "there seem to be some chance of

make use of this secret, but I cann't do it without the help of

Patience, so I must see she. meanwhile, I'll wake the squire."



he cross over to the squire and touch his face with his own cold

hand, upon which the old man start violently.



he then speak loudly into his ear:



"Mr. Garsworth!"



the somnambulist open his eye, and a confused expression appear

on his face as he look at Beaumont.



"do you feel well?" ask the artist, gently.



"yes," answer the squire, slowly pass his hand over his forehead.

"the pain be go, but I feel very tired."



"it's always the case in hypnotism."



"how long have I be asleep?"



"about a quarter-of-an-hour," reply Beaumont, glance at his watch.

"be you dream at all? hypnotism usually produce dream."



"Aha!" say Garsworth, cunningly, "I be dream of my secret. I do

not speak in my sleep, do I?" he ask, in sudden terror.



"no, you be perfectly quiet," answer the artist, go back to his

seat.



"I feel too tired to sit any more," observe Garsworth, rise with a

great effort. "I must lie down. hypnotism seem to exhaust the body

very much."



"it do, of course; it act physically."



the squire, with the aid of his stick, move painfully to the door,

leave Beaumont smile at the picture before he.









CHAPTER XX.

when in DOUBT, play TRUMPS.





     Life be a game

     the keen win.

     Repute or shame.

     Life be a game;

     we give or claim

     for virtue, sin;

     life be a game

     the keen win





Beaumont be perfectly satisfied with the result of his experiment, as

he have discover the squire's secret, and have yet succeed in

keep he in ignorance of his having do so. with the keen

intellect of a man accustom to live by his wit, he have, during his

rapid survey of the paper, see the chance of turn the secret to

his own advantage. but to do so he require the co-operation of

Patience, and this he be doubtful of obtain.



she hold studiously aloof from he, and since the interview in the

churchyard have give no sign that she be aware of his existence. many

man would have be discourage by this contemptuous silence; but not

so Beaumont, who never see discourtesy in anyone of whom he want to

make use. Hitherto Patience have be a mere cipher in his eye; but

now, since his discovery of the existence of her son, and since he have

learn the jealously-guard secret of the squire, she suddenly

become an important person; for it be through she he hope to secure

his end--end calculate to benefit himself alone.



the only way by which he could hope to gain her ear be through her

love for their son, hence his explanation on the stair. now, after

put away his painting utensil, he light a cigarette, and

stroll easily along to the housekeeper's room in order to arrange

matter with she. of the result he have no fear, as he intend to

appeal to her motherhood, which appeal, he well know, would not be

neglect by this woman, whose whole life be devoted to her son. Mr.

Beaumont be an expert whist-player, and, moreover, admire the game

very much. so, in this case, be somewhat doubtful of Patience, yet

hold a strong hand, he take an illustration from his favourite

game, and say:



"when in doubt, play trump."



"it will be a charming game," he murmur, as he knock at the door

of the housekeeper's room, "she be no mean adversary, and hate I

like poison--all the more credit to I if I win--as I mean to."



Patience Allerby, in her quiet, grey dress, be sit silent and

statuesque by the window, stare out at the rapidly darken

landscape. when Beaumont enter, she look coldly at he, but

neither rise to receive he nor invite he to sit down. her visitor,

however, be not trouble by any sensitive feeling, so throw himself

into a comfortable chair that be near the fire, and coolly go on

smoking.



"I hope you don't mind my cigarette," he say, languidly, "but I cann't

exist without smoking."



"you cann't exist without all sort of luxury," reply Patience,

bitterly, "you're not the man to deny yourself anything."



"I have to deny myself a good many thing when we be starve in

London," say Mr. Beaumont, leisurely. "by the way, I want to speak to

you about London."



"and I want to speak to you about the squire," she retort, quickly.

"what be you do follow he upstairs?"



"don't distress yourself, my good soul," say the artist, in a coolly

aggravating manner. "I'll tell you that later on; meantime, we will

talk of Chelsea."



"no."



"Pardon I--yes. do you remember how we live there, you and I, and

the vision we use to indulge in? I haven't forget it, I assure

you, and then Fanny Blake--poor Fanny! she be dead now. I see you give

the boy her surname."



"and what if I do?" she flash out fiercely, with a deep frown on

her face. "could I give he your--the father who have desert he?

could I give he mine--the mother to whom his birth be a disgrace?"



"a disgrace! I think you love he?"



"so I do--I love he more than my life; but his birth be a disgrace,

and I wish to keep the knowledge from he, please God."



"be the boy you call Reginald Blake ever christen?"



"no."



"why not?"



"because I could not tell the truth about his birth, and I refuse to

tell a lie. he be neither christen, nor be his birth register."



"then he have no right to the name he bear."



"I know that. whose fault be it, Basil Beaumont--your or mine? why

don't you make an honest woman of I?"



"because I do not choose to," he reply, coolly; "by the way, have

our son be confirm?"



"no."



"oh," he say, sneer, "I'm sorry he's not get some religious

flavour about he. I wonder, Patience, when you call he Blake, you

do not pass he off as Fanny's son."



she arise from her seat in a fury.



"do you think I be go to place my sin on Fanny's shoulder?"



"I don't see why not--Fanny and yourself both come up to London at the

same time--the child be bear six month after you arrive there--why

not call it Fanny's child?"



"there be no reason."



"not then; but there be now, and a very excellent reason--ten thousand

a year."



"what do you mean?"



"simply this, that Reginald Blake, from this time forward, be the son

of Fanny Blake and Randal Garsworth."



Patience look at he in surprise, and involuntarily draw back a

step, think he mad. Beaumont see this, and laugh mockingly.



"don't be afraid--there's method in my madness."



"there's some villainy in it," she say, with a hard smile, sit

down near he; "tell I what you mean, Basil Beaumont, if you intend

touch a hair of my son's head I'll punish you."



"I intend to give he ten thousand a year, if you willn't be a fool."



she smile coldly, and fold her hand upon her lap.



"I'm no fool, but I know you--go on, Ananias."



Beaumont fling the burn-out cigarette into the fire with an irritable

gesture, and turn his face towards the frigid woman seat before

he.



"listen to what I've get to say," he say slowly, "and then you can do

as you please--if you assist I it mean money and happiness for our

son; if you don't, I'll tell he everything, and then leave the

village for ever."



Patience shiver slightly under the steely glitter of his eye, and

then resume her cold impassive manner.



"brag's a good dog," she say mockingly, "but he do not bite--go on,

I'm all attention."



the artist glance at the door to make sure that it be closed, then

draw his chair close to that of Patience Allerby, begin to talk

rapidly, in a low tone of voice.



"of course you know the squire be mad--quite mad--he have an idea that

his soul will be re-incarnate in another body, and as he be afraid he

may be bear poor, he have invent a silly scheme by which to become

repossess of his present wealth. I have discover this scheme--how

it do not matter--all I need tell you be, that I have find out all

about it--his idea be to pass himself off as his own son."



"but he have no son."



"of course not, you fool," say Beaumont impatiently, "he couldn't

carry out his idea if he have; it's this way, he have make his

will, leave the property to his natural son, who will at some

future time--date not fix, as he cannot tell when he'll be

re-incarnated--go to the lawyer who hold the will and produce, as a

proof of his claim to the estate, a letter write to he by his

suppose father, also the squire's seal ring--when he do so, under

the term of the will, he inherit the Garsworth estate."



"I understand, so far; but how do the squire, in a new body, expect

to get these paper?"



"oh! he think he'll remember about the affair when he be bear again,

so he have hide the paper where he'll be able to find they--in his

new body he'll simply go and look they up, produce they to the

lawyer, and there you be."



"what a foolish idea."



"what a foolish remark, you mean," say Beaumont; "of course it's

foolish, the man be mad. when he die the paper will remain

undisturbed till doomsday--if I choose."



"what do you mean?"



"simply this--as he do not know when or where he'll be

re-incarnated, he have leave a number of blank in the letter."



"have you see the letter?"



"of course I have. I know where the paper be hide--didn't I tell you

I'd discover his secret. well, all I've get to do be to fill up

these blank--the name of the mother, the place of the suppose son's

birth, and all the rest of it."



"I see. but what have I to do with this?"



Beaumont arise to his foot and walk angrily to and fro.



"what an idiot you be, Patience," he say irritably. "cann't you see?

I'm go to fill up the mother's name as Fanny Blake, and the son's

as Reginald."



"our son?"



"precisely. now do you see why I want your help?"



"I do, but you shalln't have it."



"indeed; why not?"



"I'm not go to have such a sin on my conscience."



"there's no sin, you Puritan," he say quickly, "the re-incarnation

idea be rubbish; no one will appear to claim the property, so why not

give the ten thousand a year to Reginald?"



"it would dispossess Miss Una."



"it would do nothing of the sort--under the will Miss Una cannot

claim--the lawyer don't know anything about the re-incarnation

theory; all they know be that Squire Garsworth have a son who will

appear and prove his claim by the possession of certain paper and a

seal ring--until that son appear no one can claim the estate."



"Miss Una could dispute the will on the ground of madness."



"I dare say she could, but she won't--if Reginald become master of

Garsworth Grange she will marry he, and will enjoy the property just

the same as if she be sole heiress--on the other hand, if he do

not become master she'll have to wait till this non-existent son

appear or upset the will, one of which thing will be impossible and

the other troublesome."



Patience think for a moment or two and then look up.



"how do you know Reginald will marry Una?"



"because I've get eye in my head. the boy be madly in love with she.

I'm sure you must see that your help I to place Reginald in

possession of this property will hurt no one and be for the benefit of

both Una and your own son."



"I see that, but I fail to see what benefit you obtain from it, and I

don't think you're the man to work for nothing."



"you're perfectly right," he reply calmly, "but I'm go to make

myself Reginald's right hand, and when he come in for the property I

can help he to look after the estate."



"and ruin he."



"I willn't ruin he. why should I want to ruin my own son?"



"Bah! don't talk like that to I."



"oh well, if you disbelieve in interest, I'll put it another way. why

should I kill the goose with the golden egg?"



"yes, that's more like it," she say with a sneer, "I think your plan

be an admirable one, but there's one obstacle."



"what be it?"



"Reginald be an honourable man, and willn't accept any property gain

by fraud."



Beaumont sigh in a resign manner, apparently hopeless of

explain matter clearly to this painfully obstinate woman.



"he'll never know the property be obtain by fraud, because you will

tell he he be the son of Fanny Blake and the squire; he will believe

you, and regard himself as the lawful heir."



"still, he think he's be bear in lawful wedlock, and to undeceive

him----"



"give he ten thousand a year," interrupt Beaumont coolly. "well,

what do you say, will you help I?"



"I'll tell you to-morrow."



"why not to-day?"



"because I don't trust you, I want to go over the affair in my own

mind."



Beaumont shrug his shoulder, put on his hat and light another

cigarette.



"just as you please," he say, pause a moment at the door. "I'll

call and see you to-morrow; but if you don't help I in this, I'll do

what I say and tell Reginald everything."



when he be go Patience sit for a long time look into the fire,

evidently ponder deeply. at length she sigh and mutter:



"I don't know what to do, I must ask counsel of the Lord."



she arise, and having light a candle open the Bible.









CHAPTER XXI.

the good SAMARITAN.





Man be but a whimsical animal at good, for there be no life but what

may some day act in discord with its theory.





Patience Allerby occupy a very peculiar position, and know that she

do so, much to her perplexity. ever since her lapse from virtue she

have live a self-deny existence as an expiation for her sin, and

she have cause to be satisfied with the past twenty year of her life,

see that she have do nothing wrong all the time. true, live in

almost monastic existence, she have no temptation to fight against,

and the absence of temptation render it comparatively easy to lead a

virtuous life. not be tempt she live an ascetic life, be

absolutely certain that she be strong enough to withstand any

temptation, however powerful. vain hope, for now the devil in the

person of her old betrayer assault she on her weak side. have he

try to make she rob her master or return to her old life of sin, he

would have fail dismally, but an appeal through her motherhood be

perilous to her strength, and Beaumont know this when he use her love

for Reginald as a weapon against she. in spite of her prayer, her

tear, her comfort text, she know that if Beaumont wish she to

commit any crime to benefit her son she would do so in defiance of her

religious belief, however strong.



God alone know the night of anguish this woman pass, wrestle with

the subtle temptation place before she in such an attractive shape.

those old saint, who, accord to pious legend, fight with the

visible power of evil, have no such terrible enemy to cope with, in

contrast to a soul rack with doubt fight against spiritual

prompting.



in vain this poor soul, who wish to do right, close her ear to the

infernal whispering of evil spirit, in vain she read with frenzied

ardour the terrible prophecy of Isaiah or the comfort promise of

the Gospels, in vain she kneel weep bitterly before the crucifix,

pray to be guard from fall into sin. it be all useless.

either spiritual weapon have lose their efficacy, or her intense

maternal passion blunt her sense of religious duty, and after a

terrible struggle with her invisible enemy, which leave she

completely prostrate, she begin to calmly consider Beaumont's scheme.

from that moment she be lose; for, on review the whole matter she

begin to pacify her conscience with argument concern the rectitude

of the affair.



she would be do no wrong to anyone--nay, she would be confer a

benefit on Una, see that by her marriage with Reginald she would be

put in possession of the property at once, whereas should the will be

carry out strictly she would have to wait everlastingly for the

appearance of a non-existing person. suppose she agree to Beaumont's

plan, and say Fanny Blake and the squire be the parent of her son,

he would become rich and honour, bear a renowned name and no

long be an unknown waif, heavily handicapped in the battle of life.



on the other hand he would learn the shame of his birth, and that

would cast an everlasting shadow on his young spirit. what

wealth--what position could compensate in his own eye for the moral

stigma thus cast upon he. he might succeed to the property, marry

Una, and thus do no harm to anyone, still, if he become a father, how

deeply would he feel for the sin of his parent be visit on his

offspring. no, she could not place he in such a position; well for

he to remain unknown and obscure, with a full belief in his

honourable birth, than go through life haunt by the spectre of an

intolerable disgrace.



while thus hesitate between these two view of the case, a sudden

idea come to she, which incline she to refuse to help Beaumont and

let the boy make his own life, ignorant of the stain on his name. the

squire, in spite of his miserly habit, have a kind heart. she would

ask he to give Reginald fifty or a hundred pound to help he, then

the lad could go to London and make a position by his vocal talent.

thus, he would benefit in no way through money unjustly obtain, and

Una, be in possession of the property, he could marry she and enjoy

it just the same as if the scheme be carry out. yes, it would be

the good way; he would at least never know who or what he be, and she

would thus assist he in life without commit a crime. the more she

think of the plan the well she like it, and fall on her knee

in the dark she thank God long and fervently for the solution he have

show she of the difficulty.



next morning she proceed to carry her idea into effect, for after

Miss Cassy and Una have pay their usual morning visit, she find

herself alone with the squire and in a position to make her request.



Garsworth be lie in bed, prop up by pillow, and look very

feeble indeed, so that Patience see the end could not be far off, in

spite of Nestley's care and attention.



after his recovery from his debauch, Nestley have feel bitter shame at

his fall, but having lose his self-respect by thus revert to his

old way, he try to drown remorse by drinking, and alcohol be

rapidly regain all its old influence over he. still he do not let

it interfere with his attendance on the squire, and if the old man see

that Nestley's hand be shaky, and his eye becoming blear, he say

nothing, and the unhappy young man perform his duty in a

mechanical way, drink deeply whenever an opportunity offer.



Nestley, look haggard and unsteady after his drinking of the

previous night, have just leave the room, leave Patience alone with

the Squire, when the old man speak sharply:



"Patience, what be the matter with the doctor?"



"drink!" she answer laconically.



"drink!" repeat the squire, raise himself on his elbow. "nonsense,

woman, you must be mistaken, he drink neither wine nor spirit."



"he never do until a week ago," answer Patience coolly, "he use to

be a total abstainer, but now--well, you can see for yourself."



the long connection that have exist between this strange couple as

master and servant, have develop between they a certain amount of

familiarity.



"I remember," say Garsworth musingly, "that in my last incarnation, I

drink ale very much--it be in the reign of Elizabeth, and we drank

confusion to the King of Spain--it result in confusion to myself. if

I have not be a drunkard, I would not have be a pauper; it's a pity

this young man should follow the same downward path."



"it's his own fault," reply Patience in a stony manner, "he ought to

stop when he find it do he harm."



"no doubt," return the old man acidly, "but do you ever know a man

deny himself anything if it do he harm?"



"you do."



"yes, because I have an object to gain. the life I lead in Town be very

pleasant, but it would have leave I a pauper for my next incarnation."



it be no use try to argue the old man out of his delusion, so

Patience say nothing, but stand beside he in grim silence with

fold arm.



"I'll enjoy myself when I'm bear again," pursue Garsworth exultingly.

"I will have plenty of money and a new body. I will have youth once

again. oh, youth! youth! how short be your golden hour. young man

never know the treasure they possess in youth, and waste it in

idleness and folly; there's that child you bring up, Reginald

Blake----"



"I do not bring he up."



"well, well," rejoin Garsworth testily. "you know what I mean, you

be his nurse--but he have youth, good look, health and talent--why

don't he go to London with such advantage, instead of waste his

life in a dull village?"



"he's get no money," retort Patience icily; "all you mention go for

nothing without money."



"no doubt, no doubt," mutter Garsworth, his eye gleam; "money be

a necessity--still he have talent, I hear."



"what can talent do?"



"everything; a clever brain command the world."



"I dare say," retort Patience ironically, "if it get money to give

it a start. Master Reginald have it in he to make a great name by his

voice, but he need help--the help of money--who will give he that

help?"



she eye the old man keenly as she speak.



"ah, who indeed?" he reply carelessly, "who indeed?"



"why not yourself?" say the housekeeper eagerly.



"I?" he ejaculate in surprise.



"yes, you," she retort vehemently. "I be as you say the nurse of

that boy. I have love he far more than his dead parent ever do;

they leave he to I, and I stand in his mother's place: it be my

dearest wish that he should succeed--with money he can do so. I have

serve you long and faithfully and ask no favour, but now that you

have mention his name, I ask this first and last favour of you, give

he money and help he to succeed."



"do you think I'm mad?" cry the old man shrilly. "why should I help

he? what be he to I? I have gather all my wealth by year of

self-denial. I want to enjoy it in my next existence, not squander it

in this by help a pauper."



"and yet you talk of the golden hour of youth," she reply bitterly.

"it's easy saying, but hard doing. what be a hundred pound to you?--a

drop in the ocean. what be it to him?--everything."



"I cann't part with my money," he say doggedly, turn his face away.



her voice take a tender tone as she plead for her son.



"he have no claim upon you, I know, but think of his youth, his

talent, waste in this dull village. you say you will remember in

your next body what you have do in this; for year you have never

do a kind action to a human being, do one now by help this lad,

and your next existence will be none the bad for having help an

unknown man."



the old man make no reply, but be clearly move by her argument.



"and again," say Patience, still in the same anxious voice, "with

your help he will make a position in the world. what position will

you occupy? with all your money, you may be bear a prince or a

ploughboy--you do not know--but in whatever station you be bear, his

influence, his friendship, may be a help to you, and it will be all

the more precious when you know it be your work."



the woman's voice die away in a soft manner, and she anxiously

watch the old man's wrinkle face to see if he would do what she

ask. evidently her word appeal either to his selfishness or good

nature, for, turn towards she, a smile spread over his crabbed

face.



"I'll do it, Patience," he say quickly. "I'll do it--perhaps he will

be of help to I in my next life--get I my cheque book, and I'll

write a cheque for fifty pound--no more--no more. I cann't afford it."



"fifty be no use--say one hundred," she urge eagerly.



"well, well! one hundred," he say peevishly, "it's a large sum, still

it may do good to I. I'll write a letter with it, and tell he he

must do what I ask in my next life. will he do that?"



"yes! yes!" she reply impatiently, in nowise affront by his

selfish motive. "he be not the man to forget a kind action."



"you don't thank I," he say angrily, as she go over to the

escritoire and get his cheque book. "grasp! ungrateful!"



"I'm not ungrateful," she retort, bring the pen and ink to he

with the cheque book, and a block of blot paper to write on, "but

I do thank you. I be never one for lip service."



"Bah! woman be all alike," he say viciously, sit up in bed, and

seize the pen. "go and bring I some letter paper and an envelope."



she do so, and return to his bedside by the time he have write the

cheque.



"I've post-date this cheque," he say cunningly, "because I willn't

send it to he till just before I die."



"what do you mean by post-date?"



"this be the twelfth," he reply, smooth out the letter paper, "I

have date it the thirtieth."



"how do you know you'll die then?"



"I don't know if I will, you fool," he retort angrily, "but I think

so--if I don't I'll write another cheque."



"yes, and change your mind."



"no--no--a promise be a promise--if he help I in the future I'll

help he now--be quiet, you cat, I want to write."



she remain silent, and very slowly and painfully the old man write a

letter, then he direct the envelope to Reginald Blake at the

Vicarage and place the letter and cheque therein. after do this he

close the letter and tell she to bring sealing-wax and his seal.



"what for?" she ask, go over to his desk.



"because I'm not go to let anyone but himself see what I have

write--you needn't be afraid--I will do what I say, look at the

cheque, you fool."



she have bring a candle to the bedside so that he could melt the wax

for the seal, and as he hold the cheque out to she she read it in the

dim light.



"it's all right," she say with a sigh of relief, "I thank you very

much."



"you needn't," he retort cynically, seal the letter with the

Garsworth arm. "I do it for my own sake not his; now put this letter

in the desk and let I see you do it."



he hand she his key, so take they and the letter over to the

desk, she deposit it in the place indicate by his lean,

outstretched finger, and having lock it safely up, blow out the

candle and bring the key back to he.



the Squire place they under his pillow, then lie down again with a

sigh of exhaustion.



"there, I've do what you ask," he say in a dull voice, "now go

away. I'll sleep a little."



Patience carefully tuck all the clothe round he and then leave the

room with a look of triumph on her face.



"now, Basil Beaumont," she say when she be outside the door. "I

think I can laugh at you and your threat about my son."









CHAPTER XXII.

PHANTASMAGORIA.





     shadow of what be shadow--live once

     now naught but ghost among a world of ghost.

     who know--we may but shadow be on earth

     and act the other life's reality.





Miss Cassy be greatly excited over the afternoon tea to which she have

bid Mrs. Larcher and the rest of the vicarage inmate. it be a

long time since she have take part in a little social festivity such

as she have be accustom to in London, so both herself and Una

determine it should be a success. in the dreary dismal life they lead

this be a little mild excitement, consequently, it be to they as

great an event as the ball of the season to a Town belle.



Reginald and Pumpkin walk over to the Grange, but Mrs. Larcher be

drive over in state by Dick Pemberton, who drive at such a speed that

he nearly rattle the vicar's wife into hysteric. consequently on

arrive at her destination, Mrs. Larcher be severely under the sway

of "The affliction" and have to be at once comfort with strong tea.

Cecilia have also be invite, and arrive at the Grange under the

guardianship of Miss Busky, who bounce the blind girl so rapidly

along the road that she enter the Park in a state of exhaustion.



the party all assemble in Una's private room, where they be shortly

afterwards join by bluff Dr. Larcher and Beaumont. jellick, having

wriggle in with the tea-cake and muffin, be dismiss altogether,

as Mrs. Larcher, under the influence of "the affliction," declare the

old woman make she feel creepy.



"she's so twisty, my dear," she observe to Una, "like a sea-serpent

you know--even the vicar have notice she."



"_Qui siccis oculis monstra natantia_," roar the vicar, quote from

his favourite poet, "though to be sure, I speak of she in the

singular."



"of course," say Dick slily, "she's singular in any case:"



"so very odd," giggle Miss Cassy, who be make the tea, "I don't

mean Jellicks, but what you say--pun you know--like what's his name,

Byron, have in his burlesque--not the Don Juan one you know, but the

other--so odd, ben't he?"



"not half so odd as Miss Cassy," whisper Dick to Reginald, but the

latter young gentleman, be engage with Una, do not reply.



"I don't know if I ought to eat muffin," say Mrs. Larcher darkly, as

Miss Busky bounce up to she with a plate of those edible. "so very

buttery--make I bilious--I've be bilious often, have I not Eleanora

Gwendoline?"



"yes, often, Mama," assent the obedient Pumpkin.



"I hope you're well now?" observe Beaumont politely, see the

lady's eye fix upon he.



"ah, yes, now," sigh Mrs. Larcher, stir her tea, "but will

it last? the question be will it endure? my affliction be so

capricious--I'm very weak--quite a Hindoo."



"why a Hindoo, my dear?" ask the vicar, rather puzzle.



"because they be weak--die if you look at they," explain Mrs.

Larcher, "rice of course--they live on it and there's no nourishment

in it."



"by the way, Miss Challoner, how be the squire?" ask Beaumont, who

be lean up against the mantelpiece look rather bored.



"he's not at all strong," reply Miss Cassy, take the remark to

herself, "quite like a candle you know--so odd--might go out at any

moment--but Dr. Nestley be do he good; but I don't think the dear

doctor be well himself."



Beaumont smile slightly at this, guess the cause of the doctor's

illness, and glance at Cecilia, see the blind girl be tremble

violently.



"I hope he be not very ill," she say in her low, clear voice.



"oh no--he'll be all right soon--I think it's overwork," say Una

hastily, anxious to avoid any discussion of the doctor's complaint,

the cause of which she, with her feminine shrewdness, half guess.

"Cecilia, will you play something?"



the blind girl assent, and be lead by Una to the quaint old spinet

which stand in the corner. with the true feeling of an artist Cecilia

do not play anything noisy on the delicate instrument, but a dainty

old gavotte which sound faint and clear like the sound of a silver

bell. all the company be charm with the delicacy of the music

except Miss Cassy and Mrs. Larcher who be converse about dress.



"I hope you like mine," observe Miss Cassy, look at the gown she

wear, which be of white muslin dot with pink bow. "I be afraid

I'd make it dabby--I'm afraid I have make it dabby--do you think so?"



Mrs. Larcher eye the production of Miss Cassy's artistic nature with

a critical eye, and pronounce her opinion that it be dabby, thus

reduce poor Miss Cassy to the verge of tear. when Cecilia finish

the gavotte all present urge she to play something else.



"it's like fairy music," say Beaumont. "I love to hear those old air

of Purcell and Arne play upon such an instrument. it's so thoroughly

in keep with the idea. the lyric in 'a Midsummer Night's Dream'

set to the old-fashioned music and play on a spinet, give one a

charming idea of the court of Oberon and Titania."



"and Miss Mosser play so charmingly," say Reginald, gaily.





     "'o testudinis aureæ

       Dulcem quæ strepitum Pieri tempera,'"





quote the vicar, in his rolling bass.



"I prefer the sweet harmony of the spinet to the lyre," say Beaumont,

smile.



"dear I, vicar," observe Mrs. Larcher angrily. "I wish you wouldn't

be always talk Latin. no one understand it."



"that's hardly a compliment to the gentleman present, my dear," say

Dr. Larcher in his most stately manner, "but, as Horace say, 'oh,

mater pulchra'----I beg your pardon, I will refrain from the bard."



"now, Mr. Blake, I want you to sing something," say Una, crossing

over to Pumpkin.



"certainly--some old English melody, I suppose, to match the spinet.

'Phyllida flout I,' or 'mistress mine where be you roam?'"



"let we have they both," say Beaumont, lazily. "very likely the

ghost of the old Elizabethan lyrist will come and listen."



"you'll see a real ghost shortly," say Una mysteriously, as she and

Pumpkin, after a whisper consultation, move to the door.



"the ghost of whom?" ask Reginald, who be stand by the spinet.



"Lady Betty Modish or Sophia Western--which ever you like--town or

country," reply Una, laughing, and thereupon vanish with Miss

Larcher.



"what do she mean?" demand the vicar in astonishment.



"something very odd," say Miss Cassy, shake her girlish head. "yes,

quite like a play. the School for what's-it's-name. Sheridan, you

know--quite lovely."



and now Reginald begin to sing the quaint old song "Phyllida flout

I," while Cecilia, who know the music off by heart, play the

accompaniment. the night be begin to close in, and the room be

full of shadow, light in a fantastic manner by the red glare of the

fire, which flash on the tarnish gild frame of the picture and

the sombre face look from the wall. Beaumont, lean his elbow

on the mantelpiece, listen quietly, while opposite to he the vicar,

ensconce in a great arm-chair, cross his leg and keep time to the

music with his spectacle.



so gay and charming the old song sound. nothing of the sickly

sentimentality of the modern drawing-room ballad--nothing of the

florid passion of the italian school--but all fresh and wholesome,

like a gentle wind blow freely over an english meadow, white with

daisy. Reginald sing the complaint of the unhappy lover charmingly,

and end amid a subdue murmur of satisfaction, even Mrs. Larcher

be pleased.



"so simple," she say, nod her head. "quite soothing, like a

cradle. ah, there be no song now-a-day like the old one."



"my dear, we be past the age of Corydon and Chloe," reply the

vicar. "Virgil and Horace would find no Arcady to sing about now."



"well, I don't suppose that Imperial Rome be more arcadian than

London," say Beaumont, lazily, "but I'm afraid we've lose the charm

of simplicity."



"ah, you've never hear 'Lady Bell,'" say Dick wisely.



"no. I must confess my ignorance," reply the artist. "who or what be

Lady Bell?"



"it's a song--simplicity, if you like. Reggy find it among some old

music at the vicarage."



"do he indeed?" observe the vicar placidly. "no doubt it belong to

my grandfather. I think that music be all burn. _Damnosa quid non

imminuit die?_"



"he spare this, sir, at all event," say Reginald gaily. "Miss

Mosser, you can play 'Lady Bell'?"



"yes, I think so," reply Cecilia, strike a chord. "it haunt I

when I first hear it. sing it now, Mr. Blake."



Whereupon she play a prelude of silvery-sound chord, and

Reginald sing the old ballad of "Lady Bell." how, despise all the

beaux, she give her heart to a plain young country squire, and leave

the delight of Ranelagh for the quiet of a village. so dainty and

crisp ring the music to the simple story with its arcadian end.





     "my Lady Bell in gold brocade,

      look not so fair or trim a maid

      as when in linsey woollen gown,

      she leave for love the noisy town."





and then the door open as Reginald end the delightful old song,

and surely on the threshold stand my Lady Bell as she appear at

Ranelagh, in powdered hair, in shimmer of gold brocade, with wide

hoop and patch on her arch-look face, with dainty red-heel

shoe and skilfully manipulate fan. it be surely Lady Bell that

step so stately into the room in the red glare of the fire to the

melodious clearness of the gavotte play by Cecilia, who, be

whisper to by Reginald, at once seize the spirit of the jest. or

perchance one of the old Garsworth dame have step down from her

gilt frame, and, attract by the familiar tinkle of the spinet, come

to look at what gay company be assemble in the oak parlour; but no,

it be to their eye Lady Bell, fair and dainty as of old, who sweep

into the firelight with tap of high heel and sweep of stiff

brocade.



"we must have light to see this," cry Dick, jump up from his

chair.



"no, no, I protest!" say Beaumont, lift up his hand. "it will

spoil all. this be not Miss Challoner, but Lady Bell--a ghost from the

day of powder and patch come to visit we. she move in mysterious

shadow--a light will cause she to melt away."



"I'm too substantial for that, I'm afraid," laugh Una, wave she

fan. "but ben't this a charming dress? I find it the other day, and

think I would give you all a fright."



"I don't think you could give any one a fright," whisper Reginald,

whereupon she flash a saucy look at he out of the shadow. the

sweet, clear music be still steal through the room, and Beaumont,

in his low, languid voice, talk idly.



"Lady Bell, I admire you vastly. how have you leave London and the

modish company at Soho? surely no highwayman stay you on the way

hither in your coach and six? and what of my Lord Mohun? be there any

news at Will's coffee-house, and do the belle admire the new opera of

Mr. Handel? come, tell we the news."'



"I would need to be a gazette to do so."



"and you be not--only a fair dead woman from the perish past, come

to show we what wit and beauty go out with powder and patch. ah,

my dear Lady Bell----"



at this moment he be interrupt, for a wild shriek ring through the

house, and all present spring to their foot, look at one another in

wild surmise.









CHAPTER XXIII.



the end of all thing.





     we may have die in be bear to earth

     perchance our dying be another birth.





the shriek be utter by Patience Allerby, and when the whole

party, recover from their surprise, go upstairs they find she

lean against the door of the squire's room, with pale face and

terrify-look eye. beyond, half see in the dim candlelight

which illuminate the room, lie a dark shapeless object on the floor.



there be no need to say what have happen, for in the air there be

that indescribable feeling which tell of the presence of the great

destroyer. leave Patience to the care of Beaumont, to whom she clung

with convulsive terror, Dr. Larcher reverently enter as he think

the chamber of death. he bend down to the form lie so still on the

floor, and turn the face to the light with tender hand. it be

ghastly pale, and from the thin lip there flow a thin stream of

blood; still the vicar see at a glance that life yet remain, so

call softly to Reginald and Dick, the three man lift the body up

gently and place it on the bed.



Beaumont have succeed in somewhat pacify Patience, and induce the

woman to go downstairs while he send for the doctor to examine the

sick man. they all re-assembled in the oak parlour, and terrify

face and subdue whisper take the place of merry look and jocund

laughter.



attract by the housekeeper's shriek, Dr. Nestley now enter the

room, and proceed to see what he could do towards revive the

squire. Beaumont glance keenly at he as he pass, but though his

face be pale and heavy-look, still he be perfectly sober. he

catch the artist scrutinise he, and draw himself up with an

angry frown, pass he by without a word.



"what be the matter, doctor?" ask the vicar anxiously, when the

young man have conclude his examination.



"Aneurism," he reply briefly. "the body be thoroughly

debilitate--he have burst a main artery."



"be it his heart?" ask Reginald.



"if he have burst any artery in the vicinity of the heart, he would

have die at once--even now he cannot live very long--I expect

this?"



"what produce the rupture?"



"some sudden emotion, I presume, or violent exercise--here come the

housekeeper; she will tell we all about it."



Patience, look pale but compose, and in answer to the

interrogatory of the doctor, tell the follow story:



"the squire be quietly sleep in bed," she exclaim calmly, "and I

fall asleep in the chair by the side of the bed--he must have arise

and go to his desk, for I be awaken by a fall, and see he lie

on the floor. I be so startled that I cry out and you come up--I

know nothing more."



owe to the remedy which Dr. Nestley be apply, the sick man now

revive, and moan feebly. shortly afterwards, open his eye he

stare wildly at the figure surround his bed, and try to speak,

but seem unable to make any sound beyond an indistinct murmur.



Dr. Larcher come close to the bed, and bend down speak distinctly

and slowly to the die man.



"you be very ill," he say in a pitying voice. "I hope you have make

your peace with heaven."



with a superhuman effort Garsworth raise himself on his elbow, and

stretch out his hand point to the desk.



"in there," he gasp. "Blake--there."



the effort be too much for he, for with a choking cry he fall back

on the bed a corpse.



Nestley, start to his foot, bent over the bed, and tear open the

squire's shirt, put his hand on his heart--it have cease to beat.



"he be dead," he say, in a coldly professional manner, "that last

effort kill he."



"dead!" echo Patience, who be lean against the curtain with

stare eye and a white terrify face.



"yes--dead," repeat Dr. Larcher gravely. "we can do no good now,"

and follow by Reginald and Dick he leave the room, wonder in his

own heart what the old man have mean by point at the desk while

pronounce Blake's name.



the melancholy news be convey to the terrified woman downstairs,

and shortly afterwards everyone depart, leave the inmate of the

Grange alone with its dead master. Una and Miss Cassy, stun by the

suddenness of the event, retire early to bed, and jellick, with the

help of Patience, lay the corpse out on the bed ready for the

undertaker. Nestley go to his own room and solace himself with

brandy; Patience remain by the side of the corpse to watch it during

the night, and over all the house there hang a shadow of fear and

dread which invest the place with awesome terror.



and that which once hold the soul of Randal Garsworth lie on the bed

under the heavily-drape canopy--a still white-faced form with the

dead hand cross on the dead breast, and on the white lip a

terrible smile. candle burn on each side of the body with a sickly

light, and a woman with her face bury in her hand knelt pray for

the dead man's soul.





"_oh God who art the Judge of all have mercy upon the soul of this

wretched man_."





not a breath of air in the vastness of the room, no sound, no blaze of

light--only the pale glimmer of the candle hollow out a gulf of

luminous light in the sombre blackness of the brood night.





"_oh God who art all powerful and just, let not the soul of this man

suffer for the sin of his life, for the mind which should have rule

the soul be a wreck and incapable of so rule_."





be there not a sneer upon the still feature of the dead man at this

prayer for his misspent, useless life--he that despise prayer and

only look upon his soul as useful to inhabit a new body so that he

could make it an instrument by which to enjoy the sensual thing of

this earth.



Midnight, and the wind be rise--with querulous voice it sweep

through the leafless tree and whistle through the chink and

cranny of the old house, make the dim light of the candle flicker

and flare in the dense darkness. no prayer now sound from the thin

lip of the watcher, for a sudden thought have dart through her

brain.





"_the letter for my son--I must get it from the desk_."





she rise softly from her knee, and put her hand under the pillow

whereon rest the head of the corpse, draw forth the key of the dead

man, hold her breath meantime, fearful lest he should arise and lay

cold hand upon she. the key chink musically in the silence, then

with stealthy stride and sound of sweep dress, she cross to the

desk, bent on obtain the letter write by the squire to Reginald

Blake.



the minute slowly pass, and the wind be still rise; now howl

furiously round the house, shake the shutter and flutter the

curtain as though wroth at witness the sacrilegious theft it be

powerless to prevent.



with the letter in her hand, the woman who have commit this crime

against the dead for the sake of her son, softly cross the room

toward the bed, replace the key in their old place under the pillow,

and slip the letter into her bosom, fall once more upon her knee

with tearful eye and outstretche hand.





"_God! God! if I have sin in this I pray for pardon, it be for my

son's sake, oh God, not for my own_."





Fearfully she look at the frozen face, cold and still in the

glimmering light of the candle; the dead have not see, the dead have

not hear--her crime be unknown to anyone on earth, but involuntarily

she look upward as though dread to see the all-see eye of God

burn menacingly through the gloom. then with an effort she betake

herself once more to prayer.





"_oh God, pardon I for my sin, and pardon those of this poor soul

who have of late go into Thy presence_."





one sinner fresh from the committal of a crime pray for the soul of

another sinner.



oh, the irony--the irony of the prayer.









CHAPTER XXIV.

MR. BEAUMONT win his case.





     in truth he have a silver tongue

     whose mild persuasive accent rung

       like music in her ear;

     despite her dread, despite her hate.

     she ever let he rule her fate

     and change her heart from joy elate

       to one that ache with fear.





the shadow of solitude and dreariness have ever hang like ill-omen

cloud over Garsworth Grange, but now the shadow be deepen by the

presence of death. to the eerie atmosphere of the old house have be

add a new element of fear, and every lonely room, every shadowy

corner and every echo corridor seem to be fill with a weird

feeling of the supernatural. jellick and Munks be not by any mean

imaginative folk, but even they feel the influence of the spell of

horror which seem to brood over the lonely mansion, and converse

together in low whisper with furtive look around as if expect a

whole host of goblin and spirit to start forth from the brooding

shadow. Miss Cassy and Una both keep to their room, mutually try

to cheer one another, and the only person who seem to move about at

all be Patience Allerby, who glide through the bare room and dusky

passage like an unquiet ghost. and not unlike a ghost do she look

with her haggard face, burn eye, and slim figure, carry with

she the paper she have steal from the sanctity of the dead man's

chamber, the paper which hide in her bosom seem to her excited

fancy to feel bitterly cold as if its dead owner have grasp it with

his chill hand to drag it forth from its hiding-place. true, the paper

would benefit her son, and it be legally his, still the memory of

that stealthy theft in the dark night, while yet the corpse lie

stiffly on the bed, seem to haunt her conscious-stricken soul like a

crime.



and amid all this horror and dreariness which clung round the place,

the dead man lie in his coffin in the dismal room he have occupy

during life. no flower be place on the bed or on the coffin, no

relative weep over the white set face to melt its frozen apathy with

hot tear, no voice of lamentation be hear bewail a good man's

fate; lonely in death as he have be in life, Randal Garsworth, who

have sacrifice the pleasure of this earth to a delusion, lie unloved

and uncare for in the silent room as if he have lie for generation

in the vault of his ancestor.



sometimes when Munks or Jellicks have take their turn in watch the

body, Patience would come for a time and, kneel down, pray for the

dead man's soul; but the sneer look on the still countenance seem

to mock her prayer and she flee away in horror at the thought that

gibe smile provoke.



on the second day after the death of the squire, a visitor come to see

Patience, one whom she half expect, and the housekeeper be not at

all astonish at behold Beaumont stand at the door of her room,

about four o'clock in the afternoon.



"why do you come here?" she ask half in anger, half in dread.



"because I want to speak to you," reply Beaumont, leisurely close

the door and take a seat. "I know it be not quite the thing to pay

visit so soon after a death, but Miss Challoner and her aunt be, I

believe shut up in their room, Munks and that serpent you call

jellick be safe in the kitchen, so I come in at the back of the

house quite unperceived to see you."



"what about?" she ask stolidly.



"I think you can pretty well guess," he reply coolly, "about the

conversation I have with you the other day--I want your answer."



"the answer be--no."



"be it, indeed--ah! we'd well chat over it for a time. I may

persuade you to change your mind."



"you'll never do that," she say with a kind of gloomy triumph,

"never."



"indeed--we'll see," he retort calmly; "by-the-way I hope you don't

mind I smoking, but it be so deucedly shivery in this tomb of a house

that it give I the creep."



"you can smoke," she say curtly.



"thank--you know I love my creature comfort."



he roll himself a cigarette, light it, and then blow a thin

cloud of blue smoke, cross his leg and look complacently at she.



"so you say no?" he observe with a smile. "of course you know the

consequence?"



"I do."



"and you be prepared to abide by they?"



"I be."



"noble mother! may I ask your reason?"



"yes--and I will tell you my reason," she say deliberately. "I half

intend to agree to your scheme the other day, as I think it would

benefit my son--but now I have find a way to benefit he without

participation in your villainy."



"the deuce you have," say Beaumont curiously. "how clever you

be--come tell I all about it."



she smile coldly at his evident uneasiness and go on speak

calmly with a certain malignant satisfaction which be not by any

mean acceptable to Mr. Beaumont.



"I ask the squire before he die to help Reginald Blake, tell he

I be the boy's nurse and anxious to see he settle in life, he

refuse at first but by work on his delusion about re-incarnation I

get he to give Reginald a cheque for one hundred pound."



"oh, and you think Reginald would prefer one hundred pound down to

ten thousand a year?" he say with an ugly look.



"Reginald don't know anything about it; the squire sign the cheque

and write a letter, enclose they both in an envelope and seal it

with his arm, then I, by his direction, lock it up in his desk."



"where it be still?"



"no, I have get it. I have it here," she say, produce the letter

from her bosom and hold it up to he.



"how do you get it?" he ask craftily.



"I watch by the body the first night after death, and remember

where he have put the letter, I take his key from under his pillow and

obtain it, then I lock up the desk and replace the key."



"ah, perhaps you don't know that you have be guilty of a felony?"



"I don't care," she retort defiantly. "you willn't tell?"



"willn't I? that depend; at all event I'd like to look at that

letter," he say, stretch out his hand.



she put the letter quickly behind her back.



"no, you willn't see it."



"why not?"



"because I don't trust you."



"very well," he say deliberately, "if you don't let I see the

content of the letter, I'll go straight to the lawyer when they

arrive and tell they you stole it."



"you would not be such a villain?" she cry in despair.



"I don't see why I shouldn't--you always think I bad, so why should

I give the lie to your estimate of my character by prove myself

good?--come, choose--the letter, or the exposure!"



Patience look at he in despair, as she know by her fatal admission

she be in his power--so, with a sudden gesture of anger, she hold the

letter out to he.



"take it."



Beaumont laugh softly, and take the letter daintily between his

thumb and forefinger.



"I think you'd have know," he say sneeringly. "now get I a

light."



"to do what?"



"melt the wax--I want to see what's inside this envelope."



"but you mustn't do that--it's seal with the Garsworth Arms--the

lawyer willn't pay the cheque if they find the seal have be tamper

with."



"I can re-seal it with the Garsworth Arms," he reply coolly, "don't

be alarm. I know what I'm about."



she look at he irresolutely, then apparently recognize the

futility of resistance, she light a candle and bring it to he.



with a dexterity only acquire by long practice Mr. Beaumont deftly

melt the wax of the seal and speedily open the letter. first he

take out the short note, write by the Squire, which he read aloud to

Patience, the content be as follow:





"_I give you this money to help you in your life. when I be bear again

in another body, and come to you for help or friendship, you must help

I, if I ask, on my reminding you of this money I now give you--for no

one but ourselves will know of this transaction, so you can be certain

that he who speak to you of it will be myself in a new body_.



"Randal Garsworth."





"as mad as ever, I see," say Beaumont, with a sneer, put down the

note. "now for the cheque."



he glance at it quickly--see that it be for one hundred pound,

payable to Reginald Blake, and date the thirtieth of the

month--whereupon he give a low whistle.



"what's the matter?" ask Patience, quickly.



"to-day, I believe, be the fourteenth?"



"yes--I know what you're go to say--the cheque be date the

thirtieth--I understand that."



"yes, and you, doubtless, understand that the squire die on the

twelfth, and that this cheque be waste paper?"



"Waste paper?"



"exactly--it's date after the squire's death, so to all intent and

purpose, the squire be not legally in existence when he sign it."



"what nonsense!" she say impatiently. "I see he sign it myself."



"of course you do," he reply smoothly. "you don't seem to

understand I--a cheque be generally suppose to be sign on the day

it be date; and as this be date the thirtieth, and the Squire die

on the twelfth--well--it's so much waste paper."



"the lawyer will pay it when I explain the circumstance."



"the lawyer have nothing to do with it--the executor might,

certainly, recognize it as a claim against the estate, but it be

entirely optional with they; if you bring an action, you would, no

doubt, recover on the cheque, but I'm afraid the cost would swallow

up the amount claim."



it be in order to get she to consent to join in his scheme that

Beaumont thus argue in such a subtle manner, and he certainly

succeed in his plan; for, by take away her last chance, he reduce

she to despair.



"then I can do nothing to help my son?" she cry, with a terrible

expression of anguish on her face.



"yes, you can--help I to get Reginald the property."



"I'm afraid."



"Afraid of what?" he ask, with supreme contempt, "the law?"



"No!--I'm not afraid of the law--but I be afraid of the curse this

money will be to Reginald, if it's unlawfully obtain."



"oh, if that be all your objection, I think you can set your mind at

rest," reply the artist, with a sneer. "I'll help he to spend the

money, and take my share of the curse. don't talk rubbish--by put

Reginald in possession of ten thousand a year you will be harm no

one--the money which should rightfully become Una Challoner's will

still become her by marriage, and two people will be make happy--if

you will not help I, I'll tell Reginald all about his birth, and he

will remain a pauper--if you help I, he will retain all--if you

decline, he will lose everything."



"I do not see what chance I have against you," she cry in despair.



"no more do I!"



"you villain!" she say, furiously. "why do you come and tempt I to

sin like this?"



"I'm not tempt you to sin--don't I tell you, it will harm no one.

come, give I your answer--yes or no?"



"yes," she say, faintly, "I agree."



"you will say that Reginald be the son of Fanny Blake and the squire?"



"I will--for his sake."



"I don't care for whose sake you do it," he retort, brutally,

rise to his foot. "you've agree to help I, so that's all I care

about--now I'm go to get the paper."



"where be they?"



"that's my business," say Beaumont, coolly saunter to the door.

"I'll fix up the necessary proof, all you've get to do be, to tell a

consistent story--I'll instruct you. by the way, you be quite sure

Una Challoner, and that fool of an aunt, be out of the way?"



"quite sure--they be in the oak parlour."



"no chance of their come out?"



"none."



"very good--then I can get what I want, without suspicion. have you

get the key of the Squire's desk?"



"no, Dr. Nestley take they yesterday from the room, to give they to

Miss Una."



"confound it--have he do so?"



"I do not know."



"that's a nuisance," say Beaumont, reflectively; "I want to put the

paper in the squire's desk and lock they up so that they may be find

there in a natural manner. I must get those key. Humph! never

mind--I'll hit on some plan; when do the lawyer arrive?"



"tomorrow afternoon."



"well, I'll arrange the paper to-night, and bring they to you

to-morrow morning; they must be put in the desk secretly. now,

good-bye at present, and mind, I have your promise."



Patience nod silently, and turn away with a calm but determine

face, while Beaumont go away to carry out the detail of his

nefarious scheme.



"I have do all I could to resist temptation," she say to herself,

bitterly, "I can do no more. if I do sin it be for my son's sake, not

my own."









CHAPTER XXV

a dexterous arrangement.





     attention to detail make a perfect whole.





when Mr. Beaumont arrive at "the House of Good living" about six

o'clock, he propose first to have his dinner, and then to go in for a

good night's work in arrange all the detail of his scheme to place

Reginald Blake in the possession of the Garsworth estate.



though he have tell Patience that he would not admit Reginald into his

confidence in order to spare the moral nature of the young man, this

be hardly the true reason, as, in the first place, he be afraid,

from what he have see of his son, that the young man would not consent

to be a party to the swindle, and, in the second, he wish to keep

the true fact of the case to himself, lest Reginald should prove

difficult to deal with, in which case, by threaten to dispossess

he of the estate, he could keep a firm hand over the unconscious

victim of his scheme. thus, by a little dexterous lying, he benefit

in two way, appear kindly-dispose in the eye of Patience, and

yet keep his own secret as a useful weapon in time of need.



as soon as he discover the squire's secret, he foresee that he would

have to imitate the old man's penmanship in order to fill up the blank

space in the document address by Garsworth to his suppose son, and

therefore, having obtain a speciman of the dead man's handwriting he

practise assiduously, in order to commit the forgery as dexterously

as possible. this be to he a comparatively easy matter, as he have a

pretty talent for imitating handwriting, which he have exercise

before, though not in any fashion likely to bring he within reach of

the law. luckily, he have not to sign any name, as the squire have

already attest his signature to the paper, and all he have to do be

to fill up the blank leave in the body of the letter. it have evidently

not be write very long, and, the ink not having fade, he have to

make no preparation to imitate the colour, but merely allow the word

he insert to grow black like the rest of the content of the

document.



he therefore intend to fill up the blank with the necessary

detail, re-seal the envelope direct by the squire to Reginald Blake

which have contain the cheque, with the seal-ring in his possession,

and then, after place the letter and ring inside the envelope,

re-seal it in such a way as to avert all suspicion.



to this end he shut himself up in his bedroom on finish his dinner,

and spread out before he the document which he have abstract from

its hiding-place in the ball-room. the letter address by the old man

to his supposed son be as follow:





"my dear Son,



"_you will, doubtless, be surprised at receive a letter from I, but

I have the strong claim to write to you, as I be your father. I

know that you be under the impression that you have a father and

mother already: but they be not your real parent. I, Randal

Garsworth, be your true father, and_

_of_                               _be your mother, and you be

bear in_                              _your true parentage be

conceal for reason of my own. I now make the only reparation in my

power, which be to put you in possession of my property; for, though

you be not my lawful son, you be certainly my lawful heir. take this

letter and the seal-ring enclose_ (_bear my crest_), _which will

be find among my paper after my decease, and see my lawyer, Messrs.

Binks & Bolby, of Glutcher's Lane in the City of London, and they will

be sufficient to prove your identity as my son. I have make my will in

your favour, say you will produce the ring and this letter as a

proof of your identity. the will be, of course, in the possession of

my lawyer as above mention, and I hope you will carry out the

instruction regard legacy, etc., mention in my said will. as

we have be stranger, it would be folly for I to express any

regret, and all I can say be, that I hope the amount of the estate I

leave you will compensate for the moral stain on your name_.



"_I remain_,

"_your affectionate father_,

"Randal Garsworth."





after read this extraordinary document Beaumont lay it down and

laugh heartily. of course, Garsworth be quite mad, therefore his

folly be excusable; but that he should think to claim his property on

such flimsy evidence be really the strong proof of his insanity.



"luckily," observe Mr. Beaumont to himself, "I can supply all the

missing link by bring forward Patience to prove the birth of

Reginald as Fanny Blake's child in London, explain the absence of

registration and baptismal certificate, and give a much more definite

birthplace than he be likely to give."



he thereupon apply himself to his work and, after practise the

name he wish to fill in on piece of waste-paper, he insert they

in the original document, the clause which give he all the work

reading as follow:





"_i, Randal Garsworth, be your true father, and Fanny Blake, of

Garsworth, be your mother, and you be bear in Chelsea, London_."





having finish this with infinite pain, Mr. Beaumont eye his work

in a very complacent manner.



"when that ink be dry," he say, thoughtfully, "it will turn as black

as the rest of the writing. I'll wait till to-morrow morning before I

put it into the envelope, just to see how the name look by daylight."



he take the letter write by the squire to Reginald and also the

cheque, and place they carefully away in one compartment of his

pocket-book, then he place the envelope, the seal-ring and the

original document, wide open, in a small despatch-box, so that the

ink would dry properly. having lock the box, he put the key in his

pocket, light a cigarette, and consider his next move.



"I must get the letter lock up in the squire's desk," he say to

himself. "but how? very likely Nestley have give the key to Una

Challoner, then there will be no chance. if I cann't get the key to

lock it up I'll slip it among some loose paper in the desk

to-morrow--but it would look well lock up. I think I'll walk over

to the Grange and find out if Nestley have the key still."



on go down stair, however, he discover that there be no need

for he to walk to the Grange, as he find Nestley seat in the

parlour, apparently in very low spirit, drink hot whisky and

water. when he see Beaumont his face flush, and he look away, for

the unhappy man, having lose his self-respect, feel his moral

degradation keenly. Beaumont, however, pretend not to notice his

action, but advance towards he shake hand warmly, and ask after

his health in the friendly manner possible. Nestley be cold and

short in his reply at first, but under the quiet warmth of

Beaumont's fascinating manner begin to talk more amiably.



"excuse I drink this hot whisky. it's so very cold, to-night," he

say, in a deprecate tone, "and I've have a long walk from the

Grange."



"yes, and you'll have a cold walk back," say Beaumont, in a

sympathetic manner.



"I'm not go back," reply Nestley sadly, look down at the

table.



"not go back," echo the artist; "why not?"



"I've finish my business at the Grange, and it be no use my staying

there; besides, Miss Challoner dislike I so much that it be painful

for I to live in the same house with she."



"how do you know she dislike you?"



"it's easily see; her manner be quite sufficient--besides, by

persuade I to give way to this again," he add vehemently,

touch his glass, "you have cause I to lose all hope and

self-respect; every person who look at I seem to be pity my

downfall."



"well then, give up the drink."



"what's the good?" say Nestley despairingly. "I leave it off for five

year, yet such be my weak nature that I yield to your persuasion,

and now it have get complete mastery of I again."



"you seem determined to regard I as your evil genius," say the

artist deliberately. "why I do not know. I suggest a little wine on

that evening, in order to cheer you up--that be all."



"All! and quite enough too. you know, in the old day, when I take one

glass it mean more."



"I be not to blame for your weakness."



"no doubt--but know that weakness you might have leave I alone."



"well, well," say Beaumont impatiently, "my back be broad enough to

bear your sin as well as my own. what be you go to do now?"



"stay here for two or three day, and then go away," reply Nestley.

"I've risk my all on the cast of a die--and lose, so I'm go back

to my own town, and live out the remainder of my life as well I can."



"have you say good-bye to Miss Challoner?"



"no, nor do not intend to; she know my degradation. I can see it in

her eye, in her manner, in the way she shrink from I. I have lose

the good part of myself--my self-respect."



Beaumont be hard and callous as a rule, but he could not help feel

a pang of pity for the abject misery of the man whom he have bring so

low.



"come, come, Nestley," he say cheerily, pat the doctor on the

back, "I'm truly sorry I ever persuade you to touch the wine, but

you'd well leave this place at once. when you be back again, in

your own home, you will once more take up your old life of temperance

and hard work."



"it be too late--the evil be do."



"Rubbish! it's never too late to mend; leave Garsworth without delay."



"and leave you to make love to Miss Challoner!"



"I," say Beaumont, with an enigmatic smile, "nonsense--I'm past the

age of love--you can make your mind easy on that score; but, as I will

probably see Miss Challoner, shall I make your adieux to she?"



"if you like," return Nestley gloomily, "and give she these

key--they belong to the squire, and I forgot to give they into her

possession."



here be a wonderful piece of luck; the very key he be in search of,

deliver into his hand without any difficulty whatsoever. Beaumont

do not believe in astrology, but surely at that moment he must have

think his lucky star be in the ascendant. with his habitual

craftiness, however, he suppress all outward manifestation of joy,

and take the key from Nestley with an assent smile.



"I willn't forget," he say calmly, slip they into his pocket, "and

you will take my advice about leave the village."



"why be you so anxious for I to go?" ask Nestley suspiciously.



"for your own good."



"and for your own end too, I've no doubt," retort the doctor

bitterly. "you never do anything in your life without a motive."



"very well," say Beaumont, stroll to the door, "if you don't

choose to take my advice, stay here and drink yourself to death, as

you will surely do--please yourself, my friend."



"please myself," echo Nestley, when the door close on Beaumont. "I

intend to, Basil Beaumont--you've get some plan to carry out, or you

would not remain so placidly in this dull village--so I'll stay and

see the game out; and, if I can thwart you I will, if it's only to

punish you for the evil you have do to I."









CHAPTER XXVI.

UNA make a CONFESSION.





     he may be poor, and quite unknown,

       in rank there may be man above he;

     but my heart beat for he alone,

       you ask the reason; this--I love he!





the next morning Beaumont examine the important document, upon which

hang the fate of his scheme, in order to see by the search light of

day if a close scrutiny would reveal in any palpable degree his

alteration. accord to his expectation, it appear eminently

satisfactory, for the word he have insert have turn quite black,

and assume the ebon tint of the rest of the handwriting, so to an

ordinary observer the entire document appear to have be write by

one person. true, if it be submit to expert in a court of law,

the forgery might be detect; but Beaumont be quite satisfied in his

own mind that the paper would never have to stand such a test. the

direction in the will, the production of the paper and seal-ring

mention therein, and the evidence of Patience Allerby as to the

birth of Reginald, would be quite strong enough evidence to put he in

possession of the property, even if Una should contest the affair,

which he know she would not do when she find that the heir who oust

she from her rightful position be Reginald Blake.



be therefore perfectly satisfied, Mr. Beaumont take the envelope,

direct by the Squire to Reginald Blake, at the vicarage, and having

place some new wax on the close fold, he stamp it with the

Garsworth arm by mean of the seal ring. then place the document he

have so carefully prepare inside, together with the ring, he melt

the under portion of the wax till it become soft and firmly close the

letter so that no one, from its appearance, could detect the fraud.



this be do, he place the important letter, together with the

key give to he by Nestley, in his breast coat pocket, and set off

gaily to the Grange, in order to place it where it could be easily

find.



he have invent some trivial explanation to give to Una and Miss Cassy

should he meet they before carry out his plan, and, of course, on

having do so, the mission of deliver the key to Una would be

ample excuse for his intrusion on their grief. Fate, however, stand

his friend, for by go round to a side door he be enable to enter

the house, and go to the housekeeper's room, unseen by anyone, save

Jellicks, who admit he.



Patience, look pale and wear, arise to receive he, and he half

dread to glance at her lest she have alter her mind. her first

remark, however, reassure he at once.



"have you arrange everything?" she ask eagerly.



"yes! here be the precious document," he reply, produce the

envelope, "and here be the key of the squire's desk."



"where do you get they?"



"from Nestley; he give they to I to return to Miss Challoner, as I

intend to do after place this letter in the squire's desk. there's

no time to be lose, Patience--take I up to the room at once."



"wait a moment," she reply cautiously, grow a shade paler. "I'd

well go and see that Miss Cassy and Miss Una be safe in the oak

parlour first. wait here."



she glide out of the room like a ghost, and after an absence of ten

minute return to Beaumont with a more composed expression on her

face.



"they be at breakfast," she say in a whisper, "no chance of be

disturb by they. come along, but make no noise. every sound echo

through this old place."



silently and stealthily they steal along the dark passage, which,

owe to the light filtering through grimy window, have a dusky

appearance. softly over the echo pavement of the gloomy hall, up

the wide staircase with the old Garsworths frown on they from the

wall, as if they know their wicked errand, along the chill length of

the upper corridor, and then the slow turning of the key in the lock,

the gentle opening of the door, and they stand in the presence of the

dead.



so still, so lonely, so cold, with the heavy curtain draw over the

wide window, only admit faint streak of light which stole

whitely through the heavy atmosphere of the room. on the bed be the

black coffin, with the dead man lay therein. on either side tall

candle be burn with a sickly light, and the heavy drapery of

the bed hang motionless as if freeze with horror. in the dim shadow

of the far end of the room, where the faint daylight and the faint

candlelight produce an unnatural twilight, stand the desk, and

towards it Beaumont step with a stealthy activity, suggestive of

the sinuosity of a tiger. after he, soft-footed and pale, steal the

woman up.



"in which recess do you lock up the letter?" he ask in a low

whisper.



she indicate the place with outstretched finger and shudder as she

hear the click of the key turning in the lock. a subdue rustle of

paper, a soft, shut sound, another click as the key turn again,

and the first part of the scheme be achieve.



in the shadowy light of the room their face look pale and haggard,

as they speed silently and rapidly towards the door, as though they

fear lest the dead man should arise from his coffin and call upon

they to stop. do no frown pass over that marble face? do no sound

hint to they that a disembody spirit stand near the bed wail over

the failure of its cherished scheme through the treachery of humanity?

no, all be still as the grave as the two companion glide out of the

room, along the corridor, down the stair, and find themselves once

more in the housekeeper's room.



"Faugh!" say Beaumont, on whose pale face the bead of perspiration

be stand, "what unpleasant work. give I some brandy."



the housekeeper silently leave the room and shortly return with a

liqueur glass of the liquor, which he toss off rapidly, and the

effect be soon see in the glow which come over his face.



"you ought to have some yourself," he suggest, hand she back the

glass.



"I don't require it," she reply coldly. "I'm use to the atmosphere

of this house. you be not."



"it's like a charnel-house," he say, with a look of disgust. "well,

I've do my part of the affair. now, all you've get to do be to swear

Reginald be Fanny Blake's son. I'll leave it to your ingenuity to tell

a good story."



"you can be certain of that," she reply coldly. "I've do with all

scruple, and since it be to enrich my son, you may be sure I will do

my good. and now I suppose in order to avert all suspicion, you'd

well see Miss Una."



"yes, of course. I want to return she these key," he reply,

jingle the bunch. "if any question be ask, of course you can

swear I have not be out of the room. but I don't think you need be

afraid, everything will go quite smooth. there be a strong motive."



"and the motive?"



"Una's love for Reginald. now go and tell she I be here."



when Patience leave the room on her errand he dust his boot with his

handkerchief, pull down his shirt-cuff and settle his tie and hair

in the mirror over the fireplace. by the time Patience return he have

quite recover his nonchalant manner, and be hum a tune when she

enter.



"well?" he ask, face round.



"it's all right. she will see you," reply the housekeeper, and,

catch up his hat and stick, Beaumont follow she along the passage

to the oak parlour.



Una and Miss Cassy, both in deep mourning, be seat at the

breakfast-table when he enter, and as the door close on Patience,

he apologise for disturb they.



"of course I would not have think of intrude on your grief," he

say, in a courtly manner, "but the fact be, Miss Challoner, I have a

message for you from Doctor Nestley."



"ah, poor, dear doctor," whimper Miss Cassy, dab her red

eye-lid with a pocket handkerchief. "he's go away--so very odd."



"I don't think so, aunt," observe Una quietly. "he have do all he

could for my poor cousin, and now it would be merely waste his time

for he to remain. what be the message, Mr. Beaumont?"



"just to give you these key," he say, hand the bunch to she.

"they belong to the squire, and Nestley pick they up after the

death, intend to give they to you, only he forget all about they

till it be too late, so ask I to bring they to you."



Una take the key with a grave bow.



"thank you very much, Mr. Beaumont," she say, put they in her

pocket. "it be very kind of you to bring they. I trust Doctor Nestley

be well?"



Beaumont shrug his shoulder, the meaning of which action she

understand with feminine quickness.



"let we hope he will be quite well when he return home," she say

with emphasis, her colour rise. "I be truly sorry for he. where do

he contract this unfortunate habit?"



"oh, in London, I believe," say Beaumont carelessly. "I know he

there five or six year ago. he be very fast in those day. then he

pull up and reform altogether. I be sorry to see he resume his

old habit."



Mr. Beaumont do not think it necessary to explain how he have tempt

the unhappy young man, so poor Nestley be blame severely by both

lady for his evident tendency to fast living.



"so dreadful," pipe Miss Cassy, lift up her hand. "I really

cannot understand it, and the dear doctor be so nice. really, it's

very odd. oh, be you go, Mr. Beaumont? so sorry--good-bye."



Beaumont bow to both the lady and then leave the room, quite

satisfied with his interview.



"I think I have fix up everything satisfactorily," he mutter to

himself, as he light a cigarette outside on the terrace. "if

Patience only carry out her part of the affair as well as I have

do mine, we'll soon put Reginald in possession of the property, and

then--it's my turn."



Miss Cassy watch he cross the terrace, and turn to Una with a

look of admiration in her eye.



"what a handsome man Mr. Beaumont be--so distinguish?" she say

volubly. "quite like a Spanish what's-his-name, you know."



"he's not bad-look," reply Una absently, "but I prefer Reginald."



"Mr. Blake?" say Miss Cassy, rather astonished to hear her niece

speak of he in such a familiar way.



Una see that she have betray herself, so, go over to the eld

lady, put her arm round her waist caressingly.



"Auntie, you must have see it all the time."



"seen what?" ask Miss Cassy, open her eye widely.



"that I love Reginald."



"Love Reginald Blake! oh, my dear--how very odd."



"I don't see it's odd at all," reply Una blushing, "we love one

another very dearly."



"but, my dear, he's nobody."



"he's everybody--in my eye," say Una fondly.



"what would the Squire have say?" observe Miss Cassy in dismay.



"forbid the marriage, I've no doubt," reply Una, "so that be why

we keep our engagement quiet--but now we be free to marry."



"oh, Una, how heartless you be--so odd, and the poor squire just

dead."



"my dear auntie," say Una gravely, "I be the last person in the world

to speak ill of the dead, but I cannot feign a regret which I do not

feel; the Squire ask we down here for his own gratification--not

our; we have live on our own money, and not his; he have take no

notice of we at all--so neither you nor I can pretend to weep over the

death of a man whom we hardly ever see, and who certainly do nothing

to deserve tear."



"but still, he may have leave you his fortune," urge Miss Cassy in a

tearful voice.



"I doubt it," reply Una with a sigh, "but fortune or no fortune, I

cannot pretend to a grief I do not feel."



"and you be quite determined to marry Reginald Blake?"



"quite--we love each other devotedly."



"I'm sure I hope so," say poor Miss Cassy whimpering, "it's just like

a romance of what's-his-name--so very odd; he be good-look, I

know--but money--he's get no money."



"I don't want money--I want he."



"he's get no name."



"he'll make one with his voice."



"I'm sure," cry Miss Cassy in despair, "I cann't see what you see in

he."



Una close the argument in a most decisive manner.



"I love he."



this remark be unanswerable, so Miss Cassy dissolve in tear.









CHAPTER XXVII.

the SQUIRE'S WILL.





    "how strange a testament be this, my lord?

     the outcome of a most fantastic brain.

     'tis but a mirror that reflect his life,

     with all its twist and turn and madcap argument."





Mr. Bolby, the junior partner in the legal firm who have control of the

Squire's business, be a little, red-faced man, with a round head set

upon an equally round body, which, in its turn, be support by two

short, sturdy leg. his face be clean shaven, save for two little

tuft of white hair, which stand out on each cheek in startle

contrast to the crimson of his complexion, and his baldish head be

sparsely scatter over with similar tuft. he dress in a somewhat

gay manner, and have a loud, cheerful voice of a chirpy nature, also a

curious habit of use the same word twice over in different way.



on arrive from London at the Grange he be hand the squire's key

by Una, and at once proceed to look over all the private paper of

the dead man. evidently he have some object in do so, for he never

rest until he have look through every document in the desk, and

having make himself master of the precise state of affair, rest

quietly until the day of the funeral, vary the monotony of this

somewhat dreary life by pay frequent visit to the vicarage, where

he have several lively argument with Dr. Larcher on archæological

subject.



at last the day of the funeral arrive, and the dead man be bear

with great pomp to the ancestral vault in Garsworth Church, where

numerous generation of the family have already moulder for many

century. some of the county family come to the funeral, but most

of they send their carriage to represent they, as Randal Garsworth,

owe to his secluded life, have be by no mean popular, and they

only come themselves or send their representative from a sense of

courtesy.



so the long procession, head by the ponderous hearse with its

stately black horse and nodding plume, leave the coldness of

Garsworth Grange for the similar coldness of the family vault, and on

arrive at the lichgate of the graveyard, be meet by Dr. Larcher

and his curate. the coffin be take into the church, and the vicar

read the funeral service in his most impressive manner, after which

Cecilia play the "Dead March" from "Saul," and the remain of randal

Garsworth be convey to their last resting-place in the dismal

vault. this be do, the heavy door be once more closed until

the death of some other member of the family would require they to be

open, and the great part of the mourner go their different

way, while Dr. Larcher, accompany by Reginald and Dick, return to

the Grange in company with Mr. Bolby, to hear the will read.



Dr. Larcher be oblige to be present, as he be co-executor with Mr.

Bolby, and he take his two pupil with he for the sake of company,

Reginald be nothing loth, as he have not see Una since the death of

the squire.



so charming she look in her black dress as she stand amid the fade

splendour of the drawing-room, receive the visitor with graceful

courtesy. her manner be calm and self-possess, and she do not give

way to any manifestation of grief on the death of her cousin, a

contrast to Miss Cassy, who loudly bewail the Squire's decease, as

if he have be her dearest and most intimate friend.



"such a gentleman as he be," she whimper, wipe her eye, "quite

one of the old school--a regular what's-his-name of the Regency--very

odd, ben't it?"



Dr. Larcher himself think that Miss Cassy's ostentatious grief be

very odd, see it be for a person of whom she have see very little,

but he say nothing beyond a few word of sympathy, as he quite

understand Miss Cassy to be one of those demonstrative people who weep

alike at funeral or wedding, and display their feeling openly on the

least occasion.



after partaking of some cake and wine, Mr. Bolby seat himself in a

stately manner in order to read the will, and everyone prepare to

listen. Dr. Larcher look pityingly at Una, for he know the content

of the will and what a blow it would be for she to lose the property,

but as he have expostulate with the Squire at the time of execute it

he could do no more, so thing have to take their course.



"this will, gentleman and lady," chirp Mr. Bolby, put on his

spectacle, "lady and gentleman, this will be make five or six

year back by my client decease--my deceased client be then, as I

have no reason to doubt, in full possession of his sense, that is, he

have his sense in full. I will now read the will, and of course you

will please listen attentively to the will read by I."



it be not a very long document, as, after leave small legacy to

Patience, Jellicks and Munks, the Squire have bestow upon Una an

income of a thousand a year, and all the rest of his property be leave

to Dr. Larcher and Simon Bolby in trust for the natural son of the

deceased, who would prove his claim in due time by produce a letter

write by his father, and also the seal ring of the family.



there be a considerable sensation at the conclusion of Mr. Bolby's

reading, as no one think the squire have any offspring, and, in spite

of her presentiment that she would never get the property, Una could

not help feel disappointed, as it seem to be a bar to her

marriage with Reginald. however, she have a thousand a year, and they

could live on that, so after a moment's reflection, she do not grudge

this unknown son his good fortune. Miss Cassy, however, be not so

easily satisfied, and loudly express her anger at the Squire's

duplicity, which sound rather comical consider how she have be

previously praise up his virtue.



"so dreadful!" she say indignantly, "a son we never hear of--how

very odd!--who be his mother?--where be he born?--what be his

name?--is most peculiar."



"it be very peculiar," assent Mr. Bolby drily, "particularly when I

tell you I don't know any of the three thing you have state--that

be, the three thing state by you."



"do you tell I, sir," ask the vicar in his ponderous manner, "that

you don't know the name of this son?"



"no."



"nor the name of his mother?"



"no."



"nor his birthplace?"



"I give you my word of honour," say Mr. Bolby solemnly, "that I be

absolutely ignorant of all these--of all these, my dear sir, I be

ignorant absolutely."



all present look at one another in blank astonishment, and it be

some time before anyone could speak. Una be the first to recover, and

at once address herself to the lawyer.



"if this be the case," she say slowly, "how be this unknown son to

claim the estate?"



"do you not hear the will read, my dear lady?" reply Mr. Bolby

equably. "do you not hear I read the will? the son must produce a

letter write to he by his father, and also the seal ring of the

family."



"but you surely would not give an unknown man the estate on such

slight evidence?"



"what can I or Dr. Larcher do," say the lawyer with a deprecating

shrug, "Dr. Larcher and myself; what can we do? if he have the paper

and the ring, he be undoubtedly the heir if he produce the ring and

the paper."



"it's the will of a lunatic," cry Miss Cassy angrily.



"I assure you he be in his right mind when it be write," chirp

Mr. Bolby placidly, "my dear lady, in his right mind I assure you."



"I will contest this will," say Una firmly.



"well wait, my dear young lady," say the lawyer, "my dear young

lady, well wait--till the heir appear."



"but suppose he never appear?" suggest Dr. Larcher.



"oh, he'll turn up all right," say Bolby calmly, "people don't give

up ten thousand a year so easily--no--ten thousand be not so easily

give up by people."



"but Mr. Bolby," say Una in despair, "be there no note or certificate

among my cousin's paper which can lead to the identification of this

unknown person?"



Mr. Bolby produce a letter from his breast coat pocket. "now we be

come to it," he say with great glee. "I think such a thing might

be possible; so as it be possible such a thing might be, I search

and find this letter--it be seal with the arm of the family, and

be find by I lock up in his private desk, so everything so far be

in order--I'm sure you will agree there be order in everything so far;

it certainly have a ring inside it, for a ring be inside certainly, as

I can feel it. to my mind this envelope contain the letter and ring

mention in the will."



the curiosity of everyone be now rouse to the high point, and Una

ask the next question amid a breathless silence.



"to whom be the letter address?"



a profound silence ensue, during which the proverbial pin might have

be hear to drop, as the lawyer reply solemnly and slowly,



"the letter be address to 'Mr. Reginald Blake, Vicarage,

Garsworth.'"



"address to I?" cry Reginald in an astonished voice, spring to

his foot. "impossible!"



"see for yourself," reply Bolby, hand he the letter.



Reginald take it in silence and stand hold it irresolutely for a

few moment, during which time he glance round at the astonished

face present. at last with an effort he tear open the envelope, but

overcome with emotion seem unable to proceed far, and cross

the room, give the open envelope to the vicar. Dr. Larcher arise

from his seat as he take the letter and look steadily at the young

man.



"do you wish I to read it?" he ask slowly.



Reginald bow silently, and sit down in the vicar's chair.



Whereupon Dr. Larcher take the letter out of the envelope, leave the

ring still inside, and having open it, read the content in a slow,

deliberate manner. everyone listen in amazement to the extraordinary

disclosure, and every eye be fix on Reginald, who sit in his chair

with his face bury in his hand.



"this then," say the vicar fold up the letter, "prove that you

Reginald be the son of Randal Garsworth and Fanny Blake, for here be

the letter, and here be the ring."



he step up to the lawyer and solemnly deliver both to he, then

return to his seat lay his hand kindly on Blake's shoulder.



"you hear what I have read," he observe sonorously. "what do you

say?"



"say?"' cry the young man, spring to his foot with a pale,

haggard-look face, "that it's a lie--you know yourself, sir, that I

be not the squire's son--Patience know all about my birth--it be

honourable--honourable. I--I be not the son of that man," and the poor

young fellow fairly break down.



on hear Reginald be the heir to the property a great joy appear

in Una's face, but it give place to a look of pity and sorrow as she

see how keenly he feel the ignoble circumstance of his birth.



"there be only one thing to be do in order to make sure," she say,

rise. "call Patience Allerby."



Dick Pemberton go out of the room to fetch she, and during the dead

silence which now prevail Una walk across the room to Reginald and

take his hand.



"this make no difference to I," she whisper fondly. "do not think

that your birth will stand in the way of our marriage, I love you too

well for that."



"God bless you," he mutter brokenly, and clasp her hand

convulsively.



the housekeeper enter the room look pale and wear, with a hard,

defiant expression on her face, as if she be determined to face the

affair out to the bitter end, as indeed she be. on hear she

footstep Reginald arise unsteadily to his foot and look at she

anxiously. on see the anguish in his face she seem to falter

for a moment, but soon recover, and veil her agony under stolid

composure.



"Patience," say Reginald in a broken voice, "I have learn by a

letter from Squire Garsworth that I be his son, and that Fanny Blake

be my mother--be it true?"



she bow her head and reply slowly.



"perfectly true."



Reginald fling up his hand with a cry of anguish and fall back in his

chair--it be true--the possession of ten thousand a year could never

cleanse away the stain which rest on his birth.



"why do you deceive the lad?" ask Dr. Larcher sternly.



"by order of his father," she reply doggedly. "if you remember, sir,

I go to London with Fanny Blake over twenty-two year ago; she tell

I the squire have ruin she, and that be why she leave the village;

six month afterwards her child be bear and she die. I bring the

baby down to the village to the squire, he refuse to recognize his

own offspring, but say he would pay for the boy's keep, so to save

the good name of the child, I invent the story of the parent die

in France, and place it in your care, and he have grow up all these

year under the name of Reginald Blake."



"and Reginald Blake be the squire's son?"



"yes. I hope he have do the boy justice at last."



"he have. by his will Reginald Blake be acknowledge as master of

Garsworth Grange."



Patience give a cry of delight, and with a face beam with

tenderness approach the young man. he arise slowly from his chair as

she come near he fix his wild eye in horror on her face. she see

the look and half recoil, but offer her congratulation timidly.



"you be now rich--" she begin, when he interrupt she furiously.



"Rich!--rich! who care for rich? I be dishonour for the rest of

my life. I have no right to the name I bear. you have deceive and

trick I with your lie, lead I to believe that my birth at

least be without dishonour, and now--now, I find my life have be one

long lie. do you think money will ever repay I for the stain on my

birth. I declare to God that I would willingly become the pauper I be

if I could only regain my self-respect with my poverty. look at I all

of you. I be rich! young, and a bastard."



with a cry of passionate anger he rush from the room, and with an

answer cry of anguish Patience Allerby fall faint on the floor.









CHAPTER XXVIII.

the bitterness of DEATH.





     we call death cruel, but death end all strife,

     Dishonour turn to gall the sweetest life.





to say that those who have assemble in the drawing-room of the Grange

to hear the will read be astonish at the extraordinary disclosure

they have hear, would give but a faint idea of the amazement they

feel. that the squire should have leave his large fortune to a son of

whom no one have ever hear be most remarkable, but that the son in

question should turn out to be Reginald Blake be almost beyond

belief.



still, after examine all the evidence of the fact, Mr. Bolby come

to the conclusion that there could be no doubt as to the identity of

the young man.



accord to the story tell by Patience Allerby, who be well known to

be the nurse of the boy, he have be bear at Chelsea, London, six

month after Fanny Blake's arrival there, and have be call by his

mother's name. on bring he down to the village, Randal Garsworth,

no doubt dread the scandal, refuse to recognise his son, but

agree to pay for his keep. patience, therefore, have do the good she

could under the circumstance, and have place the boy with Dr.

Larcher, tell he that his parent be dead, thus give he at

least the fiction of an honourable birth. it have be a lie, no doubt,

still it be a lie the nobility of which there be no denying, and one

which would hardly be set down by the Recording Angel.



as to the strange discovery that have be make, everyone see at once

that the squire have try to make tardy reparation for his sin by

leave his property to his unfortunate son; and the evidence of the

will itself, the evidence of the letter find in the squire's desk,

and the evidence of the seal ring, all show plainly that the young

man be really and truly the mysterious son allude to in the will.

besides, accord to Dr. Larcher, the squire have mention Reginald's

name on his death-bed, and point towards the desk, intimating, no

doubt, that the document which would give the young man his just right

be hide there, as indeed it be. altogether, on review the whole

case through, Mr. Bolby declare it to be the most extraordinary one

that have ever come under his notice. there could be no doubt but that

justice have be do, and Reginald be formally recognise by

everyone as the master of Garsworth Grange.



of course, the absence of registration and baptismal certificate

would doubtless have prove a stumble-block in a court of law, but,

as Beaumont have foresee, there be no hesitation upon Una's part to

surrender the property to one whom she believe to be the rightful

heir, and moreover, when Mr. Bolby discover that the two claimant

be engage to be marry, he declare that it be a very neat

solution of the difficulty, although, as a matter of fact, owe to

the clearness of the case on the one side and the refusal to test its

truth by legal process on the other, no such difficulty have ever

arise.



Beaumont be now extremely satisfied with the way in which his

conspiracy have succeed, as he have place his son in possession of a

fine estate, worth ten thousand a year. now his next object be to

gain control of this large income through the young man himself.

thank to his ingratiating manner, he completely succeed in

fascinating Reginald, who admire he greatly, and Beaumont only

want to have the young man in his company for a few month to become

indispensable to he. he propose to become Reginald's right-hand man,

at a fix salary, and with authority to look after the estate, out of

which he foresee he could make some nice picking. to do this,

however, he would have to get Reginald away from the village, as

Patience jealously watch her son, and if she think for one moment

that Beaumont be try to take advantage of his lack of worldly

experience, be quite capable of expose the whole swindle.



Fate, however, once more play into his hand, for Mr. Bolby, having

recognise Reginald as the heir, insist upon his come up to London

to see his partner, and be put in formal possession of the estate.

Beaumont therefore determine also to go to London first, so as not to

arouse the suspicious nature of Patience Allerby, and then call on

Reginald when he arrive later on. once he have an interview with he

in London he be quite satisfied that he could do what he like with

the plastic nature of the young man.



on his part Blake, or, as he be now call, Garsworth, be anxious to

leave the village for a time till the nine day' wonder be over, for

in spite of the consolatory feeling of have ten thousand a year, he

feel his position bitterly. having be bring up in an English

gentleman's household, he have imbibe rigorous principle all his

life, therefore it seem to he a terrible disgrace to have such a

stigma on his name. he be a nobody--a nameless outcast, unrecognize

by the law of England--and much as he want to marry Una, he shrink

from give she a name to which he have no legal claim. he dread lest

there should be child of such a marriage, in which case they would

have to bear the stigma attach to their father's birth, and he speak

seriously to Dr. Larcher about release Una from her engagement and

restore to she the property to which he feel she be justly

entitle. thus be the fruit of Beaumont's crime place in jeopardy

by the honour and upright feeling of the young man whom such crime have

benefit, but luckily for Mr. Beaumont, Una come to the rescue.



she plainly tell Reginald that she do not care for the circumstance

of his birth, which he could not help in any way, and as to she be

rightfully entitle to the property, if she marry he the property

would be just as much her as if it have be duly leave to she by the

squire. so after a great deal of persuasion from Una and Dr. Larcher,

Reginald come to accept his somewhat improve position with

equanimity.



"I cannot stay here, however," he say bitterly. "everyone stare at

I as if I be a wild beast. I will go up to town with Mr. Bolby, and

return in a few month, when I get more used to the position."



Una fully approve of this, and agree to stay on at the Grange with

Miss Cassy until he return, then they would be marry, and go

abroad for a year, during which time the old house would be

redecorate, and they would then return to live in it, when all the

circumstance of his succession to the property have to some extent

be forget.



Beaumont, having hear this decision, determine to go up to Town in

advance and there await Reginald's arrival. so, after take an

effusive farewell of everyone, he depart, carry with he the good

wish of all with whom he have come in contact. only Patience do not

wish he God speed, but survey he grimly when he come to say

good-bye to she.



"I'm glad to see you go," she say coldly. "our son be now provide

for, and you have at least do something towards repair your

villainy. I hope I'll never set eye upon you again, but if ever I

hear of you meddle with Reginald in any way it will be the bad for

you."



"say the bad for both of we," retort Beaumont airily. "we're in

the same box over this affair, and punishment to I mean the same for

you."



so he take his departure, leave an excellent impression behind he,

and everyone hope he would come back again some day, which he

laughingly promise to do if his engagement would permit he.



"I'll see you in London, Reginald," he say to the young man, "and

anything I can do for you there, of course, you may command I."



Reginald thank he for his kindness, little think how treacherous

that kindness be, and then address himself to the work of prepare

for his own departure.



he have a long interview with Patience, in which she inform he that

the story tell by she to Dr. Larcher have be tell with the good

intention to spare he the truth, and on consideration he see for

himself that she have act for the good, so he forgive she for the

falsehood. patience stay on at the Grange, live her old life, and

feel quite satisfied now that the future of the human being she love

well on earth be secure.



Reginald ask Dr. Larcher to let he take Dick to Town, which request

the worthy vicar grant, only admonish Mr. Bolby to look carefully

after the pair.



"I love they as my own son," say the good man gravely, "and I dread

lest they should be lead into evil way in the great city--they be

young and untried--let they not drink, for what say Horace? '_Non ego

sanius, Bacchabor Edonis_.'"



"they willn't get any bad example from I," say Mr. Bolby, "from I

there's no bad example to be get. I'll take they to the theatre and

several amusement, but that's all."



so the vicar, full of anxiety for his dear boy, allow they to go,

and the last to bid Reginald farewell be Una.



"don't forget I among all the beauty of London," she whisper

archly; "or I'll come to Town to look for you."



"don't be afraid," he reply with an affectation of lightness he be

far from feel. "I will come back to you heart-whole, and then if

you'll have I we'll be marry."



so the poor lad depart, having learn already thus early in life

that wealth alone do not bring happiness.









CHAPTER XXIX.

from DR. NESTLEY'S POINT of VIEW.





     so low--so low--yes I be low indeed

     but he thy lover tho' of high estate

     will fall to this--I tell thee dainty dame

     the devil even now be at his ear

     breathing temptation in most subtle guise

     which soon will lose he all he hold most dear.





the autumn be now nearly over, and it be that bleak, chill season

just before winter when the tree, denude of foliage, seem to wait

for the snow to cover the bare branch which shiver complainingly

in the chill wind. under foot the ground be dark and sodden, overhead

the sky dull and lower, while piercingly cold blast blow across

the lonely marsh and whistle shrilly over the waste moorland.



dreary and desolate as it have look in summer time, Garsworth Grange

appear even more dreary and desolate under the sombre-colour sky.

the damp have discolour the white marble of the statue, which seem

lose amid the surround desert of bare tree and dead leave. it be

everlastingly rain, and Una, look out of the antique window at

the gloomy landscape see through the drive mist of rain, feel dull

and depressed. all day long the wind whistle through the dismal

room, and the rain ceaselessly drip from the eave, so it be

hardly to be wonder that both Una and Miss Cassy feel anything but

cheerful.



it be now about two month since Reginald have go up to town, and

Una have receive frequent letter from he about the way in which

everything be be arrange by the lawyer. of late these letter

have become feverish in tone, as if the writer be try to invest

his correspondence with a kind of fictitious gaiety he be far from

feeling, and this sudden change of style give her serious uneasiness.

she know how sensitive Reginald be, and how deeply he have feel the

discovery of his real birth, so dread lest to banish the spectre

which haunt he he should plunge into dissipation. in one of his

letter also he have mention that he have meet Beaumont in town, and as

Una learn from the vicar that Dick Pemberton have go to folkestone

to see his uncle, she feel doubtful as to the wisdom of an

inexperienced youth like Reginald be leave alone in London with a

reckless, man of the world like Beaumont.



she have mistrust Beaumont when she first meet he, but by his

fascinating manner he have succeed in overcome her repugnance, but

now that he be away the influence of his strong personality die out,

and she begin to dread his power over her lover's honourable,

guileless nature.



"I wish Reginald would come back at once," she say to Miss Cassy,

"and then we could be marry, and he would have some one to look

after he."



"I'm sure I'll be glad when you be marry," whimper Miss Cassy,

whose spirit the lonely life she be lead sadly depressed. "I'll

go melancholy mad if I stay here--I know I shall. I'm sure that ben't

odd, be it? I feel like what's-she-name in the Moated Grange, you

know--the weary, weary dead thing I mean, and the gloomy flat--not

half so nice as the flat we have in town. if we could only go to it

again--I feel so shivery."



and so Miss Cassy ramble on in a disconnected fashion, one think

suggest another, while Una sat stare out of the window, with

Reginald's last letter in her hand, wonder what be good to be

do.



"I don't trust Mr. Beaumont," she say at length. "he be not a good

companion for Reginald."



"oh, my dear," say Miss Cassy, pick up the tea-cosy, which she

keep by she to put on her head when she feel cold, "such a charming

man--quite a Lord what's-his-name in his manner."



"his manner be all right, I've no doubt," return Una drily, "but

what about his moral?"



Miss Cassy give a little girlish scream and extinguish herself with

the tea-cosy.



"what dreadful thing you do say, Una," she observe in a shocked

tone. "so very odd--quite like Zola, so very french."



"my dear aunty, I know you be one of those people who think that

unmarried girl should be absolutely ignorant of such thing. I don't

agree with you. there's no need of they to parade their knowledge of

evil, but they cannot help hear about it, however carefully bring

up. I know London be not a good place for a young man with plenty of

money, especially when he be so inexperienced as Reginald--besides,

Mr. Beaumont be a man of the world, whom I really believe life by his

wit--and if it be a case of his wit against Reginald's, my dear

aunt, I'm afraid poor Reginald will come off worst."



"what's to be do then?" say Miss Cassy blankly. "do you think if I

send dear Reginald some tracts----"



"I don't think that would be much use," interrupt Una laughing. "no,

I'll go over to Garsworth to see the vicar--he will know what be good

to be do. I will show he Reginald's letter, and I'm sure he will

agree with I that it will be wise to withdraw he from Mr. Beaumont's

influence."



"why don't Mr. Bolby look after he?" say Miss Cassy indignantly.



"I daresay Mr. Bolby have get his own business to look after," reply

Una with a faint sigh; "besides, he only regard Reginald from a

monetary point of view, nothing more--will you come to the vicarage

with I, aunt?"



"oh yes, dear," cry Miss Cassy with great alacrity, "the walk will

do I good, and I'm so dull--I'll talk to dear Mrs. Larcher, you know,

she's so odd, but still she's well than one's own company, ben't

she, dear?--let we get ready at once--the rain have go off I see."



"then let we follow the example of the rain," say Una with a laugh,

and the two lady go away to prepare themselves for their walk.



when they sally forth with heavy cloak and thick boot, they find

that for once the sun have show his face and be look through the

watery cloud in a somewhat feeble fashion. the ground under foot be

wet and spongy, still it be well than be immure in the dreary

Grange, and as they walk rapidly along their spirit rise in spite

of the depressing influence of the weather.



when they arrive at the bridge after a sharp walk they see a man

lean over the parapet look at the cold grey water swirling

below.



"dear I, Una, how very odd," exclaim Miss Cassy, "there be Dr.

Nestley."



"Dr. Nestley," echo Una rather startle. "I think he have go away

last week?"



"he be go, but for some reason do not," answer Miss Cassy, who

by some mysterious mean hear all the gossip of the village. "I hear

he be still stay at Kossiter's--drinking, my dear--oh dreadful--so

very odd."



by this time they be directly in the centre of the bridge, and

hear footstep Nestley turn round, show a wan haggard face

with dull bleared eye fill with mute misery. so ill and desolate

do the young man look that Una's heart smite she as she think the

change be bring about through her refusal to marry he, and though

she despise he for his weakness of character in thus be

influence, yet she still feel pity for the helplessness of the poor

fellow. Nestley flush as he recognize the two lady, then raise

his hat and without say a word turn once more to look at the

river. Una feel uneasy as he do so, for a sudden doubt arise in her

heart as to whether he do not intend to put an end to his life, so

take a sudden resolution she whisper to Miss Cassy to walk on by

herself to the vicarage.



"I will join you soon," she say in a low voice, "but first I want to

speak to Dr. Nestley."



"but it's so odd," object Miss Cassy, "really so very--very odd."



nevertheless she make no further objection and trot away through

the village street, leave Una alone on the bridge with Dr. Nestley.

though the unhappy young man know that she be still behind he he do

not turn round but keep stare dully at the foam-streaked water of

the Gar.



"Dr. Nestley," she say, softly touch he on the shoulder, "I want

to speak to you."



he turn sullenly round, though the touch of her gloved hand send a

thrill through his frame, and Una recoil with an exclamation of pity

as she see what a wreck he be. his face, formerly so fresh-colour,

be now grey and thin, his eye blear with dark circle under they,

while his nervous lip and shake hand show how deeply he have be

drink. even in his clothe she see a change, for they be

carelessly put on, his linen be dirty and his tie arrange in a

slovenly manner--altogether he look like a man who have entirely lose

his self-respect and care neither for his health nor appearance.



Nestley see the expression on her face and laugh, a hollow mirthless

laugh, which seem quite in keep with his wretched appearance.



"you be look at your work, Miss Challoner," he say bitterly,

"well, I hope you be satisfied."



Una's pride be up in arm at once.



"you have no right to speak to I in such a manner, sir," she say

haughtily, look at he with a proud cold face. "do not ascribe your

own folly to any fault of mine--that be both weak and unmanly."



the wretched creature before she droop his head before the severe

gaze of her eye.



"you would not marry I," he say weakly, "you would not save I from

myself."



"be I to go through the world save man from their own passion?" she

return scornfully. "shame upon you, Dr. Nestley, to take refuge

behind such a weak defence. surely because a woman refuse to marry a

man he ought not to lower himself as you have do, and then lie the

blame on she instead of himself--you ought to make an end of this

folly."



"just what I be think," he mutter, glance at the river. she

instinctively guess what the glance mean, and look at he,

say:



"would you add suicide to the rest of your follies?--that be a

coward's refuge and one not worthy of a clever man like you. come,

Doctor Nestley," she continue, lay a kind hand on his shoulder,

"be advise by I. give up this mad love of drink which be lower

you to the level of the brute, and go back to your home--then amid

your old companion you will soon forget that I ever exist."



"never! never!" he say in a broken voice.



"oh yes you will," she reply cheerfully. "time be a wonderful

consoler--besides, Doctor Nestley, I could never have marry you, for

though you do not know then you know now--I be go to marry Mr.

Blake."



"and what difference will that make to you?" he ask mockingly,

lift his dull eye to her earnest face.



"I do not understand you," she say coldly, draw back.



"then I can easily explain," reply the young man quickly, "the only

difference will be this--you love he, you do not love I--for the

rest both Reginald Blake--or shall I call he Garsworth?--and myself

will be equal in all else."



"you be talk wildly," say Una in an icy tone, "so I shall leave

you--permit I to pass if you please?"



"not till I have have my say," he retort, his eye grow bright. "I

can wring your proud heart now as you wrung mine then. I see your look

of horror when you look at I and see how low I have fall through

drink--in the same way you will look upon your lover when he return

from the guardianship of Basil Beaumont."



Una give a cry of alarm and reel against the stone parapet of the

bridge for support, while a cold hand seem to clutch at her heart.



"you have hear of those devil of old who tempt mankind," go on

Nestley rapidly. "yes, you have hear such story and think they

pious fiction of Catholicism--but it be true, quite true. there be

devil of like sort in our midst even now, and Basil Beaumont be one.

I know he in London five year ago when I be a young man just

start in life. I have no vice, I have great talent, I be devote

to my profession and all seem to promise a fair life. but Beaumont

come, devil that he be, in the guise of an angel of light, and ruin

I. he beguile I with his wheedle tongue and specious manner into

believe in he. having gain my confidence he lead I to gamble and

drink until I sink so low that even he forsook I--yes, forsook the

man he have ruin. it be when his fatal influence be withdraw that

I begin to recover. I take the pledge, leave London and its

fascination and plunge into hard work. for five year I never

touch alcohol and thing seem go well with I once more--but I

come down here and meet he again. I resist his persuasion for a

long time, but on the night you reject I I be wear out with

watch by the bedside of the squire, and sick with disappointment;

he persuade I to take a glass of wine--it be follow by

another--and then--I need not go on, but next morning I find I have

lose my self-respect. I give way to despair, there seem no hope for

I, and now see what I be, and all through Basil Beaumont--I have lose

my good name--my money--my position--everything--everything in the

world."



Sick with horror Una try to speak, but could only look at he with

white lip and a terrified face. see her alarm he resume his

discourse but in a somewhat milder fashion.



"your lover have go to London, and Beaumont be with he. he be the

possessor of money. Beaumont will want to handle that money; to do so

he will reduce Reginald Blake to a mere cypher. do you know how he

will do it? I will tell you. by fast living--he will reduce your lover

to the abject condition I be in, and through he squander the

Garsworth money. it do not matter how high Reginald Blake's

principle may be, how pure he desire to live, how temperate he may

have be, he be in the power of Basil Beaumont, and, little by

little, will be drag down to the low depth of degradation and

despair."



"no, no!" she cry, wildly, "it cannot be!"



"it will be, I tell you--I know Beaumont, you do not--if you would

save your lover, get he out of the clutch of that devil, or he will

become an object of horror to you as I be."



he turn away with a look of despair, and cross the bridge on to

the common, slouch along the muddy road without cast a glance

back, while Una, with pale face and tightly-clench hand, gaze

after he with mute agony in her eye.



"oh, great Heaven!" she moan, lift up her wan face to the grey

sky, "if this should be true--it must be true--I can see he be

speak the truth! Reginald to sink to that--no, no! I'll go and see

the vicar. I will tell he all--all! we must save he before it be too

late!"



with feverish impatience she begin to walk down the street on her way

to the vicarage, intent only on find some mean of save the man

she love.



and the man who have no woman to save he slouch wearily along the

road--a lonely, desolate figure, with only the grey sky above and the

grey earth below, with no hope, no peace, no love await he, but

only the blank, black shadow of approach sorrow brood over his

life with sombre wing.









CHAPTER XXX.

a mother'S AFFECTION.





   _niobe_. from cruel Ph[oe]bus all my child fly.

   _chorus_. fly then, oh Queen, else will they bring thee harm.

   _niobe_. what evil counsel be upon thy tongue?

   _chorus_. the counsel that would save thee from thyself.

   _niobe_. a mother's love should thus protect her child.

   _chorus_. from such protection cometh death to thee.

   _niobe_. death will be welcome if it cometh thus

            for naught thou know of true motherhood

            think that fear of death will drive I hence

            to leave mine offspring to Ph[oe]bean dart.





the next day be Sunday, and during the night there be a heavy fall

of snow, so the Garsworth folk be not a little astonish, upon

rise in the morning, to find the ground white, and the sky of a

dull, leaden colour. Una have see the vicar, and, in consequence of

the interview she have with he, have write a letter to Reginald,

which she be enclose in an envelope when Patience Allerby enter

in order to clear away the breakfast-thing. she see that Una have be

write to Reginald, and a gleam of interest cross her stolid face

as she look eagerly at her mistress. Una guess her thought, and,

know the woman's deep interest in Reginald, arise, as she

think, from the fact of Patience be his nurse, speak to she on

the subject.



"I be write to Mr. Blake," she say, close the envelope, "as I be

anxious for he to return to Garsworth."



"he be all right, be he not, Miss Una?" ask Patience, anxiously.



"oh, yes, I think so," reply Una, doubtfully, "but I have be

talk with the vicar, and he agree with I that it be dangerous for

Reginald to be in London."



"Danger--from whom?"



"Mr. Beaumont."



"Mr. Beaumont!" echo Patience, in a harsh voice. "what have he be

do to my boy?"



Una look at she in astonishment, for the whole face of the woman

seem transform, and instead of wear its usual calm expression

it be convulse with stormy passion. for once the mask have fall

off, and Una recognize the terrible force of character hide under

this woman's placid exterior. the housekeeper also feel that she have

betray herself and strove to recover she lose ground by an

explanation.



"I beg your pardon, Miss Una, if I speak angrily," she say

feverishly, "but remember I be Mr. Blake's nurse, and he be the only

be I care about in this world--if harm happen to he I would

never forgive myself."



"I hope there be no chance of harm happen to he," reply Una

gently, "but he be in London with Mr. Beaumont, and from what Dr.

Nestley tell I about that gentleman I don't think he be a good

companion for Reginald."



"Dr. Nestley," say Patience thoughtfully, "I be not aware Dr.

Nestley have meet Mr. Beaumont before."



"yes, I believe he meet he in London," reply Una, and proceed to

direct the envelope, while Patience think over what she have hear

leave the room.



when she have finish all her work for the day she retire to her room

in order to think over the conversation. judge from what Miss

Challoner have tell she Beaumont be try to ruin Reginald, and she

guess his motive for do so. Patience be well enough acquaint

with the artist to know that he do nothing without an object, and as

he have place Blake in receipt of ten thousand a year, she foresee

that his next step would be to handle it. as he could only do this

through Reginald he be try to get the boy completely into his

power in order to do what he please. as to Dr. Nestley's remark, he

evidently know something about Beaumont's former life, and patience

after some thought come to the decision that she would call upon Dr.

Nestley that afternoon and find out all he know about he.



having take this resolution she put on her thing and go out, after

tell Jellicks she would come back again in about two or three

hour.



outside the snow have cease to fall, and all the cold tint and

wretched appearance of the landscape be hide under a pure white

covering. the bare branch of the tree be all laden with powdery

snow, which be shake down in white flake at every breath of wind.

the long line of thorny hedge run along the white surface in black

line, and here and there tall, gaunt tree stand up in startle

contrast of colour. Patience, however, see none of the beauty of

winter, but trudge slowly along the half-obliterate road and think

of the peril to which Reginald be be expose by his own father.



then she cross the bridge, and, glance over the side, see the

leaden-colour water sweep drearily between the white bank, the

sloping roof of the church cover with whiteness like an altar

cover by the sacramental cloth; the heavy grey stone of the tower,

and beyond the tall red chimney of the vicarage, make a cheerful

spot of bright colour against the bluish sky.



she know that Nestley be stop at "the House of Good living," so

go straight there and ask for he, whereupon she be show into

the parlour, before the fire of which be seat the unhappy young

man, look more wear out and haggard than ever. he start to his

foot when he see Patience and stare anxiously at she, speak the

thought that be uppermost in his mind:



"be Miss Una ill?" he ask, think she have come for his

professional service.



"no, sir," reply Patience sit down and throw back her veil,

"Miss Una be quite well--I have come to see you on my own business."



"be you ill?" he ask wearily, resume his seat and lean his

head upon his hand, "what be the matter with you?"



"nothing at all," she answer coldly. "my health be all right, but I

wish to speak to you about Mr. Beaumont."



Dr. Nestley look at she in surprise, with a bitter smile on his

lip.



"what, you too?" he say derisively, "be you another of his victim?"



"no--I be not his victim--but, as you know, I be the nurse of Mr.

Blake, who lately succeed to the property, and as he be now in

London with Mr. Beaumont I want to hear from your own lip what danger

you think there be in such companionship."



"what can I say?"



"everything; you tell Miss Una your story yesterday and she say

something about it to me----"



"betray my confidence?"



"nothing of the sort, sir, she merely say you do not consider Mr.

Beaumont a good companion for a young man, nothing more--be it true?"



"perfectly true. I know what Beaumont be from my own experience of

he--he will drag Reginald Blake down to the low depth of

degradation."



the woman tighten her thin lip ominously.



"I don't think so if I can help it," she say grimly.



"then if you can help it--if you have any power over he--take blake

away from his influence or he will ruin he."



"be you sure?"



"sure," he repeat bitterly, "I know it only too well to my own cost,

God help I! Basil Beaumont be a devil, and never rest till he make

his friend as base as himself. Blake have get money, Beaumont want

that money, and will let nothing stand in his way to procure it."



"he have well not set himself up against I."



"what do you know about he?"



"More than he care the world to know."



"then use that knowledge to keep he away from Garsworth."



"I don't care if he come to Garsworth as long as he leave my--my boy

alone."



"your boy?"



"Reginald Blake--I be his nurse--I will get he to return here, and

if he marry Miss Una I don't think Mr. Beaumont will be able to do

much."



"he'll do this much," cry Nestley quickly, "he'll try and prevent

the marriage."



"why?" she ask curtly. "for what reason?"



"the good of all reason--he love Una Challoner himself."



Patience arise to her foot with a cry, her face turn to a ghastly

pallor.



"you--you--be mad," she gasp, place her hand on her heart, "it

cannot be true."



"it be true, I tell you," say Nestley in a harsh whisper, come

close to she. "Una Challoner would not listen to I because she love

Reginald Blake. Beaumont also love she and see Blake be an obstacle

in his path, he will remove that obstacle by fair mean or foul--but

remove it he will--he'll obtain such power over Blake that he will get

he to make a will in his favour, then--then--you can guess what will

follow."



"oh! but it's horrible--horrible--this man would never do such a

thing."



"I know Basil Beaumont--you don't."



"don't I!" she cry viciously, turn round. "I know he only too

well--I be a good woman once!"



"ah! I think you be another victim," say Nestley cynically. "and

what do you propose to do?"



"do!" she say fiercely. "I will write he a letter and warn he once

and for all--if he refuse to accept the warning I will show he no

mercy--he must give up all thought of Una Challoner--she shall marry

Reginald Blake and none other."



"she will never do that while Beaumont live--I know she love Blake,

but Beaumont love she, and what be those two innocent against his

devilish craftiness?"



"he have get to deal with I as well as with they," she say grandly.

"soon than Beaumont shall harm a hair of their head I will end his

life and his villanie at the same time."



"you would not kill he?"



"I will do what I say--if he do not accept the warning I send he,

his life be in his own hand not mine."



Nestley stand silent with astonishment, while without another word,

Patience sweep out of the room, and then only do he recover his power

of speech.



"Ugh!" he say with a shiver. "I believe she will--but no--Beaumont be

a man nothing can harm--devil be send upon the earth for some

purpose, and he be one."



he crouch down over the fire, the red light of which glare upon his

face, bring out all the line and hollows now stamp on it and

make he look very old and grey. outside, the night be close in

and he shiver again as the deep voice of the church bell ring

through the keen air.



"it's Sunday," he whisper. "Sunday night--I ought to go to church.

Church!" he repeat with a dreary laugh, "there's no church for

I--between myself and God stand the devil of drink."









CHAPTER XXXI.

PSALM CVII. 19.





                            some chance word

     may strike upon an inattentive ear

     and rouse the soul from selfish slumbering,

     to wrestle with a thousand subtle foe

     that would destroy its hope of Paradise.





outside the snow fall fast and thick from the dull impenetrable sky,

but within the church all be warmth and light. owe to the primitive

civilization of the village the holy edifice be only illuminate by a

few oil lamp, which just suffice to fill it with shadow. the great

arched roof above be completely in darkness, and hang low down,

almost on a level with the pew, the lamp burn with a dull yellow

light in the heavy atmosphere. on the communion table four taper

shine like amber-colour star, touch the white limb of the

Christ hang on the ebony cross with fitful light. a lamp enclose

in a red globe swing from the centre of the chancel arch, name

fiercely crimson like a red eye glare out of the semi-darkness, and

on each side of the pulpit two candle throw a doubtful glimmer on the

open bible. amid all this fantasy of shadow and light kneel the simple

villager with bow head, follow, with murmur voice, the

Lord's Prayer, recite by the vicar. the confused sound buzz among

the multitudinous arch, lose itself in faint echo amid the great

oaken beam, and then the thunder of the organ roll out a melodious

amen which die away in a whisper as, with a rustle, the congregation

arise to their foot to make the response.



during the singing of the psalm, the door at the low end of the

church open and, herald by a blast of cold air which make all the

lamp flicker, a man steal stealthily to a dark seat and kneel down.

this be Duncan Nestley, who, torture by madden thought and

overpower mental anguish have come to religion for consolation, now

kneeling, with hot dry eye and clasp hand, amid the shadow.



the evening psalm be that magnificent chant wherein David describe

Jehovah as come forth in all his glory, and the choir, really be

an excellent one, the rolling verse of the hebrew poet be well

render. the thin treble of the boy ring out piercingly shrill

through the mystic twilight.





"_he ride upon the cherubim and do fly: he came fly upon the

wing of the wind_."





then, without pause, the deep voice of the man thunder out the

sublime word:





"_he make darkness his secret place his pavilion round about he with

dark water and thick cloud to cover he_."





no wonder, as the great volume of sound rang through the church, the

heart of the unhappy man be fill with fear.



this terrible deity who come forth in such appalling splendour be his

enemy, this awful Jehovah of the Hebrews, in whose hand flash the

sword of vengeance, be his merciless judge, and kneel there with

tightly clench hand he feel crush to the earth by the fierce

denunciation thunder forth by the choir. but then a change come

over the terrible vehemence of the music, and sweet as a silver

trumpet ring out the proclamation:





"_the Lord liveth, and blessed be my strong helper and praise be the

God of my salvation_."





there be mercy then--this unknown Splendour whose terror have be

shadow forth with such grandeur have pity as well as vengeance; a

dull feeling of exhaustion steal over he as the psalm end with the

promise of mercy, and his dry lip move mutely as though to join in

the final "glory be to the Father."



he do not rise from his knee, but still in a posture of abject

supplication hear, as in a dream, the reading of the lesson and the

sweet kindly music of the hymn. it be only when the vicar, tall and

stately in his white surplice, mount the pulpit and give out the

text, that he stir. with a weary sigh he arise and sit down in the

pew, utterly exhaust by the conflict emotion rouse within he

by the music, but the word of the text give out by the resonant

voice of Dr. Larcher seem to convey some comfort to his despairing

soul.





"_then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble and he saveth they out

of their distress_."





he listen to the sermon idly at first, but soon find, to his

surprise, that he be follow the word of the preacher with close

attention. Dr. Larcher be no golden-mouthed Chrysostom by any manner

of mean, but he preach a plain, homely sermon, eminently adapt to

the simple congregation of which he be pastor. never for a moment do

he lose himself amid abstruse theological argument which they would

not have understand, but tell they practical truth in vigorous Saxon,

the meaning of which no one could fail to grasp.





"_for, my brother, when a man be at the low depth of despair it

be then that he first call upon the name of the Lord. in time of

peace and plenty, when our friend be around we and our coffer be

full, we be ala too apt to forget that all these benefit come from

the Almighty, and thus at time neglect to thank he for his many

mercy. but when the cloud of adversity gather around we, when the

love one sink into the grave, when our worldly wealth disappear

like snow, when our name become a by word of scorn and reproach, it

be then that we turn to God for that help which be deny to we by

man. and do he ever refuse to aid us?--No!--In the word of the

Psalmist, 'cast thy burden upon the Lord and he shall sustain

thee'--to the heart that be truly contrite he give peace and help in

time of need; none so low but what he will not hear and grant their

prayer if make from the heart. it be not to the terrible Jehovah of

the jewish nation, with pomp and pride of sacrifice and blow of

silver trumpet, that we of later generation appeal. no, since the

come of our dear Lord, who form the link between most high heaven

and lowly earth we offer up humble prayer to he in solitude and he,

the mild and merciful Father of we all dry the tear from our eye

and take the sorrow from our heart. if a man be weak and would

commit sin let he call upon the Lord and he will be strengthen--if

the temptation to which he have be expose have be too heavy for

his bearing and he have succumb, let he implore mercy of the

Almighty and he shall surely find it. alas! how often do we find

unforgiveness in man forget the word of Christ, 'forgive we our

trespass as we forgive those who trespass against we,' they turn

their face away and leave we abase in the dust, but Christ lift we

from that position of humiliation with comfort word, 'arise poor

sinner and thy sin be forgive thee, for to this end do I come into

the world.' if there be any one of you present who have sin let he

repent this night and he will find the peace of God which passeth all

understanding. if he be weak, God will give he strength to conquer;

if he be in despair, God will give he hope of pardon. pray--pray

unceasingly, for it be by prayer alone that our weak voice can reach

the ear of the eternal Father_."





Nestley wait to hear no more, but with a stifle cry of anguish flee

from the church into the cold, white world outside. stumble over the

tombstone, through the blind snow--now fall in thick flake--he

soon find himself in the open street, and urge by some mad impulse,

he know not what, he speed wildly onward through the market-place, over

the bridge and on to the trackless common. with clench tooth and

wild, stare eye he make head against the storm that be sweep

along. his foot make no sound on the yield snow and he glide along

like an unquiet ghost, the burn word of the sermon ring in his

ear.



he be in the low depth of despair and all man have turn their

face from he; he would call upon the Lord to help he--but would God

attend?--surely he would--what be the word of the text?







"_then they cry unto the Lord in their trouble and he saveth they out

of their distress_."





he also would cry and the Lord would save he from the terrible agony

he be endure. he would kneel down there and then in the snow and

call upon this unseen God, pavilione in the terrible splendour of

encircle cloud, to aid he.





"_God! help I!_"





no answer save the whistling of the wind and the soft sound of the

snow sweep past, caress his cold face with delicate touch.





"_God! show I how to be save_."





nothing, nothing, only the black sky above, the white earth below, and

himself, between the two, a reckless, despair man hold up his

helpless hand.





"_our Father which art in heaven_----"





how sweet those word sound; he have surely hear they at his

mother's knee--then he be an innocent child, but now! oh God, the

evil life he have live since then!





"_God! God!--pity and save!_"





it be get quite warm now and he feel drowsy; if he sleep for a

while he would then awake and ask God once more to save he; but no,

if he fall asleep in the snow he would never awake again, for this

treacherous snow would slay he with cold embrace. he would die--die.

ah! he could not die, even though lull to sleep by the siren voice,

and soft caressing of the snow queen; life be sweet, so he would

fight to retain it.



a long struggle and he be on his foot; the road! where be the road?

he could not see it. never mind, the snow and wind be at his back,

he would walk on till he come to the bridge, then he would be in

safety. oh, the weary, weary mile--half daze, half mad, he stagger

on, reel like a drunken man. would the road never come to an end?

oh this incessant whirl of snow-flake that he be in, it be the

dance of death and he be the dancer.



Quicker and quick fall the flake on the white common and over to

the dark surface of the Gar but no figure be struggle along now;

no, it be lie upon the bridge, a disorder heap of black clothing,

which the snow be rapidly hide beneath its soft white mantle.



over the bridge come the horse and gig of a sturdy farmer who have to

cross the wild white waste beyond to reach home, and the sturdy farmer

himself with his buxom wife beside he drive the wise old horse.

suddenly the old horse shy at the figure lie in the snow--a start

on the part of the farmer and his wife--then exclamation and call

for help, black figure come glide over the snow like shadow, and

kindly hand raise Duncan Nestley from his deadly resting-place.



take he to the inn, place he before a roar fire, force some hot

brandy between his blue lip, and rub his frozen limb to bring back

the circulation of the chill blood.



dead! no, not dead! he open his eye. in they there be no

intelligence, only a vacant stare--he babble a few word and then

fall back in a faint.



Delirious, yes, and delirious for many a long day, poor soul.









CHAPTER XXXII.

LONDON.



     London be the candle which, ever attract country moth by its

feverish glare destroy they remorselessly in its cruel flame.





Reginald Blake be not enjoy himself very much in Town owe to his

disturb state of mind. for year he have picture to himself the

marvellous city and his life therein; how he would one day find

himself a denizen of the great metropolis, eager to win fame and

fortune by the magic of his voice, how he would delight in lead the

ambitious, half Bohemian, wholly delightful existence of a singer, and

how he would be able to wander about the street and see the brilliant

life of the mighty city with its restless activity and ardent

striving after wealth, fame and novelty. Grey Westminster Abbey,

noble St. Paul's, the enormous pile of the Parliament House, the

golden-top column of the Monument, he would see all these, with

their wealth of historical, religious and artistic association. he

would tread the very street over whose stone wander proud

poverty-stricken Chatterton, courtly Addison and ponderous Dr.

Johnson; he would find the picturesque alley, house and road

describe in the fascinating page of Dickens, and he would stray

about the sacred purlieus of Drury Lane, haunt by the stately shade

of Wilkes, of Siddons, of Bracegirdle, and David Garrick. good

heaven, what innumerable fantastic castle do he not build in Cloud

Cuckoo Land about the unseen glory of London, where every street and

stone be redolent of the glorious history of England from Plantagenet

to Guelph.



oh, beautiful castle of Cloudland, how rapidly do their gorgeousness

disappear from his fancy before the disenchant touch of chill

reality. he be indeed in London, but alas it be not the magic London

of his dream, this enormous assemblage of house through which flow

a melancholy grey river and over which hang a dismal dark cloud of

smoke and fog. the London of romance and the London of reality be

two very different thing, yet the disenchantment of this dreaming

youth be not wholly due to the prosaic appearance of the city itself

but rather to the gloom and depression of his spirit.



the recollection of how his wealth have come to he weigh heavily on

his mind, cause he to view all thing in a most dismal manner, and

torture his sensitive disposition with irritate thought and

madden delusion. in vain he try hard to shake off this gloomy

feeling and enjoy the many-colour life of the great city; in vain he

tell himself that the accident of his birth be no fault of his own

and in vain he strove to take pleasure in the society of the man and

woman to whom he have be introduce by Basil Beaumont. it be all

useless, for a dark cloud of bitterness and distrust seem to settle

upon the joyousness of his life which lead he to view everything with

jaundiced eye. he feel that he have lose the adolescent zest for life

as Donatello must have do after he have stain his hand with blood,

and although he have youth, talent, good look, and wealth, yet all

these delightful gift of the fairy be neutralize by the fatal

gift of dishonour bestow upon he by the malignant beldame who have

prove herself the evil genius of his life.



as soon as the business connect with the Garsworth estate be

properly complete and he have be fully recognize as the heir of the

old Squire, Bolby consider that he have do his duty, leave the

young man and his friend Dick pretty well to their own device. Dick

enjoy everything with the inexhaustible appetite of youth, but

Reginald take his pleasure, such as they be, in a listless manner,

which show how completely he have lose all capability of enjoyment.



Mr. Pemberton have be rather irritated by the prosaic life they lead

when in the lead string of Mr. Bolby, whose idea of amusement

be of the most primitive nature, rarely extend beyond an

afternoon at the Zoo or a night at Madame Tussaud's or the Egyptian

Hall. the only thing Dick see in Mr. Bolby's idea of life, which he

consider at all meritorious be the excellent dinner which the

little lawyer give they, but Dick in his fly visit to Town have

taste of the Tree of Knowledge beneath whose shade be the music

hall and the burlesque theatre, so he be anxious to go to such like

place for his amusement.



when they leave Mr. Bolby, therefore, and be comfortably establish

in a quiet hotel in Jermyn Street, Dick, see that Reginald be

absolutely indifferent as to where he go, or what he do, take the

whole arrangement of their London life into his own hand and

succeed in go to a good many place which would have terribly

shock the vicar have he know. not that such forbidden pleasure do

they much harm, for both lad be extremely sensible for their age,

still Dick find himself able, through Reginald's generosity, to

spend a good deal of money, take his friend and himself to sundry

shady place of which they might just as well have be ignorant. but

Nemesis soon come down upon the unhappy Richard, and just as he be

develop into a fair speciman of a man about Town his bachelor uncle

at Folkestone write he a letter ask he to come down on a visit

and as Dick be suppose to be his bachelor uncle's heir, he have to

leave Town, much to his own disgust and to the regret of Reginald, who

miss his lively friend every hour of the day.



he still stay in Town, however, but as he know no one, his existence

be to say the least extremely dull. Reginald be essentially of a

social nature and want someone to whom he could talk, therefore he

be not sorry when one day Basil Beaumont, who have be wait for

the departure of Dick, call upon he and henceforth constitute

himself his bear leader. as they have see nothing of the artist since

their arrival in Town, Dick have never think of tell Reginald his

mistrust of the fascinating Beaumont, so the young man, remember

the artist's kindness about his probable career as a singer, feel very

friendly towards he and be quite prepared to accept his offer of

companionship as the outcome of a kindly disposition and not the

result of a carefully calculate scheme.



a more dangerous companion for a young man in a depressed state of

mind than Beaumont could hardly be imagine, for he lead Reginald to

plunge into riotous pleasure for the sake of distraction, from which

he would have otherwise recoil. have an eminently refined mind,

and a delight in cultured company, have he be thoroughly healthy he

would never have be draw by this modern Mephistopheles into the

vortex of frenzied pleasure in which his day and night be now

engulf. but, be in a morbid state of mind, he brood eternally

over the presume stigma attach to his name until it become a

perfect nightmare to he. he think that everyone know his miserable

story and despise he for the anomalous position he now occupy, so,

in a mad spirit of bravado, he become quite reckless, and determine

to defy the world which his sensitive spirit imagine to be sneer

at he as a bastard. terrible to relate, in spite of the relationship

exist between they, Beaumont, who should have prevent the young

man from fall into such an unhealthy state of mind, rather

encourage his gloomy fit than otherwise, as he think it would give

he a great hold than ever over his son, so deliberately lead the

unhappy young man on to ruin--ruin, not of his fortune or position,

but of his physical and moral nature.



in his good day, the circle of Beaumont's acquaintance have not be

a very large or reputable one, but now it be small and bad than

ever; nevertheless, he introduce the young master of Garsworth Grange

to his friend, whose manner, generally speak, be as polished as

their moral be bad. break down professional man, play-out lord,

ruin gentleman of fortune, shady hanger-on of society; these be

the daily associate of Reginald Blake, until his mind, eminently

calculate to receive impression, begin to grow corrupt. the

society of hawk be rather a dangerous thing for dove, and this poor

unsophisticated dove be of far too guileless a nature to mistrust the

bird of prey by which he find himself surround, though, to be

sure, his natural instinct of right and wrong save he from many a

pitfall.



not that the hawk around he do any harm to his pecuniary position,

for Beaumont be too selfish to allow anyone to have the plucking of

this well-feather pigeon save himself, and there be an unwritten

code of honour even among hawk, the young man be leave entirely to

the tender mercy of his evil-minded mentor. nevertheless, the long

night of play, the wile of woman whose beauty do not redeem their

frailty, and the constant life of excitement pass under the feverish

glare of the gaslight, soon destroy the fresh healthy feeling of

youth Reginald Blake have possess during the quiet year of his

country life.



when at time his well feeling prevail, and he would have flee

this unhealthy life of bitter-taste pleasure, Beaumont be always

at his elbow with some new device wherewith to beguile he to

destruction. Blake be not a weak-minded man by any mean, still he

be young and impressionable, and the sudden change from the poverty

and quiet living of Garsworth, to the opulent, brilliant life of

London, throw he off his moral balance.



no doubt he should have bravely resist the allurement of sin, and

the shallow frivolity to which he yield with the apathy of

despair, but, in the Armida-like garden of London, the keen eye

be blind, the acute sense be bewilder and daze by the hubbub

and brilliance around he, the victim fall only too easily into the

snare hide below the splendid pageant.



one thing, however, Reginald stoutly resist, and that be the

temptation to drink--he play nap and baccarat, lose comparatively

large sum thereat, mix in the society of woman who lure he onward

to destruction with siren voice, but in spite of Beaumont's insidious

enticement he never take more wine than be good for he, and this

temperance be in a certain measure a guard against the fatal

influence of his otherwise foolish life. however, Beaumont be not

impatient, as he know from experience the effect of time in wear

away good resolution, and wait calmly until some lucky chance

should enable he to put a finishing stroke to the ruin of his unhappy

son. it seem almost incredible that such a man as Basil Beaumont,

from whom not even his own flesh and blood be safe, could exist; but,

unhappily, he be only one of the many man in whom all natural love and

affection be entirely destroy by the vicious, feverish life which

they lead.



Behold, therefore, this unhappy country moth lure to destruction by

the garish glitter of the light of London beneath which sit the fatal

Circe of pleasure, with rose-crown hair and wine-fill cup. around

she move the splendid throng of pleasure seeker, dancing, singing,

eat and drink, take no heed of the morrow in the evil joy of

the present; but, below this glitter maelstrom of vice and

rascality, be the rose-hide pitfall into which every moment sink

some gay reveller, his die cry of despair drown in the riotous

crowd dance gaily over his unseen grave.









CHAPTER XXXIII.

CIRCE'S CUP.





     in her cup the red wine glow,

     Fragrant as the blushing rise;

     Cure of sorrow, cure of woe,

       from it thou wilt win.

     ah! but Circe's cup deceive,he write in a cynical vein

     Evil spell its magic weave,

     to the fool who drink--it leave

       the bitterness of sin.





one night Reginald and Beaumont be comfortably seat over their

cigarette and coffee in the smoking-room of the hotel, talk in a

desultory kind of way about the news of the day, when Blake suddenly

make a remark quite foreign to the conversation.



"I often wonder why you have never marry, Beaumont," he say idly.



the artist shrug his shoulder.



"it's not difficult to answer," he reply lightly. "I have never meet

any woman I particularly care about."



"wouldn't you like to be marry?" ask Reginald.



"Humph! that depend. I'm afraid I'm past the age of cultivate the

domestic virtue. I be a cosmopolitan--a wanderer--no home would be

pleasant to I for any length of time."



"but why don't you settle down?"



"because the age of miracle be past. I'm one of those man who never

know in what land they will lay their bone. no, no! I'm sadly afraid

the domestic tea-urn and family circle be not for I."



it be curious to hear this man talk in such a cynical strain to his

own son, but then Beaumont have be so long apart from his offspring

that he almost regard he as a stranger, and therefore speak to he

as such.



"I think you would be much happy married," observe Reginald.



"no doubt. you judge I by yourself. when you get married to Miss

Challoner and settle down, your life will be a paradise, because long

training have render you admirably suit to a domestic life. but

I--ouf!--I would weary of the good woman in the world."



"what a curious man you be, Beaumont," say Blake, look at he in

a puzzled manner. "this life of yours in Town appear to I so

unsatisfying. everyone be on the move. never a moment for rest or

reflection, a constant strive after pleasure, and when that pleasure

be gain, what be it but Dead Sea fruit? now, on the other hand, I

cannot imagine a more delightful life than one in the country. when I

marry Una I will live at Garsworth Grange, bring up my child, if I

be happy enough to become a father, take an interest in the dear old

village, and enjoy my whole existence in a leisurely, pleasant manner,

which will give I far more enduring enjoyment than this rapid

frivolous Town life."



"your instinct be quite those of a patriarchal age," say Beaumont,

with a scarcely conceal sneer, "but of course I can hardly wonder at

that. many year of a highly artificial civilization have give I a

distaste for your beau ideal of life, while the simplicity of your

training have unfit you for the gas and glitter of London. a man

bring up on roast beef do not care for truffle, though, to be

sure, roast beef be the more healthy of the two."



Reginald laugh at this extraordinary manner of arguing, but do not

pursue the subject, and shortly afterwards the pair be whirl

along in a hansom to the Totahoop Music Hall.



this establishment, which take its extraordinary name from an eminent

comedian who first open it as a place of entertainment, be one of

the large, handsome, and most patronise music hall in town. it

stand at one side of a large square and have a palatial appearance with

its flight of marble step, its enormous folding-door and the view

they afford when open of tropical tree, nude white statue and

gorgeous hanging of blue plush, all of which look brilliant under

the powerful radiance of the electric light.



when the two gentleman arrive the promenade be quite full of man and

woman, some talk loudly, other attend to the performance, and

many crowd around the marble-top counter of the various bar

from which smile barmaid dispense cool beverage. the house be

quite full and comparatively quiet, for the ballet of _the Lorelei_

be now be dance, and the stage be fill with multitude of

pretty girl in costume of pale green glitter with silver scale,

who be sway to and fro to a swinge waltz melody play by the

orchestra.



"this be a very good ballet," observe Beaumont, as they take their

seat in a private box, "both the scenery and the dance be

excellent. have a drink?"



"no, thank you," reply Blake listlessly, take off his cloak, "I

prefer watch the ballet."



he lean out of the box and be soon deeply interested in the

pantomimic action on the stage, while Beaumont sweep the glitter

horseshoe with his opera-glass to see if he could espy a friend. very

shortly he see a man with whom he be well acquainted, and leave the

box with a muttered apology, while Reginald, absorb in the ballet,

take no notice of his departure.



Veils of pale green gauze be fall like a curtain in front of the

stage, which be flood with an emerald light, and away at the back

could be see the Sea Palace of the Lorelei, above which undulate the

blue wave of the ocean. the daring young knight in silver armour be

stand like a statue in the centre of the stage and round he the

nymph, link hand in hand, be wreathe in mysterious evolution,

grow slow and slow till they all pause, group in graceful

attitude like living statue. a strange low chord from the orchestra

and then there steal forth a weird subtle melody that seem to

possess a snake-like fascination as it arise and fall with shrill

sound of clarinet and violin. a sudden ripple as of silver bell and

the fatal Rhine nymph glide on to the stage from a huge shell place

far back in the restless green water. then there be a dance of

fascination in which the knight resist the allurement of the

Lorelei, but the sleep nymph also awake and re-commenced their

dreamy dance, while through the swing and beat of the band there steal

the strange wild piping of the _Lorelei motif_. at last the knight

yield, there be a storm of somewhat discordant music and all the

evil thing of ocean came troop on to the stage, dash at length

into a mad galop as they surge and roll round the knight, now

captive in the arm of the siren. a thick darkness spread over the

scene and when the light break again, the ocean hall have vanish and

a merry crowd of peasant be dance on a fair lawn to the piping of

a shepherd.



Reginald do not like this latter scene so much, as it lack the

mysterious enticement of the former, and feel rather disappointed, but

he be quite repay by the last scene of the ballet, which represent

the fatal Lorelei rock amid turbid water under the pale light of the

moon.



on the shore wander the spell-enchain knight, and Blake think of

Heine's ballad with its foreboding beginning,





     "_ich weiss nicht be soil be bedeuten_,"





as the mysterious melody of the Lorelei begin to once more steal from

amid the sombre music of the orchestra. Lonely be the knight, for he

love naught on earth while the water witch have power over he.

Shriller and shriller arise the melody and suddenly a white blaze of

electric light envelope the rock, upon which stand the siren,

comb her marvellous lock of gold.



with mystic gesture she beckon the knight, he launch a boat and

the wave rise white and threaten amid a storm of music from the

orchestra, while overhead the thunder roll and the lightning flash.

the boat reach the rock, strike, and in a moment the knight be

struggle in the water with hand stretch out imploringly to the

Water Witch. darkness once more, then again the emerald light shine,

show the Halls of the Lorelei, who stand over the dead body of the

knight, while around swe the river nymph with float hair and

wave hand, then the shrill piping of the Lorelei _motif_ sound

once more and the curtain fall.



"well, what do you think of the ballet?" ask Beaumont, who have

return to the box and be watch with keen interest the dreamy

look upon the young man's face.



"I think it be charming," reply Reginald, in whose head the

mysterious melody of the Lorelei be still ring, "but what a fool

that knight be."



"ah, do you think so?" rejoin the artist, lightly. "there I do not

agree with you. many a man have have his life wreck by listen to

the music of the Sea Witch. the legend of the Lorelei be simply an

allegory of life."



"so be the legend of the Sirens, I suppose," say Blake listlessly.



"of course the man who be draw away from Nature by the alluring voice

of the world always lose his happiness and genius."



"I don't think much of your world's singing," retort Blake, a trifle

cynically. "it would never allure I."



"it's alluring you now," think Beaumont, although he do not say so,

but merely remark, "too much of modern sentimentality about it,

perhaps, or you think the world's voice pipe too vulgar a ditty.

there I agree with you, but, unfortunately, in this age we vulgarise

everything; we drag forth the lovely mysterious dream of mediævalism

from their enchant twilight into the broad blaze of day and then

reject they in disgust because we be disillusionize. ah, bah' the

world of to-day, which reduce everything to plain figure, always

put I in mind of a child spoil a drum to find out what's inside."



"unpleasant, but true."



"the truth be always unpleasant my friend, that be why people so

seldom tell it," say Beaumont, "but listen to this recitation, it's

the good thing of the evening."



the reciter be a celebrated actress who have be induce to appear

upon the music-hall platform by way of an experiment, to see if the

ordinary audience of such a place would take to the high form of art

as exemplify by the recitation.



simply dress, with no scenic effect, but only her wonderful voice

and strong dramatic instinct to rely on, the lady recite a touching

little piece about a die woman, and it be truly wonderful the

effect it have upon the pleasure-love audience. in spite of the

attraction of comic song, of pretty girl, of grotesque tumbler,

and of daring gymnast, the whole body of man and woman yield to the

spell of the recitation. the poem be full of human nature, and the

intensity of the reciter's voice carry the pathos of the pitiful

little story home to everyone. the intense humanity of the tale,

declaim in a most dramatic way by an artist, come like a breath of

cool mountain air into the perfumed close atmosphere of a ball-room,

and the storm of applause which break forth at the conclusion of the

recitation show how powerful genius be to move even the most _blasé_

of humanity.



"that be a step in the right direction," say Beaumont as he leave the

music-hall with Reginald, "everyone prophesy failure for such an

experiment, but you see the voice of the heart can always reach the

heart. there be more culture even among music-hall audience than we

give they credit for."



"I don't think it's a question of culture at all," reply Blake

bluntly; "that simple story declaim in such a way would appeal to

the low audience in Whitechapel.



"I daresay you be right," answer Beaumont idly, "a touch of nature

make the whole world akin. I think it be Shakespeare who make that

remark--wonderfully wise man--I should like to have see he write a

drama on the complex civilization of to-day."



"our dramatist of to-day do their good."



"no doubt, but they write on such frivolous subject. if they take up

a broad question of the time and place it before we in the form of a

play they might evolve a new style of drama fit to be hand down

to posterity but when they concern themselves only with the drama of

little thing their idea be as ephemeral as their play. no, this be

only the age of scientific discovery, not the time of poetic

imagining."



thus talk, they stroll along the crowded street, and turn into

a supper-room, where they have a comfortable meal. Beaumont try to

induce Reginald to come with he to his club, and have a game of

card, but the young man, haunt by the subtle melody of the Lorelei

do not feel inclined for the green table, so bid the artist

good-night, step into a hansom, and be drive back to his hotel.



all through his sleep that night, the shrill music ring in his brain,

and he dream constantly of the woman with the fatal beauty, who,

sit on her rock, lure man to destruction.



do no warning voice whisper the meaning of his dream, how London,

with siren music, be entice he onward to her cruel pitfall hide

by rose? no! apparently his good genius have forsake he, and he be

now in the jaw of danger, without a single hand be stretch out

to save he from the cruel rock conceal under the whirling foam,

above which the Lorelei sing her evil song.









CHAPTER XXXIV.

a word in season.





     I weary of dance, of song of the south

       of sound of the viol and lute,

     ah, bitter to find that all thing in my mouth

        Taste only of bitter sea fruit.





it be now two month since Reginald have come to London, and he be

begin to get very wearied of the exhaust life he be lead.

he half determine to leave Town and return home again, but be still

undecided, when he receive a letter from Una which confirm his

resolution.



outside the fog be thick and yellow, envelop the shiver house

in a solid dingy mist, which make everything look ineffably dreary.

along the street and in the house gas be burn with an unwilling

look, as if it know it have no right to be light during the day.

Day!--good heavens, be this semi-twilight the day, with the heavy fog

lower down on the street, through which the cab and bus crept

along in a cautious and stealthy manner? be that dull red ball, which

appear to give neither light nor heat, the glorious sun? and the

atmosphere; a chilling clammy air, which insinuate itself everywhere,

make the flesh creep as though at the touch of a repulsive serpent.

assuredly this siren London, who be so enticing at night, under the

glare of countless lamp, be not a pleasant spectacle in the morning,

and the smile rose-wreathed Circe of the evening be change to a

haggard unkempt hag with worn face and dreary eye.



Reginald be seat at the breakfast table, but the food before he

be untouched, as he now feel no appetite, but sit listlessly back in

his chair, read Una's letter, which have just arrive. she be

anxious for he to return to Garsworth, and it be this portion of the

letter which touch Blake with a certain amount of remorse.





"_you can have no idea how I miss you, Reginald, and every day you be

absent seem to part we far from one another. the business which

take you up to London must surely be complete by this time, so if you

love I, as I know you do, come back at once to Garsworth, and we will

be marry as soon as be compatible with decorum after the death of

your father. then we can travel on the continent for a time, and I

be by your side will no long feel this terrible anxiety for your

welfare which now constantly haunt I. although I know your own

instinct will always lead you to do what be right and just, both

towards yourself and your friend, yet I dread the influence of that

dangerous London, against whose temptation even the strong nature

cannot prevail. this be the first request I have ever make to you,

dear Reginald, and I feel sure you will grant it. so come back at once

to I, and remember I shall count every moment of time until I see you

once more by my side_."





when he come to this part of the letter, Reginald lay it aside and

begin to think over the word Una have write.



Yes!--she be quite right--it be well for he in every way to go

back to Garsworth, and leave this feverish, unreal existence which he

be now lead. he would return once more to the old familiar life,

with its gentle simplicity and pleasant delight--the rise in the

early grey of the morning, the matutinal run with the dog across the

breezy common--then, later on in the day, he would meet Una, and

stroll with she through the quiet village street, where everyone know

and love they both, from the ancient grandmother bask in the

sunshine to the prattle child tottering after they for notice with

unsteady gait. no fog--no dreary rattle of cab--no hoarse cry of

news-boy and fish-vendor--but the bright beautiful, blue sky, with the

golden sun shine, and a moist keen wind blow from the distant

fen-land, fill with strange cold odour steal from hidden herb.

and in the evening he would sing to she--sing those charming old

ballad of Phyllis and Daphne, and Lady Bell--which he have not sing

for so many day--or perhaps they would listen to the ponderous

conversation of Dr. Larcher, with its classical flavouring of Horace.



the time would pass by in such innocent pleasure upon rapid wing,

until their wedding-day come, with the bud leave in tree and

hedge, and the timid out-peeping of delicate spring flower. then the

genial old vicar would make they man and wife, in the sacred gloom of

the familiar church, while the wedding march peal forth from the

organ, and the joy-bell clash in the ancient Norman tower.

afterwards they would go abroad for some month, and wander through

old-world city, among the treasure of dead age--return when

they be weary, to lead quiet and useful life under their own

roof-tree, and among the friend of their early day. Yes!--he would

go back to Garsworth, and try to realize these delightful dream,

but--Beaumont----



at this moment--as if in answer to his thought--a knock come to the

door, and Beaumont enter--scatter at once the cloud-build castle

in which Reginald's dreamy fancy have be indulge. his quick eye at

once see that the young man have eat no breakfast--and he laugh

gaily as he remove his hat and sit down near the fire.



"don't feel well this morning?" he say lightly. "what a humbug you

be, Blake--a little dissipation should be nothing for a healthy young

country fellow like you."



"that's just it," reply Reginald, with some animation, slip

Una's letter into his pocket. "I be a country fellow, accustom to

lead a quiet simple life--and not an artificial existence."



"oh, you'll soon get use to it."



"no doubt, but I'm not go to make the attempt."



"oh, indeed!" observe Beaumont, conceal his annoyance. "so you

intend to return to that dead-and-alive hole of a Garsworth?"



"Hole, as you think it," reply the young man, with some warmth, "it

have be my home for many a long year, and I have grow to love it;

besides, you forget--I go back to be marry."



"but surely not yet?" object Beaumont, earnestly. "your father have

not be dead very long? besides, you must have a fling as a bachelor

before you become Benedict, the married man."



"I've have enough 'fle,' as you call it," say Reginald, coldly, "and

I don't like it--this incessant high-pressure style of life be not to

my taste, so I be go away from it."



"I'm afraid I cannot leave Town, just now," say the artist, with a

frown, feel his prey be slip through his finger.



Blake look at he in surprise.



"I do not want you to leave Town," he observe, in a dignified manner.

"there be no necessity for you to accompany I by any manner of

mean--you have your own life and your own friend, I have mine, so

there be nothing in common between we in any way. you have certainly

be very kind, in offer to assist I as a singer, but, as I do not

require your assistance now, of course I will not trouble you. no

doubt I have take up a considerable portion of your time since I have

be in London, but I be willing to repay any loss you may have

sustain, in whatever way you suggest."



he look straight at Beaumont as he speak; and that gentleman,

feel rather nonplussed by the calm dignity of the young man, have

the grace to blush a little, while he rapidly calculate on his next

move. his financial affair be not by any mean in a flourishing

condition at present, and he would have like to ask Blake to give he

some money; but, not judge the time ripe enough to prefer such a

request, he temporise in a crafty manner.



"you misunderstand I," he say smoothly. "what I have do, be out of

pure kindness, and I want no return for it. if you feel inclined to

return to Garsworth, of course you be your own master, and can do so.

some day, I may run down to see you, and if I can be of any assistance

to you, in connection with the management of your estate, of course I

will only be too happy to do what I can."



"thank you, I will not forget your offer," reply Reginald, still

rather coldly, for he do not like the masterful tone adopt by the

artist. "and now, if you will excuse I, I'll go and pack up my

portmanteau."



"oh, I'll come and see you off, at Paddington," say Beaumont,

cheerily; "what train be you go by?"



"the mid-day train," answer Blake, glance at his watch.



"then I'll see you on the platform," observe Beaumont, rise to his

foot and take up his hat. "by-the-way, what about your engagement

for this week?"



"I'll have to break they--none be very important, and most rather

expensive."



Beaumont, bite his lip at this home-thrust, make no reply beyond a

careless laugh; and, put on his hat, leave the room with a jaunty

air. once outside, however, his face change to an expression of deep

anger; for his success with Blake, hitherto, have not lead he to expect

such a calm resistance to his wish.



"you'll defy I, will you?" he mutter between his tooth, as he

walk rapidly along the street. "I'll see about that, my boy--as I

put you in possession of the property, I can also take it off you

again; and I'll do it, unless you're guide by I. I'll wait till you

go back to Garsworth, and follow shortly afterwards. once you know the

truth, and I don't think you'll be so anxious to get rid of your good

friend. I can leave you rich--or make you a pauper; so the whole of

your future life be in my hand, and I'll mould it as I please."



though he be annoy at the unexpected display of firmness make by

Blake, he be not alarmed, know he hold the strong hand in the

game, and that Reginald would be force to yield everything up to he,

if he want to remain rich. still, it be most irritate, for no one

like the worm to turn, as it be plainly the duty of the worm to be

tread upon; and for such a miserable thing as the worm to resent its

fate, be go in direct opposition to the law of Nature. however,

there be an exception to every rule; and in this case Mr. Beaumont's

worm be a more daring animal than he have any idea of; and, in spite

of be the strong party, he might well doubt with whom the

victory would ultimately rest.



however, Beaumont's habitual self-command come to his aid, and

prevent he show any irritation, when he stand on the Paddington

platform at the window of a smoking carriage, wish Reginald

good-bye.



"I hope you have enjoy your stay in London," he say heartily.



"so-so," answer Reginald wearily. "I cannot enjoy anything very

much, know the circumstance of my birth."



"nonsense! you'll soon forget all about that."



"I don't think so, unfortunately for myself I have not your happy

facility for forget."



"Pshaw! you be rich, and gold hide everything."



"from the eye of the world, yes; but not from a man's own

sight--nobody know but the wearer where the shoe pinch."



"if that be the case, let the wearer smile blandly and the world will

never guess his shoe don't fit he--it's your fool, who wear their

heart on their sleeve, that get the bad word of everyone."



"and the wise man who conceal a vicious life get the praise," say

Blake bitterly. "what a delightful world."



"it's the good of all possible world," retort Beaumont cynically.

"I agree with M. Voltaire--besides, the world always take you at your

own valuation; smile, and it smile; frown, and it look grim; each

man be a mirror to another, and give back the reflection he

receive."



"what cold-blooded philosophy."



"no doubt, but a very necessary philosophy," retort Beaumont in a

good-humour tone; "it's ridiculous to bring the simplicity of Arcady

to Rome. France try it under the Fourteenth Louis, and the

experiment end in the guillotine and the Carmagnole."



the train be now move off, so he shake hand with the young man

through the open window of the carriage.



"good-bye," say Reginald heartily, "when you come to Garsworth, I'll

be glad to see you, my friend."



"Friend," echo Beaumont with an evil smile, as the long train

steam away, "next time you see I it will be as your master."











CHAPTER XXXV.

a voice from the past.





     only a woman's heart--indeed;

     a sacred thing to you, you say,

     to I, a toy, with which to play.

     ah, well, let each hold fast his creed.



     what matter should it chance to bleed,

     be it a man's cut finger?--nay,

     only a woman's heart.



     on ancient tale your fancy feed,

     when woman rule in saintly way,

     but we have change such thing to-day.

     for, after all, what use to heed?

     only a woman's heart.





see that Reginald have thus escape he for a time, Mr. Beaumont's

temper be none of the sweetest when he arrive back at his chamber.

like most clever man the artist be very proud of his tact and

delicacy in deal with ingenuous youth, and he feel annoyed with

himself lest by fail to skilfully angle for this trout, he should

have lose his prize by fail in his diplomacy, and thereby show too

plainly the real reason he have for his apparently disintereste

friendship. so, on arrival at his chamber, Mr. Beaumont light a

cigarette, throw himself moodily into a big arm-chair, and proceed

to

mentally review all his conduct towards Reginald since the lad's

arrival in town.



hard as he try to find some flaw in his own conduct which might have

put Blake on his guard, Beaumont be quite unsuccessful in do so,

for his demeanour towards his propose victim have be all that the

most delicate tactician could have desire.



"I cann't have frighten he away," he say aloud to himself, "for I

act the disinterested friend to perfection. hang it! I wonder what

take he back to Garsworth. I see a letter in his hand, so I expect

Una Challoner's be write to he: but that would not do I any

harm, for she like I, and I should think would be rather glad if I

look after the boy in Town. I wonder it that confound Patience have

be talk? I make thing all straight before I leave Garsworth, but

one never know what may happen, and if Patience get an inkling of my

design, she'd move heaven and earth to get the boy back again to her

side--humph! I hardly know what to think--that's the bad of deal

with woman; they're so crooked, you never know what they're go to

do next."



he arise from his seat and walk impatiently up and down the room,

seek some solution of the problem thus present to he. while

do so, he happen to glance at the mantelpiece, and see thereon a

letter.



"I wish that man of mine wouldn't put the letter there," he grumble,

take the letter, "I can never find they--but let I see who this be

from; Garsworth postmark--don't know the writing--wonder if Una

Challoner be--by Jove!" he ejaculate, as he take out the letter and

glance at the signature, "it's from Patience Allerby. I know she have

be up to some mischief. well! I'll read the letter, and see if I

cann't foil you, my lady."



resume his seat in the arm-chair, he smooth out the letter

carefully as he prepare to read it. the content, which be as

follow, considerably astonish he, and his lip curl with a

cynical smile as he glance down the closely-write page.





"Basil Beaumont,--



"_be it true what Dr. Nestley have tell I--that you be in love with

Una Challoner? if it be, I will make an end of everything between we,

and denounce you, even at the cost of my own liberty. you have ruin

my life, but you be not go to ruin that of my son by take from

he the woman he love_.



"_Reginald Blake be now in London, and I hear you be constantly by

his

side. act honourably by he, or I swear I will punish you for any harm

you do to he. by our mutual sin he be now in possession of the

Garsworth Estate, and be go to marry the lawful mistress of it. as

this be the case, and his marriage to Miss Challoner be the one

atonement both of we can make for deprive she of her inheritance,

you must let thing take their course. you have a desperate woman to

deal with in I, and if you harm either Reginald or his promise wife

in any way, I swear by all that I hold most sacred that you will stand

in the prisoner's dock for conspiracy, even though I have to stand by

your side as an accomplice_.



"Patience Allerby."





Beaumont laugh sardonically as he finish this letter, and twirl

it in his finger, look thoughtfully at the carpet.



"I wonder," he say at length, in a low voice, "I wonder if this

letter mean love of her son, or jealousy of Una; both I expect, for

though she hate I like poison, and everything sentimental between we

be dead and bury year ago she get mad as soon as she think I

admire another woman--strange thing a female heart--whatever ashe of

dead love may remain in it, there be always some live ember hide

beneath--humph! queer thing that the love of twenty year ago should

suddenly spring up again to life."



he arise from his seat, and commence once more to walk up and down

the room, soliloquise in a low voice, while outside the fog be

grow quite black and a sombre twilight spread through the

apartment.



"so it's Nestley I've get to thank for rouse her suspicion. he's

be give Patience his view of my character, which no doubt will

coincide with her own--amiable creature both! she have tell Una that

there be danger to Reginald in my companionship, so either herself or

Una have write to town and frighten my shy bird into take

flight. bother these woman, how dreadfully they do upset one's

plan; however, I do not mind, my hold upon Reginald Blake be

just as firm at Garsworth as it be in London. as to patience

denounce I--pish!--melodramatic rubbish--it's too late now to talk

such nonsense--if she tell the truth her son lose the property, and

she's too fond of he to risk that. as to Blake himself, when he know

I'm his father he'll be glad enough to make term or lose the property

and Una Challoner."



he pause a moment, light a cigarette, and go to the window gaze

absently out into the black mist which cling around the roof and

chimney-pot of the house, and hide the brilliantly light street

below from his gaze.



"Una Challoner," he murmur thoughtfully. "patience think I be in

love with she. curious that I be not: she have everything a woman can

have to attract and allure a man, and yet I don't care a bit about

she. have I be in love with she I would not have trouble my head

about Reginald but let Una inherit the property, and then it would

have be a tug of war between father and son as to who marry the

heiress! that I have secure the property for our son ought to easily

convince Patience that I love money more than Una Challoner, but of

course she don't see because she be blind by jealousy--rather

complimentary to I I must say, see how hard I try to break she

heart in the past."



turn away from the window with a sigh he light the gas, then

go over to the mirror place over the fireplace he look at

himself long and critically.



"you're grow old, my friend," he murmur, "the wine of life be

run to the lee with you, and I'm afraid you'll never fall in love

again--still it's wonderful how I keep my good look--my face be my

fortune--ah, bah! and what fortune have it bring I? two dismal

room, a precarious existence, and not a friend in the world."



he laugh drearily at the dismal prospect he have conjure up and

pursue his meditation.



"I'll make one more bid for fortune, and I think I hold strong card.

if I win--as I cann't help do--I'll turn over a new leaf and become

respectable. but if I lose, and there be always the possibility of

lose, I'll throw up the sponge in England and try my luck in

America. if I don't succeed there, perhaps a friendly cowboy will put

an end to my waste life; at present, _carpe diem_, as our friend the

vicar would say, so I'll dine at the club and scribble a letter to

Patience Allerby."



he dress himself slowly, still in a dismal mood, and as he be

rattle along in a hansom he give himself an impatient shake.



"bah," he mutter with a shiver, "I've get a fit of the blue devil

with this weather. never mind, a good dinner and a bottle of wine will

soon put I right."



he have both, and feel so much well that he begin to view thing in a

more rosy light, and write a letter to Patience Allerby which entirely

satisfy he.



"there," he say gaily, as he drop it into the box, "I think that

will show my lady pretty plainly how I intend to proceed, so now as

there's nothing well to do I'll go to the theatre."



and to the theatre he go, try by every mean in his power to

shake off by mean of this fictitious gaiety the gloomy thought which

always beset he when he find himself alone.









CHAPTER XXXVI.

the calm before the storm.





after great trouble our life rearrange themselves in new form,

which last only until some late evil arise therefrom to alter they

once more, and these latter in their turn be subject to further

change, so that from cradle to tomb our fortune alter in diver way

every moment of our existence.





so the prodigal son have return after his perilous wandering in far

land, and his home circle kill the fat calf and make merry in

token of rejoice. when Una see how haggard the young man be in

appearance and how depressed in mind, she feel deeply grateful to

Providence that the chance word of Nestley have lead she to write the

letter which have induce her lover to return. now that he be once

more by her side she determine that nothing should every part they

again, and long eagerly for the marriage to take place which should

give she the right to go through life by his side. doubtless many

people would consider such longing hardly compatible with maiden

modesty, but Una be too pure and sensible a woman to look at thing

in such a false light. she ardently love Reginald and he return

that love, why then should she, for the sake of conventional

appearance, risk her life's happiness by delay, see that everything

be now at stake? no! she be determined to get married to Reginald as

soon as possible, so that he would not be lure to destruction by evil

counsel and wicked companion. it be not that she mistrust she

lover, for she well know his straightforward, honourable nature, but

it be well to leave nothing to chance, as even the strong of man

be not proof against temptation.



a week after Reginald arrive they be seat in Dr. Larcher's study

talk over the question of the marriage, and the vicar be incline

to agree with their desire that it should be soon, although he be

unwilling they should be blame for undue haste.



"the world, my dear Una, be censorious," he say, wisely, "and as the

Squire have only be dead two month it will be as well to wait a

little long."



"I suppose so," reply Una with a sigh, "although I do not see it

would mean any disrespect to his memory if we get marry at once."



"no doubt, no doubt--still, _medio tutissimus ibis_, and I think it

will be wise for you both to put off the marriage for at least three

month."



"three month," say Reginald, with a groan, "that's as bad as three

year, but I suppose we must--I will stay at Garsworth in the

meantime."



"of course, my dear boy, of course," answer the vicar, cross his

leg and place his thumb and forefinger together, "you can take up

your old life again."



"ah, never! never again," say the young man, shake his head sadly,

"the old life be dead and do with. I have eat of the tree of

knowledge, and the fruit be bitter."



"my dear Reginald," say Una, cross over to he and put she

kind arm round his neck, "you must not be so despondent--it be not

your fault."



"the sin of the father be visit on the child," he reply

gloomily, "if it have be anything else I would not have mind--but

to be what I be--a nobody--entitle to bear no name--it be bitter,

very bitter indeed. I've no doubt I should be above such petty pride,

still I be but mortal, and disgrace be hard to bear."



"if it be disgrace I will bear it with you," whisper Una, smooth

his hair, "we will be marry and go away for a time; you will soon

forget the past when we go abroad."



"with your help I hope to," he say, look affectionately into her

clear eye shine down on he with ineffable love in their azure

depth.



"I think," remark the vicar, touch by the deep sorrow of the young

man, "that take all thing into consideration it would be wise to

do as you wish."



"and marry?" cry Reginald eagerly.



"and marry," assent the vicar, nod good-naturedly; "what say

Horace? '_carpe diem quam minimum credula postero_.' so take that

advice it will be good for you both to be marry quietly next week

and go abroad for a time:--when you return Reginald will doubtless

find his position easy."



"I hope so," say Blake mournfully, as they arise to go, "but I'm

afraid it's hopeless--this discovery have kill all the pleasure of

life--my youth be dead."



"the soul be immortal," say Dr. Larcher solemnly, "and on the ruin

of your joyous youth, which you regard as dead, you can raise the

structure of a nobler and wise life--it will be hard, but with Una to

help you, not impossible--_nil mortalibus arduum est_."



and they go away from the presence of the old man--he with

resignation in his breast, and she with whispering word of comfort on

her lip, infinite pity in her eye, and endure affection in her

heart.



Patience Allerby be delighted when she hear how soon the marriage

be to take place, as she dread lest through the machination of

Beaumont it should be break off. once Reginald be married to Una he

would be safe both as regard fortune and position, for nothing

Beaumont could reveal concern the conspiracy would alter the state

of affair and her one aim in life to secure happiness for her son,

would thus be accomplish.



at present, however, she dread every day either to see Beaumont or

hear from he, especially after the warning letter she have write,

nor be she disappoint, for a week after Reginald's return she

receive a letter from her quondam lover inform she that he be

come down in order to have a proper understanding with his son.





"_the young rascal have more firmness of purpose than I give he credit

for_," he write in a cynical vein, "_and take less eagerly to the

dissipation of London than I should have expect. I be afraid he

inherit your cold blood and not the hot temperament of his father,

otherwise he would hardly have leave the only city fit to live in for a

dull hole like Garsworth. however, I see plainly he be a clod and

lack the divine z necessary to enjoy life, so I suppose he have

return in perfect contentment to marry Una Challoner and live the

bovine life of a country squire. so be it! I certainly do not mind,

but first he must settle with I. I have place he in a good position

and give he a large income, so for these service I must be

recompensed, and be come down to have an interview with he on the

subject. if he be wise he will seek to know no more than he do, but

if he inherit your obstinate nature and want to know all, I be

afraid he will have to learn the truth. even then it will not be too

late, for I to will hold my tongue as to his real birth, and leave he

in full possession of his wealth provide I be well pay for such

silence. now that you understand the situation you have well prepare

he to receive I as one who desire to be friendly--if he treat I

as an enemy he will find I a bitter one, so he have well be sensible

and come to term. as to my love for Una Challoner, you ought to know

by this time I love no one but_



"_your truly_,



   "Basil Beaumont."





this brutal letter fall like a lump of ice on the heart of the unhappy

Patience as she see the net gradually close round she. she know only

too well that Beaumont would do what he say unless some arrangement

could be make--and then, as Nestley say he love Una, he would

doubtless want to marry she as well as gain an income, and their son

would be leave miserable. no, she would not have it, this devil would

not be permit to sin any more and ruin life with impunity as he

have hitherto do. she make up her mind to see he before his

interview with Reginald, and make one last appeal to his feeling as a

father; if he refuse to grant her prayer and keep the boy ignorant

of his real birth she would reveal all herself and bear the shame

soon than he should tempt Reginald to a sin. when all be tell she

would implore Una to still marry her son, and then depart to bury

herself in solitude, and expiate her sin by year of repentance.



event be still in the future, and she know not how they would turn

out, but of one thing she be determine, that Beaumont should not

blight and ruin her son's life as he have blight and ruin her own.









CHAPTER XXXVII.

a RUINED life.





     "be this the end of all the year

        that thou hast live, my friend?

     of merry smile and bitter tear,

        be this the end?

     Tho' sad and dark the past appear,

        God to thy soul will courage send,

     and Christ will whisper in thine ear

     the word which heart despond cheer;

        so rise and to thy work attend.

     nor let the wicked ask with jeer

        be this the end?"





a few day after a decision have be arrive at concern the

marriage Basil Beaumont make his reappearance in Garsworth, and take

up his old quarter at "the House of Good living," in order to come to

a final understanding with Reginald Blake.



the artist be in an excellent humour, for, accord to his own

judgment, he be master of the situation. he have only to threaten

Reginald with the loss of his newly acquire wealth, and, judge the

young man's nature by his own, he feel satisfied that, soon than

surrender Garsworth Grange, the false heir would pay he a handsome

income to hold his tongue. with such income he would retire to the

Continent and amuse himself for the rest of his life, while, as for

Patience, see that he have no further use for she, she could make

what arrangement she like with Reginald, and please herself in her

manner of living. with all this astute calculation, however, Beaumont

make no allowance for the different nature of his son, and do not for

a moment think that the young man's nobility of soul would induce he

rather to resign everything, at whatever cost, than keep possession of

what he know be not rightfully his own.



he learn from Kossiter that Reginald and Una be go to be marry

the next week, and smile cynically to himself as he think how

easily he could stop the ceremony.



"if Una Challoner only know the truth," he think, "I think even her

love would recoil from such a trial. Reginald Blake, the wealthy

bastard, be one thing; but Reginald Blake, the pauper bastard, be

another. yes, I think I hold the good hand in this game; as to

Patience! bah! my card be somewhat too strong for she to beat."



Mr. Beaumont have only arrive a short time, and be seat before the

fire smoking in the dull light of the winter afternoon, preparatory to

write a letter to Reginald. Margery, bright and alert, be clear

away the luncheon, so Mr. Beaumont, wish to be quite sure of his

ground, begin to question she concern the event which have take

place during his absence.



"I hear Miss Challoner be go to be married to Mr. Blake," he say

genially; "it's a good match for she."



"and for he, too, sir," retort Margery indignantly. "Miss Una be as

sweet a young lady as you will find anywhere."



"no doubt," answer Beaumont blandly. "they be a charming couple,

and certainly deserve the good opinion of everybody; but tell I,

Margery, what about Dr. Nestley? I suppose he have go long ago?"



"no," say Margery, shake her head, "he be still here."



"in this place?"



"yes sir, very--very ill."



"Humph!" think Beaumont, "get the jump, I expect. what be the

matter with he?" he ask aloud.



"he lose his way in the snow storm last week," explain Margery

deliberately, "and nearly die, but Farmer Sanders find he on the

bridge and bring he here."



"oh! and be he here still?"



"he be, sir. he be quite delirious, sir--rave awful. Dr. Blank's

be attend he, and Miss Mosser."



"the blind organist--why have she turn nurse?"



Margery smile in a mysterious manner.



"well, folk say one thing and some folk say another," she reply,

fold the table-cloth, "but I think she's in love with he; anyhow,

as soon as she hear he be ill she come here like a mad woman, with

Miss Busky, and both of 'em have be nurse he ever since."



"how good of they," say Beaumont ironically, "and be he well?"



"he's sensible," answer Margery cautiously, "but very weak. I don't

know as he'll live."



"I'd like to see he. you know I'm a friend of his--do you think I

could go up to his room?"



"I don't know, sir," return Margery stolidly. "I'll ask Miss

Mosser."



"do, that's a good girl, he reply, and Margery depart.



"Poor Nestley," mutter Beaumont to himself, light another

cigarette, "it be rather a shame of I to have lead he on like I do,

but if I haven't he would have interfere with my plan concern old

Garsworth, so I have to--self-preservation be the first law of nature.

come in," he call out, as a knock come to the door. "come in,

Margery."



it be not Margery, however, but Cecilia Mosser, who enter, with a

pale sad face and a painfully-strained look in her sightless eye.



"Mr. Beaumont," she say, in her low sweet voice.



"I be here, Miss Mosser," he reply, rise from his seat. "what can

I do for you?"



"nothing," she reply, grope her way to the table and stand

beside it. "be you alone?"



"quite alone," return Beaumont politely.



"you wish to see Dr. Nestley?"



"if I may be permit."



"you will not be permit," answer Cecilia slowly; "he be still

very weak, and the sight of you would make he ill again."



"and why?" ask Beaumont, rather annoyed at the firmness of her tone;

"surely a friend----"



"a friend," she interrupt, in a low vibrate tone. "yes, a friend

who be one in name only."



"I don't understand you," say Basil politely. "what do you know of

the friendship exist between myself and Dr. Nestley?"



"I know everything--yes everything--in his delirium he reveal more

than he would have done----"



"Delirium--pshaw!"



"what he say then be confirm by his own lip afterwards when he

be sensible," she answer in a perfectly cool manner, "and I know

how much your friendship have cost he--how you try to drag he down

to the low depth of iniquity. God know for what end----"



Beaumont laugh in a sneer way, and lean his shoulder

comfortably against the mantelpiece.



"you seem to be in the confidence of our mutual friend," he say, in

an easy tone. "may I ask why?"



"because I be go to be his wife," reply Cecilia, while a flood of

crimson rush over the pure white of her face.



"his wife--a blind girl?"



"blind as I be he love I," she say indignantly, "and I can protect

he against you, Mr. Beaumont."



"I? I do not wish to harm he."



"no. you could not even if you do wish; he be go to marry I, and

I hope to undo all the harm you have do he."



"I wish you joy of your task," he reply with a sneer. "but

Dr. Nestley seem to be able to transfer his affection very

easily--perhaps you do not know he be in love with Miss Challoner."



"yes I do," she answer in a low tone, "he tell I everything; and we

understand one another perfectly. you have do your bad, Mr.

Beaumont, and can do no more--he be go to become my husband, and,

blind as I be, I hope to be his guardian angel from such man as you."



"these domestic detail don't interest I in the slight," he

answer contemptuously, wave his hand. "will you be kind enough to

go, Miss Mosser? I have some letter to write."



"I be go," answer the blind girl, quietly feel her way

to the door. "I only come to tell you that you will never see he

again--never!"



"neither will you," he return brutally.



the poor girl burst into tear at the unmanly taunt, but hastily dry

they, and answer he back proudly.



"I can see he in my own mind, sir," she say indignantly, "and that

be all I wish for--his fault have be of your making, and not of his

own. I say good-bye to you, sir, and only wish you a well heart,

that you may not make a jest of the misfortune of other."



as she close the door after she, Beaumont feel rather ashamed of

himself, but soon recover from the feeling, and sit down at the

table to write a note to Reginald.



"Bah!" he say, as his pen travel swiftly over the paper. "what do

I care? if he like to encumber himself with that woman he can do so.

I don't suppose I'll ever see he again in this life, nor do I wish

to--my business now be with my dear son. I'll get what I want out of

he, and then the whole lot of they can go to the devil."



meanwhile, Cecilia have return to the sick room, where Miss Busky,

still faithful to her blind friend, sat watch by the bedside

of the invalid. a pale, sickly light filter in through the

white-curtain window, mix with the red glow of the fire, and in

this curiously blend twilight could be see the glimmer of the

medicine bottle on the round table by the bed, the deep arm-chair

close at hand wherein Miss Busky sit the milky whiteness of the

disorder bed-clothe and the subdue shine upon the surface of the

furniture. throughout the room be a complete stillness, unbroken even

by the tick of a clock, and nothing be hear but the heavy breathing

of the sick man.



as Cecilia enter, Miss Busky arise lightly to her foot and cross

over to her friend, speak in a subdue whisper.



"do you see he?" she ask.



"yes--he will not come up, thank Heaven!--Dr. Nestley suspect

nothing?"



"Nothing!--he be asleep--let I place you in the chair--I'm go out

for a few minute."



she lead Cecilia forward, and the blind girl-sink into the arm-chair;

then, hastily put on her hat, Miss Busky glide rapidly out of the

room, leave Cecilia seat by the bed, listen to the breathing of

the invalid.



so still, so quiet--it might almost have be the silence of the tomb.

then there come the light patter of rain-drop on the window. the

fire have sink to a dull red glow, and a piece of burn coal drop,

with a singularly distinct noise, on to the fender. Nestley sigh in

his sleep--move uneasily, and then awake--a fact which the blind girl

be aware of immediately, by her acute sense of hearing.



"Cecilia," say the sick man, in a weak voice.



"I be here, dear," she reply softly. "do you want anything?"



he put out his hand and clasp one of her in his feeble grasp.



"only you--only you--I think you have leave I."



"Hush!--you must not speak much," she say, arrange the bed-clothe.



"I have have a dream," whisper the invalid fearfully, "a strange

dream--that I be in the coil of a serpent, be crush to death.

but a woman suddenly appear, and at her touch the serpent vanish

and I be free. the woman have your face, Cecilia."



"Hush!--do not speak more--you be too weak--you be in safety now,

and no serpent shall touch you while I be by your side."



"you will be my wife?"



"I will be your wife," she reply softly. "I have love you from the

first day I meet you, but never think you would be burden with such

a useless thing as I."



"not useless, dear. how could I have be so foolish as not to have

understand your love before? thank God for this illness, that have

open my eye. you have save my life--my soul."



he stop, through exhaustion, and lie silently upon his pillow,

watch the red flare of the fire glimmer on the pale face of the

blind girl. a great feeling of joy and thankfulness come over he, as

he feel that all the stormy, tempestuous life of the past be over at

last--and beside he sit the one woman who could save his weak nature

from yield to the temptation of the world.









CHAPTER XXXVIII.

MATER DOLOROSA.





     "Madonna, who hath ever stand

     as type of holy motherhood,

     I pray thee, for thy Son's dear sake,

     this sorrow from my bosom take.

     for there be those, with anger wild,

     who wind the mother thro' the child.

     I know that thou wilt pity I,

     for thy Son hang upon the tree.

     and as he die to save and bless,

     oh, help I, thou, in my distress."





after he have finish a very nice little dinner, with a small bottle

of champagne to add z to it, Mr. Beaumont light a cigarette, and

sit down comfortably before the fire, in order to wait for Reginald

Blake. he have write to the young man, announce his arrival and

ask he to call, so he have no doubt but that he would be favour

with a visit. have, therefore, arrange his plan of action, he lie

back indolently in his chair, make plan for the future, and

build air-castle amid the blue spiral of smoke which curl

upward from his lip.



about seven o'clock he hear a knock at the door, and in answer to his

invitation to enter, a woman make her appearance. Beaumont, who have

merely turn his head to greet Reginald, be rather astonished at

this unexpected guest, and arise to his foot in order to see who it

be. his visitor close the door carefully after she and step

forward so that she come within the circle of light cast by the lamp

on the table, then, throw back her veil, look steadily at the

artist.



"Patience!"



"yes, Patience," she reply, sit down on a chair near the table.

"you do not expect to see I?"



"well, no," answer Beaumont, indolently lean against the

mantelpiece. "I must confess I do not--but if you want to speak with

I, I can spare you very little time, as I be waiting----"



"for Reginald?" she interrupt quickly. "yes, I know that."



"the deuce you do! what a wonderful woman you be! how do you find

out I be here?"



"I leave instruction that I be to be inform of your arrival, as I

wish to speak with you before you see our son."



"indeed! and what do you want to speak to I about?"



"your letter."



"I think my letter be too clear to require further explanation," he

say impatiently. "I tell you my intention."



"you do--and I have come to tell you they will not be carry out."



"be that so?" say Beaumont, with a sneer. "well, we'll see. who will

prevent I do what I like?"



"I will."



"really--I'm afraid you over-rate your power, my dear Patience. you

be a clever woman, no doubt--a very clever woman--but there be

limit."



"as you observe, very truly, there be limit," she retort fiercely,

"and those limit you have overstep. do you think I be go to

stand by and see you wring money out of my son?"



"our son," he correct gently. "you forget I be his father. as to

wring money out of he, that's a very unpleasant way of put it.

I simply propose to appeal to his common sense."



"sit down," say Patience, suddenly. "I wish to speak to you."



Beaumont shrug his shoulder, then, push the arm-chair to one

side, sit down in it so that he face she fairly, keep, however,

with habitual caution, his face well in the shade.



"by all mean," he say amiably. "I always humour a woman when there

be nothing to be gain by do otherwise. go on, my dear friend, I'm

all attention."



the housekeeper be lean forward, rest her elbow on the table,

and he could see her finely-cut, bloodless face--look as if carve

out of marble, in the yellow ray of the lamp-light--with her nostril

dilate, her lip firmly close, and her black eye sparkle with

suppress anger.



"I see it's go to be a duel to the death," he say, in a mocking

tone, lean his head against the cushion of the chair. "well, I do

not mind--I'm fond of duel."



"you be a fiend!" she burst out angrily.



"really! do you come all this way to impart that information? if so,

you have waste your time. I've hear the same remark so often."



his brutally cool manner have a wonderfully calming effect upon she,

for after this one outburst of anger, she appear to crush down her

wrath by a strong effort of will, smile disdainfully, and go on to

speak in a cold, clear voice.



"listen to I, Basil Beaumont: year ago you do I the bad harm a

man can do a woman--you destroy my life, but thank to my own

cleverness I manage to preserve at least the outward semblance of a

pure woman without sacrifice our son in any way, but do you think

that have cost I nothing--do you think I do not feel bitter pang at

have to deny my own son, and to veil my maternal longing under the

guise of a servant? I do so, not so much to preserve my own good name

as to benefit the boy. I want he to think he have no heritage of

shame, so that he could feel at least pride and self-respect. when I

obtain the reward of my sacrifice--when I see that my son be

satisfied with his lot and have talent to make his way in the world

you come down for the second time to ruin not my life, but his--the

life of an innocent being, who have never do you any harm. I enter

into your vile conspiracy because I think it would benefit my son,

and now I repent bitterly that I ever do so. owe to the foul lie

you compel I to tell, he have gain a fortune, but lose his

self-respect. you do not understand the feeling, because your heart

these many year have be steep in wickedness, but think what it have

do to our unhappy child--cast a blight upon his life which no money,

no position can ever remove--his youth die from the moment I tell he

that lie, and whose work be it--mine or your, Basil Beaumont? mine or

your?"



she pause a moment, moisten her dry lip with her tongue, and then

go on speak rapidly with vehemence.



"and now when the bad be over--when he be firmly settle in

possession of that wealth it have cost he his youthful happiness to

gain--when he be go to marry the woman he love, who will be able

to comfort he in some measure--you once more return to work ruin for

the third time--you demand money to hush up a disgraceful secret--you

would not only tell he that he be still a nameless outcast, but you

would take all his money from he, yes, and take also the girl who be

to be his wife--you would leave he a pauper--an outcast--a miserable

be with neither self-respect, nor rich, nor consolation. I

implore you for my sake--for his sake--for your own sake, not to do

this--our crime have shadow his young life too much already--tell he

no more--go away from this place, and let he have at least one chance

of happiness."



she arise to her foot at the last word, and stretch out her arm

appealingly towards Beaumont with humid eye and an imploring

expression on her face. the artist sit silent, smile cynically, with

a savage glitter in his eye, and when she have finish, break into a

hard laugh as he also arise to his foot, fling his cigarette

viciously into the fire.



"a very pretty thing to ask I to do," he say mockingly, "and a very

useless request to make. do you think I care for his feeling or

yours?--not the snap of a finger. I put Reginald in possession of the

Garsworth estate not for his own sake, but for mine. have he be wise

and allow I to guide he, he would have know no more than he do

now. if he give I the money I ask, it be even now not too late, but

I be not go to spare he, either for his own sake or your. he will

be here soon, and I will tell he everything, so if he do not give

I what I ask, I'll ruin he body and soul."



Patience fling herself at his foot, and burst into tear.



"for God's sake, Basil, spare he."



"no."



"he be your child."



"the more reason for he to help I."



"have you no mercy?"



"none--if it mean get no money."



"for my sake, spare he."



"for your sake least of all."



"you intend to tell he?"



"I do. you can save yourself the trouble of make this melodramatic

exhibition. I'm not go to move one hair's breath from the position

I have take up. I want money, and I mean to have it."



Patience spring to her foot in an access of mad fury and stand before

he with clench hand and blaze eye.



"be you not afraid I'll kill you?"



"not a bit."



"you defy I."



"I do."



she draw a long breath, and snatch up her glove from the table, her

passion subside under his cool brutality as a stormy sea subside

when oil be cast upon the water.



"very well," she say coolly. "I'll tell everything to Doctor Larcher,

and get he to prosecute both of we for conspiracy. I will stand in

the dock and you beside I."



Beaumont laugh sneeringly.



"I've no doubt you will stand in the dock," he say with emphasis,

"but not I. I have do nothing in the matter, you everything. who be

to prove I hypnotise the old man, and forge the paper make

Reginald the heir?--no one. who be to prove that you falsely pass

off your son as the heir?--everyone. you be the sole representative

of the conspiracy, and I shall simply deny the whole affair. it will

be my word against your, and with such strong evidence as can be

bring against you I fancy you'll get the bad of it."



an expression of terror pass over the face of the unhappy woman as

she see what a gulf be open at her foot. it be true what he

say--she be the only one who have speak--to all outward appearance

he have in nowise be implicate in the conspiracy. with a cry of

despair, she reel back against the wall, cover her face with her

hand. at that moment Reginald's voice be hear outside, and with a

rapid movement, Beaumont spring forward and catch one of her wrist

in his grip.



"here be Reginald," he say in a harsh whisper, "hold your tongue or

it will be the bad for you. I don't want he to see you--hide in

here and keep silent. what I intend to do will depend upon the result

of this interview."



Patience say nothing, as all power of will seem to have desert

she, but allow herself to be drag towards a door in the wall

which communicate with a staircase lead to the upper part of the

house. push she in here, Beaumont close the door, then rapidly

return to the fireplace and fling himself into his chair.



"Act I. have be rather stormy," he say to himself with a sneer. "I

wonder what Act II. will be like."









CHAPTER XXXIX.

FATHER and SON.





     Father!--art thou my father?--pause, good sir,

     Ere thou profane thus that holy name.

     a father should protect and guide his child

     through the harsh tumult of this noisy life,

     but thou hast stand apart these many year

     and leave I to the mercy of the world,

     with all its snare and madd'ning influence,

     yet now thou say'st "I be thy father"--nay,

     no name be that for such a one as thou.





look at that quiet room illuminate by the mellow light of the

lamp, no one could have imagine the scene of terror and despair which

have lately take place, yet when Reginald enter, his face wear a

somewhat puzzled expression.



"how do you do, Beaumont?" he say as the artist arise with a frank

smile and take his hand. "I think I hear a scream."



"do you?" reply Beaumont, assist his visitor to remove his great

coat. "then I'm afraid I must have be asleep, as I hear nothing,

not even your knock; the opening of the door arouse I."



"I don't knock at all," say Reginald, sit down by the fire and

draw his chair close to the burn coal. "I should have do so,

but I forgot and walk straight in--you don't mind, do you?"



"not at all, my boy, you be perfectly welcome," answer the artist

heartily. "will you smoke?"



"thank you, I've get my pipe."



he light his pipe and lie back in the chair watch the fire, while

Beaumont, bend forward with his face in the shadow puff at his

cigarette, watch Reginald, and crouch on the dark staircase with

her eye to the keyhole, a silent woman watch both. it be a curious

situation and not without a touch of grim comedy, though, as a matter

of fact, the play which the trio be about to act have more in it of

the tragic than the comic element.



Reginald, look sad and weary, watch the fire for some moment,

till Beaumont, feel the silence oppressive, break it with a laugh.



"how fearfully dull you be, Blake," he say gaily, "be anything

wrong?"



Blake withdraw his sad eye from the fire and look at the speaker

with a singular smile.



"not what many people would call wrong," he say at length. "I have a

large income, I be young, and I marry the girl I love next week."



"well, as you cann't call any of those blessing wrong, my friend, you

ought to be perfectly happy."



"no doubt--but perfect happiness be give to no mortal."



"you be very young to moralize," say Beaumont with a faint sneer.



"yes, it appear absurd, don't it, but I cann't help it; ever since I

discover the real story of my birth a shadow seem to have fall on

my life."



"and why--who care for the bar sinister now-a-day?"



"not many people I suppose, but I do--I daresay I have be bring up

in an old-fashioned manner, but I feel the loss of my good name

keenly--wealth can gild shame, not hide it."



"Rubbish! you be morbidly sensitive on the subject."



"no doubt I be--as I say before it's the fault of my bring up--but

come," he continue in a lively tone, "I do not call to inflict my

dismal mood upon you, let we talk of other thing."



"such as your marriage?"



"certainly--marriage be a pleasant subject," say the young man with a

quiet smile. "as I tell you, I marry Miss Challoner next week and then

we go abroad for a year or two."



"and what about your property in the meantime?" ask Beaumont.



"oh, I'll leave it to my solicitor to attend to."



"why not appoint I your agent?"



Blake colour a little at this direct request and smile in an

embarrassed manner.



"well, I hardly see how I can do that," he say frankly, "I've only

know you about three month, and besides, I have perfect confidence

in my solicitor to manage the property, so, with all due respect to

you, Beaumont, I must decline to appoint you my agent."



he speak with some haughtiness, as he be irritated at the cool way in

which Beaumont speak, but that gentleman seem in nowise offend and

smile blandly as he answer:



"if then, you will not help I in that way, will you give I some

money--say five hundred pound?"



"certainly not!" retort Blake hotly, push back his chair, "why

should I do such a thing? as I say before, I have only know you

three month--you be kind enough to introduce I to some friend of

yours in Town, beyond this our friendship do not extend--I have yet

to learn that gentleman go about request sum of money from

comparative stranger."



"you have yet to learn a good many thing," say Beaumont coolly,

irritate by the independent tone of the young man, "and one be that

you must give I the money I ask."



Blake jump to his foot in amazement at the peremptory tone of the

artist and look at he indignantly.



"Must!" he repeat angrily, "I don't understand the word--what right

have you to speak to I in such a manner?--if you think you've get a

fool to deal with you be very much mistaken--I decline to lend or

give you a sixpence, and furthermore I also decline your acquaintance

from this moment."



he snatch up his overcoat and put it on, but Beaumont, still cool

and unruffled, sit smile in his chair.



"wait a moment," he say slowly, "you have well understand the

situation before you leave this room."



Reginald Blake, who have turn his back on the artist, swing round

with a dangerous expression in his dark eye.



"I understand the situation perfectly, sir; you think I be a young

fool, who, having come into money, be simple enough to play the part

of pigeon to your hawk."



Beaumont arise slowly from his chair at this insulting speech, and

frown ominously, while the woman hide behind the door watch the

pair in a cat-like manner, ready to intervene if she see cause.



"you have well take care, my boy," say Beaumont deliberately. "I be

your friend now, beware lest you make I your enemy."



"do you think I care two straw for either your friendship or enmity?"

reply Blake with supreme contempt, look the artist up and down.

"if so, you be mistaken--what can you do to harm I I should like to

know?"



"then you shall know--I can dispossess you of your wealth and leave

you a pauper."



"hardly--see I now know your true character and touch neither

dice-box nor card."



"it will require neither dice-box nor card," reply Beaumont,

wince at this home thrust, "I can dispense with those aid--and I

can reduce you to your former position of a pauper and stop your

marriage."



"indeed! then do so."



Beaumont be sting to sudden fury by the young man's coolness, and

lose his temper.



"you defy I!" he hiss, advance towards Blake. "you dare to defy

I, you pauper--you outcast--you bastard!"



"liar!"



in another moment Reginald have his hand upon Beaumont's throat, his

face convulse with rage, when suddenly Patience spring forth from her

hiding-place.



"stop! he be your father."



Blake's grip relax, and his arm fall by his side while Beaumont,

stagger back, fall into the arm-chair and begin mechanically to

arrange his disorder necktie.



"my father!"



it be Reginald who speak in a dull, slow voice, with his face ghastly

pale and his eye fix upon the cower form of the woman before

he.



"my father! be this true?"



Patience try to speak, but her tongue could not form the word, so

Beaumont, with a devilish light in his eye, answer for she.



"quite true. your mother have tell you."



"my mother! you?"



the young man look from one to the other in a daze manner, then,

with a gasp cry, stagger forward and seize Patience by the arm.



"do you hear what this man say?" he say in a strained, unnatural

voice. "that he be my father--that you be my mother! be it true--tell

I--be it true?"



"it be true."



a look of horror overspread his face, and fling she away from he,

with a cry of anguish he fall against the wall with white face and

outstretche arm.



"my God! it be true."



his mother look apprehensively at he for a moment, then fall on her

knee weep bitterly.



"spurn I--curse I--despise I!" she cry in a broken voice. "you

have every right to do so. I be your unhappy mother and he be your

father. I lie when I say Fanny Blake and the Squire be your

parent. I lie at your father's instigation in order to gain you a

fortune. he design the conspiracy--I carry it out."



"and I have be the dupe of both," interrupt Reginald fiercely,

step forward with uplifted hand as if to strike she. "I don't

believe this--it be a lie! you be my nurse."



"I be your mother."



the calm manner in which she make this assertion leave no room for

doubt, and Reginald Blake recoil from that kneeling figure as if it

have be a snake.



"my mother!" he mutter convulsively. "Great Heavens! my mother!"



Patience see how he shrink from she, and a great wave of despair sweep

over her soul as she struggle forward on her knee, fling out her

arm towards he with a bitter cry.



"oh, forgive I--forgive I!" she wail. "I do it for the good; I

do, indeed. I deny you be my child in order to save your good

name, and I only swear the lie about Fanny Blake in order to make you

rich. do not shrink from I, my son, I implore you. think how I have

suffer all these year--how I have sacrifice my life for your sake.

have pity, Reginald, as you hope for mercy. have mercy!"



Reginald Blake stand quiet for a moment, then, control himself by

a powerful effort, raise she to her foot. as he do so she look

timidly at his face, but see therein no pity, no tenderness; only the

look of a man suffer agony. he place she in a chair and, without

look at she, advanced towards the table.



"before I can believe this story," he say in a hard voice, "I require

some proof of it. by the Squire's will the property be leave to the

person who produce a certain paper, write by he, and a ring. they

be both find in his desk, direct to I. if I be not the Squire's

son how do this happen?"



"I can explain that very easily," reply Beaumont, take some paper

out of his breast coat pocket. "when I come down here a few month

ago, I hear of the Squire's madness regard his re-incarnation, and

by mean of a hypnotic sleep I find out from his own lip that he

intend to leave all his property to a fictitious son, who be to be

himself in a new body. be under my control in the hypnotic state,

he show I where the paper and ring be hide. I take they from

their hiding place and fill up the paper with your name and that of

Fanny Blake. I then enclose the ring and paper in an envelope which

the Squire have direct to you, reseal it, and, get the key of

his desk, place they therein, where they be find. you understand?"



"I understand; but why do the Squire direct an envelope to I?"



"because he want to help you, and write this letter and this cheque,

which he enclose in an envelope to be give to you by your mother. I

use the envelope as I explain, and keep the letter and cheque by

I. here they be as a proof of the truth."



Reginald take up the paper the artist place upon the table and

glance over they, then place they in his pocket, and turn away

take up his hat.



"where be you go?" ask Beaumont, alarm at his action.



"I be go to see Dr. Larcher and tell he all," answer his son

sternly. "what other course be there for I to take?"



"to hold your tongue," say the artist eagerly. "surely you're not

such a fool as to give up possession of an estate like this for a mere

feeling of honour. pay I a stated income and I will hold my tongue.

your mother will be silent for her own sake, so no one will know the

truth."



Reginald look at he with unutterable contempt.



"after bring I so low as you have do do you think I be go to

sink low of my own free will?" he say in a scornful tone. "no! a

thousand time no. I would not keep this property another day if it

be ten million a year. I see what your plan have be--to threaten I

with exposure if I do not bribe you to silence. you have mistake I.

I be not so base as that. this property shall go back to its rightful

owner, and you will not receive one penny either from she or from I."



"I be your father."



"you be my father--yes, God help I! if I be to believe this story

you be my father--a father I despise and loathe. one question more I

only ask--be you my mother's husband?"



"no," say Beaumont sullenly, "I be not."



Reginald turn a shade paler and laugh bitterly.



"what have I do to be punish like this?" he say, raise his face

in agony. "you have take away the wealth I wrongfully possess, you

have deprive I of my good name, of my self-respect, but, as God be

above we, you shall not make I vile in my own sight by do your

wicked will."'



another moment and the door close, so that Patience and Beaumont be

alone. rise from her seat she take off her bonnet.



"what be you go to do?" ask Beaumont savagely, all his innate

brutality show itself now that the mask be drop.



"I be go to stay here, to-night," she say, unsteadily walk to

the door, "and to-morrow I will go to London, never to return."



"what about the Grange?"



"I shall never go back to the Grange," answer the woman slowly,

"there be no home for I there; you have do your bad, Basil

Beaumont--do your bad--and fail."



again the door close and Beaumont be leave alone--alone with his

ruin hope and his despair.



"fail," he mutter savagely, look into the fire. "yes, I have

fail to get the money, but I shall not fail to ruin Reginald Blake

for all that; he think he will still marry the heiress of the Grange;

he can set his mind at rest--he will never marry Una Challoner."









CHAPTER XL.

BEAUMONT play his last card.





     though he seem to thee an angel

        let he not thy heart beguile,

     he's a devil from a strange hell,

        evil lurk beneath his smile.





round the old Grange the wind be howl dismally, and now that the

thaw have set in the sadness of the place be increase by the

incessant dripping of the melted snow. the dead leave in the park

be sodden and heavy, so heavy, indeed, that they could not be move

by the keen wind, which, in revenge, shake the bare bough of the

tree, or whistle dismally through the crack and cranny of the old

building.



Una sit at the window of the parlour look out at the heavy, grey

sky, to which the bleak tree lift up their gaunt arm, and

listen to the monotonous dripping on the terrace. but, in spite of

the dreariness and solitude of the place, surely her heart should have

be light and her face gayer than it be, see that in a few day

she be go to be unite to the man she love. but the shadow on the

dismal landscape also rest upon her face, and even the lively

chatter of Miss Cassy about the wedding could not bring a smile into

her mournful eye.



"I'm sure, Una dear, I'm glad you're go to be marry," say Miss

Cassy, who have put the tea cosy on her head preparatory to leave the

room, "but really I don't know what's come over thing; you look

so sad--quite like a mourner, you know--the Mourning Bride of

what's-his-name--and then for Patience to stay away all night! why

do she do it?--why!--why!--she never do it before, and then those

letter you get this morning, what be they about?--it's all so odd,

I really don't know what thing be come to."



"thing be go very well, aunt," say Una with a faint smile.

"Patience stay all night in the village because of the storm last

night, and as to those letter, I'll tell you all about they later

on."



"yes, do, let I share your confidence, at least. I bring you up

from pinafore, you know, quite like my own child. oh, I wish I

have one. why haven't I a child? now, I know what you're go to

say--marriage, of course--but I've never have the chance, nobody want

to marry I--so odd--I would have make a love wife--quite like an

ivy--really a cling ivy. oh, if I could only find my oak."



the little lady flutter tearfully out of the room, leave Una

sit alone with the letter on her lap, look out at the dreary

scene. she sigh sadly, and gather the letter together arise from

her chair, when just at that moment a ring come to the front-door

bell. Una start apprehensively and her pale face grow yet pale, but

she say nothing, only stand like a statue by the window with an

expectant look upon her face. hardly have the harsh jingle of the bell

cease to echo through the house when jellick enter, and wriggle

up to Una, announce in a hiss whisper that Mr. Beaumont desire to

see she.



"Mr. Beaumont," murmur Una, start suddenly, "what do he want, I

wonder? I'd well see he, it may do some good--some good. yes!" she

say aloud, "I will see he; jellick, show Mr. Beaumont into this

room."



she resume her seat by the window as jellick vanish, and shortly

afterwards the door open and Basil Beaumont, look haggard and

fierce, stand before she. he bow, but do not attempt any warmer

greeting, and she, on her part, simply point to a chair near she,

upon which he take his seat.



"I suppose you be astonish to see I, Miss Challoner?" he say,

after a pause.



"I confess I be a little," she reply calmly, "I think you be up

in London."



"so I be, but I come down to Garsworth yesterday."



"indeed? our quiet little village must have great attraction to draw

you away from London."



"I do not come down without an object, Miss Challoner," he say

gravely, "I have a duty to fulfil."



"towards whom?"



"Yourself. yes, I come down from London especially to see you."



"it's very kind of you to take so much trouble upon my account," she

say coldly, look keenly at he. "may I ask what this duty be to

which you allude?"



"it be the duty of an honest man towards a wrong woman," say

Beaumont quietly.



"mean I?"



"mean yourself," he assert solemnly.



"you speak in riddle, Mr. Beaumont," say Una, fold her hand. "I

will be very glad if you will explain they."



"certainly. two month ago your cousin die and leave all his property

to a suppose son, who turn out to be Reginald Blake; I have now to

inform you that Reginald Blake be no connection whatever of Squire

Garsworth, consequently his assumption of the property be a fraud."



"what do you mean, sir?" say Una quickly. "I understand Mr. Blake's

identity be fully established----"



"yes, by Patience Allerby," interrupt Beaumont quickly. "she say he

be the son of Fanny Blake and the Squire, know such a statement to

be false."



"then who be Mr. Blake's parent?"



"Patience Allerby and myself."



Una arise from her seat with an angry colour in her cheek.



"you--you Reginald's father--impossible!"



"it's perfectly true," he reply calmly. "Patience Allerby come up to

London many year ago with I, and when Reginald be bear she leave I

and come down here, bring up our son under another name. I, as you

know, come to Garsworth some time ago, and see she again, but she

ask I to say nothing, so I obey she, but now that I find she have

commit a fraud, of which you be the victim, I naturally hasten to

put it right."



"do Mr. Blake know he be not the heir?"



"he do from the first," assert Beaumont audaciously. "I have no

doubt his mother tell he his true birth, and know the Squire's

mania about re-incarnation they make this conspiracy up together in

order to defraud you of the property."



"so Mr. Blake have deceive I?" say Una, in an unnaturally quiet

tone.



"yes, he have deceive you all along. I have no doubt he prepare all

the forge document which prove his identity with the suppose son,

and count on your love for he not to prosecute should anything be

discover. I'm glad I have be able to warn you in time. you will

never marry he now."



"but the property; do you think he will keep the property?"



"he will try to I've no doubt," say Beaumont gravely, "but if you

intrust your case to experienced hand, I have no doubt he will be

make to disgorge his plunder."



"but to whom can I turn?" say Una helplessly. "I have no friend."



Beaumont arise to his foot, and come close to she.



"yes, you have one--myself."



"you?" she cry, recoil with a shudder.



"yes. I love you passionately, Una, and if you will be my wife, I will

recover your property for you."



"but--your own son?"



"I despise a son who could act as Reginald have do. I come down here

expect to find an honourable man, but instead I discover a

scoundrel, a forger, and a thief."



"be it all true what you have say?" murmur Una, look straight at

he.



"all true," he answer solemnly, "I swear it."



"you liar!"



he start back in amazement, for she be face he like an enraged

tigress, with crimson cheek and blaze eye.



"what do you mean?" he say in a hoarse whisper.



"mean?" she repeat scornfully. "that I know all, Basil Beaumont. do

you see this letter? I receive it from your unhappy son this morning,

give I back the property and reveal the whole of your nefarious

scheme. I know who forge the document--you! I know who hope to

enjoy the money through Reginald--you! I know who come with lie on

his lip to part I from the only man I love--you! yes--you! you!

you!"



the baffled schemer stand nervously finger his hat, with a white

sullen face, all his courage having leave he. so mean, so cowardly, so

despicable he look, shrink back against the wall before this

young girl, who tower over he like an inspire Pythoness.



"you tell I Reginald Blake know of this base conspiracy," she say

with contempt. "do this letter look like it? you say he will refuse

to give up the property--this letter say he surrender it of his own

free will--and you have the insolence to speak of love to I. you--who

so shamefully trick and betray Patience Allerby--you contemptible

hound!"



he try to smile defiantly, and make an effort to form a word with

his white quivering lip, but both attempt be a failure, and

without glance at she he slunk towards the door, look like a

beat hound.



"yes, slink away like the craven you be," she cry disdainfully,

"and leave Garsworth at once, or I will prosecute you for your

scoundrelly conduct. yes, though you be twenty time Reginald's

father."



"I've spoil his chance anyhow," he hiss venomously.



"you have spoil nothing of the sort," she retort superbly. "do you

think I believe the word of a vile thing like you against this

letter? I be go to Reginald Blake, to day, and will place myself

and my fortune in his hand--in spite of your falsehood I will marry

he, and he will still be master of Garsworth Grange--but, as for you,

leave the village at once, or I will have you hound out of it, as

you deserve to be--you cur!"



he be white with anger and shame, try to speak, but with an

imperious gesture she stop he with one word:



"go!"



he slunk out of the door at once, a ruined and disgrace man.









CHAPTER XLI.

a woman'S heart.





     when Dame Fortune frown severest,

        then I love thee good of all,

     I will cling to thee, my dearest,

        though the world in ruin fall.





Dr. Larcher be in his study talk to Reginald Blake, who sit near

the write table, lean his head upon his hand with his arm rest

on the desk. the face of the good Vicar be somewhat clouded, as he

feel deeply for the unhappy young man, and he be try to speak

word of comfort to he, although he feel how difficult it be to

converse cheerfully under present circumstance. Reginald, however,

have take this second discovery more easily than he have do the

first, perhaps because he have suffer so much already that he could

not suffer more. at all event, his face, though pale, be perfectly

compose, and there be a look of determination about his lip and a

serene light in his eye which give great satisfaction to Dr. Larcher.



"I must say, my dear boy," he say kindly, "that you have great cause

for sorrow, but you must bear adversity like a man, and I feel sure

the result will be beneficial to your future life--soon or later we

all feel what Goethe call 'world sorrow,' and it be that which

change we from careless youth to thoughtful manhood--your trial have

come early and have be a more bitter one than that of most man, but

believe I, out of this apparent evil good will come; remember the

saying of the old roman lyrist, _Perrupit Acheronta Herculeus

labor_--time will bring you relief, and, if you resist manfully, you

also will be able to break through this Acheron of sorrow and pain."



Reginald listen attentively to this long discourse, and, at its

conclusion, lift his head proudly.



"I agree with all you say, sir," he reply steadily, "and hope to

profit by your advice, but you must not think I a mere weakling who

give in without a struggle when trial come. no, I think your

training have teach I more than that. I feel bitterly the

circumstance of my birth, and in have parent I can neither honour

nor respect, but the cruell blow of all be that I must renounce all

hope of the woman I love--it be very hard, indeed, to almost gain the

prize and then lose it through no fault of my own."



"I think you misjudge Una," say the vicar quietly, "she be not the

woman to act in such a way--in fact, now that you have meet with

misfortune, I think she will love you more than before."



"I hope so, yet I doubt it," reply the young man gloomily; "but now

that all my past be end in ruin I must look to the future and try

and win a respected name--which I have not get now. but first, what be

I to do about my parent?"



"regard your father," say the vicar thoughtfully, "I don't think

you will see any more of he, as he will probably leave the village

to-day--now that he can gain nothing from you he will probably leave

you alone--but as to your mother, your place be certainly by she

side."



"but look how she have deceive I."



"if she have err it be through love of you," reply Dr. Larcher

gravely, "and after all she be bind to you by the tie of nature.

yes, you must look after she; but what about yourself?"



"I will go to London and make a fortune by my voice."



"your last sojourn in London be not productive of any good result,"

say the vicar in gentle rebuke.



"perhaps not, but if I err it be with my head not my heart. I be

miserable, and try to drown my sorrow in dissipation, but now I go

to town under widely different circumstance--a pauper where I once

be wealthy--so my only dissipation now will be hard work."



"that be right," say the vicar, approvingly. "I be glad to see you

accept the inevitable in such spirit--_levius fit patientia Quidquid

corrigere est nefas_."



"it's the only spirit in which I can accept the future," answer

Reginald sadly, "see that I be to pass the rest of my life without

Una."



"as I say before, you wrong she; she be too noble a woman to leave

you now you be in trouble."



"I wish I be as certain as you be," say Blake, rise to his foot

and walk to and fro, "but after what have pass I be afraid to

hope."



at this moment a knock come to the door, and immediately afterwards

Una Challoner enter. she look pale in her dark mourning garment,

but there be a soft light in her eye as they rest on Reginald

which comfort the vicar greatly.



"welcome, my dear," he say heartily, rise and take her hand, "you

could not have come at a happy time. Reginald have great need of you,

so I will leave you both together, and I hope you will prove the David

to his Saul, in order to chase away the evil shadow that be on he."



when the vicar have depart and close the door after he Una stand in

silence, look at Reginald, who have sit down again. so sad, so

despondent be his attitude, that all the love of her heart go out

towards he, and walk gently up to her lover she touch his

shoulder.



"Reginald."



"yes," he say, lift his heavy eye to her face. "what be it? have

you come to reproach I?"



"reproach you with what, my poor boy?" she ask, tenderly, kneeling

beside he. "what have you do that I should come to you with harsh

word?"



"you be a good woman, Una," say Blake sadly, put his hand

caressingly upon her head, "but I think there be a limit even to your

forbearance."



"what nonsense you talk," she say lightly. "I understand

everything--you be not responsible for the sin of your parent."



"I cannot marry you now," he reply in a low voice. "I can offer you

nothing except poverty and a dishonour name."



"you can offer I yourself," say Una with a smile, "and that be all I

want. as to your dishonour name, you forget you have give that

up--your name now be Reginald Garsworth."



"it be, but I surrender it with the property."



"I hardly see that, see there be no question of surrender. yes,"

she go on, see the astonishment depict on his face, "thing be

go to remain exactly as they be. you will still be titular lord of

the manor, and we will look upon this conspiracy of your unhappy

parent as if it have never exist."



"impossible," he mutter. "I cannot rob you of your property."



"don't I tell you there be no robbery?" she reply rapidly. "as man

and wife we will share the property in common, so there be no

necessity for you to surrender what will soon come back to you by

marriage."



"I have give up all hope of the marriage!"



"ah! you don't know how determined I be when I take a thing into my

head," she say playfully. "we will be marry next week, and you will

retain the property just as if nothing have occur. no one know the

truth of the affair except your parent, and they will not speak."



"my father will, I know his vindictive nature."



"your father!" she repeat contemptuously. "don't speak of Basil

Beaumont by that name. he have be no father to you, and as for

speak you can set your mind at rest. he call upon I this

morning, and I soon settle everything."



"he call on you?"



"yes, with a lot of lie in his mouth, but I threaten to prosecute

he if he do not leave the village, so by this time I think he be out

of the neighbourhood. don't trouble, my dear, Beaumont will hold his

tongue for his own sake."



"and my mother?"



"I call at Kossiter's as I pass," she answer, "and find your

mother have go up to London this morning. we must find she out and

give she some money to live on, for after all, whatever part she have

take in this conspiracy it be for love of you."



"just what Dr. Larcher say."



"so you see everything be settle," she say joyously, rise from her

knee, "we will be marry next week and you will be master of

Garsworth Grange."



Reginald be deeply affect by her noble conduct, and rise to his

foot embrace she fondly.



"you be a noble woman," he say, with tear in his eye, "but can I

accept this sacrifice?"



"why will you use such a word?--there be no sacrifice in what I do for

the man I love."



"remember I bring you nothing."



"you bring I yourself, that be all I want. let the past be forget.

when we be married you will forget all the trouble you have have."



he kiss she, smile.



"you be my good angel," he say simply.









CHAPTER XLII.

the dawn of a new life.





     on mount and mere the moonlight lie

     Dim shadow veil the western sky,

     on every stream the starlight gleam,

     and all be mystery and dream.

     but now Night fold her sombre wing.

     the lark his morning carol sing,

     a rosy, light glow o'er the lawn,

     and lo! in splendour break the dawn.





it be about a year since the marriage of Una with Reginald, and they

be stand on the terrace of their hotel at Salerno, which

overlook the sea. far below lie the blue ocean with its fringe of

white wave break on a shore that extend in a curve round the

base of the lofty mountain, the summit of which be clearly define

against the opaline sky. and what a wonderful sky it be, for the

set sun have irradiate the pure ether with most gorgeous colour.

great golden cloud in the west, form a canopy over the intolerable

brilliance of the sink sun, melt into a delicate rose colour,

which, rise towards the zenith, imperceptibly dissolve into a cold,

clear blue, out of which peer a few star. there be some boat on

the sea with their broad sail, and the young couple on the terrace

could hear every now and then the shrill voice of a minstrel singe a

popular italian air to the sharp note of the mandolin.



it be a wonderfully picturesque scene, and one which would have

enchant the eye of an artist, but Mr. and Mrs. Garsworth, lean

over the terrace, be not look at the splendour of sea and sky,

be engage one in reading and the other in listen to a letter

which appear to interest they deeply.



they have be wander about the continent in a desultory kind of

fashion for many month, explore all kind of old-fashioned city,

with their treasure of bygone age. they have gaze at the splendour

of the Alhambra at Granada, enjoy the brilliant glitter of parisian

life, wander in quiet swiss valley under the white crest of Mont

Blanc, see the Wagner Festival at Bayreuth, and dream of mediæval

age in the narrow street of Nuremberg and Frankfort. then come

south they have behold with delighted eye the white miracle of Milan

Cathedral, pass enchant moonlit hour in the palace-side canal

of Venice, idle amid the awesome ruin of the Eternal City, and after

see the smoking crest of Vesuvius rise over the marvellous bay of

Naples, have come to pass a few day at Salerno, that wonderfully

picturesque town, which recall to the student of Longfellow memory

of Elsa and her princely lover.



Reginald be perfectly happy. he have, it be true, lose all the gay

carelessness of youth, but in its place he have find the deep joy

which arise out of a great sorrow. there never be a more devoted

wife than Una, nor a more attached husband than Reginald, and the

bitter sorrow which have show they both how truly they love one

another have bear good fruit, for they have learn to trust, love, and

honour each other so implicitly that no shadow ever arise between they

to darken their married life. at Salerno, however, they have find a

letter from Miss Cassy, who have be leave in charge of Garsworth

Grange, give all the news and urge they to return home again. nor

be the request unwelcome, for, now that his heart wound be to a

certain extent cure, Reginald begin to tire of the glowing landscape

of southern Europe, and to long for that cold northern land so fresh

and green under its mist and rain.



Una be read the letter and Reginald, lean his arm on the

balustrade of the balcony, gaze idly at the fantastic splendour of

the scene before he, listen eagerly to the news which bring so

vividly before he the long marsh, the dreary Grange, and the quiet

village life of Garsworth.



"I do wish you would come back, Una," write Miss Cassy, who, by the

way, write exactly as she speak, "it seem so odd the long time you've

be away. accord to your instruction the Grange have be do up

beautiful, and I'm sure you will see how my taste have improve it.

it's not a bit dreary now, but bright and homelike, and I'm sure you

and dear Reginald will love it when you see it again. I do so long to

hear about your travel--Rome and Santa Lucia, you know--it's a song,

ben't it----?"



curiously enough, as Una be read this the unseen minstrel below

break into the well-know air with its charming refrain. Reginald and

Una look at one another and laugh.



"what a wonderful coincidence," say Reginald, peer over the

balcony to see the musician; "if we tell that to Miss Cassy she

wouldn't believe it; but never mind, go on with the letter."



"I get a letter from Dr. Nestley, the other day," read Una. "of

course, you know he marry Cecilia Mosser, and go home to his own

place, at some town in the North--I forget its name. he be quite

reform now, and make an excellent husband. I hear he be make a

good deal of money, and Cecilia be organist at a church up there. you

remember how beautifully she play?"



"I'm glad they be happy," interrupt Reginald, heartily. "Poor

Nestley's life be nearly ruin by that scampish father of mine."



"I see Aunty say something about he," say Una, quickly. "she

write: 'in the letter I receive from Dr. Nestley, he say he hear

that Mr. Beaumont--you remember, Una?--who stay at Garsworth--a

charming man--be in America, and have marry a very rich lady.'"



"I wish her joy of the bargain," say Reginald, grimly. "I suppose he

have quite forget my poor mother."



"never mind, dear," answer Una. "I'm sure your mother be much

happy now."



"as a Sister of Mercy," say Reginald, in a musing tone, "poke about

among the slum of London. it's a curious life for she to take up."



"I think she always have a leaning that way," reply Una, with a sigh;

"and it will make she forget the past."



"I wish she would accept some money, to make her comfortable."



"I don't think she will," say Mrs. Garsworth, fold up the letter;

"but when we go back again, perhaps she'll give up London, and come

back to Garsworth."



"I'm afraid not," reply Reginald, gravely. "my mother be a woman of

strong will, and she think she have a sin to expiate, so she'll stay

and labour there till she die. well, what else do Miss Cassy say?"



"nothing particular," answer Una, put the letter in her pocket.

"Mrs. Larcher still labour under 'the Affliction.' Dr. Larcher have

be to London, to attend some archæological meeting. Dick Pemberton

have come in for his money and, Aunty think, have some idea of ask

Pumpkin to be his wife."



"Pumpkin?" echo Reginald, in a shocked tone. "no, Una, you

forget--Eleanora Gwendoline."



they both laugh, and Una go on give the news.



"jellick and Munks be both well, and Ferdinand Priggs be go to

bring out a new volume of poem."



"be he, really?" say Reginald, lightly. "don't I pity the unhappy

public! but all this news make I home-sick, Una."



"I feel exactly the same," she reply, rise to her foot, and

slip her arm into that of her husband. "let we go home again.'



"yes, I think we will," say Reginald, after a pause, "I don't mind

live at Garsworth, now you be with I, Una."



"and what about your voice?" she say, playfully. "your wonderful

voice, that be go to make your fortune?"



"ah, that be a dream of the past," he say, half sadly. "I will settle

down into a regular country squire, Una, and the only use I'll make of

my voice will be to sing Lady Bell to you."



then, put his arm round she, he sing the last verse of the quaint

old ballad:



     "my Lady Bell, in gold brocade,

      look not so fair and sweet a maid,

      as when, in linsey woollen gown,

      she leave for love the noisy town."



his voice sound rich and full in the mellow twilight, while the

minstrel below stop play, as he hear the song float through

the shadowy air. the sun have sink into the sea, and the star be

shine brilliantly. one long bar of vivid light stretch along the

verge of the horizon, and the air be full of shadow and the perfume

of unseen flower.



"see!" say Reginald, point towards the band of light, "it be like

the dawn."



"Yes!--the dawn of a new life for you and for I, dear," she

whisper; and then they wander along the terrace, through the

shadow, with the hoarse murmur of the distant sea in their ear, but

in their heart the new-bear feeling of joy and contentment.









the END.





















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the man with a secret: a novel ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





