The project Gutenberg eBook of the House of Baltazar

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the House of Baltazar



author: William John Locke



Release date: August 18, 2019 [ebook #60120]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Marcia Brooks, Al Haines, Jen Haines & the

        online Project Gutenberg team at

        http://www.pgdpcanada.net





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the HOUSE of baltazar ***



                          [Cover Illustration]









                         the HOUSE of baltazar









                         _=by the same AUTHOR=_



idols

JAFFERY

VIVIETTE

SEPTIMUS

derelict

the USURPER

STELLA MARIS

where LOVE be

the ROUGH road

the RED PLANET

the white DOVE

far-away story

SIMON the JESTER

a study in SHADOWS

a CHRISTMAS mystery

the WONDERFUL year

the FORTUNATE youth

THE BELOVÈD VAGABOND

AT the GATE of SAMARIA

the glory of CLEMENTINA

the moral of MARCUS ORDEYNE

the DEMAGOGUE and LADY PHAYRE

the JOYOUS adventures of ARISTIDE PUJOL









                                  THE

                           HOUSE of baltazar



                                   BY

                            WILLIAM J. LOCKE



             AUTHOR of “the ROUGH road,” “the RED PLANET,”

           “the WONDERFUL year,” “the BELOVÈD VAGABOND,” ETC.



                      NEW YORK: JOHN LANE COMPANY

                   LONDON: JOHN LANE, the BODLEY head

                    TORONTO:   the   ryerson   PRESS

                                 MCMXX









                          copyright, 1919, BY

                     INTERNATIONAL MAGAZINE COMPANY

                                  ————

                            COPYRIGHT, 1920

                          BY JOHN LANE COMPANY



                        t h e • plimpton • PRESS

                         NORWOOD • MASS • U•S•A









                         the HOUSE of BALTAZAR









                         the HOUSE of BALTAZAR









                               CHAPTER I





the early story of Baltazar be not the easy one to tell. it be

episodic. it obey not the Unities of Time, Place and Action. the only

unity to be find in it be the oneness of character in that absurd and

accomplished man. the fact of his be lustily alive at the present

moment do not matter. to get he in perspective, one must regard he

as belong to the past. now the past be a relative conception. save to

the academic student of history, Charlemagne be as remote as Sesostris.

to the world emerge from the stupor of the great war, Mons be as

distant as Balaclava. time be really reckon by the heart-throb of

individual or nation. yester-year be infinitely far away. . . .



to get back to Baltazar and his story. in the first place it may be say

that he be a man of fit and start; a description which do not imply

irresponsible mobility of purpose and spasmodic achievement. the phrase

must be take in the literal significance of the two term. a man of

fit—of mental, moral and emotional paroxysm; of start—of swift

course of action which these paroxysm irresistibly determine. which

same cause of action, in each case, he doggedly and ruthlessly pursue.

one, an intimate teacher of Baltazar, one who, possess of the

knowledge of the scholar and the wisdom of the man of the world, might

be qualified to judge, call he a Fool of Genius. now the genius be

steadfast; the fool erratic. in this apparent irreconcilability of

attribute lie the difficulty of present the story of Baltazar.



but for the war, the story would scarcely be worth the telling, however

interesting might be his sheer personality and his calculate

waywardness. it would have lead no whither, save to a stage or two

far on his journey to the grave. but there be scarcely a human being

alive with whose apparently predestine lot the war have not play the

very devil. it knock Baltazar’s world to bit—as soon as the

realization of it burst on his astonished sense; yet it seem to bring

finality or continuity into his hitherto disconnected life.



it be during the war that his name be mention and his character

discuss for the first time for many year, by two person not without

interest in his fate.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Marcelle Baring, a professional nurse of long standing, arrive late one

night at Churton Towers, to take up the duty of sister in charge. the

place be the country seat of a great family who, like many other, have

give it over to the Government as a convalescent home for officer; a

place of stately lawn and terrace and fountain; of picture-hung

gallery guard by grim emptiness in armour; of noble hall

heterogeneously furnish—for generosity seldom go so far as to leave

the edge of a priceless marquetry table at the mercy of a

feather-head subaltern’s forget cigarette; of tapestried room,

once fill with the treasure of century, now empty save for the row

of little standard War Office bedstead and the little deal regulation

table at their head.



somewhat confused by the vastness of her new home, and by the contrast

of its gracious splendour with the utilitarian ugliness and mathematical

uniformity of the General Hospital which she have just leave, Marcelle

Baring go downstairs the next morning to begin her new duty. once in

the ward she feel at home; for a ward of sick man be the same all the

world over. the Matron go round with she, perform introduction;

but that first morning she only catch a third of the name. it would

take a few day to learn they, to learn also the history of the case.

besides, they be convalescent, dressing be few, and her work be

more administrative than personal. her first impression be that of a

high spirited crowd of almost indistinguishable young man, some to all

intent and purpose sound of wind and limb, who in a short time would

be send back to the tempest of shell whence they be drive; other

maim and crippled, armless, legless, with droop wrist, with

unserving ankle. in the daytime nearly all be out of the ward; most

in the open air play tennis or lounge about the terrace, or

play billiard in the open-sided pavilion that look over the

japanese garden. it be no easy matter to keep track of they all.



it be only on the second day that the name of a young officer who have

lose his foot catch her eye: “Mr. G. Baltazar.” he be very young,

fair, blue-eye, with a little blond moustache. his tunic, lay ready

with the rest of his clothe, bear the white and purple ribbon of the

Military Cross. the stump have practically heal, but it still need

attention.



“it’s rotten luck, ben’t it, Sister?” he say while she be tend he.

“I think I have get through all right—the show at Ypres early in June.

I all but see it out, but a bit of high explosive get I and here I be.

anyhow, they say they’re go to wangle I an artificial foot, so that

I’ll never know the difference. one of those pukka thing, you know,

that’ll pick up pin with the toe. I hope it’ll come soon, for I’m feed

up with crutch. I always feel as if I ought to hold out my hat for

penny.”



“poor chap!” say Marcelle, absently.



“that’s kind of you, but it’s just what I’m hate. I don’t want to go

through life as a ‘poor chap.’” he pause, then run on: “I wonder how

you dear people can look at the beastly thing. whenever I cock my leg

down and try to have a sight of it, it nearly make I sick. I like to

be neat and tidy and not repulsive to my fellow-creature, but that

crimple-crumpled end of I be just slovenly and disgusting.”



Marcelle Baring scarcely heed his debonair talk. his name have awaken

far-off memory. she work in silence, pin the bandage and,

smile, with a “you’ll do all right, Mr. Baltazar,” leave he.



the shock come the next afternoon. as she pass through the great

entrance hall, fit up as a lounge with the heterogeneous furniture,

she come across he, the solitary occupant, sit at a table, busy

with pencil and write pad and a thick volume prop up in front of

he. her eye catch arrest symbol on the paper, then the

page-heading of the book: “Rigid Dynamics.”



she pause. he look up with a laugh.



“hello, Sister!”



she say, with a catch in her breath, “you’re a mathematician?”



he laugh. “more or less. if they kick I out of the Army, I must go

back to Cambridge and begin again where I leave off.”



“you must have leave off rather high, if you’re read Rigid.”



he start, for no one in this wide world but a mathematical student

could have use the phrase.



“what the—what do you know about Rigid?”



“I be at Newnham, in my young day,” she reply, “and I read

mathematic. and, oddly enough, my private tutor was”—she hesitate for

a second—“someone of your name.”



he push his chair away from the table.



“that must have be my father.”



“John Baltazar.”



“yes, John Baltazar. one of the great mathematical genius Cambridge

have produce. Good Lord! do you know my father?”



“he and I be great friend.”



she look he through and through with curiously burn eye; of which

the boy be unconscious, for he say:



“fancy your reading with my father! it’s a funny old world.” then

suddenly he reflect and glance at she critically. “but how could you?

he disappear nearly twenty year ago.”



“I’m thirty-eight,” she say.



“Lord! you don’t look it—nothing like it,” he cry boyishly.



nor do she. she carry a graceful air of youth, from the wave of brown

hair that escape from beneath her Sister’s cap to the supple and

delicately curve figure. and her face, if you peer not too closely,

be young, very pure in feature, still with a bloom on the complexion in

spite of confinement in hospital ward. her voice, too, be soft and

youthful. perhaps her eye be a little weary—they have see many

terrible thing.



at the young man’s tribute she flush slightly and smile. but the

smile die away when he add:



“what be he like? I’ve often wonder, and there have be no one to

tell I—no one I could have listen to. the don of his generation be

too shy to refer to he and I’m too shy to ask ’em. do you know, I’ve

never see a picture of he even.”



“he be not unlike you,” she reply, look not at he, but wistfully

down the year. “of heavier build. he be a man of tremendous

vitality—and swift brain. the most marvellous teacher I have ever meet.

he seem to hold your intellect in his hand like a physical thing,

sweep it clear of cobwebs and compel it to assimilate whatever he choose.

a bear teacher and a wonderful man.”



“but be he human? I know his work, though I haven’t read enough to

tackle it yet—most of it’s away and beyond Part II of the Tripos even.

I go up with an Open Mathematical Scholarship just before the war, and

only do my first year’s reading. I’m begin this”—he tap his

Treatise on Rigid Dynamics—“on my own. what I mean be,” he go on,

after a pause, “my father have be always an abstraction to I. I

shouldn’t have worry about he if he have just be a nonentity—it

ben’t play the game to vanish as he do into space and leave my

mother to fend for herself.”



“but I hear,” say the Sister, “that your mother have her own private

fortune.”



“I ben’t allude to that side of it,” he admit. “but he do vanish,

don’t he? well, as I say, if he have be just a nobody, I shouldn’t

have be particularly interested; but he ben’t. he be the most

brilliant man of his generation at Cambridge. for instance, he take up

Chinese as a sort of relaxation. they say his be the only really

scientific handbook on the study of the language. you see, Sister”—he

swerve impatiently on his chair and bring his hand down on the table,

whereat she draw a swift inward breath, for the gesture of the son be

that of the father—“I’ve always want to know whether I’m the son of

an inhuman intellect or of a man of flesh and blood. be he human?

that’s what I want to know.”



“he be human all right,” she reply quietly. “too human. of course he

be essentially the scholar—or savant—whatever you like to call it.

his work be always to he an intellectual orgy. but he love the world

too. he be a fascinating companion. he seem to want to get everything

possible out of life.”



“why don’t he get it?”



“he be a man,” she say, “of sensitive honour.”



Captain Baltazar throw away the flame match wherewith he be about to

light a cigarette.



“that lick I,” say he.



“how?”



“his bolting. do you know my father very well?”



“I’ve tell you we be great friend.”



“do you know my mother?”



her eyelid flicker for a moment; but she reply steadily:



“no. I be only a student and your father be my private tutor. but I

hear—from other people—a great deal about your mother. I believe she

die many year ago, don’t she?”



“yes. when I be five. I barely remember she. I be bring up by my

uncle and aunt—her people. they scarcely know my father and haven’t a

good word to say about he. it be only when I grow up and develop a

sort of taste for mathematic, that I realize what a swell he be. and

I cann’t help be fascinate by the mystery of it. there he be, as far

as I can gather, full of money, his own (which he walk off with) and

of mother’s, begin to enjoy at thirty a world-wide reputation—and

suddenly he disappear off the face of the earth. it ben’t a question

of suicide. for the man who buy a ticket for the next world don’t go

to peculiar trouble to take all his worldly estate with he. it ben’t

reasonable, be it?”



“your father be too much in love with life to go out of it

voluntarily,” say Sister Baring.



“then what the blaze do he do, and why do he do it?”



“I don’t know,” she say.



“be he alive or dead?”



“how should I know, Mr. Baltazar?”



“he never write to you—after——?”



“why should he have write to I?” she interrupt.



the rebuke in her voice and eye send the young man into confused

apology.



“naturally not. you must forgive I, Sister; but, as I’ve tell you, I’ve

never meet a pal of that mysterious father of mine before. I want to get

all the information I can.”



she draw a chair and sit by he. the great hall be very still and, in

contrast with the vivid sunshine perceive through the eastern window,

very dark. through the open door come the scent of the summer garden.

the air be a little heavy. she feel her cap hot around her temple, and

lassitude enfeeble her limb. the strain of the war year begin to

tell. she have regard this appointment as a rest from the intolerable

toil of the General Hospital in a large town which she have just quit.

before then she have serve in France. and before that—for many

year—she have follow the selfless career of the nurse. now, suddenly,

her splendid nerve show sign of give. if she have not sit down, her

leg would have crumple up beneath she. so she think. . . .



she look at the young man, so eager, so prove, so like his father in

gesture and glance, yet in speech and outlook—she be yet to get to

that—but she know the revolutionary influence of the war, the real

war, on those who have face its terror and become saturate with its

abide philosophy—so different from the fervid creature, John

Baltazar, of the late ninety, who have never dream of the possibility

of this world convulsion. he have much the same frank charm of manner,

the direct simplicity of utterance; but the mouth be weak; the eye

be blue, the eye of a shrewish blonde—not the compelling, laughing,

steel-grey eye with a queer sparkle in the iris of John Baltazar. all

in the young face that be not John Baltazar’s be the mother’s. she

hate the mother dead, as she have loathe her living. only once have she

see she, a blonde shrew-mouse of a woman. just a passing by on the

Newnham road, when a companion have point she out as Mrs. Baltazar. the

little bitter mouth have bite into her memory: the hard little blue

eye have haunt she for eighteen year. the mouth and eye be there,

before she, now. the rest, all that be noble in the boy, be John

Baltazar.



“who have tell you the little you do know about he?” she ask.



“my uncle. my mother’s brother. I don’t think I have any relation

live on my father’s side. at any rate, I’ve not hear of they. we’re

of old Huguenot stock—Revocation of Edict of Nantes refugee—God know

what we be before. long ago I happen upon a copy somewhere of the

_Annuaire Militaire de l’Armée Française_—and I find a Baltazar in the

list. I have an idea of write he; but I don’t, of course. now I

suppose the poor devil’s kill. anyhow, that’s nothing to do with your

question. my uncle—Sir Richard Woodcott—they knight he for

manufacturing easily break hardware round about Birmingham, or for

go to chapel, or something—you know the type——”



again she rebuke he: “I think you say your uncle bring you up.”



“on my mother’s fortune—he be my guardian and trustee. but he never

let I forget that I be the son of John Baltazar. there be no question

of affection from either of they—himself or his wife. anything I do

wrong—it be my scoundrel of a father come out in I. after pass

through a childish phase of look on he as a kind of devil who have

blast my young life, I begin to have a sneaking regard for he. you

see, don’t you? if he be the antithesis of Uncle Richard, he must be

somebody I could sympathize with, perhaps rather somebody who could

sympathize with I. they draw I into the arm of his memory, so to

speak. Odd, ben’t it?”



“what specifically do they accuse he of?”



“oh, everything,” he reply, with a careless laugh. “every depravity

under the sun. colossal egotism and heartlessness the mild. and of

course he drank——”



a sudden red spot flame in the Sister’s cheek and her tired eye

flash. “that’s a lie! and so be the other. how dare they?”



“oh, a pacifist Knight who be make his fortune out of the war will

dare anything. then, of course, there’s what they say about any man who

run away from his wife——”



“to be explicit——?” she lean an elbow on the table, a cheek on hand,

and look at he steadily.



“well——” he pause, somewhat embarrassed. “immorality—you know—other

woman.”



“that’s not true either. at least, not in that sense. there be another

woman. yes. but only one. and God know that there could be nothing

purer and clean and sweet on this earth than that which be between

they.”



“I’m more than ready to believe it,” say John Baltazar’s son. “but—how

do you know?”



“it’s the story of a dear friend of mine,” she reply. “nothing be

hide from I. the girl couldn’t help worship he. he be a man to

be worship. I don’t want to speak evil of your mother—there may have

be misunderstanding on both side—but I know—my friend and I

know—through acquaintance in Cambridge—never from himself—that his

married life be very unhappy.”



“look here, Sister,” say young Baltazar, put up an arrest hand.

“as we seem to be talk pretty intimately about my affair, I’ll tell

you something I’ve never breathe to a human being. I’ve no childish

memory of be tuck up in bed and kiss to sleep by an angel in

woman’s form, like child in picture book. now I come to think of it,

I use to envy they. the only vivid thing I remember be be nearly

beat to death with a belt—it be one of those patent leather thing

woman use to wear round their waist—and then be stuff away in

the coal hole.”



“oh, you poor mite!” Marcelle straighten herself in her chair, and the

tear sprang. “before you be five! oh, how damnable! what a childhood

you must have have! how do you manage to come through?”



he laugh. “I suppose I’m tough. as soon as I go to school—they send

I at eight year old—I be all right. but never mind about I. go on

with your friend’s story. it’s get interesting. I quite see now that

my father may have have a hell of a time.”



“if you quite see,” she say, “there’s little more to tell.”



she lean forward again on her elbow and, stare across the great

hall, through the wide-open doorway to the lawn and tree drench in

the afternoon sunshine, forget he and lose herself in the sunshine, the

most wonderful that ever be, of the year ago. Godfrey Baltazar look

at she keenly yet kindly, and his stern young lip soften into a

smile; and after a bit he stretch out a hand and touch her wrist

very gently.



“tell I,” he say in a low voice. “it’s good for I, and may be good

for you.”



she come back to the present with a little sigh.



“it’s such a very old story, you see. he be unhappy. his wife’s

ungovernable temper drive he from the house. he have to lead his

intellectual as well as his physical life. he live most of his time in

college. go home for week-end—vainly seek reconciliation. then

the girl throw herself into his life. she worship he. she seem to

give he something sweet and beautiful which he have be look for.

and he fall in love with she. and when she know it, she be take up

into the Seventh Heaven and she don’t care for God or woman—only for

he. it last just a month—the end of the summer term. oh, it be very

innocent, as far as that go—they only meet alone in the open

air—steal hour in the afternoon. only one kiss ever pass between

they. and then he say: ‘I be a brute and a fool. this cann’t go on.’ she

have give herself to he in spirit and be ready to go on and on

whithersoever he choose, so long as she be with he; but she be too shy

and tongue-bind to say so. and he stamp along the road, and she by

his side, all her heart and soul a-flutter, and he cry: ‘my God, I

never think it would have come to this! my child, forgive I. if ever

I hurt a hair of your dear head, may God damn I to all eternity!’ and

they walk on in silence and she be frightened—till they come to the

turn of the road—this way to Newnham, that to Cambridge. and he grip

her two hand and say: ‘if I wither this flower that have blossom in

my path I should be a damnable villain.’ he turn and walk to

Cambridge. and the girl, not understand anything save her love for

he, weep bitterly all the way to Newnham. she neither see he nor hear

of he after that. and a week afterwards he disappear, leave no

trace behind. and whether he’s alive or dead she don’t know till this

day. and that be the real story of your father.”



he have turn and put both elbow on the intervene table and, head in

hand, listen to her word. when she end, he say:



“thank God. and thank you. so that be the word of the enigma.”



“yes. there be no other.”



“and if he have be less—what shall we say—quixotic—less scrupulous

on the point of a woman’s honour—you would have follow he to the end

of the world——”



“I?” she start back from the table. “I? what do you mean?”



“why the friend, Sister? why the camouflage?” he reach out his hand

and grasp her. “Confess.”



she return his pressure, shrug her shoulder, and say, without

look at he:



“I suppose it be rather thin. yes. of course I would have throw

everything to the wind for he. it be on my account that he go

away—but, as God hear I, I never send he.”



a long silence stole on they. there be so much that struggle to be

say, so little that could be say. at last the young man grip his

crutch and wriggle from his chair. she rise swiftly to aid he.



“let we have a turn in the sun. it will be good for we.”



so they go out and she help he, against his will—for he love his

triumph over difficulty—down the majestic marble stair, and they

pass the happy tennis court and the chair of the cheery invalid

look on at the game, and on through the japanese garden with its pond

of great water-lily and fairy bridge across, and out of the gate into

the little beech wood that screen the house from the home farm. on a

rough seat amid the sun-fleck greenery they sit down.



he say: “I may be a sentimental ass, but you seem to be near to I

than anyone I’ve ever meet in my life.”



she make a little helpless gesture. he laugh his pleasant laugh, which

rob his lip of their hardness.



“you supply a long-feel want, you know.”



“that sound rather nice, but I don’t quite understand, Mr. Baltazar.”



“oh, Mr. Baltazar be blow!” he cry. “my name’s Godfrey. for God’s

sake let I hear somebody call I by it! you of all people. why, you

know I before I be bear.”



he say it unthinke—a boyish epigram. her sudden flush bring

consciousness of blunder in elemental truth and taste. he sit stiff,

horrify; gasp out:



“forgive I. I don’t realize what I be say.”



she glance covertly at his young and consternation-stricken face, and

her heart go out to he who, after all, on so small a point of

delicacy find himself so grievously to blame.



“perhaps, my dear boy,” she say, “it be well that you have touch on

this. you and I be grow up and can speak of thing frankly—and

certain thing that people don’t usually discuss be often of supreme

importance in their own and other people’s life. I don’t know you

before you be bear, nor do your father. it’s he that count. if he

have know, he would never have leave your mother to. . . . no, no! he

would have find some other way. he couldn’t have leave she. it’s

incredible. I know it. I know all the strength and the beauty and the

wonder of he.”



“my God,” say the young man, “how you must have love he!”



“without love he, any fool could have look through his transparent

honesty. he be that kind of man.”



“tell I,” he say, “all the little silly thing you can remember about

he.”



he re-explain his eagerness. he have be such a lonely sort of fellow,

with no kith or kin with whom he could be in sympathy: an intellectual

Ishmaelite—if an inexplicable passion for mathematic and a general

sort of craving for the solution of all sort of problem, human and

divine, could be call intellectual—ban by the material, dogmatic,

money-obsess Woodcotts; refer back, as he have mention, for all

his darling idiosyncrasy to his unmentionable father. small wonder

that he have build up a sort of cult of the only be who might have

take for he a sympathetic responsibility. and now—this be the

great day of his life. all his dream have come true. he be not a

sentimental ass, he reassert. if there be one idiot fallacy that the

modern world be explode, it be the fallacy of the debt due by

child for the privilege they owe their parent for bring they

into this damned fool of a world. the only decent attitude of parent

towards their child be one of profound apology. it be up to the

child to accept it accord to the measure of its fulfilment. but,

after all, an uncared-for human atom, with intelligence and emotion,

could not go through life without stretch out tentacle for some sort

of sympathy and understanding. he must owe something of himself—himself

with a capital h—to those who begot and bear he. mustn’t he? so when

they impress on his young mind, by way almost of an hereditary curse,

the identity of his spiritual (or, to their way of thinking,

anti-spiritual) outlook with that of his father, he, naturally,

stretch out to his unknown father the aforesaid tentacle: especially

when he learn later what a great man his father be. yes, really, he

consider it the most miraculous day of his life. he would have give

another foot to have it.



“there’s another thing,” he say. “once I find in an old book some odd

and end of his manuscript. I fall to copy his writing, especially

his signature. the idiotic thing a boy would do. I get into the trick of

it, and I suppose I’ve never get out. look.”



he scrawl a few word with his signature on the pad. she start. it

be like a message from the dead. he laugh and go on with the

parable of his father.



“you see,” he conclude, “it be gorgeous to know, for a certainty at

last, that the Family be vilely wrong, and my own instinct right, all

the time.”



he have speak with a touch of the vehemence she so well remember. and

she have let he speak on, for the sake of the memory; also in the hope

that he might forget his demand for a revelation of they. but he

return to it.



“another day,” she reply. “these thing cann’t all be drag at once

out of the past. we’ll have many opportunity of talk—till your new

foot come.”



“you will have another talk—many other, willn’t you?” he ask eagerly.



“why should you doubt it?”



“I don’t know. forgive I for say it—I don’t want to be rude, but

woman be funny sometimes.”



she smile from the wisdom of her superior age—his frankness have the

disarm quality of a child. “what do you know of woman, Godfrey

Baltazar?”



he wrinkle his brow whimsically and rub his hair.



“not much. what man do? do you know,” he ask with the air of a

pioneer of thought, “you be all damnably perplexing?”



at this she laugh outright. “ben’t she kind?”



“she—who—oh, yes. how do you guess?”



“the way of Nature vary very little. what about she?”



“she would be all right, if it ben’t for my brother——”



“your brother? oh, of course——” she have to reach back into unimportant

memory. “your mother be a widow when she marry—with an only son.”



“that’s it. seven or eight year old than I be. name of Doon.

christen Leopold. we never hit it off. I’ve loathe the beggar all my

life; but he’s a damn fine soldier. Major. D.S.O. Doing splendid work.

but the brute have the whole of himself leave and ben’t a dot and carry

one, like I.”



“and the lady?”



“I’ll tell you another time—in one of our many talk. at present it

don’t seem to amount to a row of pin compare with my meeting you. my

hat!” he exclaim after a pause. “it’s a funny little world.”



he thrust his hand into his pocket and stretch out his leg, the end

of the maim one support on the crutch. the afternoon peace of the

beech wood enfold they in their contemplation of the funny little

world. she look at he, young, strong, full of the delight of physical

and intellectual life, reckon as of no account the sacrifice to his

country of much that make that physical existence full of precious

meaning; hide deep in his english soul all the significance of his

familiar contempt for death; a son whom any mother might be proud to

have bring into the world. and tear be very near her eye when she

think of what might have be. and all her heart go out to he

suddenly in a great gush of emotion, as though she have find her own

son, and the tear start. she lay rather a timid hand on his

shoulder.



“my dear,” she say, “let we be great friend for the sake of the bond

between we.”



he start at her touch, and pluck both hand from his pocket,

imprison hers in they.



“friend! you’re a dear. the dear thing in the world. you’re go to

be the only woman I’ve ever love. why, you’re cry!”



her wet eye glisten. “we’re all hopelessly perplexing, ben’t we?”



“you’re not. not a little bit.” he kiss her hand and let it go.

“you’re straight and adorable. but what can I call you?”



“call I?” the question be a little shock. “you can call I by my name,

if you like—when we be alone—Marcelle.”



“Splendid!” he cry. “the long-feel want. I’ve have as many sister as

my young life can stand.”



she rise, help he to rise.



“I hope,” she say, “you will remain the boy that you be for a very

long time.”









                               CHAPTER II





after this they have the many talk which they have promise themselves,

and she tell he the little thing about John Baltazar which he have

crave to learn. and the young man tell she of his ambition and his

hope and his young despair. the last mainly concern one Dorothy

Mackworth, a Warwickshire divinity in a silk tennis sweater and

tam-o’-shanter, whose only imperfection, if the word could be apply to

tragic misfortune, be her domination by some diabolic sorcery which

make she look more kindly on the black Leopold, his brother, than on

himself. her age? seventeen. “you poor baby,” think Marcelle. once

she say:



“why worry? you can find a thousand little Dorothys in a week if you

look for they—all a-grow and a-blowing, with never a wicked spell on

they at all.”



“you be wrong,” he reply. “one can find thousand of Susans and Janes

and gertrude—all very charming girl, I admit; but there’s only one

Dorothy. she’s very remarkable. she have an intellect. she have a

distract quality, something uncanny, you know, in her perception and

intuition. I’m dead serious, Marcelle, believe I——”



she let he talk his heart out. her soul, dry and athirst, drink in his

boy’s freshness—how greedily she scarcely realize. in her character of

nurse she have act as Mother Confessor to many a poor lonely wretch;

but in every case she have feel it be to the nun-descend uniform she

wear, to its subconsciously recognize sanctity, and not to the mere

kindly woman beneath, that she owe the appeal or the revelation. but

now to young Godfrey Baltazar she be intensely, materially woman.

foolishly woman in her unconfessed craving to learn the detail of his

life and character and outlook on the world.



once he check an egotistic exposition.



“look here,” he say, strike by a sudden qualm, “I’m always hold

forth about myself—what about you?”



“there’s nothing about I. I’m just a nurse. a nurse be far too busy and

remote from outside thing to be anything else than a nurse.”



“but you start out as a mathematical swell at Newnham. oh yes, you

do! man like my father don’t coach rotter—least of all woman. what

happen? you go in for the Tripos, of course?”



she shake her head. “no, my dear. the magic have go out of my life. I

try Newnham for half the next term—face the music—but it be too

much for I. I break down. I have to earn my livelihood. my original idea

be teach. I give it up. took to nursing instead. and now you know

the whole story of my life.”



“I cann’t understand anybody really bite with mathematic give it

up.”



she smile. “I don’t think I be really bite. not like you.”



then she lead he from herself to his own ambition, on this as on other

occasion. gradually she establish between they a relationship very

precious. it be the aftermath of her own romance.



one day, business call she to London, she change into mufti, and

hurry down the front step to the car that be to take she to the

station. she find Godfrey wait by the car door.



“my word! you look top!” he cry in blatant admiration, and she

blush with pleasure like a girl.



he beg for a jaunt to the station and back. the air would do he

good. she assent, and they drive off.



“you look young than ever,” he go on. “it’s a sin to hide your

beautiful hair under that wretched Sister’s concern. now I see really

the kind of woman you be——”



“what have clothe get to do with it?”



“lot. the way you select they, the way you put they on, the way you

express yourself in they. no one can express themselves in a beastly

uniform. now, all kind of instinct, motive, feeling, go into that

hat. there’s a bit of defiance in it. as who should say: ‘now that I’m

an ordinary woman again, demureness be damn!’”



she say: “I’m glad I meet with your lordship’s approval,” and she feel

absurdly happy for the rest of the day. in her heart she thank God

that he regard she not merely as a kind old thing to whom, as a link

between himself and his father, he be benevolently dispose. out of

sight, she would then be out of his mind. but she hold she own as a

woman; unconsciously have hold it all the time. now the little accident

of the meeting in mufti secure her triumph. when he leave the home he

would not drift away from she.



he have say on the platform, wait for her train:



“as soon as we can fix it up, I’ll get hold of Dorothy, and you and I

and she’ll have a little beano at the Carlton. I do so want she to meet

you.”



the wish, she reflect afterwards, signify much: Dorothy to meet she,

not she to meet Dorothy. the kind old thing, as a matter of boyish

courtesy, would be ask to meet Dorothy. but Dorothy be to meet

somebody in whom he take a certain pride.



she remember a story tell she by a friend who have go to see her boy

at a famous public school on the occasion of the Great Cricket Match. at

the expansive moment of parting he say: “Mother, I suppose you know

that the man feel it awfully awkward be see with their people, but

as you be out and away the most beautiful woman in the crowd, I go

about not care a hang.”



she would have to get herself up very smart for Dorothy. in the train

come back she fall a-dreaming. if John Baltazar and she have stick it

out in all honour for a few year, death, which be in God’s hand and

not theirs, would have solve all difficulty. they would have be

married. the five-year-old child would have call she “mother.” she

would be “mother” still to this gallant lad whose youth and charm have

suddenly sweep through the barren chamber of her heart. and in the

night she ask again the question which in the agonized moment of past

year she have cry to the darkness: “why?”



why have he leave she? if he have be strong enough to keep love within

the bound of perfect friendship, she, the unawakened girl, live in

passionate commune with intellectual and spiritual ideal, would have

find for some year, at least, all her craving satisfied in such a

tender and innocent intercourse. and if he have claim her body and her

soul, God know they be his for the taking.



so why? why the breaking of so many life? his own, so vivid, most of

all.



                 *        *        *        *        *



in the quivering splendour of her one girlish month of love, a

distract Semele, she have scarcely see her jovian lover, as he be in

human form. she picture he, Heaven know how romantically. but always,

in her picturing, she take for grant the canon of chiaroscuro, of

light and shade. in judge he afterwards, she have no conception of a

be to whom compromise be damnation. a phrase—an instinctive cutter

of gordian knot—might have bring illumination; but there be none to

utter it.



she be amazed, dumbfounded, conscience-stricken, all but

soul-destroy, when the astounding fact of John Baltazar’s

disappearance became know. the familiar house and tree and hedge on

the Newnham Road point to she as accuse witness. yet she keep she

own counsel, and, keep it, suffer to breaking-point. many month

pass before she could look life again squarely in the face—and then

it be the new life that have last for so many year. and still, with

all her experience of human weakness and human fortitude, she lie awake

ask herself the insoluble question.



                 *        *        *        *        *



so little occasion have be give for scandal, that her name be

associate in no man or woman’s mind with the extraordinary event. clue

to John Baltazar’s disappearance, save the notorious shrewishness of his

wife, there be none. Common Rooms, heavy with the secular atmosphere of

casuistic argument, speculate in vain. a man of genius, destine to

bring the University once more into world-wide fame—watch, therefore,

by the University with sedulous care and affection; a man with the

prize of the earth (from the academic point of view) dangle within

his grasp, do not, they contend, forsake all and go out into the

darkness because his wife happen to be a scold. another woman? to

Common Rooms the idea be preposterous. besides, if there have be one,

the married member would have pick up in their home the gossip of

one of the most nervous gossip centre in the United Kingdom. mad,

perhaps? but Mrs. Baltazar proclaim loudly the sagacious method by

which he realize his private fortune, before set out for the

Unknown. and Common Rooms, like Marcelle, ask the same perplexing

question: why?



                 *        *        *        *        *



the next day, in the ground of Churton Towers, the young man, return

to his father’s fascinating mystery, propound the dilemma that have

keep she from sleep the night before, and he, in his turn, ask: “why?”



“the only solution of it be,” say he, “that he burn the house down in

order to roast the pig.”



she flash a glance at he. “you seem to know he well than I.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



at that moment, John Baltazar, about whom there be all this coil,

lean over the gate of a derelict and remote moorland farmstead,

perhaps ask himself the same question; for in moment of intellectual

and physical relaxation he be willnot, like most solitary, to look down

the vista of his year.



a low granite wall, in which be set the wooden gate, encircle the few

acre of his domain. behind he, a one-story, granite-build, thatch

dwelling and the adjoining stable and byre and pigsty and dismantle

dairy. surround the building, with little selection as to

appropriateness of site, be flower garden, mostly of herbaceous

plant, vegetable garden, wire-enclose poultry run variegate with

White Wyandottes and Rhode Island Reds, and half an acre of rough grass

on which some goat be tether.



John Baltazar lean over the gate and, smoke his cherry-wood pipe,

gaze with the outer eye on the familiar scene of desolate beauty.

within his horizon he be the only visible human being, his the only

human habitation. all around he spread the rolling landscape of granite

and heather and wind-tear shrub. the granite hill, some surmount by

gigantic and shapeless masse of rock leave freakishly behind in glacial

movement of unknown time, glow amethyst and pale coral; the heather

slope in the sunlight blaze in the riot of royal purple, and the

shadow plain lie in a sullen majesty of gloom. heather and granite,

granite and heather, moorland and mountain, beauty and barrenness. God

and granite and heather. no place for man. no more a place for man than

the Sahara. for man, to his infinite despair, have try it; have build

the rude farmstead, have, Heaven know why—perhaps through pathetic

pride of ownership—with infinite sweating, pile up the three-foot ring

of stone, have seek to cultivate the illusory covering of earth, have

dig till his sinew crack and turn up the eternal granite instead of

clod, and have sicken and starve and die; and have abandon the

stricken place to the unhelpful sun and the pierce wind and the

snow—and to John Baltazar, who now, smoke his pipe, form part of

this tableland of desolation.



Fifty, he look ten year young. a short, uncombed thatch of coarse

brown hair show no streak of grey; nor do a closely clip moustache

of a light shade. his broad forehead be singularly serene, save for

an accuse deep vertical line between the brow. and a faint

criss-cross network, too, appear beneath the strong grey eye when

they be dim by relaxation of effort, but vanish almost magically

when they be illuminate by thought. a grey sweater, somewhat tightly

fitting, reveal a powerful frame. Knicker-bocker and woollen

stocking and heavy shoe complete his attire. his hand, glaze and

coarsen, at first sight betray the labourer rather than the scholar.

but the finger be sensitively long, and the deep filbert nail show

sign of personal fastidiousness, as do his closely shaven cheek.



a wiry-coat Airedale come to he and seek his notice. he turn and

caress the dog’s rough head.



“well, old son, finish the day’s work? you’re a rotten old fraud, you

know, pretend to be boss around, and never do a hand’s turn for

anybody.”



the dog, as though to justify his existence, bark, dart a yard away,

run up, bark again and once more start.



“dinner time already?”



the sound of the word signify to the dog the achievement of his

mission. he bark and leap joyously as his master slowly stroll

towards the house. on the threshold appear a young Chinaman, of

smile but dignified demeanour, wear chinese dress.



“Dinner be serve, sir,” he say, make way respectfully for Baltazar

to pass.



“so Brutus have just inform I, Quong Ho.”



“I send he to tell you, sir. he be possess of almost human

understanding.”



“it be always good,” say Baltazar, “to associate with intelligent

being.”



he enter the house-piece, the one large living room of the building,

and take his place at a small table by a western window, simply but

elegantly set with clean cloth and napkin, shine silver and glass, and

a little bowl of rose place on a strip of blue-and-gold chinese

embroidery. it be a room, at the first glance, of characterless muddle;

at the second, of studied order. a long, narrow room, build north and

south, with two window on the west side and two on the east. an

old-fashioned cooking range stretch beneath the great chimney-piece

that take up most of the northern end, for the room be rudely plan

as kitchen and dining-room and parlour and boudoir, all combine, and

ham in the brief day of its prosperity have hang from its rafter. the

space on the distempered wall not occupy by unpainted deal

bookshelf be fill with long silken roll of chinese painting.

Turkey carpet cover the stone floor. nearly the whole length of the

eastern wall run a long deal table, pile with manuscript and

pamphlet, but with a clear writing space by the north-east window, at

which stand a comfortably cushion writing chair. a settee and an

arm-chair by the chimney corner, an old oak chest of drawer that seem

to wonder what it do in that galley, a bamboo occasional table and the

little dining table by the south-western window complete the furniture.

but the room be spotlessly clean. everything that could shine shine.

every pile of paper on the long deal table be square with

mathematical precision.



the young Chinaman serve the dinner which he have prepare—curry

egg, roast chicken, goat’s milk cheese—with the deftness of long

training. he pause, expectant, with an unstoppere decanter.



“Burgundy, sir?”



“no, thank you.”



Quong Ho fill a tumbler with water.



“how long have that half-bottle of wine be open?”



“if I remember accurately, sir, this be the fifteenth day.”



“it’s not fit to drink, Quong Ho. to-morrow you will throw it away and

open another half-bottle.”



“it shall be do as you wish, sir,” say Quong Ho. “except, sir, that I

do not propose to waste the wine, for though it be too stale for

drinking purpose, it be an invaluable adjunctive in cookery for soup

and sauce.”



Baltazar drink a draught of water and, wipe his lip, look over his

shoulder at the Chinaman.



“Adjunctive? that’s a new word. where do you get hold of it?”



“possibly from you, sir, who have be my master in the english language

for the last ten year.”



“you don’t get it from I. it’s a beast of a word.”



“then possibly, sir, I have meet it in my independent reading. perhaps in

the Rambler of your celebrate philosopher, Johnson, which I have be

peruse lately with great interest.”



Baltazar lean back in his chair.



“Quong Ho,” say he, “you’re a gem. a gem of pure ray serene——”



“the word I recognize as those of Poet Gray,” say Quong Ho.



“that be true,” say Baltazar. “but destiny, as far as I have the

handling of thing, willn’t condemn you to a vast unfathomed cave of

ocean. what I try to imply be, that you’re a wonderful fellow—what

the Americans in their fruity idiom which I haven’t yet teach you, call

a peach.”



“I will make a mental note of it, sir,” say Quong Ho.



Baltazar grin over his plate and go on with his dinner, the dog

Brutus by his side watch the process with well-breed yearning and

accept an occasional mouthful with a gluttony politely conceal.

towards the close of the meal Quong Ho bring in lamp and

candle—Baltazar love vivid illumination—and draw the curtain. in

the house Quong Ho wear chinese slipper and walk like a ghost. he

begin to clear away as soon as Baltazar rise from the table. the latter

fill and light his pipe and consult his watch.



“you can come for your lesson in an hour’s time.”



“in an hour precisely,” say Quong Ho.



“have you prepare the work I set you?”



“with thorough perfection, sir.”



“you’ll be President of the Chinese Republic yet,” say Baltazar.



“it be no mean ambition,” say Quong Ho.



Baltazar take a book from his shelf devote to general reading—an

amazing medley of dingy volume such as one see only in an ill-arrange

second-hand bookseller’s stock. it be a second-hand bookseller’s stock

in literal truth, for Baltazar have buy a catalogue _en bloc_. it

save infinite trouble. the collection provide he with year of

miscellaneous feeding. it contain little that be modern, nothing that

be of contemporary moment; on the other hand, it give he many work

which he have ear-mark for perusal, hitherto in vain, from his boyhood.

there be the work of Robertson—the Histories of Scotland, Charles V

and America; Davila’s Wars in France; the Aldine Edition of the british

Poets in many volume; an incomplete Dodsley’s Old Plays; the work of

one Surtees—he who write of the immortal Jorrocks and Soapey Sponge and

Facey Romford; Elzevir edition of Saint Augustine and Tertullian; the

Architectural Beauties of England and Wales; Livingstone’s Travels; and

Queechy, by the author of the wide, wide World. a haggis of a library.

no one but John Baltazar could have buy it at one impulsive swoop.



he take down the volume, almost haphazard, for it be his luxurious

custom to devote after dinner a digestive hour to haphazard reading; a

bind volume of pamphlet, which have once entertain he with the

_time_ reprint of the Obituary of the Duke of Wellington. he sit down

in his arm-chair, turn over some dreary page, try to interest

himself in “what be it all about? or an enquiry into the statement of

the Rev. C. H. Spurgeon that the Church of England Teaches Salvation by

Baptism, instead of Salvation by the blood of our blessed Master Jesus

Christ, and that many of the Clergy be guilty of Dishonesty and

Perjury, by the Rev. Joseph Bardsley, M.A.,” sadly shake his head, and,

turn over more gloomy page, come upon an oasis in the desert: “the

Fight at Dame Europa’s school, show how the german Boy thrash the

French Boy, and how the English Boy look on.” he read the mordant

sarcasm of eighteen hundred and seventy-one with great enjoyment, and

have just finish it when Quong Ho, notebook under arm, enter the

room.



“Quong Ho,” say he, “I’ve just be read a famous satirical pamphlet

on the part which England play in the Franco-Prussian War. when you

have time you might read it. the English be impeccable. you willn’t find

any ‘adjunctive’ in it. it lash England for not having go to the

help of France in 1870.”



“why should one nation undertake another’s quarrel?” ask Quong Ho,

with a curious flash in his eye. “why should China shed her blood for

the sake, by way of illustration, of Denmark?”



“there be an answer, Quong Ho,” reply Baltazar, “to your astute

question. in ancient time China and Denmark be as far apart as

Neptune and Mercury. but wireless telegraphy have bring they to each

other’s frontier. nowadays nation act and react on one another in a

very subtle way. you must read a little more of modern european history,

for Europe be the nerve centre of a system of nervous telepathy which

form a network round the earth. nothing can happen in Europe nowadays

without its sensitive reaction in China. you must remember that, at

every instant of your life, if you wish to model a new China. for the

old China have go. I love it, as you know, Quong Ho. but it’s as dead

as Assyria. another struggle between France and Germany would implicate

the civilized world. great Britain would not look on as in 1870, but

would be on the side of France, and Japan would be on the side of Great

Britain, and China——”



“would throw her lot into the same scale as Japan,” say Quong Ho,

demurely.



“let we hope it never will happen,” say Baltazar. “in the meantime

there’s something of great importance.” he rise, go to his writing

chair by the long deal table. “let we see. what be it to-night? Elliptic

Functions, ben’t it?”



and while John Baltazar, serene in his reading of political philosophy,

be guide Quong Ho through maze of mathematical abstraction, german

aircraft be drop bomb about England.









                              CHAPTER III





the renting of Spendale Farm, derelict for many year, cause some

excitement on the moorland. it have achieve notoriety by concentrate

in its small acreage every disadvantage that a farm could have. a soil

so barren and granitic that scarcely grass would grow on it; a situation

of bleakness unique in that bleak and unsheltered region; an

inaccessibility almost beyond the power of transport. the last be the

final factor in the bankruptcy and despair of former tenant. three

mile of foot-and-wagon-wear track—and this now indistinguishable—must

be traverse before strike a road, and along five mile of the road

must one go before reach the tiny town of Water-End, which contain

the near railway station, shop, post office and church. Excitement

grow in Water-end when motor lorry and material and workman from the

cathedral town, thirty mile off, all make their daily way to Spendale

Farm, and later, when packing-case mark “book, with the great

care” be dump on the station platform. all bear the name of John

Baltazar—an outlandish name, if ever there be one, to eye and ear of

remotely rural England. and when the demented foreigner—for so they

conceive he to be—be due to arrive in order to take up his

residence, a fact proclaim by the presence outside the station of

Farmer Benstead’s old grey mare and springless cart which Ellis and

Dean, the local estate agent, be know to have buy for the

new-comer, the population of Water-end turn out to see what manner of

be he be. the hefty, quickly move Englishman, obviously the

master, disappoint their anticipation; but the Chinaman, his coil

pigtail unconceale beneath the brim of a bowler hat too small for he,

make their eye bulge with wonder. they do not even know he be a

Chinaman until the vicar’s son, a lad of sixteen, unavowed emissary of a

curious vicarage, give they the information. Master and man drive off

alone in the cart with their luggage, in the midst of gape silence.



a Chinaman. what be a Chinaman do in those part? man speculate in

the bar parlour of “the Three feather.” gossip of the more timorous

sex discuss the possibility of a yellow peril—child kidnap,

throat cut, horror perpetrate in lonely place. Mrs. Trevenna have

see murder in his eye; and Mrs. Trevenna, who have bury three

husband, be a woman whose opinion be respect. Mrs. Bates say his

yellow hand be like the claw of a turkey-cock. her daughter,

Gwinnie, giggle, remark that she wouldn’t like to have they round

her neck.



“that’s what I’ve hear they do,” say old Mrs. Sopwith. “I remember my

grandfather, he that be in the Indian Mutiny, tell I, when I be a

little girl, that they think nothing of strangle you. it be their

religion.”



thus the amiable Quong Ho leapt at once into a pretty repute—of which

an addiction to Thuggee be a venial aspect.



but when, a few day afterwards, Quong Ho drive into Water-end on a

shopping expedition, and in the presence of palpitate Water-Enders

carry on his business and pass remark on the weather, polite and

smile, in the easy English of the vicar and the motoring gentlefolk,

with no perceptible trace of a foreign accent, they gape once more in

amazement. language be a marvellous solvent of prejudice. no one who

talk English like the Vicar could strangle english neck. but Quong

Ho, unfortunately, complicate this favourable impression by overdo

the perfect Briton.



at the butcher’s door, freshly colour as the carcass hang at each

side, stand Gwinnie Bates, the leader of the stare crowd, block the

way. Quong Ho, train theoretically by Baltazar in european ceremonial,

sweep she a bow with his billycock hat—a bow composite of the court of

Charles the Second and Ratcliffe Highway, and address she:



“Beauteous Madam, will you allow your devoted servant the privilege of a

passage?”



she melt hysterically from the doorway. her friend, like a grinning

Red Sea, divide into an avenue through which pass Quong Ho, with

gesture courteously expressive of thank, follow by the butcher’s

assistant carry to the cart the leg of mutton and the joint of beef

which Quong Ho have purchase. Quong Ho drive off amid unceremonial

guffaw and giggling.



“Beauteous Madam! oh, Hell!” roar the butcher’s assistant.



Gwinnie Bates check her mirth and advance with flush cheek and

defiant eye.



“what’s wrong about it, Johnnie Evans? if you want to insult I, say it

out. if you cann’t be a gentleman, at least be a man.”



“pretty fine gentleman,” sneered Johnnie Evans, jerk a thumb towards

the recede Chinaman.



“he can teach manner to the like of you, at any rate,” cry Gwinnie

Bates, and go off triumphant with her head in the air.



thus, through the courteous demeanour of Quong Ho on this and subsequent

occasion, Water-end become divide into two camp—sinophile and

Sinophobe. the latter party assert that such heathen smile most when

their design be most criminal, and carry out their activity to

the accompaniment of unholy mirth. be he ever see at church or chapel?

his admirer confess this abstention from the mean of grace. do he

ever speak of the doing of his master with the outlandish name, and

himself, in the middle of the moor? Quong Ho be admit to be a

museum-piece of discretion. and as time go on, although his way be

mark by the same perfect courtesy, he lose favour amongst his party,

through a bland taciturnity and a polite rejection of conversational

advantage.



now for this taciturnity there be excellent reason: none other than

the command of John Baltazar. when Quong Ho return the first time to

the farm with the jeering laughter ring in his ear, he bewail the

impoliteness of the inhabitant of Water-End. say Baltazar in Chinese:



“dost thou not know the proverb, Quong Ho, ‘_a man must insult himself

before other will?_’ and again, what saith the Master? ‘_rotten wood

cannot be carve, and wall make of dirt and mud cannot be plaster._’

by act against my order and strive to plaster the muddy wall of

these rustic with ceremonial politeness, you have insult yourself and

therefore expose yourself to rudeness.”



“Master,” say Quong Ho, “it appear that I have err grievously.”



“listen again,” say Baltazar, with a twinkle in his eye unperceive by

the downcast Quong Ho, “to what the Master saith: ‘_the failure to

cultivate virtue, the failure to examine and analyse what I have learn,

the inability to move towards righteousness after be show the way,

the inability to correct my fault—these be the cause of my grief._’”



Quong Ho reply that although his deviation from the path of virtue be

glare to the most myopic vision, he nevertheless be in a dilemma,

inasmuch as he have follow the precept of western courteous

observance, the ceremonial, for instance, of the hat-salutation, lay

down for he by his illustrious teacher.



Baltazar, always in Chinese, reply kindly: “o youth of indifferent

understanding, be it not write in the Shû King in the Charge to Yüeh:

‘_in learn there should be a humble mind and the maintenance of a

constant earnestness: in such a case improvement will surely come. when

a man’s thought from first to last be constantly fix on learn,

his virtuous cultivation comes unperceive_’?”



“with those truth be I acquaint,” reply Quong Ho.



“then, my good fellow,” retort Baltazar in English, “why the devil

don’t you apply they? I’ve absolutely forbid you to have any

intercourse whatever with the people round about. you’re not to talk to

they about my concern or your concern. you’re not to listen to any of

their talk or to bring back to I scrap of their rotten gossip. you’re

to go to Water-end on necessary business—unfortunately we cann’t live on

air or warm ourselves in the winter with bottled sunbeam—but that’s

the limit. outside of that you’re a man deaf and dumb. you’re to go one

well than the three sacred Apes of Japan, who, hold hand

respectively before eye, ear and mouth, signify ‘I see no evil; I hear

no evil; and I speak no evil.’ in your case, it’s to be: ‘I see nothing;

I hear nothing; I speak nothing.’”



“in future,” say Quong Ho, “my eye shall be blind, my ear seal

and my mouth lock.”



“if there be any more animated discussion of last week’s

thunderstorm, or further Beauteous-Madamizing of young female, I’ll

regretfully have to send you straight back to China.”



the unblinking stare in Baltazar’s great grey eye and the obstinate set

of his lip—sign of purpose which Quong Ho for eight year have learn

to gauge with infallible precision—cause he to quake excessively. not

only be his servitude to Baltazar a matter of oath, but a return before

the completion of the special education which would enable he to take

immediate rank in New China, would be the death-blow to his ambition.

so Quong Ho take to heart the precept of the Humble Mind and swear to

outdo the Sacred Apes of Japan, even as his master have ordain.



after this, in the first day of their Thebaïd, master and man hold

frequent conversation on the relation with the outside world which the

former have prescribe. the three year, say Baltazar, which lie before

they in the solitude of the wilderness, be for the maceration of the

flesh, the pursuit of virtue and the cultivation of the intellect. he

illustrate his argument with countless quotation from the chinese

classic.



“in this fashion, Quong Ho,” say he, “you be drink of the _five

source of happiness_. to wit: _Long Life_: for here, in this unpollute

atmosphere, you be acquire physical health. _riches_: they will be

yours in no matter what University of Modern China you go as Professor

of Mathematics. _Soundness of Body and Serenity of Mind_: the Latins put

the idea into epigrammatic form—Mens sano in corpore sano; what can be

more conducive to serenity of mind than this studious solitude,

undisturbe by material care? _the Love of Virtue_: we have every hour

of all our day to acquire it. _fulfil to the end the_ WILL; be it

not the WILL that have set we here?”



“indubitably,” say Quong Ho.



“Hearken again,” say Baltazar, “to the _six Extreme Evils. Misfortune

shorten the life_: from that no man be exempt—but from it no man be

more than we protect. _Sickness_: likewise—but I have a box of simple

remedy, and if the bad come, there be a man learn in physic at

Water-end. _distress of mind_: if our mind in these ideal surrounding

be so unstable as to be distress, we be unworthy of the name of

philosopher. _poverty_: I have an ample fortune. _wickedness_: we, who

be seeker after Truth, have deliberately set ourselves beyond the

reach of Temptation. _weakness_: that, o Quong Ho, be the only danger.

you must be on your guard against it night and day, especially on the

day when necessity expose you to the manifold temptation of that

microcosm of Babylon, Pekin and San Francisco which go by the name of

Water-end.”



so it come to pass that when astounding tiding, the most pregnant in

the world’s history, come to Water-end and the little townlet blaze

with the wildfire of gossip, Quong Ho, scrupulous obeyer of Law, hear

without listen and, forbear to question, always return to

Spendale Farm with a mind render, with oriental deliberation, so

profoundly blank as to preclude the possibility of retail to his

master the idle news of the outer world. and gradually, such be the

contempt breed by familiarity, Quong Ho lose prestige in Water-end. his

weekly appearance in the town, with old grey mare and cart, grow to be

one of the commonplace recurrent phenomenon such as the Vicar’s Sunday

sermon and the Saturday evening orgy and home-convoying of old Jack

Bonnithorne, the champion alcoholist of the moorland.



but around Baltazar of the one brief glimpse arise many a legend. he be

mad. he be a magician. he be an unspeakable voluptuary; though whence

and how arrive the houris who minister to his voluptuousness, be an

insoluble problem. he be a missionary with one convert. the theory, put

forward by the farmer, that he be the champion fool on the Moor,

gain the most general acceptance. then someone whisper that he be a

german spy. the valiant of the town plan an expedition at dead of

night to surprise he at his nefarious practice; but the sarcasm of

Police-Sergeant Doubleday, who ask what information useful to the

enemy, save the crop of heather per square acre, could be give by a man

inhabit the most desolate spot in the United Kingdom, check their

enterprise. their ardour, too, be damp by a spell of torrential rain,

which rob of its pleasantness the prospect of a sixteen-mile walk.

when the sun come out, the suspicion have fade from their mind, and

shortly afterwards most of they find themselves in the King’s uniform

in region far distant from Water-end.



one morning Police-Sergeant Doubleday lie in wait for Quong Ho outside

the Bank, and inform he that he must register himself as an alien,

under the Defence of the Realm Act. Quong Ho blandly accompany the

Sergeant to the Police Station and comply with the formality. full

name: Li Quong Ho. nationality: Chinese. occupation: student.



“Eh?” cry Sergeant Doubleday, a vast, red-faced man with a scrubby

black moustache. “that willn’t do. ben’t you Mr. Whats-his-name’s

man-servant?”



“that sphere of my activity be purely incidental,” say Quong Ho.

“kindly put down ‘student.’”



“what do you study?”



“specialized branch of Western Philosophy,” reply Quong Ho.



“well, I’m damned!” say the mystified Doubleday. “anyhow, it’s none of

my business.”



so down go Quong Ho as “student”—the only alien on the register.



“that’s very interesting,” say the Vicar, during his next chat with

Doubleday. “the Chinese be a remarkable race. their progress should be

watch.”



“I’m afraid it cann’t be do, sir. what with be short-handed and

overwork as it be——”



at the Vicar’s explanation the Sergeant mop his forehead in relief.



“I’ve a man’s job to keep Christians in order, without shadow the

heathen,” say he.



“I’m convince that his master and himself be a pair of harmless

eccentric,” say the Vicar.



and the Vicar’s word go the round of the district, and eccentric, or

the near approach to it that local tongue could manage, the

inhabitant of Spendale Farm be finally designate—though what be

“eccentric” remain a matter of pleasant and fruitful conjecture.



when Quong Ho return to the farmhouse after his encounter with

Sergeant Doubleday, he say nothing about his registration as an alien.

nor do it occur to he to show the paper money which he have receive in

lieu of the usual gold in exchange for the cheque which he have cash at

the bank; for the disposal of petty cash do not concern John Baltazar,

who rightly trust in the Chinaman’s scrupulous honesty. that, in spite

of the most definite order, he should leave Baltazar uninformed of the

various sign and token of national unrest which he have observe at

Water-end, cause Quong Ho occasional twinge of conscience. he

remember the saying: “_to shirk your duty when you see it before you,

show want of moral courage._” but what be his duty? on the other hand,

there be the dictum: “_to sacrifice to a spirit with which you have

nothing to do be mere servility._” what have he to do with this purely

english war-spirit that he should servilely sacrifice to it his almost

filial obligation? obviously nothing. Quong Ho therefore continue to

purvey no idle gossip, and go about his varied avocation with a

serene mind.



now, as John Baltazar, who have be dead to the English-speak world

for nearly twenty year, hold correspondence with no one save a few

necessary tradesman, mostly bookseller, as he take in no periodical,

daily, weekly, monthly or annual of any kind whatever, and as he

converse with no human being except Quong Ho, whose lip he have seal,

he have create for himself an almost perfect barrage through which the

news of contemporary happening could not penetrate.



“Quong Ho,” he have say, one Spring day, soon after his return from

China, when he have come to one of those revolutionary decision that

mark the crisis of his life, “I have swear by the spirit of my

ancestor to live the life of a recluse for the space of three year,

hold communication with no man or woman and cut myself off like

one that be dead from the interest of the contemporaneous world. my

reason for this determination I will eventually unfold to you, provide

you carry out faithfully the contract I be about to propose. if you

decline to bind yourself, which as a free man you be at liberty to do,

I will pay your passage back to China and give you a sum of money

adequate to start you on an honest career. if you accept it, I will

honourably perform my part. you have be my servant and my pupil for

the last eight year——”



“you save this miserable orphan from death at the hand of a tyrannic

governor,” interpose Quong Ho—they be speak his native

tongue,—“you have teach he the language of England and the

philosophy both of East and West, and you be to I as a father to

whom I owe filial fidelity and devotion.”



“that be well say, Quong Ho,” reply Baltazar. “this person

appreciate your profession of loyalty.” the scene of this memorable

conversation, by the way, be a small bedroom at the top of the Savoy

Hotel; Baltazar, with bloodshot eye, a splitting headache and tousle

raiment, sit on the bed, and Quong Ho, impeccably vest in Chinese

attire, stand before he. “he have not be honourably bless with

son, and therefore will receive from you the devotedness that be due to

a parent. but for the space of three year only. there may come a time

when exaggerated filial zeal may become embarrassing.”



and he set forth the contract. in return for the absolute obedience of

Quong Ho and his acceptance of the life of a recluse for three year, he

undertake to send he back to China as the most accomplished native

mathematician in existence—for he have already gauge the young man’s

peculiar genius—with a Master of Arts degree, if possible, from some

British University, and thus assure he a distinguished position in that

New China whose marvellous future have be the subject of so many of

their dream and discussion. and Quong Ho have take solemn oath of

fealty and with the Chinaman’s singleness of purpose, accept, a few

week later, the deadly and endure solitude of the moorland as an

unquestionable condition of existence.



secure in the unswerve fidelity of Quong Ho, and in the impregnable

seclusion of this God-disclose hermitage, John Baltazar live a life

accord to his ideal. no outer ripple of the maëlstrom in which the

world be engulf lap, however faintly, against the low granite wall

encircle the low-build granite farmhouse. his retirement be absolute,

his retreat off the track of the most casual wanderer.



six month pass before his eye rest on a human being other than

Quong Ho. it be true that the rate-collector, savagely curse his luck

and the bicycle-destroy track that lead from the road to the

farmhouse, have appear one day with a paper show certain

indebtedness; but Quong Ho have receive it and, gravely promise a

cheque in payment, have dismiss the intruder. no other official come

near the place. Quong Ho call weekly at the Post office and railway

station, to the great relief of postman and van-driver.



“thought and money acutely apply,” remark Baltazar, “together with

freedom from the entanglement of family relationship, be the

determine factor of human happiness. a man with these factor at his

disposal be a fool if he cannot, fashion for himself whatever kind of

existence he please.”



but one day, a cloudless winter morning, when the sunshine kiss the

frost-bind earth transmute the myriad frondage of the heather into a

valley of diamond, Baltazar, on his way from the stable to the front

door, come across a stranger lean over the gate. he be a heavy man

with a fat, clean-shaven face, loose lip and little furtive eye. he

wear a new golfing suit exaggerate in cut and aggressive in colour.



he say with easy familiarity: “good morning, Mr. Baltazar.”



“since you know my name,” reply Baltazar, with an air of courtesy, “it

have doubtless strike you that this be my gate.”



“of course——”



“you be lean on it,” say Baltazar.



the visitor, perplexed, straighten himself.



“I’m a sort of neighbour of your, you know. I live about seven mile

off—the big property this side of Water-end: Cedar Chase—and I’ve

often think I’d run over in the Rolls-Royce as far as I could, and

walk the rest, and see how you be get along.”



“that be most amiable of you,” say Baltazar, advance to the gate and

rest his arm on it with an easy suggestion of proprietorship. “you

have run over, you have walk—and now you see.”



before Baltazar’s ironical gaze the stranger’s eyelid flutter in

disconcertment.



“I fancy you might be lonely and might like to look in and have a game

of bridge one of these day. my name’s Pillivant.”



“Pillivant,” say Baltazar. “I don’t much like it, but there be

doubtless bad.”



“you may have hear it. Pillivant and Co., Timber Merchants. we’ve

rather come to the front lately.”



“your personal initiative, I should imagine,” say Baltazar.



“I don’t say as it ben’t,” reply Mr. Pillivant. “when whack

Government contract be go, why not get ’em?”



“why not? why waste time in do anything else, all day long, but

get ’em?”



Mr. Pillivant draw from his inner breast pocket a vast gold casket of a

cigar-case, open it and hold it out towards his inhospitable host.



“have a cigar? you needn’t be afraid. they stand I in two hundred and

fifty shilling a hundred and I get ’em wholesale. no?” Baltazar

decline politely. “you’re miss a good thing.” he bite off the end of

the one he have choose, light it with a fat wax vesta extract from a

minor gold casket and draw a few puff. “funny sort of life you seem to

be lead here, Mr. Baltazar. dam’ funny!”



“I perceive you have a keen sense of humour,” say Baltazar.



again the mocking stare of his cold, grey eye abash the unwelcome

visitor, who fill in the ensue silence by re-biting and re-light

his half-crown cigar. the operation over:



“lovely day, ben’t it?” say he.



“so lovely, Mr. Pillivant,” reply Baltazar, “that it would be selfish

of I to do otherwise than leave you to the undisturbed enjoyment of

it.”



and, with a polite bow, he leave Mr. Pillivant and walk, in a dignified

way, into the house. Mr. Pillivant, conscious at last of the rejection

of his friendly overture, stare for a while, and then, stick his

cigar at a truculent angle in his mouth, swagger away across the moor.



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, “when next you go to Water-end, it will be

your duty to find a powerful and exceedingly nasty-temper dog.”



a fortnight afterwards Brutus be add to the establishment.









                               CHAPTER IV





the life ordain by John Baltazar for Quong Ho and himself be one of

unremitting toil, mental and physical. from the time of his uprising at

six in the morning, when Quong Ho awaken he with tea (some chest of

which he have bring with he from China), until midnight, there be

few moment, save the after dinner hour of literary indulgence, that he

waste in idle relaxation. the work of the house, that of steward,

butler, valet, cook, parlourmaid, charwoman and laundress, together with

the outdoor function of groom, dairyman and bailiff, Quong Ho execute

with the remarkable ease and despatch of the Chinaman accustom from

childhood to menial task. the cultivation of the barren land, the

painful wheeling of barrow-load of superficial soil from the moorland,

the digging and the planting and the draining and the watering, be all

do by John Baltazar himself. the hard exercise, some three or four

hour a day, maintain he in the superb health that enable he to

carry out his studious programme. of his eighteen wake hour he

allot roughly seven to physical thing, eleven to intellectual

pursuit. for Quong Ho this apportionment of time be invert. that be

the theoretic schedule. as a matter of fact, Quong Ho find more than

seven hour a day for mathematical study and other intellectual

development.



there be much that Baltazar have set himself to do during his three

year. first he must make up in mathematical output the loss of his

wander-time in China. now all the world understand the irresistible

force that compel the poet, at last, to give form to long haunting

dream; the need, also, of the astronomer to crystallize the result of

his discovery and formulate his epoch-make theory; but the passion

of the mathematician to do the same be not so easily comprehensible. for

year Baltazar have dream of an exhaustive and monumental treatise on

the theory of Groups which would revolutionize the study of the high

mathematic, a gorgeous vision the mere statement of which must leave

the ordinary be cold and the first attempt at explanation petrify he

with its icy unintelligibility. the dream be now in process of

accomplishment. he have also to put into form fascinating adventure into

the analytical geometry of the ghostly and unrealizable space of four

dimension. there, he be willnot to assert, you enter the true Fairyland

of mathematic. to all these labour he bring the enthusiasm of the

poet or the astronomer. another and a totally different sphere of

activity absorb much of his energy. in China he have assimilate a

vast store of philosophical learning, with which equipment he prepare

to re-edit many european version of the chinese classic misconceive

through faulty erudition. he have bring from China stack of rare

manuscript, pile of note, material for the life-work of any scholar.

and, last, he have throw himself with impetuous zeal into the

intellectual training of Quong Ho.



the mutual attitude of the solitary pair be one of curious delicacy. as

master and man they be league-sunder by the gulf of convention. as

teacher and pupil they be draw together into close intellectual

intimacy. it be the Chinaman’s exquisite tact that simplify the

situation for the direct and masterful Englishman. as a servant he

scrupulously observe the decorum of the attendant—there never exist

head butler in ducal mansion who could surpass his perfection of manner;

but as disciple he subtly raise himself to the plane of social

equality, and gauge to a hair’s breadth the shade of familiar address

warrant by the position.



                 *        *        *        *        *



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar one day at dinner, when the Chinaman have go

through the usual solemn farce of offer he Burgundy, “your

discretion be beyond the value of ruby. never once have you remark

on the apparent vanity of this daily proceeding. yet in your own mind

you must have wonder at it.”



“it be not for I to speculate on the reason for your honourable

custom,” say Quong Ho.



“yet why do you think I cause myself to be offer wine every day only

to refuse it?”



“I suppose you desire to maintain, in the wilderness, the ceremonial

etiquette of the English dinner-table. the wine in the bottle be but an

adornment, like the flower in the bowl.”



“it please I that you should have come to such a conclusion,” say

Baltazar.



for the ceremony of the wine be link with the cause that determine

his sudden flight into solitude. he have promise Quong Ho to inform he

of these cause; but the fulfilment of the promise be hard to make.

sit dishevel on the bed in the little room at the top of the

Savoy Hotel, he have think disclosure to his servant to be a fitting

part of the punishment he have mete out to himself. later he repent;

especially when he perceive Quong Ho’s blank indifference. still, a

promise be a promise, and Baltazar not the man to shirk his

obligation. on this particular occasion he think it well to get the

matter over.



“the conclusion be an honourable one on your part, Quong Ho,” he

continue, “but it be incorrect.”



“I own, sir,” reply Quong Ho, “that it be draw from conjectural

premise.”



“it be over-indulgence in wine that make I set to myself this penalty

of studious solitude,” say Baltazar in Chinese. “by tell you this I

redeem a promise. as to our daily custom, a weak man fly from

temptation, a strong man keep temptation at his elbow in order to defy

it.”



“in that way, honourable master, be merit acquire.”



Quong Ho take away his empty plate and retire into the kitchen to fetch

the next course. Baltazar lean back in his chair and, his brow full of

perplexity, yet breathe a sigh of relief.



“I’ve get it off my chest at last,” he say half aloud. “but I wonder

whether I’ve be a damned fool.”



Quong Ho’s subsequent demeanour could not enlighten he. never again

between they, save once, and that under the stress of a peculiar

situation, be make the most veiled allusion to the subject, and day

after day Quong Ho imperturbably perform with the Burgundy decant

the ceremonial etiquette of the English dinner-table.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be only by glimpse like this that the man have ever reveal himself

to his fellow-creature. glimpse like this one, fine and deliberate, to

Quong Ho, and that one of long ago, passionate and self-destroy, to

Marcelle Baring. to neither do he accord more than a glimpse. to

neither do he show himself on a razor-edge ledge with the abyss on one

side and salvation on the other. another touch of the girl’s lip would

have send they both into what the sensitive and honourable gentleman

would have call the abyss. perhaps, if she have be old, a woman,

one tune to the pulsate responsibility of life, he might have face

thing with she. who know? to his direct mind the casuistical point do

not occur. actuality alone concern he. she be so delicate and

fragrant a flower of girlhood. his for the plucking. . . . when he

regain his college room, that far-off summer afternoon, he be as a

man tear by devil. love she? he would be tear in piece rather than

that her exquisite foot should be bruise against a stone. love she?

with her soft voice, her madden Madonna face, her kind eye, her

tremulous mouth? love she? the wonder of wonder possess of the power

to divine his inmost thought, to touch with magically heal finger

all the aching wound in his soul, to envelop he body and mind and

spirit in a network of a myriad fairy tendril? love she? God know he

do.



but she be a child—and a child can forget—at the bad retain a not

ungracious memory. but he be a man, on the verge of hideous villainy.

and he stand in his college room, surround by all that symbolize the

intellectual life that up to then have be the meaning of his existence,

and he look around.



“the whole lot will have to go to blaze,” say he.



and at that moment he cut the gordian knot.



his wife? she hate he: why, he could not tell; but she miss few

opportunity of show her rancour. he have strive desperately to win

her esteem, at the cost of much swallow pride. some month have pass

since the last pitiable reconciliation. . . . why have he marry she? it

have not be for lack of warning. perhaps the very traducing of she have

spur he on. she be so fair and fragile, so pathetic in her

widowhood. a clamour of the sense, a prompting of chivalry, and the

thing be do. and she, widow of a phlegmatic don of Trinity, live in

Cambridge, be perhaps carry away by the glamour surround the

come man in that tiny, academic world.



“I wish you be dead,” be the last word he have hear her utter. he

snap his finger. she could have her desire.



Baltazar pack his bag with necessary, tell his gyp that business

call he to London for some day, and leave Cambridge forever. a month

afterwards he be on his way, under an assumed name, to China.



the act of a fool perhaps. but have not one who know call he the Fool

of Genius? anyhow he have the courage and the wit to cut his life off

clean. the life of John Baltazar of Cambridge and that of James Burden

who, having land at Shanghai, spend so many adventurous year in the

heart of China, might have be live by two individual who have never

hear of each other. that disappearance from England be the first

start, the consequence of the first violent fit. the first that

matter.



but there have be other. to one, his mind go back even as he ask

himself whether his confession to Quong Ho have be the proceeding of an

idiot. it have to do with the selfsame subject of that confession. the

period go back to his last undergraduate term, when he be as certain

of be Senior Wrangler as a Cardinal of be the good theologian in a

scratch company of parish priest. carry on to the beginning of term

an end of vacation revel, Baltazar take to evil course. the slander

which, report to young Godfrey Baltazar, Marcelle Baring have so

vehemently deny, have its basis in truth. he have discover alcohol,

and for a time plunge, with his whole-souled fervour, into his

discovery. then, one Spooner, the next in the Tripos run, a man

live entirely on his scholarship, a mild and pallid man of no

physical value whom the lusty Baltazar, after the way of vivid and

immature young man, despise, have the grand audacity to call on he and

expostulate with he on his excess. Baltazar listen breathless. the

fellow ought to be go round with a show of freak. he tell he so.

Spooner wave aside the proposition and go on with his main argument.



“you have every right to be senior. there’s not one of we in it with

you. but if you go on play the fool like this, anything may happen.”



“that’s all to your personal advantage, my dear good missionary,” say

Baltazar.



“you don’t seem to understand why I’ve come here,” reply Spooner. “I

don’t want to be senior just because a man who’s infinitely well than

I be a drunken sot.”



and they talk and bandy word a little, and then Baltazar see

himself face to face with an exquisite soul. he grip the lean

shoulder of the undeveloped, spectacled young man with his big hand.



“I swear to God,” say he, “that I’ll not touch a drop of alcohol for

the next five year.”



but he also swear to himself an oath of which Spooner be ignorant. he

swear that Spooner should be senior. and he keep both vow. in the last

day’s Problem Paper he deliberately sacrifice himself. as a matter of

fact he just overdo it, for, to the mystification of all concerned in

the Tripos, he be place third. but Spooner have the coveted

distinction. the Tripos over, everything fall before Baltazar, and he

be acknowledge the supreme mathematician of his year, and, in the

course of time, the great of his generation.



                 *        *        *        *        *



the difficulty, owe to its episodical character, of present the

early career of Baltazar, thus find illustration. one might go back to

schoolboy day and point to lapse from grace, follow by similar swift

and ruthless decision. to catalogue they all would require the patient

tediousness of formal biography. apart from such a process, his life up

to his flight into the moorland wilderness can well be picture by a

series of flash.



a sudden disgust with China and an overwhelming nostalgia for the

sweeter political life of England drive he home after eighteen year.

the great part of the time he have spend in the impenetrable heart of

the vast country, speak many dialect as well as the classical Wen-Li

of the learn, an encyclopædia of erudition, saturate with intimate

knowledge of chinese custom and observance, a Chinaman in all but

physical appearance, dressing, living, act and accept universally

as a Chinaman, prosper as a Chinaman too in financial undertaking.

it be old China that he enter, a land stable in its peculiar

civilization which, in spite of many traditional oppression and

time-sanction cruelty, have its fascination and grace—the gift to a

Mandarin of a precious and much-covet ancient manuscript have purchase

the life of a boy, Li Quong Ho, condemn to elaborate death for a

venial offence, the transaction be carry out in an atmosphere of

high refinement, and scented tea serve and drunk with exquisite

punctilio. it be old China that he have learn to love, with its sense

of beauty, its reverence for learning, its profound ethical philosophy.

but it be a new China, convulse with new idea, bloodthirsty,

treacherous, unstable to madden point, that he have quit in his

sudden and determined way.



for eighteen year, in the interior of China, he have live remote from

european politic. he have sink himself in the lore, and identify

himself with the interest, of that ancient land. with no

correspondence, beyond the reach of newspaper, he all but forget the

existence of Europe. meet his fellow-countryman on the homeward

voyage, he shun they, partly through shyness, partly through distaste

for the brusqueness of their manner, the high pitch of their voice,

their colossal ignorance of the country with which they boast such

contemptuous familiarity, the narrowness of their outlook, the petty

materialism of their conversation. he hold himself aloof, long for

the real England at the end of the voyage.



in London, the lonely soul in the great city, he set himself to pick

up the thread of the life around he. he walk the familiar and

unwelcoming street, at first daze by the motor traction, then

bewilder by evidence of the luxury which eighteen year of decadence

have engender. he visit new palace of entertainment and come away

wonder. in fashionable supper-room he see the flower of the land

dance to what, as a scholar, he know to be west african sexual

rhythm. he could not understand. what be they do, or try to do?

he would sit lonely at a table, a formally order drink before he, at

one of these great public haunt, and try to get the key to the mystery.

the decay of manner offend he. he discount the fact that he have

live so many intense year in the land of sacred ceremonial; he wipe

that out of his mind, and recall the standard of his own youth. the

exiguity of feminine apparel shock his unaccustomed eye; in many

case nothing from waist up but a sort of low palisade, scarcely

conceal the bust. be he not mistaken? be this not rather the scum

than the flower of modern England? but at neighbouring table he have

overheard attention be direct to bearer of proud and historic

name. then he ask himself the question: have he frequent such place

eighteen year ago? have they not be outside the sphere of his narrow

academic life? he desire to judge justly. when do he leave England? in

1896. and his bachelor day, with their joyous London jaunt, have end

in 1894. there be no such social life then: if there have be, he would

have hear of it. in the afternoon, too, these young man and maiden

dance their weird dance.



outside, the land be a-clamour with the doing of a sterner sisterhood.

Processions, mass meeting, virago rioting, picture slashing,

incendiarism, bomb, form the feature of their astounding crusade.

the newspaper, beyond the recounting of fact, with vivid description

of sensational scene, give he little information as to the philosophy

of the movement. politically the country seem to be in a state of

chaotic turmoil. person hold high office be publicly accuse of

corrupt financial practice. Parliament wrangle fiercely with the Army

over an _opéra bouffe_ condition of irish affair. beneath all this

labour utter volcanic threatening. subversive idea, new to he, such

as syndicalism, be in the air. unintelligible criticism of picture

exhibition urge his curious step to the indicate gallery, where he

come upon canvas that make his brain reel. a new Rip Van Winkle, he

have awaken to a mad world, a world even more perilously unstable than

the China which he have leave.



the solitary scholar find himself disastrously out of sympathy with it

all. he have plan to give himself a month’s holiday in London before

settle down, in some quiet and comfortable suburb, to the many year’

work that lie before he on the material he have bring from China. he

have form no intention whatever of cut himself off from communion

with his fellow-man. indeed, he mean, as soon as he could rid himself

of the complication of his assumed name, to proclaim himself

unobtrusively to the world as John Baltazar. before come finally to

this decision, however, he must learn what have become of his wife, as he

have no desire to play the disconcert part of a tactless Enoch Arden.

his first step on arrive at London have be to institute, through a

firm of solicitor, discreet enquiry. he learn that his wife have

be dead for thirteen year. he be at liberty to become John Baltazar

again as soon as he like. but in London, as James Burden, he stay at

the Savoy Hotel, a bewildered and disillusioned spectator of the modern

world.



how do the catastrophe happen? think over it, as he often think

with shiver of disgust, in his moorland retreat, he could scarcely give

an answer. only once, since his interview with the audacious Spooner,

have he give way to an overmaster impulse—and that be on his

journey out to Shanghai. Anti-climax, in the shape of sudden storm and

sea-sickness, cure he, and he vow total abstinence all the time he

should be in China; and he keep his vow. perhaps, here in London,

unaccustomed idleness and his disgust-fill loneliness drive he

gradually and insensibly to the consolation of alcohol. the odd drink

during the day increase in number. he view a rosy London after a

quart of old Burgundy at dinner. to sit in a crowded cosmopolitan café

become his evening amusement, and the continuous consumption of brandy

and soda aid indulgent observation. he have give himself his month’s

holiday, and he mean to have it, no matter how joyless and

unsympathetic be the holiday atmosphere. now and then, in these popular

resort he pick casual acquaintanceship with a neighbour. he have the

gift of make his companion’s conversation intelligent and interesting.

on these occasion he drink less.



but one solitary night intoxication for the first time overcome he. he

realize it with a feeling of anger. the light be just be lower.

he order a double liqueur brandy, in the crazy assurance that it would

pull he together. of what happen afterwards he have little memory. in

the crowded street someone lay hold of he and, resentful of attack, he

turn and smite his supporter. to complete the outrage, a policeman

handle he roughly, a proceeding which he also violently resent. then

a whirl of light and darkness and light again, and strange face and

once more darkness absolute and final, until he awake and find himself

sober and shiver in a police cell. a few hour afterwards, James

Burden, of no occupation, live at the Savoy Hotel, be fine forty

shilling or a month for be drunk and disorderly in Leicester Square.



if it have be a magnificent folly, a royal debauch, a voluptuous orgy

of rose and wine and laughter and song and the pulsate lustiness of

life, the _dulce periculum_ of the follower of the Lenæan one brow-bind

with green vine-leave, he might have hold himself in some measure

excuse. he have make no vow, he have no reason, to spurn the joyousness

of existence. he be a man of race blood, with claim and right to the

gladness of physical thing. but this sordid, solitary bout with its end

of vulgarity and degradation, fill he with a horror almost madden

in its fierceness. his soul shrivel at the ghastly humiliation. that

it should come upon he; he, John Baltazar, with half a century of

clean life behind he; he, John Baltazar, the man who have compel

high honour for intellect and character from his childhood day, at a

Public School, at the University, as an unknown and prejudice-surround

foreigner in the strange of alien land; that it should come upon he

seem like a phantasma or a hideous dream.



and then it fall that he once more cut the gordian knot. he would fly

from a world in which he have prove himself not fit to live cleanly,

with all the less reluctance because he have find it incomprehensible

and unattractive. and sit dishevel on the bed, he inform Quong

Ho of his decision. as soon as he have cleanse himself from the soil of

the awful night, he leave the Savoy and the dishonour name of James

Burden for ever, and take room at another hotel for the night as John

Baltazar. the next day he throw himself vehemently into the quest of a

hermitage. he remember a desolate waste of moorland through which on a

walk tour he have ramble in his undergraduate day.



“it may be, Quong Ho,” say he, “that it be build over with picture

palace and swarm with tango-dancer. any conceivable happen to

England during the last twenty year be possible. but we’ll go and see.”



“I be unacquainted, sir,” reply Quong Ho, “with the dancer you

mention; but I have visit picture palace during the fortnight we have

spend in your wonderful country, and, rightly exercise, the

cinematograph strike I as be the most marvellous vehicle for the

propaganda of civilization that the world have see.”



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, “it be not in our contract to care one little

tuppenny damn for the propaganda of civilization. you’re not go to

waste your time at one of those futile and ill-conceive, although

ingenious, entertainment for the next three year. if the particular

region I have in view be not satisfactory, we shall find another.”



presently he add, in a tone of compunction—he be dress while

Quong Ho pack:



“I’m sorry I’ve have to cut short the time I intend you to have in

London. I badly want you to have some general idea of it.”



“Sir,” reply Quong Ho, “without wish to boast, I have grasp

London. I could find my way blindfold from here to the Tower, the

House of Parliaments, the North End Road, Fulham, and that imperishable

objective record of your honourable nation’s history, the museum of

Madame Tussaud.”



“all the point you have mention, Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, “be of

undoubted value—except the North End Road, Fulham. what the devil could

you find of interest in that drab region of nowhere?”



Quong Ho’s usually smile and mobile face become an expressionless

mask.



“it mark the end of my peregrination in that direction,” he reply.



“it strike I,” say Baltazar, “that it’s time you peregrinate to a

more God-sweep and intellectual atmosphere.”



three week afterwards they take up their residence at Spendale Farm.









                               CHAPTER V





BALTAZAR have live on the moor in peace and comfort for nearly a year

when he receive his first unsolicited communication from the outside

world, in the shape of a long, cheap envelope, head “on his Majesty’s

Service,” and contain Income Tax assessment form. for a moment he

wonder how the representative of his Majesty have manage to ferret

he out in his retreat.



“it’s a vile country,” say he to Quong Ho, who have hand he the

letter on return from his weekly visit to the town. “it’s a

pettifog, police-ride land, where a man, if he so choose, cann’t

bury himself decently. I’m sure the King be not aware of this

unwarranted interference with the liberty of one of the most

self-effacing of his subject.”



“my mind be in half,” reply Quong Ho, “to destroy the missive which I

conjecture would cause you annoyance.”



“it’s a good thing you don’t. the King be an amiable gentleman, but the

High Mandarins from whom this proceed be not to be trifle with.” he

glance through the paper. “it be well,” say he, with a sigh of

relief. “the High Mandarins around the Throne be as yet ignorant of my

whereabout; but if I refuse to obey this invitation, they would soon

learn it. it be a pestilential minor official in the vicinity who for

the sake of money—it’s his disgusting mode of livelihood—have violate

my solitude.”



“in the New China,” say Quong Ho, “we hope to do away with the

bureaucracy, which be a parasite on civilization.”



“you willn’t do it,” say Baltazar. “in the New Jerusalem—by which we

mean the Kingdom of Heaven—there be a Recording Angel, and you may bet

your boot he have get his staff of official who write minute and fill

up form all Eternity long.”



“Perfection,” remark Quong Ho, “be to be find neither in this world

nor the next, but only in that harmonious principle of the soul which be

term _li_ in the confucian philosophy.”



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar in Chinese, “your wisdom befit rather the

honourable white beard of the teacher than the smooth-shaven chin of the

pupil of five-and-twenty.”



Quong Ho bow respectfully at the compliment and withdraw.



“confound the Income Tax!” say Baltazar, look through the paper. he

have completely forget his liability. the sudden reminder vex he.

of course he must pay; but his income be exclusively derive from

investment, all of which be tax at the source before the dividend

warrant be pay automatically into his account at his banker’, why

should he be worry? he resent the intrusion on his privacy.



a week later Quong Ho post the form in the ironically provide,

penny-save official envelope, and Baltazar dismiss the incident from

his mind.



when some time afterwards his assessment paper arrive, it cause he

some astonishment. he cast his memory back twenty year. in 1896 the

Income Tax, if he remember rightly, be inconsiderable, some sixpence

in the pound. now it be half a crown. he fill up the form, an easy

task, think less than ever of the social condition of Modern England;

such high direct taxation could only mean the desperate financial

strait of a decadent country. well, as far as he be concern, the

loss of one-eighth of his income do not matter. the initial expense of

his installation at Spendale Farm over, he scarcely spend a third of it.



the next disturbing document that find its way to Spendale Farm

contain a search series of question, head “National

registration.”



“I be cease to regard England as a fit place to live in,” say he,

with some petulance. “this be Mandarinism run riot.”



a few week afterwards he receive a neat little card fold in two, on

the outside of which be print a vile semblance of the Royal Coat of

arm and “National Registration Act, 1915,” and inside a certificate of

the Registration of (_a_) John Baltazar, (_b_) Philosophical

Investigator—for as such have he irritably describe himself—(_c_) of

Spendale Farm, Water-end. there be a space for the signature of Holder,

and below it in great capital “God save the king.” on the back be

direction as to change of address.



“God know what’s come over the country,” say he. “it appear that a

free-bear Englishman have get to carry about his police paper, as people

have to do in disgusting country like Germany and Russia. what about

you, Quong Ho? have you get a pretty little document like this?”



“I be register as an alien,” reply Quong Ho.



“it seem to I,” say Baltazar, “that when I use to gas to you about

our free british institution I be nothing but an ignorant liar.”



“by no mean, sir,” reply Quong Ho politely. “the keynote of the

modern world be change. what be true of material thing yesterday be a

lie to-day.”



“how do you discover that?”



“I assume the little town of Water-end to be but a microcosm of Great

Britain.”



“why,” laugh Baltazar, “what sign of change do you see there?”



Quong Ho remain for a moment silent, and his face assume its oriental

impassivity. if he report to his master the astounding event that

be take place, even at Water-End, whose quiet High Street be

a-bustle with newly fledge soldiery from the moorland camp three mile

on the further side, he would not only risk the dissolution of the

establishment, but would be guilty of filial disobedience, which be

impiety. and the European War, after all, how could it concern he, Li

Quong Ho? perhaps, too, his master, foresee the temp, particularly

desire to take shelter and hear nothing at all about it. he be

fortunate enough, however, to find a perfectly true reply to Baltazar’s

question. he smile in some relief; for an intellectual Chinaman,

train in the lofty morality of the chinese classic, do not

willingly lie.



“it be a woman and not a man who now deliver the letter in Water-end.”



Baltazar continue to laugh: “they’ll be drive the motor-car soon.”



“I’ve see they do it,” say Quong Ho.



“I’m not surprised,” say his master. “they be tend that way a year

ago. these new woman be out for the devirilization of man. perhaps by

this time they’re in Parliament, pass firework legislation and

play the devil with all our law and custom. you haven’t yet hear,

by any chance, whether the occupation of monthly nursing be confine

exclusively to the male sex?”



“the enactment, if such there be,” reply Quong Ho solemnly, “be not,

to my knowledge, in force in this remote locality.”



“let we thank the god, Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, “that we’re out of

this feminist hurly-burly. the little I see of the movement be

antipathetic to my philosophy of life. a society in which woman regard

the bearing of child as a physical accident of no account, and deny

the responsibility which such an event entail, must be doom to

decay, or, at the good, to bitter disillusionment. the more I hear of

contemporary England the less I like it. it seem to be woman-ridden;

curiously enough by two camp in apparent opposition, but in reality

wage joint warfare on man. the world have never yet behold such a sex

campaign. one section demand luxury beyond the dream of Byzantium at

its rottenest, and the other claim supreme political power.”



“it be well, sir,” say Quong Ho, “that you repudiate the imbecile

suggestion of the House Agent to the effect that you should employ a

woman housekeeper of mature age to superintend this establishment.”



“it be lucky for you, Quong Ho, that I do,” grin Baltazar. “she

would have make you sit up.”



Quong Ho, with clasped hand and lower head, respectfully assert

himself. “if I do not sit up sufficiently for your satisfaction, sir, it

be for you to reprimand I.”



“I only speak in jest, Quong Ho,” say Baltazar. “our western humour be

rather subtle.”



“I will make a note of it,” reply Quong Ho.



“by such notation and accumulation of detail one gather knowledge,”

say Baltazar. “by co-ordination one acquire wisdom. continue on this,

the only path of philosophy, and your old age will be bless. in the

meantime, please keep your observation of change at Water-end to

yourself.”



“obedience to your honourable command, my master,” reply Quong Ho, in

Chinese, “be the sacred duty of this entirely inconsiderable person. but

may one so inferior as myself humbly remind your illustrious greatness

that it be you who originally propound to I a question which I be

bind to answer.”



“the fact that I do so,” reply Baltazar, “you may note as an instance

of the human fallibility of the sublime mind. fear not but that I

will profit by your lesson.”



he wave a dismiss hand. Quong Ho bow with the perfect ceremonial

of pupil take leave of master and retire. Baltazar throw himself into

his arm-chair and laugh aloud.



“you’re a joy, Quong Ho. a perfect joy. a museum speciman of a joy.”



so while Baltazar delight in the unhumorous literalness of the

Chinaman, it never occur to he that he be the dupe of the

unhumorous literalness of the Chinaman’s fidelity; that while he be

inveigh against speculative phenomenon of an ill-understand movement,

the trumpet of war have transform that movement into an apotheosis of

feminine effort of which Quong Ho, keenly intellectual, be perfectly

well aware; and that it be only by the pious grace of his pupil and

servant that he live a day in his fool’s paradise.



when Quong Ho, a week afterwards, bring he his meagre mail, he

angrily crush in his fist and throw aside the enclosure of the first

envelope which he have open.



“I’m hang if this ben’t a begging circular! it’s infernal impudence!

it’s an intolerable outrage on one’s personal liberty. here, Quong

Ho!”—he sweep the remainder of the mail into the Chinaman’s hand.

“don’t let I be worried with any more letter. I’ve come down here to

be quiet and not to be badger. if there be bill to pay, make out the

cheque and I’ll sign they. if there be circular, throw they away.

about anything else use your discretion.”



“I will exactly execute your order,” reply Quong Ho.



thus Baltazar finally sever relation between himself and the outside

world. Quong Ho act the perfect private Secretary. the only letter

present to his master for perusal be rare business communication

from bookseller instruct to purchase some out-of-the-way and possibly

expensive book. circular letter, contain appeal for subscription,

which pour in, as soon as Baltazar’s name eventually find its way on

the address-list of the neighbourhood, Quong Ho conscientiously

destroy. use his discretion, he withhold letter from the Bank

invite investment in War Loans. such, in his opinion, be further

intrusion on the sacred privacy of his master. and thus the week and

month pass by; and Quong Ho, in touch with even such an outpost of

civilization as the tiny moorland town and bring to that contact the

most highly train incuriosity, could not avoid gather the current

tiding of the vast world conflict; but, faithful to his command, he

say never a word to Baltazar, give never a hint of the stupendous

convulsion in which the world be involve. and while his master, serene

doctrinaire, discourse on the political science of the ninety, now

be blow to smithereen by german gun, he maintain the reverential

attitude of the disciple, drink in as gospel truth the wisdom of his

inspire teacher.



one evening, when Baltazar have praise the clear solution of certain

problem which he have set in Differential Equations, and prophesy a

glorious career for the most brilliant mathematician China have ever

produce, Quong Ho, after gratefully acknowledge the encomium, say:



“if you will forgive my indiscretion, I should like to ask a question.

why be it, sir, that you, who take such great interest in the

future—for example, my inconsiderable and negligible prospect, and the

benefit that will accrue to humanity on the publication of the

thought-shake result of your own profound researches,—should be so

indifferent to the present condition of the world?”



“for the simple reason, my good fellow,” reply Baltazar, “that, from

what I have observe, the present condition of mankind—from China to

Peru, as your newly find friend Dr. Johnson say—be putrescent. the

good way in which we can serve mankind be to do what we’re do now—to

provide for the intellectual development of the future generation.”



“the proposition be unanswerable,” say Quong Ho. “but suppose, sir, for

the sake of argument, that a philosophic observation of the civilized

world as it be should result in the conclusion that, in the english

idiom, it be proceed fast to the devil—what be the duty of the man

of high morality?”



“to let it go slap-dash,” say Baltazar. “the fast and surer, the

well. for then the soon will the eternal rhythm, the eternal

principle of balance, assert itself. when a society be rush down to

gadarene suicide——”



“I beg your pardon, sir,” interrupt the alert Quong Ho. “Gad—I do not

understand the word.”



“read the Gospel accord to St. Mark to-morrow. you’ve hear of St.

Mark?”



“you might as well ask I, sir, if I have hear of Confucius or Homer, or

the immortal todhunter of my childhood.”



Baltazar rub his brown thatch and turn his luminous grey eye on

his disciple.



“the immensity of your purview, Quong Ho, be only equal by your

lightning perception of landmark. anyhow, read St. Mark over again, and

tell I your opinion of the swine of Gadara. for the moment, I’d have

you know that you’ve interrupt my argument. I be say that if

everything’s go to the devil—that’s the correct idiom—not

proceed to devil——”



“may I make a note of it?” say Quong Ho, scribble the phrase across

his mathematical manuscript.



Baltazar rise from his chair by the long deal table and relit his pipe

over the chimney of a lamp.



“you’ve put I out. what the blaze be we talk about?”



“the present world condition,” reply Quong Ho.



“then I assert,” say Baltazar, “that the present state of the world be

rotten. it’s no place for intellectual reformer like you and I. what

be the word of Confucius know to every schoolboy? ‘_with sincerity

and truth unite a desire for self-culture. Lay down your life rather

than quit the path of virtue. enter not a state which be totter to

its fall. when Law obtain in the Empire let yourself be see: when

lawlessness reign, retire into obscurity._’”



“but supposing,” persist Quong Ho, “the state of the devil-drive

world be of vital interest?”



“it can be of vital interest only to those hurtle down to destruction.

to we, who have retire into the obscure aloofness recommend by the

great philosopher, it can be of no possible concern.”



“it be well,” say Quong Ho.



“I know it be,” remark Baltazar, with a yawn. “another night let we

have a slightly more intelligent conversation.”



Quong Ho retire, his conscience finally set at rest. after all, be not

his master right? what could he do of any use in the world rudely at

war? be he not serve the true interest of humanity by retire at

this juncture and devote the harvest of his great learning to a future

generation?



“soldier,” say Quong Ho the next day, look into the unspeculative

topaz eye of the goat which he have be milk, “be as numerous as

the sand of the desert, and politician as the mosquito in a swamp;

they be sweep away and the world miss they not; but philosopher be

rare, and the loss of one of they be a supreme world calamity.”



“Baa-a-a!” say the goat.



“I perceive that you too have wisdom,” say Quong Ho. “you appreciate

the privilege of live under the same roof as the illustrious

Baltazar.”



he burst into an unaccustomed laugh. conversation with a goat appeal

to his prim sense of humour. but all the same, he express his own

deeply-root conviction. to the keen-brain young Chinaman, Baltazar

appear as a man of stupendous intellectual force. his knowledge of the

abstract science of the western world would have command his respect;

but his vast chinese erudition, acknowledge with admiration by

Mandarins and scholar and other Great Ones of China, give Quong Ho

cause for a veneration reach almost to idolatry.



also Baltazar, for all his patriarchal year, earn his pupil’s respect

as a man of marvellous muscle and endurance. during the winter, when the

inclemency of the weather forbid agricultural pursuit—and on that

moorland waste the weather abandon itself to every capricious devildom

within meteorological possibility—Baltazar, having order a set of

glove from London, give box lesson to his disciple. at first Quong

Ho be shocked. how could so contemptible a person as he ever make a

pretence of smite the highly honourable face of his master? Baltazar

bid he try. he would give he an hour’s extra private tuition for

every hit. and Quong Ho, encourage by so splendid a prize, try, at

first diffidently, then earnestly, then zealously, then desperately,

then bald-headedly, but never a wild blow could pass the easy guard of

his smile master.



“you see, Quong Ho, it’s a science,” say Baltazar. “now I’m go to

hit you.” and he feint and strike out with his left and send his

disciple swinge across the room. “it be also a game,” he add,

hold up his hand, “because what I have just do do not hurt you in

the least.”



Quong Ho rub his jaw. “it be like the kiss of a butterfly,” say he.



“here endeth the First Lesson,” say Baltazar. “the english etiquette

now require that we should shake hand.”



when they have go through the formality Baltazar continue:



“you of all non-english people oughtn’t to be astonish. do not the

same ceremony exist in your country over two thousand year ago? be it

not refer to in the Analects?”



“Sir,” say the breathless and perspire Quong Ho, “I have unworthily

forget.”



“do not the Master say: ‘_the true gentleman be never contentious. if a

spirit of rivalry be anywhere unavoidable, it be at a shooting-match.

yet even here he courteously salute his opponent before take up his

position_’—we ought to have shake hand before start, but we’ll do

it next time—‘_and again when, having lose, he retire to drink the

forfeit-cup_’—your forfeit-cup be the loss of the extra hour of

tuition. ‘_so that even when compete, he remain a true gentleman._’”



“I remember now,” say Quong Ho.



“I’m glad you do,” reply Baltazar. “that be the lofty spirit in which

we shall continue this exceedingly health-give science and pastime.”



and they continue. the young Chinaman, lithe, hard, physically perfect,

little more than half the age of his tutor, devote himself, with his

chinese assiduity, to the mastery of the fascinating art, and succeed

eventually in give Baltazar most interesting encounter; he realize

that fierce blow plant on venerable feature be take, nay

applaud, in the spirit of the confucian gentleman; he also accept in

the same gentlemanly way the hammering that he invariably receive. it

be after some month of this training, when he be able to discount

merely superior science, that he bow down before Baltazar not only as

before an intellect, but as before a marvellous physical man.



there come a truce, however—the follow winter—when Baltazar, wise

in his elderly generation, foresee the inevitable supremacy of youth,

and order new toy from London—foil, mask and fencing jacket. the

glove moulder in a break-down potting-shed, and Quong Ho again

start, as a tyro, to learn a new athletic accomplishment. thus in his

disciple’s sound body Baltazar contrive to maintain a sound and humble

mind. he know that he be hold in deep respect by Quong Ho. but it never

occur to his careless mind that Quong Ho regard he as a kind of

god. he accept the homage as a matter of course.



in these idyllic condition John Baltazar account himself serenely

happy. his scholarly solitude be undisturbe by the windy way of man

or the windy way of moorland nature. the former spend themselves before

reach he; at the latter he snap his finger. what to he be the

season’ difference? so absorb be he in his work, so circumscribe in

his walled enclosure beyond which he seldom set foot, that he barely

even notice the hourly change on the sensitive face of the moor. and

season follow season, and the pile of manuscript, exquisitely

correct for the printer, grow in height, and Quong Ho assimilate

Higher Mathematics as though it be rice; and everything be for the

good in the good of all possible little intellectual world.









                               CHAPTER VI





SUCH, as far as a few stroke can picture he, be John Baltazar, at the

time when his unsuspected son lie footless in the convalescent home and

discuss with Marcelle bare the mystery of his existence. a man of

many failing, many intolerance, of some ruthlessness. a man both

sensitive and hard; both bold and shrink; with the traditional habit

of the ostrich and the heart of a lion. a man apparently give to

extravagance of caprice; and yet remain always constant to himself,

preserve also throughout his strange career a perfect unity of

character. perhaps, regard he from another point of view, his

detractor may say that he love to play to himself as audience and,

far, put that audience in the gallery. why not? it be in the essence

of human consciousness that a man must, in some measure, be an actor to

himself. the degree depend on the human equation. duma _fil_ once

say of his immortal semi-mulatto father: “he be quite capable of

get up behind his own carriage, in order to persuade people that he

keep a black footman.” a savage epigram. but it would have be a

deep truth if he have say that the wonder of a man who be his father,

be capable of do it, in order to persuade himself that he keep a

black footman. the more we limit the audience to the man himself, the

more we love he. the more human do the vivid creature appear to we.

if Baltazar play to that audience of one, he have many illustrious

colleague. if again his method be melodramatic, it at least have

breadth. it deal with big issue in a broad and simple way. . . .



“that’s what I love about the three great system of chinese ethic,” he

would declare. “there’s no damned subtlety about they. you accept the

various proposition or you, don’t. there be no _homoousian_ and

_homoiousian_ conflict, and suchlike rubbish, that have tear western

thought to ribbon for over a thousand year. in China you go straight

to the heart of truth. all the subtlety lie, Quong Ho, in the correct

interpretation of your appalling but fascinating script.”



this be a rough profession of faith, almost an analysis of character.

the intellect of the mathematician delight in the process of arrive

at exactness of statement, but at the same time that statement’s

philosophic simplicity appeal to a nature fundamentally simple.



he abhor complication. that be his weakness. he claim,

unphilosophically, the absolute. hence the abandonment of his academical

career, involve at the same time the merciless abandonment of his

wife. hence the clean cut of his career in China, where a little supple

coquet with political corruption would have bring he great wealth

and power. hence the impenetrable wall he have now contrive between

himself and the rest of mankind. he have no power of compromise.



thus an attempt have be make to answer the question which Marcelle

baring vainly put to herself that sleepless night on her return from

London, when a boy’s artless admiration have open spring of sentiment

which she have think deliberately seal forever; the question ask by

Godfrey Baltazar; the same question which almost simultaneously John

Baltazar put to himself, while lean over the gate in the glory of the

moorland sunset; which, in a wistful, speculative way, he continue to

put to himself after Quong Ho, with new light on Elliptic Functions and

the philosophy of Lao-Tze and the Ethics of Love—for the severe lesson

in mathematic be always follow by an hour’s improve conversation

on general matter—have retire for the night, leave he to his last

pipe and his last spell of work. but the discussion on the Ethics of

Love disturb his more studious thought and bring back the question

which a few hour before have idly flit across his brain.



Quong Ho have say, somewhat diffidently, in his own language: “Master,

may this inconsiderable person seek the solution of an intimate problem

from one who be a supreme authority on all thing concern human

conduct?”



“fire away,” say Baltazar in English.



“thank you, sir; I will proceed to fire. when I leave China I be a young

man of no account, the son of peasant long since defunct, your

body-servant, almost your slave, because you purchase my life.”



“we can stow all that,” say Baltazar.



“with your honourable permission, by no mean. I be reckon in

Chen-Chow only as a hopper of clod——”



“eh? oh yes. go on,” smile Baltazar.



“I see the daughter of Fung Yu, the gardener of the palace——”



“I remember the old villain. he have a daughter?”



“there be negotiation in progress,” Quong Ho go on. “the young

woman be eminently desirable. she be virtuous and obedient, and not

devoid of physical attractiveness. when I follow you, sir, from China,

I leave the affair between myself and Fung Yu in a state of suspend

animation.”



“you mean Fung Yu’s daughter? in our more brutal idiom it come to

this—that you’re in love with a little girl in China—and she possibly

with you—and you’ve run away and don’t know what the devil to do.”



“her feeling,” reply Quong Ho calmly, “do not concern I. I doubt

whether she have any of sentimental importance. it be with my own

honourable conduct that I be preoccupy. I leave China a person to whom

Fung Yu would condescend: I return as a personage of high intellectual

repute. I shall be able to seek a bride of a far high social position

than the daughter of Fung Yu. that be not all. my study of English

literature have give I new conception of the intellectual

companionship of married life. in the New China there be certainly

young girl of high educational standard, among whom I might find one

who could understand what I be talk about when I speak of such

philosophical topic as interested I. the point that, as a very young

and humble man, I wish to submit to your infallible wisdom, for my

guidance, be this: be I bind, as an honourable fellow, to marry, in Old

China, the flower-like but cabbage-ignorant daughter of Fung Yu, the

gardener, or be I justify in cut the Rubicon and seek in the

New China for a real helpmate?”



“before proceeding,” reply Baltazar, with the banter light in his

grey eye that Quong Ho could never interpret, “will you make a note for

a conversation to-morrow on Mixture of Metaphors?” Quong Ho produce his

notebook. “yes, just that entry. mixture of Metaphors. good,” say he,

when the methodical young Chinaman have obey. “side issue, like that,

have their great importance; but they must be follow after the main

course have be traverse. the whole point of the matter be: how far

have you commit yourself with the girl?”



Quong Ho start back in his straight-back wooden chair—they be

still side by side at the lamplit centre of the long deal table—and

hold up his hand.



“commit myself? oh no. the only time I ever address she be on one

occasion when I relieve she of the burden of a vessel of water from the

well to her house. but I have speak very seriously to Fung Yu.”



“Fung Yu can go to blaze,” say Baltazar.



Quong Ho smile. “I alone could give evidence that would condemn he to

a perpetuity of punishment.”



“so could I,” cry Baltazar. “Graft! if Tammany Hall really want to

know how to do thing, it ought to sit like a little child at the foot

of a high-class Mandarin’s head-gardener. Fung Yu’s the real thing.”



“he be a corrupt personality,” say Quong Ho.



“therefore,” reply Baltazar, “he be not the kind of person with whom

an honourable man should seek alliance. as to the lady, her young

affection be obviously unblighted, and very possibly by this time she

be marry and the mother of twin. my advice be to dismiss Fung Yu and

his flower-like yet cabbage-ignorant daughter forever from your mind.”



“I shall follow your gracious counsel,” reply Quong Ho. and the

intimate conversation end.



but it hang around the thought of Baltazar for the rest of the night.

Quong Ho be young. Quong Ho have look upon a daughter of man and find

her fair. in his chinese self-repress way he have have his romance. now

it be over. he pity Quong Ho. yet, after a year or so of probation,

the young man, lusty in his youth and confident in his future, would

return to his native land heart-whole, with all the romance of life

still before he—whilst he, Baltazar, would re-enter a world from which

all such thing be blot out for ever. for what of romance could lie

before a man of fifty—one who have lose all touch with woman and woman’s

way? for the first time a fear of loneliness send a shiver through he.

it be not natural for a man to have neither wife nor child. it be but

half an existence; a deliberate spurning of duty and glory and

fulfil achievement. and his own one romance? have he be justify in

destroy its gossamer web? it be all very long ago; but the beauty of

it linger exquisite in his heart. have he be a mere fool? be the

result to he and to her worth the sacrifice? and, after all, be he

sure that the result to she have be beneficial rather than disastrous?

he sigh, console himself with the reflection that she must now have

around her a family of son and daughter, and that if ever she give he

a thought, it be to bless Heaven for her narrow escape; and, so

fortify, he go on with his work.



when he awake the next morning, the chasten retrospective mood have

pass. after his tea and cold tub, he sit down to the table by the

eastern window through which the morning sun be stream, set the

gorse ablaze and the heather blood-red, and attack the final chapter

of his epoch-make treatise on the theory of Groups. the thrill of a

great thing accomplish hold he as he write. such moment be worth

living. he breakfast with the appetite of a man who have earn a right

to the material blessing of life. he go out, groom the old grey

mare and clean out the stable and dig up a patch of ground, rejoice,

like a young man, in his strength and in the fresh beauty of the day. on

his return to his study he review affectionately the monument of two

year’ labour. the Treatise of the theory of Groups, all but complete,

lie in one neat pile of manuscript. another represent far serious

adventure into the Analytical Geometry of a four-dimensional Space than

mortal man have ever undertake. who could tell whither those adventure

could lead? pure mathematic have demonstrate the existence of the

planet Neptune in space of three dimension. pure mathematic apply to

four dimension might prove and explain many transcendental phenomenon.

the next world might be four-dimensional and the spirit of the dead who

inhabit it could easily enter confine three-dimensional space. that be

Cayley’s ingenious theory of ghost. you could carry it far to space

of five, six, _n_ dimension; when you could treat the geometry of space

of infinite dimension as Euclid do the geometry of plane surface, you

would have solve the riddle of the universe; you would have come direct

to the Godhead. he turn lovingly over the leave of the complete

portion of this fascinating essay; also the neighbouring pile of rough

note, the result of laborious year in China. another section of the

long deal table be devoted to his translation and edition of the

chinese classic and to ancient chinese MSS. and book, his original

and authority. the final scholarly translation into English of the

great book of the Tao-tze—the Book of Rewards and punishment—so full

of deep wisdom, artlessness and charm, rise in three-part completion. it

would knock dear old Stanislas Julien’s french version of 1835 into a

cocked hat. he have collate library undreame of by Julien or by any

subsequent scholar. it would make all the missionary and consul and

other amateur sinologist wish they have never be bear. . . . then

again be the Shih-King—the Psalms of ancient China, resonant with

music, bewilder with imagery, vibrate with emotion, hitherto do

into English—_done in_ into English—he chuckle as the mild jest

occur to he—by a worthy, prosaic and very learn missionary, much

out of sympathy with ancient China because it have never hear of Jesus

Christ before he be bear—there be the Shih-King in process of

reverent and, as far as his power lay, of poetic translation. he take

down from his shelf the volume contain the solemnly authoritative

english text publish by the Oxford University Press, and open it at

random. he read:



“_the angry terror of compassionate Heaven extend through this low

world._ (_the king’s_) _counsel and plan be crooked and bad; when

will he stop_ (_in his course_)_? counsel that be good he will not

follow. and those that be not good he employ. when I look at his

counsel and plan, I be greatly pain._”



he laugh out loud, shut the book and return it to the shelf.



“‘I be greatly pain’! oh, my Lord!”



he search his manuscript for his own version, and read it through with

a satisfaction not devoid of smugness. a professional poet might have

find, like the chinese writer, the inevitable word, the sacred flash;

but, after all, he have make the thing deaden by the learn Oxford

professor live again; he have suggest some of the music and the grace

of the original—enough to attract and not to repel the ordinary English

reader. and with all that, he would like to see any man, chinese or

european, pick a hole in his scholarship.



he light his pipe, and before settle down to work again survey the

great mass of his achievement. life be truly worth living, when, during

its brief span, such great thing could be do. with a short interval

for luncheon, he work steadily on through the day, sacrifice his

accustomed spell of outdoor exercise, and when Quong Ho, who have change

his nondescript european working kit for the cool, immaculate chinese

dress, announce that dinner would be ready in a quarter of an hour, he

have all but write Finis to his treatise on the theory of Groups.



“Lord!” say he, “I must wash and get a mouthful of fresh air.” he

whistle to the dog, Brutus, who have lie at his foot most of the

afternoon, and go off. when he get outside, he discover, to his

surprise, for he have sit in front of a window all the time, that a white

mist have gather on the moorland and that his horizon as he stand on

his doorstep be scarcely bound by his rude granite wall. the fog

cover he in like a cupola. he pat the Airedale’s head and smile,

well content in this increase security of his isolation.



“we might, be the last live being on the face of the globe,” say he

to Quong Ho, who come to announce dinner.



“yes, sir,” say Quong Ho.



Baltazar shoot a humorous glance at he: “the idea don’t seem to

provoke you to radiant enthusiasm.”



“I fail to see, sir,” reply Quong Ho, “who, in that hypothetical case,

would benefit by your illuminating edition of the chinese classic, and

what advantage it would be to I to continue the severe study of

Elliptic Functions.”



“I’m afraid you’re a dismal utilitarian,” say his master, pass by

he into the house. “yet I suppose you’re right,” he add a few moment

afterwards, as he sit down to table and unfold his napkin. “if we be

the only two people leave in the world, we’d very soon chuck our

intellectual pursuit. I don’t think I care a damn for the thing

themselves. as far as I be solely and personally concerned, this

excellent bit of grill salmon be infinitely more vital than the

discovery of any mathematical truth. the latter have only value as it

relate to the progress of humanity. if there be no humanity, it be

valueless. it willn’t help I on worth a cent. but the salmon, a typical

edible, be essential to the physical existence of I. so I should let

chinese philosophy and the Higher Mathematics go hang, and confine

myself to the chase of salmon or rabbit or root or acorn—and so

would you—and in a very few year we should be hairy, long-nail

savage, fly at each other’s throat for the last succulent bit of

Brutus.”



the dog, hear his name, rest his long chin against his master’s

knee and regard he with wistful eye.



“no, old son,” laugh Baltazar, give he a morsel of salmon, “we’re

not at that point yet. make your mind easy. you and I and Quong Ho will

take our work out into the hurrying market of the earth and find

justification for all these lonely day. although we’re temporary

recluse, we’re valuable citizen of the world. we deserve more salmon.”



Quong Ho present the dish, and Baltazar and Brutus get their desert.



presently Quong Ho bring in lamb cutlet with fresh pea from the

garden, which Baltazar attack with relish.



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, “you’re a wonder. be there anything you cann’t

do?”



the young man smile bland recognition of the compliment, but say

nothing. as Baltazar’s body-servant he refrain from familiar

conversation. but Baltazar be in an expansive mood. he go on:



“you cook for I enchantingly. you serve I perfectly. your attitude,

Quong Ho, be one of the most exquisite tact. but if we be the last two

person on the earth, you would see I damned before you would devote

yourself to my personal comfort in this unrestricted manner.”



“I think not,” reply Quong Ho. “the truth of religion would not be

affect by the annihilation of the human race. to you, who be to I

_in loco parenti_——”



“_Parentis_, my dear fellow. it’s Latin. make a note of it.”



“I do so, mentally,” say Quong Ho. “to you, sir, who be to I in the

place of a parent, I owe filial obligation, and therefore I should not

see you damn before I administer to your want.”



“Rubbish!” say Baltazar, with a wave of his hand.



“I speak the truth,” say Quong Ho gravely.



Baltazar do not reply, but devote himself to the cutlet and pea.



Quong Ho perform the sacred rite of the offering of wine. the meal be

conclude in its nice formality of conventional life, and after coffee

Baltazar light his pipe and sit down to his usual hour’s mental

relaxation. but his mind wander from _the Caxtons_, which he have take

down from the shelf, to Quong Ho’s quiet profession of loyalty. for

all his intimate knowledge of the chinese character, this perhaps be

the first time that he realize the depth of the young man’s real

affection. and suddenly it occur to he that he also be greatly

attach to Quong Ho; not only through habit, or implicit trust, or

gratitude for essential co-operation in carry out his eccentric

scheme of life; but by tie very simple and homely. Bacon, speak of

man, say: “if he have not a friend, he may quit the stage.” Baltazar

glow with the thought that he could still act his part as a human

be. he have his friend. indeed, he have have one for all these month,

and even year, without know it. the loneliness of soul which he have

accept as his portion from the time of his flight from Cambridge, and

for the last day or two he have begin to dread, be fill by the

incongruous sympathy of the young Chinaman. Hitherto he have accept his

fidelity as a matter of course; he have reward it by scrupulous

observance of his obligation. but it have be his good pleasure to

regard his disciple as a human and intellectual toy, all the more

delectable for his lack of the humorous sense. to pull well-know

string and elicit platitude express in the solemnity of his

classically learn English have be his mischievous delight. But—“I

speak the truth,” Quong Ho have say; and the accent in which he have say

it be one of grave conviction, even of rebuke.



he take up his book again and almost immediately let it drop.



“if I lose Quong Ho, what the devil would become of I?” he throw the

book on to the floor and lean back in his arm-chair, pipe in mouth,

his hand clasp behind his head. in the whole wide world of hundred

of million of people, he have not a single friend, save Quong Ho. he have

be very dense not to realize before the elementary truth that

individual life be not supportable by itself. Newton’s Third Law of

Motion—_to every action there be always oppose an equal reaction_—was

a law of life. the incessant reaction on the individual would be death.

one other nature at least be need for the distribution and

application of vital force, and in their mutual action and reaction

could alone be find the compensation that be safety, sanity, normal

human existence. and the more attuned be the part of the reciprocal

human machine, the great the compensation; this human adjustment have

its degree: understanding, friendship, affection, culminate in

love—the perfect state.



when Quong Ho appear, book and paper as usual under his arm,

Baltazar wave an invite arm.



“take a chair, Quong Ho, and let we talk. elliptic Functions be too

inhuman for I to-night.”



Quong Ho put his burden down on the table and bring up a

straight-back, rush-bottom chair, and sit down stiffly, face his

master, who take up his parable.



“I’ve be think of what you say at dinner. you touch on a

spiritual aspect of the hypothetical emotion we be discuss which

do not occur to I. what make you do it?”



“Sir,” reply Quong Ho, “if you will permit I to speak my thought, I

cannot separate life into two watertight department——”



“_Com_partments,” murmur Baltazar, through force of habit.



Quong Ho bow. “I recollect. to resume. I cannot separate life into two

watertight compartment—the material and the spiritual. it appear to

I to be the subtle interfusion, the solemnization of holy matrimony,

between the two.”



“one of the charm, my son, of your conversation,” laugh Baltazar, “be

its unexpected allusiveness.”



Quong Ho rise and make a deep bow. “you have call I, sir, by a term

which overwhelm I with filial gratitude.”



Baltazar, who have use the word deliberately, hold out his hand.



“I believe,” say he in Chinese, “in your profession of a son’s

affection, and therefore I admit you to the position. after a year or so

our life will materially be separate, but spiritually they will run

the same course.”



“this be the happy and most fortunate day of my life,” say Quong Ho.



“without go into superlative,” reply Baltazar in English, “I may

reciprocate the sentiment.”



they talk on, develop the idea of wedding of the material and the

spiritual, branch off into fascinating side-track, as man of alert

intelligence delight to do in conversation, and come back now and then

with the flash of unexpectedness to the main issue. they touch on the

hermit of Thebaïd.



“their outlook,” say Baltazar, “be exclusively spiritual,

fundamentally selfish. they be out to save their own silly,

unimportant soul from hell-fire, and nothing else matter. Egotism

raise to infinity. our retirement have nothing at all in common with

theirs.”



“Sir,” say Quong Ho, “since we be speak very seriously, may I,

without indiscretion, ask you whether you too be not out to save your

soul?”



Baltazar rise from his chair and stride up and down the long room,

cast at Quong Ho a swift glance from beneath frown brow every

time he pass he. at last he halt and say:



“that’s so. the history of my inner life have be an attempt to save my

soul. but there’s a hell of a lot of difference between I and St.

Simeon Stylites. that be a kind of ass who sit for year on the top of

a pillar and never do a hand’s turn for anybody. all he think of be

his escape from hell. now I, as far as my soul be concern, don’t care

a damn whether it’s go to hell or heaven. my object in save it be

to be of use to my fellow-creature.”



Quong Ho, who have rise when his master rise, say:



“all that be clear to I. I too be here for the same purpose.”



“you?” cry Baltazar. “what’s wrong with you?”



“I want to eradicate from my mind the soul-destroy association of

the daughter of the gardener Fung Yu.”



then Baltazar laugh aloud and clap the young Chinaman on the

shoulder, an unprecedented act of hearty familiarity.



“my son,” say he, “this be a discipline that will bring we both, I

old, you young, to the great wisdom. in the meanwhile, it’s a happy

discipline, ben’t it? we’ve get all that mortal man—under discipline,

mark you—all that mortal man can want. spiritually, we have the sacred

relation of father and son. intellectually, we be equal and”—he

throw an arm around the room—“we have the learning of the world at our

command. materially—what more can we desire?”



he look fondly around the long, low-ceilinge room, brilliantly

illuminate by four petroleum lamp and half a dozen candle, and dwelt

upon its homely, scholarly comfort; the Turkey carpet; the easeful

chair and sofa; the exquisite and priceless roll of chinese painting

between the bookcase; the bookcase fill, some with the old-world

book of Europe, other with the literature of China, print volume,

manuscript beyond money value; the long table pile with the

inestimable result of human intellect; the warm bronze curtain, before

each of the four window; the dear and familiar form of the very dog,

Brutus, stretch out asleep in front of the great chimney-piece. and

the silence be that of the most exclusive and the most untroubled

corner of Paradise.



“what a Heaven-send thing be Peace,” say Baltazar.



at that moment the silence be disturb by a strange and unknown sound.

Baltazar and Quong Ho start and look questioningly at each other. it

seem like the distant beating of almighty wing. they hold their

breath. no, it be like the sweeping thunder of an express train. but

what should express train be do on the moorland? with common impulse

they rise and go out of door into the thick mist. then the

thundering, clatter rush break vibrant on their ear. it be in the

air around, above they. John Baltazar put his hand to a bewildered head.

what unheard-of convulsion of nature be this? then suddenly he have a

second’s consciousness of burst flame and overwhelming crash, and the

blackness of death submerge his sense.









                              CHAPTER VII





when he recover consciousness it be but to awake to an

incomprehensible dream condition. of his whereabouts he have no notion.

an attempt to move cause he such hideous pain in his head as almost to

render he again unconscious. his limb, too, seem under the control

of dream paralysis. he lie for a while co-ordinate his faculty,

until he arrive at the definite conviction that he be awake. his eye

rest on ashlar of granite which, as he lie on his left side,

continue in a long line; also, cast downward, they rest on rough

grass. gradually he realize that he be in the open air, that the

stone be part of his wall. what he be do there he could not tell.

he feel sick and faint. by an effort of will he move a leg. the

movement reveal unaccustomed stiffness of limb: it also reawaken the

torture of his head. again he stay motionless. yes, it be daylight.

it be sunlight; some twenty foot far down the wall cast a shadow.

presently over his recover sense steal an abominable stench. he

sniff, jerk his head to its intolerable agony. cautiously he lift

his right hand to the seat of pain. his finger dabble in something

like thick glue. bring they down before his eye, he see they be

cover with coagulated blood. he feel again, and realize, in stupid

amazement, that his hair be stick to a stone. the first thing to be

do be to liberate himself. he remember afterwards that he say:

“let we concentrate on this: nothing else for the moment matter.” he

concentrate, and at last, after infinite suffering that make he cry

aloud, he free his hair from its glutinous imprisonment and, spend with

the effort, roll over on the flat of his back and gaze upwards into

the blue sky. a faint breeze sweep over he. but the breeze be laden

with the same abominable stench.



as soon as he could gather sufficient physical energy he rise to a

sit posture, support himself on his hand, and gaze spellbound

and stupefy on a scene of unimaginable disaster. where once stretch

the familiar long-lie homestead, there be nothing but an inchoate

mass of stone, from the midst of which eddy and swirl column of

black smoke. and the wind blow the smoke towards he. look down, he

find himself begrime by it. he sit forward, stare, and, secure of

balance, withdraw his hand and put they up to his brow, seek a clue

to the mystery. memory, stage after stage, return. he have be sit

at night with Quong Ho. they have hear a strange noise. they have go

out to discover what it be. then——? what have happen then? just a

terror of Hell opening—and nothingness. yes, he remember. it be

dense mist when they go out. now it be clear, beautifully clear. the

sun be shine; but it be low on the horizon; so it must be early

morning.



what could have happen? a thunderstorm? the place strike by lightning?

he grip his temple. he have never hear of a thunderstorm in a dense

fog. besides, thunder never occur in the long, continuous, rhythmical

acceleration of volume of sound. yet what else but thunder and lightning

could account for the blasted homestead that reek before his eye?



he look around. the stone enclosure be strew with unspeakable

wreckage; great block of masonry, unrecognizable shafts of timber, bit

of twisted iron railing, ashe, charred wood. . . . he rise dizzily to

his foot. his head be one agony. he feel something wet on his neck, and

realize that the wound evidently cause by the concussion of his head

against a stone, have begin to bleed afresh. before he could tie around

his brow the handkerchief which he mechanically draw out, he see, close

by, the dead body of the dog Brutus, and he return the handkerchief to

his pocket. the dog seem to have be kill outright by a great piece

of granite that have be hurl upon he. then for the first time his

mind grow quite clear. the unknown convulsion have deal not only

destruction but death. where be Quong Ho?



he start forthwith on an agonize search. they have be stand

together a few pace away from the front door. Thither he go, but

could find no trace of he among the wreckage. from the roofless

enclosure of granite and through the window pour black volume of

smoke. it be useless, even impossible, to look inside. Baltazar call

out loudly the Chinaman’s name, as he make a circuit of the devastate

house, only to find fresh evidence of complete catastrophe. here and

there lie fragment of iron, unfamiliar to he, which in his anxiety for

Quong Ho’s safety he do not speculate on or examine. he nearly trip

over something by the burn-down stable. look down, to his sickening

horror, he find it to be the head of the old grey mare. he go on. no

sign of Quong Ho. in the little enclose grass patch, now foul with

rubbish, the very goat lay dead, mostly dismember. he stare at they

stupidly. a sudden shrill noise cause he to jump aside in terror. a

second later he realize that it come from a solitary cockerel,

strut about in the sunshine, the sole survivor of the poultry-run,

cynically proclaim his lust of life.



wherever he turn be ruin utter and final. but where be Quong Ho? have

he not, after all, remain outside, but re-enter the house? if so—he

shudder. creep back, he peer through the window on the windward

side, as long as the smart in his eye would allow he. there be

nothing there but fragment of stone and smouldering, indistinguishable

ash that mount nearly to the sill. whatever have be the cause, the

dry thatch have be set alight—the roof have fall in, and nothing of

the interior remain save a few charred book on the upper shelf of

blacken and crazily precarious section of bookcase. he stride away,

come to the front of the house again, and continue his search there,

with horror in his soul. the front door have be blow out. on his first

inspection he have pass it by. now he stand wonder at the

supernatural explosion that could have burst it from its hinge and

throw its great oaken weight bodily forth; and, look at it, suddenly

become conscious of a foot, shod in a chinese shoe, protrude from

beneath it. he bend down swiftly and touch the foot. shout “Quong

Ho!” but there be no reply. he rise, remain for a moment with the

horror of the old mare’s head, and other thing he have see in the

goat’ enclosure, rack his nerve. then he brace himself, bent and

lift the door, and under it lie the body of Quong Ho. to lever the

heavy mass and set it upright without treading on the motionless man,

tax all his strength. at last he get a footing on the further side of

Quong Ho, which enable he to set the door on edge, and a push send it

clatter clear. then he see that the corner have rest on a stone by

Quong Ho’s head and so have not crush his face.



he bend down, make a rapid examination; then sink back on his heel, and

thank God that Quong Ho be still alive. there be a wound on his

head, somewhat like his own, which until then he have all but forget.

as far as he could make out the leg be break in one or two place.

possibly rib. he do not know. he take off his grey flannel jacket, the

back of which be drench in blood, and, roll it up, put it beneath

Quong Ho’s head. the obvious thing to do next be to fetch water,

bandage, stimulant—there be a medicine-chest and brandy in the house.

after a few impulsive stride he stop short. there be no bandage,

no brandy. what remain of they lie in the burn filth within the

house wall. but water? he pray God there might be some in the

scullery. he find the pump that work the well break, but the bless

stream run from the tap, show that there be still some reserve in

the fortunately undamaged cistern. as good he might he clean out and

fill a pail; find an unbroken yellow bowl, and take they out to where

Quong Ho lay. he go back to search for linen or rag; but in that

welter of destruction he could find nothing. his own handkerchief be

absurdly inadequate. luckily, the day before be warm, he have change

before lunch into a thin undervest and a linen shirt. the latter he

remove and tear into strip, and so he bathe and bandage Quong Ho’s

head. he also rip up the man’s trouser and cut shoe and sock from

the swollen foot, and with the remainder of the shirt make compress.

and all the time Quong Ho show no sign of return consciousness.

evidently he be suffer from severe concussion.



it be only when he have finish his rough dressing that the

ghastliness of his isolation smite he. he must leave Quong Ho there

alone, uncare for, and go across the moor in search of help. suppose

his own leg have be break. the sweat stand on his forehead. they would

have lain there and starve to death, like stricken animal in a

wilderness. meanwhile the sun be rise higher in the sky and be

beat down upon Quong Ho. with a mighty effort he raise he in his

arm and stagger with he to the other side of the house, where there

would be shade for some hour: where, too, the evil smoke could not eddy

over he. place the jacket again beneath his head and the bowl fill

with fresh water by his side, on the off chance of his recover

consciousness, he leave the scene of desolation and horror.



about a mile away he realize that he have not tend his own wound

head, which, without any covering from the sun, be throb in

exquisite agony. his handkerchief he have leave with the remainder of the

shirt. he also realize that he be bare-arm, clothe only in the summer

undervest and flannel trouser and the light gym shoe in which he use

to fence. he reek all over, hand and arm and body, with soot and

blood. all this soon pass from his mind. thing whir in his brain,

so that he fear lest he be grow lightheaded. also, although he

have drink a little water before start, he begin to be torment with

a burning thirst. he lose sense of the vastness of the calamity that have

befall he, lose the power, too, of speculate on its cause. all his

mind be concentrate on battle against tortured nerve and reel

brain, in order to achieve one object. he keep on repeat to himself

what he should say to the first human being he should meet; fortify

himself with the reflection: “three mile to the road; three-quarter of

an hour.” but only having traverse the barely distinguishable track

thrice before, once when he make the return journey from Water-end to

view the hermitage, and on the other occasion when he drive thither to

take up residence, he miss it and stray diagonally across the moor.

at last, after a couple of hour wander, he reach a ditch beyond

which stretch the dazzle white ribbon of road. he fall into the

ditch like a drunken man, manage to clamber out and, on the further

side, stumble and lie exhausted, unable to move. after a few minute he

stagger to his foot, and sway down the road, which be as lonely as

the moorland.



suddenly he become aware of a difference; of tree and laurel and

verdure on his left; and in the midst of they stand a couple of tall

granite pillar with a gateway between. it be a house. he have win

through. inside be human aid. he make his way to the gate and clutch

the top bar to steady himself and look down a well-order drive. as

he look a man appear from a side path, who, after regard the

haggard apparition grotesquely clothe, cover with grime and blood, for a

few gasp second, rush up.



“hello! hello! what’s the matter? why—I’m jiggere! it’s Mr. Baltazar!”



Baltazar sweep a hand towards the moor, and say hoarsely:



“my chinese friend be over there, die. there’s be an accident.

explosion or something. he’s die. you must send man and doctor at

once.”



“Good Lord!” cry the man. “of course I will. come inside and tell I

all about it. you don’t mean to say those bomb get you? you look in a

damn fine old mess too.”



he open the gate, clasp Baltazar round the waist, and support he

down the drive. soon an old gardener come up and lend a hand, and

between they they carry the half-faint Baltazar into the house and

lay he on a couch in the dining-room. the host pour out a stiff

brandy and soda.



“here, drink this.”



the cool bubble liquid be a draught of Paradise to Baltazar’s parch

throat. the unaccustomed stimulant, after a few moment, have its bracing

effect.



“now, what’s it all about? you remember I, don’t you? Pillivant’s my

name. come to call about eighteen month ago, and you turn I down.

anyhow that’s forget. I don’t bear malice, especially when a chap

seem down and out. what can I do for you?”



Baltazar say: “there be an explosion last night. it knock I out. I

wake up this morning to find my house burn to the ground. my chinese

friend be there unconscious, with concussion of the brain and broken

leg. I have to come for assistance. you must send at once.”



“all right,” say Pillivant. “you stay there. I’ll do some telephoning.

meanwhile I’ll send the wife to look after you. you want a wash and a

change, and a doctor and bed.”



“Bed!” cry Baltazar. “I must go back to Quong Ho.”



he rise to his foot, as Pillivant leave the room, and totter after he.

but he find himself foolishly lie on the floor. he say to himself:

“he have give I brandy. he’s send his wife. she’ll think I’m drunk.”

and with a great effort he re-establish himself on the couch.



in a few minute Mrs. Pillivant enter. she be a fade, fair woman in

the late thirty, wear a cloth skirt and tartan silk low-cut blouse,

and a string of pearl around a bony neck.



“so you’ve be zeppe, I hear,” she say. “no, don’t get up. stay where

you be. if you haven’t hear it already, you’ll be glad to know it come

down in flame on the moor about twenty mile away, and all the brute

be burn alive.”



Baltazar set his tooth, monstrously strive to get his brain to work.



“brute? what brute? what be you talk about? I don’t understand.”



“why, the crew of the Zeppelin. where it come from or what it be do

about here, we don’t know—we’ll have to wait until news come from

London. it must have be badly damage, and lose its way in the mist.

they must have got rid of their bomb before try to land, so my

husband say—but before they have time to land the Zeppelin come to

grief. we hear the bomb, but think they have drop on the moor.

we’d no idea they have get anybody.”



“Zeppelin! Zeppelin!” murmur Baltazar. “I seem to have hear the

name——”



“it’s pretty familiar, I should think,” say Mrs. Pillivant. “don’t you

think the good thing to do be to let we put you to bed, until the doctor

come?”



“the doctor must go to Quong Ho, at once. he’s die,” say Baltazar.



“then I’m sure I don’t know what to do,” say Mrs. Pillivant.



Baltazar close his eye. “I’ll be all right in a minute. it’s the knock

on the head, and the long walk on an empty stomach.”



“oh, I’ll get you something to, eat. what would you like?”



“nothing,” say Baltazar. “nothing. a bit of a rest and I must go back

to Quong Ho. he’s the only creature I care about in the world. he be

just alive when I leave he.”



she say in a helpless sort of way: “I hope you’re not seriously hurt?”



he open his eye. “no, no. my head’s pretty thick. but I’m not as

young as I be. by the way, you be talk of a Zeppelin. that’s a

german airship, ben’t it?”



“why—of course——”



he raise himself on his elbow, and his eye flash beneath his knit

brow.



“why should german airship be drop bomb on the moor?”



Mrs. Pillivant regard he uncomprehendingly.



“I’ve tell you. they have to get rid of their bomb before they land.”



“but what be they carry bomb for?”



“I wouldn’t worry about that now,” she reply rather nervously. “I

don’t think you realize how very ill you be.”



“I’m not ill—not out of my mind, at any rate. I want to know. why

should they carry bomb? wait a bit. I’m all right now. my mind’s clear.

you say the airship come down in flame and the brute be kill.

tell I what it mean.”



“surely you’ve hear of the air raid? read about they in the paper?”



“I see no newspaper,” say Baltazar. “air raid? for God’s sake tell I

what you mean?”



she glance round to see that access to the door be clear. his

aspect—his shaggy hair clot with blood and dirt—his eye gleam

from a haggard, grime and bloody face—the filth of his

half-nakedness—alone would have frighten a timorous woman. and his

word be those of a madman. she giggle hysterically.



“I suppose you’ve hear there’s a european war on?”



he sit up. “War! what war?”



Mrs. Pillivant flee from the room. Baltazar rise to his foot.



War? War with Germany? naturally Germany, because Zeppelins be german

airship. a european war, the woman have say. his glance for the first

time fall upon a newspaper on the dining-room table, open at the middle

page. forgetful of pain and exhaustion, he stride and seize it—and the

headline hold he spellbound by their bewildering revelation.



Great Britain, France, Italy, Russia, Germany, Austria, Bulgaria . . .

all Europe at war. the basic fact stand out in great capital letter.



he be stare at the print, absorb as never have he be in his life

before, when a heavy hand on his shoulder arouse he. he turn to meet

the fat and smile face of Pillivant.



“I’ve fix it all up—doctor, police, ambulance. I’ll take some in the

Rolls-Royce, the doctor the other in his car. we’ll have the Chink back

in no time.”



“the what?” ask Baltazar, with a swift glance.



“the chink—the Chinaman——”



“oh, yes. my friend, Mr. Quong Ho. if you don’t mind, I’ll come with

you.”



“my dear fellow, that’s impossible. you must go to bed. it’s no trouble.

there be fifteen bedroom in the house. you can take your choice.

haven’t Mrs. Pillivant be in to see you?”



“she do I that honour.”



“then why the dicken don’t she have you attend to? I’ll see about

it.”



he be already at the door when Baltazar check he.



“stop. don’t worry about I. tell I one thing.” he smite the open

newspaper with the palm of his hand. “how long have this be go on?”



“how long have what be go on?” ask Pillivant, return.



“this war.”



“I don’t quite see what you’re drive at,” say Pillivant, puzzle.



“I want to know how long this war I’m read about in the newspaper have

be go on.”



Pillivant regard he askance out of his little furtive eye. he

entertain the same suspicion as his wife.



“look here, old man,” he say, take he by the arm, “that knock on the

head’s more serious than you think.” at the noise of a halting car he

glance out of window. “ah! there’s Dr. Rewsby.”



“never mind the doctor or my head,” cry Baltazar desperately. “answer

my question. how long have we be at war with Germany?”



“why, since August, 1914.”



“for the last two year?”



“do you mean to say you’ve be live eight or ten mile off and never

hear of the war?” Pillivant stand bewilder.



“I never hear of it,” Baltazar answer mechanically, stare past

Pillivant at terrifying thing.



“well, I’m damned!” say Pillivant, recover his breath. “I’m just

damned. here, Doctor”—as a spare, grey-head man be show into the

room—“here be a chap who have never hear of the war.”



Baltazar step forward. “that’s beside the question, Doctor. all that

matter for the moment be my chinese friend. I have to leave he at the

farm unconscious, with, I should think, concussion. and his leg be

fractured. we must go at once.”



“excuse I,” say the doctor, “but that wound in your own head want

see to. just a matter of cleaning and strapping. only five minute.

please let I have a look at it.”



“you can do that afterwards,” say Baltazar. “for God’s sake let we go.”



“you’re not fit to go. I willn’t allow you to,” reply Dr. Rewsby with

suave firmness.



Said Baltazar, with the hard gleam in his eye, “I’m go. it’s my

responsibility, not your. I don’t care what happen to I. but I swear

to God I neither wash nor eat nor drink until my friend Quong Ho be

bring back, alive or dead. and it’s much well I should go with you

than remain here and frighten your excellent wife, Mr. Pillivant, out of

her wit.”



there be a moment’s silence. the grey-haired doctor glance at Baltazar

out of the corner of a shrewd eye and diagnose an adamantine obstinacy.



“if you refuse to take I with you,” Baltazar add, “I’ll follow you on

foot.”



the doctor shrug his shoulder.



“as you will. but if anything happen—tetanus, blood-poisoning,

collapse—I wash my hand of responsibility. Mr. Pillivant will bear I

out. let we go.”



in the hall Pillivant take down from the peg of an alcove a cap and

light overcoat.



“you don’t mind stick on these, do you?” he say to Baltazar. “you’ll

need they motor, and besides, I don’t mind tell you, you’re not

look exactly like a candidate for a beauty show.”



“I thank you,” say Baltazar, accept the proffer raiment.



they start. the doctor, Sergeant Doubleday and a constable, with a

stretcher, in one car; Pillivant, Baltazar, and a chauffeur at the

wheel, in the great Rolls-Royce.



“to carry through this,” say Pillivant, haul out a thick gold watch,

“in twenty minute, show what we English can do when we set our mind

to it.”



“twenty minute?” say Baltazar. “it have seem like three hour.”



“twenty minute since I go to the telephone,” Pillivant assert

triumphantly.



the car race on. for some moment Baltazar, huddle together in the

comfort of the back seat, maintain a brooding silence, which

Pillivant, glare at he from time to time, do not care to disturb.

there be something uncanny about this man who have to be bomb nearly

to death in order to hear of the war.



they turn off the road on to the rough track across the moor along

which Quong Ho have so often bump his way in the old cart. the weather

have be dry and the track be at its good. but the car jolt

alarmingly and at every quivering descent from a large hummock than

usual, Pillivant cry out in fear for the spring of his Rolls-Royce.



“if it bust up, there’s no earthly chance of get another.”



“why?” ask Baltazar.



“because there’s a war on, old man. you don’t seem to understand.”



“I’m afraid I don’t,” say Baltazar. “you must grant I your kind

indulgence. I cann’t immediately realize what be happen.”



they climb the rise that bring they into view of the Farm. Pillivant

point to the smoking ruin.



“that’ll help you to realize it. that’s what Belgium and the northern

part of France look like.”



“when I have find my friend Quong Ho alive,” say Baltazar, “I may be

able to think of thing.”



they work their way, Dr. Rewsby’s light car follow, almost to the

low enclosing wall, and draw to a halt. view on the approach, the

havoc loom before Baltazar’s eye even more appalling than when he have

stand daze and sick in the midst of it. the battered granite shell of

the house stand absurdly low, and the rough gape aperture of door and

window stare like maim feature hideously human. the wall of the

scullery have be throw down by the explosion, and the pump and cistern

and a shelf or two of broken crockery be grimly expose. he wonder

why he have not notice this when he go to fetch water for Quong Ho.

the byre by the wreck stable no long exist. the white Wyandotte

cockerel, the sole live thing visible, pecked about the ground in

jaunty unconcern.



as soon as they dismount the party follow Baltazar, who stride ahead

with the air of a man about to denounce a ghost. at the turn of the

ruin house they come in sight of Quong Ho, lie as Baltazar have leave

he, the bowl of water untouched. the sun have gradually encroach upon

he, and now the shadow of the wall cut his body in a long vertical

line. his yellow face look pinch and ghastly beneath the pink and

white cotton of his bandaged head.



Baltazar’s face be almost as ghastly, and horrible fear dwelt in his

eye. he point.



“there!” he say, and draw the doctor forward and motion to the other

to remain.



together they bent down over Quong Ho. “if he’s dead,” Baltazar

whisper in a hoarse voice, “it’s I who have murder he.”



“he’s not dead yet,” reply the doctor.



“thank God!” say Baltazar.



Sergeant Doubleday, survey the scene of ruin with the eye of the

policeman and the Briton, turn to Mr. Pillivant.



“this sort of thing oughtn’t to be allow,” say he.









                              CHAPTER VIII





baltazar awake a couple of morning afterwards to find that certain

vague happening which he have regard as dream be true. he really

lie in a comfortable bed, in a pleasant room; the soft-voice woman in

grey, whose ministration he have be unable to divine, stand smile at

the foot of his bed, an unmistakable nurse. conscious of discomfort, he

raise his hand and feel his head swathe in a close-fit, scientific

bandage. he remember now that he have lain there for a considerable

time. what he have take for outrageous assault on his brain for the

purpose of extract the secret of his mathematical research, have

be the doctor dress his wound.



“how be you this morning?” ask the nurse.



“perfectly well, thank you,” say Baltazar. “I should feel well if you

would tell I where I be.”



“this be Mr. Pillivant’s house.”



“Pillivant—Pillivant? oh yes. I’ve get it. it seem as if I have be

off my head for a bit.” the nurse nod. “I’m all right now. let I put

thing together.” suddenly he sit up. “my God! how be Quong Ho?”



“he be get on as well as can be expect,” reply the nurse.



“he’s alive? quite sure?”



“quite sure.”



Baltazar fall back on the pillow. “the last thing I remember clearly be

their take he into the Cottage Hospital, after that infernal jolting

across the moor. what happen then?”



“you collapse, and they bring you here.”



“what day be it?”



“Friday.”



“Good Lord,” say Baltazar, “I’ve be here since midday Wednesday.”



“would you like a little breakfast?”



“I should like a lot,” declare Baltazar.



the nurse laugh. the patient be well. she turn to leave the room,

but Baltazar check she.



“before you go just tell I if I’ve get the situation clear. the

european war have be go on for two year. in the course of a

new-fangle kind of warfare the Germans drop bomb from Zeppelins over

England. a Zeppelin drop bomb on my house on Tuesday night—to get

rid of they—so Mrs. Pillivant say. you see, everything’s come back

to I. afterwards it come down in flame, and all the crew be burn.

be that right?”



“perfectly,” say the nurse.



“now I know more or less where I be,” say Baltazar.



the nurse fetch his breakfast, which he eat with appetite. he have

barely finish when Dr. Rewsby enter.



“this be capital. Capital,” say he. “sit up and take nourishment.

how’s the pulse?”



“never mind about I,” say Baltazar, as the doctor take hold of his

wrist. “what about Quong Ho?”



the doctor give a serious report. fractured skull, severe concussion.

break leg. semi-consciousness, however, have return—the hopeful

sign. but it would be a ticklish and tedious business.



“if you want another opinion, a man from Harley Street, special nurse,

don’t hesitate a second,” say Baltazar. “money’s no object.”



“I’ll bear in mind what you say,” reply the doctor; “but if his

constitution be as sound as your, he’ll do all right. by all the rule

of the game you ought to be as helpless as he be.”



“what’s wrong with I?”



“you’ve have half your scalp tom away. how you manage to be sit up

now, eat egg, after your lunatic performance on Wednesday, be more

than I can understand.”



Baltazar smile grimly. “I cann’t afford the time to fool about in a

state of unconsciousness, when I have two year’ arrear of european

history to make up.”



“never mind european history,” say the doctor. “let we see how this

head of yours be get on.”



the dressing complete, he say to Baltazar:



“now you’ll lie quiet and not worry about the war, Quong Ho, or

anything.”



“and grow wing and order a halo and work out the quadrature of the

circle and discover the formula for the deity in term of the Ultimate

Function of Energy. . . . man alive!” he cry impetuously, raise

himself on his elbow. “don’t you understand? I’ve be dead for

year—my own silly, selfish doing—and now I’ve come to life and find

the world in an incomprehensible mess. if I don’t go out and try to

understand it, I shall go stark, stare mad!”



“I can only order you to stay in bed till I give you permission to get

up,” say the doctor. “good-bye. I’ll come in this evening.”



as soon as he have go Baltazar throw off the bedclothe and spring to

his foot.



“doctor be hang!” say he. “I’ve not give in to illness all my life

long, and I’m not go to begin now. besides, I’m as fit as ever I be.

I’m go to dress.”



“I’m afraid you cann’t,” say the nurse.



“why?”



“you haven’t any clothe.”



he glance for a second or two at the unfamiliar green and purple

striped silk pyjama in which he be clothe, and remember the undervest

and flannel trouser, foul with blood and grime, in which he have arrive

at Water-end.



“the devil!” say he, and he stand gasp as a new conception of

himself flash across his mind. “except for these borrow thing, I be

even more naked than when I come into the world.”



“you’d well go back to bed,” say the nurse.



“I’ve get to go back to the world,” retort Baltazar. “as quick as

possible.”



“you cann’t do it in pyjama,” say the nurse.



“I must ask my host to lend I some clothe.”



“I’ll go down and see he about it,” say the nurse.



she go out, leave Baltazar sit on the edge of the bed. presently

enter Pillivant, who burst into heartiness of greeting. delighted he

be to see he look so well. at one time he half expect there be

go to be a funeral in the house. hear that he want some tog. only

too happy to rig he out. would pick out all the necessary kit

to-morrow.



“but I want clothe now,” say Baltazar.



Pillivant shake his head. “must obey doctor’s order. by disobey in

the first place I nearly have a cold corpse on my hand, and if there’s

one thing Mrs. Pillivant dislike more than another, it’s a corpse. when

her old aunt die here, she go half off her chump. no, no, old man,”

he continue, in soothe tone which exasperate Baltazar, “you be good

and lie doggo to-day, as the doctor say, and to-morrow we’ll see about

get up.”



“you’ve get the whip-hand of I,” say Baltazar, glower.



“that’s about it,” grin Pillivant. “and you’re not use to not have

your own way.”



“I suppose I’m not,” say Baltazar, look at his host more kindly. “I

don’t know but what you’re right. a little discipline might be

beneficial for I.” he slip back into the bed and nod to the

nurse, who settle he comfortably. “a little contact with other people

might restore my manner. as I’m beholden to you for everything, Mr.

Pillivant, I may at least be civil. as a matter of fact, I’m infinitely

grateful, and I place myself in your hand unreservedly.”



“oh, that’s all right, old man,” say Pillivant.



“it ben’t all right,” cry Baltazar, realize, in his

self-condemnatory way, the ungracious attitude he have adopt from the

first towards his host. “I’ve be merely rude. I’m sorry. I’ve live in

China long enough to know that no personal catastrophe can excuse lack

of courtesy. by obey your medical man I see that I shall give least

trouble to your household.”



“you needn’t talk like a book about it,” say Pillivant.



“I’ve live with book so long,” reply Baltazar, “that perhaps I have

lose the way of contemporary Englishmen.”



Pillivant throw he a furtive and suspicious glance.



“Most book be all damn rot,” he declare.



“you’re not the first philosopher that have enunciate that opinion,”

say Baltazar, with a laugh. “didn’t a character in one of the old

dramatist—I think—say ‘to mind the inside of a book be to entertain

oneself with the forced product of another man’s brain’? no. it’s the

practical man who do thing, ben’t it?”



“I’m a practical man myself,” say Pillivant, “and see as how I

start as an office-boy at eight shilling a week, I’ve do a blooming

lot of thing. Look”—he swing a chair, and sit down near the bed, and

bent confidentially towards Baltazar—“in July fourteen I be only a

little builder and contractor up at Holloway. when Kitchener in

September call for his million man——”



“wait!” cry Baltazar, put his hand up to his forehead. “in

September nineteen fourteen Kitchener call for a _million man_?”



“yes, yes, that’s all ancient history. I be tell you—when the cry

go out, I say to myself: a million man will want accommodation.

temporary building. hut. no end of timber. I haven’t a penny in the

world. but I do a big bluff and sell the Government timber which I

haven’t get for twice the price I know I could buy it at. in six month I

be a rich man, and I’ve be grow rich and rich ever since. I’ve

get a flat in Park Lane and this house in the country, and I’m on

Munitions, and I have my car and as much petrol to burn as I want, and

I’m a useful man to the Government, and do my bit for the war. and

none of your bloom book about it. just plain common sense. if I have

be worry my head about book, I should have lose my chance. just

what you’ve do. you’ve be bury yourself in book and haven’t even

hear of the war, let alone do anything for your country. book make

I tired. to hell with they!”



Baltazar look at the puffy, small-eyed man in his clear way. he

dislike he exceedingly. even with the most limited knowledge of war

condition, it be evident he have be exploit they to his own

advantage. but when you haven’t a rag of your own to your back and be

dress in another man’s pyjama, lie in his bed and eat his food,

you must observe the decency of life.



“I suppose lot of fortune be be make out of this war.”



“I should think so. those honestly make, well, the chap with brain

deserve they. but, at the same time, there’s a lot of profiteer go

on”—Pillivant shake an unctuous head—“which be a perfect disgrace.”



“profiteer—that’s a new word.”



“you’ll find lot of new word and lot of all sort of new thing now

you’ve wake up.”



“I’m sure I shall,” say Baltazar. “and now, if you’ve half an hour to

spare, I wonder if you would mind tell I something about the war.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



that day and the next, Baltazar listen to Pillivant, the nurse and the

doctor’s story of the world conflict, and read everything bear on the

subject with which they could supply he. Dr. Rewsby, who do not share

Pillivant’s disdain for book, ransack the little town for war

literature. he buy he white book, pamphlet, back number of

magazine and newspaper, map. . . . what he hear, what he read, be

the common knowledge of every intelligent child, but to this man of vast

intellectual achievement it be staggeringly new. for those two day he

lose sense of time, desire to move from the bewildering mass of lambent

history that grow in pile by his bedside. the lie, the treachery,

the horror that have accumulate on the consciousness of all other man

one by one, burst upon he in one thunder concentration of hell. the

martyrdom of Belgium, the bombardment of Rheims Cathedral, the sinking

of the _Lusitania_, the use of poison gas, the bombing of open town,

the unmasking of the german Beast in all its lust and

shamelessness—stun he, so that at time he would put his hand to

his head and cry: “it’s impossible! I cann’t believe it.” and whoever be

with he would answer: “it be true. what you read be but the outside of

the devilry the civilized world be out to fight.” and his scholar’s mind

would revolt. what of intellectual Germany? the mathematician, the

Orientalists, whose name be to he like household word, to say

nothing of those eminent in science outside the sphere of his own

study? they be bad, the doctor declare, than the brutish peasant

or the brutal operative. a monstrous intellectualism develop to the

disregard of ethical sanction. the doctor bring he one of the great

cartoon of the war, which he have cut out from some paper and keep, by

Norman Lindsay, the great australian black and white artist—the “Jekyll

and Hyde” cartoon, represent a typical benevolent elderly german

professor regard himself in a mirror; and the reflection be a

gorilla in Prussian spiked helmet and uniform, dripping with blood. and

then Baltazar’s blood curdle in his vein as he realize the truth of

the picture. all the mighty intellectualism of Germany be but an

instrument of its gorilla animalism. it be an overwhelming revelation:

the almost mesmeric dominance of Prussia over the other Teutonic States

of Germany and Austria, reduce they to Prussia’s own atrophy

civilization; that atrophied civilization itself, till now unanalysed,

but now a byword of history, the development, on abnormal intellectual

line, of the ruthless barbarism of a non-european race. strange that he

have not think of it before. have anything good, any poem, picture,

song, music, statue, dream building, sweet philosophy, ever come out of

Prussia? never. not one. her child be “fire and sword, red ruin and

the breaking-up of law.” and now the rest of the Germanic Empire have

lose its soul. Prussia extend from the Baltic to the Danube. the whole

of Central Europe be one vast cesspool, in which all thing good be

cast to deliquesce in putrefaction, while over it float supreme the

livid miasma of Prussianism.



in some sort of figurative conception as this do his brain realize the

psychological meaning of the force against which the civilized world

be struggle. but there be the other side of the world’s embattle

host, whose tremendous energy baffle his mental grasp. England’s

Navy—yes. he have be bear and breed in the belief of its invincibility.

but the british Army? a glorious army, of course; a blaze of honour from

cressy upwards; a sure shield and buckler in the far-fling post of

Empire; but a thing necessarily apart from the vast military system of

the Continent of Europe. and now he learn, to his stupefaction, that

the British Empire, call up all her son from within those same

far-fling post, have make itself, within two year, one of the three

great military power in the world. the casualty alone exceed the

total strength of the original British Army serve with the colour.

the Army now be an organization of million. where have they come from?

his three interpreter of the outer world give he information accord

to their respective light. all the early gathering of the host have

be voluntary enlistment. the army spring up at Lord Kitchener’s

call have be label numerically by his magic name. only recently have

we be drive to conscription. and Kitchener himself—the only great

soldier of whom he have ever hear? drown in the _Hampshire_ last

June. . . .



then again the revolution in national life—the paper currency, the

darken street of town, the licensing law—far excite his

throbbing curiosity. he remember with a spasm almost of remorse the

few sign and token of war which have reach he and pass unheeded;

the National Registration, which he have resent as a bureaucratic

impertinence; the mad taxation of income which he have regard as

evidence of England’s decay. . . .



“have ever man be such a fool as I, since the world begin?”



the hard-head doctor to whom this rhetorical question be address,

reply:



“I cann’t recall an instance.”



when drive to contemplation of his own isolation, he reflect that all

the time there have be a living link between himself and this upheave

world. every week, rain or fine, through snow or dust, Quong Ho have

visit the little town.



“when do the news of the war become general in Water-end?” he ask.



he have to put the question in two or three different form before his

puzzled informant could perceive its drift, for they could not conceive

it be the question of an intelligent man. he could not yet realize

the electric shock that convulse the land from end to end on the

declaration of war. he could not gauge the immediate disruption of

social life throughout the country. the calling up of reservist, the

mobilization of the territorial force alone affect instantly every

community, no matter how remote from centre of industry. the queer

strait to which every community be reduce, owe to the closing of

the bank during that fateful August week, have also bring the reality

of the war home to every individual. then the issue of Treasury note.

the recruiting. from the very first day of the war, Water-end, they tell

he, be as much agog with it all as London itself. from the beginning

the town have be plaster with patriotic poster. the mayor for the

first month have exhibit the late telegram outside the town hall.

there have be a camp of Territorials some few mile away and the High

Street have reek of war. government war notice meet the least observant

eye in post office, bank and railway station.



“if what you say be true,” say Baltazar, “how could Quong Ho have come

here every week and fail to understand what be go on? not only be

he a master of English, but he’s a man of acute intellect.”



“that,” reply the doctor, “you must ask Quong Ho when his intellect

have recover from its present eclipse.”



“but the fellow must have know all along,” Baltazar persist. “come

now,”—he sit up in bed impulsively—“he must, mustn’t he?”



“I should have think that a negro from Central Africa, who only speak

central African, would have guess,” reply the doctor.



“then why the devil don’t he tell I?”



“I’m afraid I must refer you to my previous answer,” say the doctor.



“it strike I that I’m a big fool than ever,” say Baltazar.



a smile flit over the grey-haired doctor’s shrewd thin face. he do

not controvert the proposition.



“it’s also bear in upon I,” continue Baltazar, “that I’ll have to

scrap everything I’ve ever learn—and I’ve learn a hell of a

lot—I’m an original mathematician, and I think I know more about

chinese language and literature than any man live. oh! I’m not modest.

I know exactly what my attainment be. as I say, I’ve learn a hell of

a lot, and I’ll have to scrap it all and just sit down and begin to

learn the elementary thing of existence, from the very beginning, all

over again, like a schoolboy.”



“hear, hear!” say Pillivant, blatantly golf-accoutre, who have enter

by the open door at the opening of Baltazar’s avowal. “now you’re

talk sense. I’m glad to see you realize how sinfully you’ve be

waste your time. Chinese! what’s the good of Chinese? they’ve get to

learn our language, not we theirs. I know. I go out to Hong Kong as a

young man for five month on a building job. every man-Jack talk

pidgin-english. that’s good enough to get along with. do you mean to say

you’ve be spend your life learn Chinese? of all the rotten

thing——”



“I’m aware, Mr. Pillivant,” say Baltazar, with a grimace intend, for

a smile, which on his haggard face and beneath his bandaged head have a

somewhat sinister aspect, “I’m aware that in your eye I must appear

rather a contemptible personage.”



“oh, not at all, old man,” cry Pillivant. “everyone to his hobby.

after all it’s a free country. have a cigar.”



he produce the portable gold casket. the doctor catch a swift glance

from his patient and check the generous offer.



“not yet, Pillivant. a cigarette or two be all I can allow he.”



Pillivant select and light a cigar. there be a span of silence. he

look out of the window. presently he begin to praise the local

golf-course, some mile or so distant. a natural course, with natural

bunker. the green artificial—every sod bring from mile. now the

infernal Government have take away their man. not a soul in the place

who understand anything about turf. consequently the green be go

to the devil. it be an infernal shame to let golf-green go to the

devil. Goff be a national institution, necessary to maintain tired

war-worker, like himself, in a state of national efficiency. but what

could one expect from the rotten lot who constitute the so-call

government? anyhow, you could still get some sort of a game. Baltazar

must come round with he as soon as he could get about.



“I’ve never play golf in my life,” say Baltazar.



“never play——? why, you seem to be out of everything.”



presently he swagger out at the end of his monstrous cigar. Baltazar

turn a weary head.



“Doctor,” say he, “would they hang I very high if I slew my

benefactor?”



                 *        *        *        *        *



as soon as stick-plaster replace the head bandage, the most

impatient of man insist on rise and go out into the world, clothe

in a borrow suit of the detest Pillivant. his first care be to

visit the Cottage Hospital, where Quong Ho, semi-conscious, still hung

between life and death. yield to Baltazar’s insistence, Dr. Rewsby

have summon in consultation the lead surgeon of the near town,

the great cathedral city. from the point of view of the Faculty nothing

could be simple than Quong Ho’s injury. to bring a specialist from

London would be a wicked waste of invaluable lime. all that science

could do be be do. the rest must be leave to Nature. Baltazar be

disappointed. have an exile’s faith in the wonder of modern surgery,

he have think that a few hundred of pound would have bring down a

magician of a fellow from Harley Street with gleam steel instrument,

who could have mend Quong Ho’s head in a few miraculous second. the

ironical smile on the lip of Rewsby, for whom he have conceive respect

and liking, convince he of extravagant imagining. he profess

satisfaction, although sorely trouble by his queerly work

conscience. outside the ward, he grab Dr. Rewsby by the arm.



“look here, Doctor,” say he. “I want you to understand my position. I

must pay some penalty for my egotistical folly in bring Quong Ho to

this infernal place. oh, I know,” he add quickly, check with a

gesture the doctor’s obvious remonstrance; “I know it might have

happen anywhere. but nowhere else than in that desert island of a farm

would I have have to leave he alone for hour on the bare ground,

without medical assistance. it’s my fault. I must pay for it.”



“you’ve pay for it, my good friend,” say Dr. Rewsby, “by your anxiety,

by your—apparently—by your remorse. you’ve do everything that a

human being could do in the circumstance.”



“but don’t you see, I bring the poor fellow to this through my selfish

folly. you must let I pay for it in some way.”



say the doctor, a practical man, with the interest of his little

struggle hospital at heart: “it’s open to you to give a donation to

the Cottage Hospital.”



“all right,” say Baltazar, fling out an arm. “if he get through

there’s a thousand pound for the hospital.”



“good. and if he don’t?”



Baltazar draw a short breath, glance down and askance beneath his

shaggy brown eyebrow, and set a heavy, obstinate jaw. then suddenly he

flash upon the doctor:



“if he die you willn’t get a penny from I. but I’ll give every cent I

have in the world to the General Fund of the hospital of the United

Kingdom.”



“do you really mean that, Mr. Baltazar?”



“mean it? of course I mean it. I’ve do all kind of rotten thing in

my life, but I’ve never break my word. by George! I haven’t. if Quong

Ho die, the world will be the poor, not only by a loyal soul, but by

one of the most powerful mathematical intellect it have ever see. and

it’s I”—he thump his chest—“I, who have rob the world of he. and

it’s I who must pay the penalty.”



“pardon my impertinence,” say Dr. Rewsby, draw on his motoring

glove, as a sign of end the interview; “but have you generally

conduct your life on these extravagant principle?”



“I don’t quite understand——” reply Baltazar, stiffening.



“if Mr. Quong Ho die—and I’m glad to say the probability be against

his do so—but if he do, you vow, as an act of penance, that you’ll

reduce yourself to a state of poverty and walk out into the world

without one penny. be that right?”



“perfectly,” say Baltazar.



“well, as a medical man, with a hobby, a special interest in—let we

say—psychology, I’ve be indiscreet enough to wonder whether this be

the first time you’ve make such a quixotic vow. in fact, now I come to

think of it, you make a similar one within two minute of my first

meet you.”



Baltazar meet his eye. “in fact, you want to know whether I’m not a bit

mad.”



“not at all,” laugh the doctor. “but I have a shrewd suspicion that

the folly you bewail—the eccentric hermit life on the moor—be the

result of some such rashly take obligation.”



“suppose it be,” say Baltazar; “what then?”



“I should say you be cultivate a very bad habit, and I should advise

you to give it up.”



he smile, wave a friendly hand, and run down the step to his car.

Baltazar watch he crank-up, slip to the wheel, and depart, without

say a word in self-defence. so far from offend he, the doctor have

rise higher in his estimation. a man with brain, and the faculty of

use they; a fellow of remarkable penetration; also of courage. he

differentiate his outspokenness from Pillivant’s blatancy. the former

be one man of intellect speak frankly to another; the latter. . . .

he remember the lecture, illustrate by quotation from the chinese

classic, which he have read to Quong Ho when his disciple, on his first

visit to Water-end, have complain of the lack of manner of the local

inhabitant. why should he worry about Pillivant? as he have say to

Quong Ho: “_rotten wood cannot be carve, and wall make of dirt and mud

cannot be plaster._” never mind Pillivant. it be Rewsby, and Rewsby’s

quick summing-up of his psychological tendency that matter. not a

human being have ever before present he to himself in any just and

intelligible way. of course he have hear truth, pseudo-truth, dictate

by violent prejudice, in his brief and disastrous married life. but they

have all be superficial; never go to bed-rock. since then he have be

free as a god from criticism. and now come this shrewd, sagacious

country doctor, who in the light, friendly way in the world, put

an unerring finger on the real unsound spot in his character.



“. . . a very bad habit, and I should advise you to give it up.”



behind those commonplace word he know lie a wise man’s condemnation of

his habitual deal with life. he walk through the tiny town on his

way to “the Cedars,” unconscious of the curious interest of the

inhabitant, to whom the sight of the mystery-envelop and now bomb

and head-bandage tenant of Spendale Farm be a matter of eager,

instantaneous mental photography, so that the picture could be produce

as a subject for many week’ future gossip, and he ponder deeply over

Dr. Rewsby’s criticism.



“have you generally conduct your life on these extravagant

principle?”



he have. there be no deny it. a childish memory emerge from the mist

of year. he must have be eight or nine. all about a dog. a puppy have

destroy a new paint-box, priceless possession, and in a fit of passion

he have nearly beat the puppy to death. and when his anger be spend

and he grow terribly afraid, and sprawl down by the puppy, the puppy

lick his hand. and he swear to God, as a child, that if the puppy

live and do not tell his father, he would never beat a dog again. the

puppy live, and, with splendid loyalty, never breathe a word to a

human soul, and love he with a love pass the love of woman. and one

day a neighbour’s bad-temper dog get into the kitchen-garden and

attack he, and though he have a stick by chance in his hand, he

remember his vow, and stand with folded arm and set tooth and let the

dog bite his leg, until he be rescue by the gardener and carry

indoor.



he remember this, and a train of similar fantastic incident

culminate in his vow of solitude, and review they all, in the light

of Dr. Rewsby’s criticism. what good, in the name of sanity, have his

wild, quixotic resolve accomplish? how have they benefit Spooner,

for instance, to whom he have surrender the Senior Wranglership? during

his brief stay in London he have have the curiosity to look up Spooner in

reference book; find he an Assistant Secretary in a Government

office, Sir William Spooner, K.C.B.; an honourable position, but a

position which he would have attain—originally through the Civil

Service examination—whether he have be second, fourth, tenth Wrangler

in the Tripos. his, Baltazar’s, idiot sacrifice have advance Spooner’s

career not one millimetre: just as his self-deny ordinance in the

realm of dog have not benefit one jot the canine race—for the mongrel

retriever who have bite he heroically arm-fold, have be shoot the

next day by the remorseful neighbour, who have be long for an

opportunity of getting conscientiously rid of an ill-condition cur.



and then there be his flight from Cambridge and Marcelle.



“damn that doctor!” say he, stride along the road.



it be all very well to damn the doctor; but he have enter into a fresh

engagement, which in spite of its newly reveal folly, he would break

for nothing in the world. yet what practical good would his little

fortune accomplish scatter among the hundred of hospital of the

United Kingdom? a pittance to each. and he himself, with all his gift,

throw penniless upon a strange world at war, of what use would he be?

his first necessarily animal impulse would be to prey upon society for

the mean of subsistence. whereas, a free man, with his assured income,

he could throw himself into the national struggle without thought of his

own material need.



Quong Ho’s life acquire a new preciousness. he must live, if only to

save he from this new absurdity to which he be pledge.









                               CHAPTER IX





once more Baltazar stand within his granite enclosure and survey the

scene of ruin and horror. he have hire a cart and drive over with three

nondescript elderly labour man, who be now wander aimlessly

about the wreckage. nothing seemed change since he have last leave it in

the wake of the stretcher-bear body of Quong Ho, although the Water-End

Fire Brigade, learn that the place be still on fire, and inspire by

zeal and curiosity, have meanwhile come down with helmet, hatchet and

hose, and have drench the interior of the house with water pump from

the well. there have be no attempt at salvage. the administrator of

the derelict property have long since give up pay insurance premium

on the building, and Baltazar, so long alien to european life, and

desirous of come into as slight contact as possible with the outside

world, have not trouble to insure the content.



a foul, sickly smell taint the still air. mingle with the sour odour

of the charred and sodden mess inside the dwelling, rise the miasma of

corruption. Baltazar make a grimace of disgust. before any salvage could

be do the latter cause of offence must be remove. he summon the

man and give his direction. they find the old mare’s head and the dog

and fragment of the goat, alive with the infinite horror of fly and

other abominable life. there be a cesspool handy. throw they all in and

clamp down the cast-iron lid. it do not matter. nevermore would

Spendale Farm be a human habitation. the man convey with their shovel

the nameless thing to the unhallowed resting-place. Baltazar would have

like to give the faithful Brutus, who have obviously rush out of the

house at the heel of Quong Ho and himself, decent burial. but not only

have Brutus cease to be Brutus, but Baltazar know from experience the

toil of dig in that granite-bind earth.



he leave the man to their task, which they perform without

compunction—have he not offer they the amazing sum of a pound each for

their day’s work?—and plunge through the front door into the black

chaos which be once his home. the sun stream down upon unimaginable

filth. he be wear the clothe he have borrow from Pillivant and at

first he step warily. but every step land he deeply in the damp

carbonize welter, and at last he slip and come down sprawl in the

midst of it, so that when he rise he find himself fouled and begrime

from head to foot. he pick his way out again and stand on the front

step look hopelessly in at the pile mass of nothingness.



he have listen to the report of the fire brigade’s captain, and his

doubtless correct theory that the desperate marauder have drop his

bomb almost simultaneously, one explosive and the other incendiary. the

latter have catch the homestead fair and have cause the instant and

terrific conflagration. yet he have hope. . . . he try to hope still.

the man would soon return from the cesspool and begin to shovel away the

debris from the writing-table by the wall.



to get his brain into complete working order have be a matter of time.

the shock of the explosion, his wound, his enormous physical and mental

effort on the memorable Wednesday, his puzzled amazement, the

cataclysmic revelation of the war, his anxiety for Quong Ho, have knock

he out for a couple of day. when he recover and regain mental grip

of thing, the only thing he could grip at first be the staggering

history of the war and the progress of Quong Ho. the two absorb

interest batten down fear that vaguely begin to rise from deep

recess of his mind. but strength regain, Quong Ho out of immediate

peril of death and the war a thing envisage, practically understand,

accept, the fear burst their hatch and crowd round he, haunt

and tormenting. and now he stare through the doorway of his house, with

sink heart, scarcely dare to hope that those fear should prove

unrealized.



he glance round. the man be spend inordinate time in the disposal

of the carrion. again he enter and stand in the midst of the rubbish.

only one section of bookcase remain, crazily askew. he have note it on

the Wednesday. he clamber gingerly towards it. the first slanting,

half-char, half-drench book, whose title he make out be _Queechy_.

by the author of _the wide, wide World_. next to it be _flower

shrub of Great Britain_, the date of which he know to be

eighteen-fifty-four. his heart sink. only the refuse of his famous deal

with the second-hand bookseller remain. just that little bit of

section. the rest of his library be there—down there in the molten

quagmire.



at last the man come, shovel on shoulder. he point out the place

where his long table use to stand and bade they dig. he have bring,

too, a shovel for himself, and he dig with they, violently, pantingly,

distractedly, heave the shovelful over his shoulder, wallow in

the filth regardless of Pillivant’s expensive clothe; soon an object of

dripping sweat and squalor, distinguishable only from his co-worker by

his begrimed and bandaged head. the man begin to pant and relax. he

overhear as in a dream one of they say, in a grumble tone,

something about beer. the sun beat fiercely down on the roofless site.

he say:



“dig like hell. dig all day. I’ll stand you a couple of gallon apiece

when you get home. if you’re thirsty now, there’s heap of water.”



the result of severe arithmetical calculation gleam in each man’s

eye. the command over sixteen free pint of ale transcend the dream

of desire. they fall to again, work with renew vigour.



the incendiary bomb have apparently fall square on the northern end of

the long north to south building and have scatter the original wall in

which the great chimney-piece have be build and fling the granite

outward, obliterate the less solidly construct kitchen and Quong

Ho’s quarter, and tear down the side of the scullery. the low

course of the rest of the main wall stand more or less secure. but the

roof of dry tinder-thatch have fall in ablaze, and every thing

beneath it have be consume by fire. nothing remain to distinguish

Baltazar’s bedroom at the southern end, once separate from the

house-piece by a wooden partition reach to the rafter, from the

remainder of the awful parallelogram of disaster. the rigid mathematical

line of the low granite boundary, with one end a heap of stony ruin,

oppress he as he dig with a sense of the ghastly futility of human

self-imprisonment between wall. the position of the shapeless rag

gap that have once be window alone guide he in his search. the

precious long deal table run along the eastern wall. his writing-seat,

surround by the most precious possession of all, be situate in

front of the north-east window—the long room have two window, east and

west, on each side. and it be just there where he use to sit, the

happy of man, in the midst of objective proof of dream come true,

that chaos seem to reign supreme.



“go on, go on. dig like hell. every scrap of unburnt paper be a treasure

to I. look at every shovelful.”



after hour of toil, they find a little heap of clot fragment, the

useless core of burn clump of writing. now and then a man would come

with a few filament, having shake the charred edge free, and, look

wonderingly at the unintelligible outer leaf, would ask: “be this any

good to you, sir?” and Baltazar, his heart cold and heavy as a stone,

would bid he cast away the mocking remnant of an all but unique copy

of a chinese classic.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be over. the three man, having loyally earn their twenty shilling

and the promise two gallon of beer, stood spend and drench, like

Baltazar himself, with grime and sweat.



“anything more, sir?”



“nothing,” say Baltazar.



they shoulder their shovel and he his, and they march away from the

devastate place and drive back across the moor. Baltazar sit next the

man who drive, in the front of the empty and futile cart, and say never

a word. for the first time in his eager existence, defeat overwhelm

he. the work of a laborious lifetime have be destroy in a few hour.

with infinite toil, perhaps, he might recapture the main line of his

think-revolutionize treatise on the theory of Groups: his study in

the Analytical Geometry of four Dimensional Space. perhaps. he have

rely for his datum on the innumerable note and solution of intricate

problem which have cost the labour of many year. and these have go.

the world have hitherto wonder at two such scholar tragedy—Newton’s

_Principia_ destroy by the dog Diamond, the first volume of Carlyle’s

_french Revolution_ burn by Mill’s stupid housemaid. but in both case

only the finished product have perish. the datum remain. the rewrite

be but a painful business of recompilation. but with he, not only the

more or less finished product, but the fundamental material be lose

forever. he shrink with dismay, almost with terror, at the thought of

go through that infinite maze of accurate calculation and reasoning

once more. still, as far as the mathematic go, the palimpsest of the

brain exist. reconstitution be humanly possible. but with the chinese

edition—for most of it the material could only be find in remote

library in China; for much of it, the material no long survive in

the explored world.



he have come hope against hope, argue that great masse of manuscript

on thick paper be practically indestructible by fire. the outside,

the edge might be burn, but the vast bulk of inside sheet could be

preserve. but he have not count on the disruption and devouring effect

of an incendiary bomb fall at the most precious end of the long deal

working-table. probably the whole room have be instantaneously carpet

thick with loose sheet, and the great stack of manuscript have, as it

be, be burn in detail. then, for a while, on his hateful ride, he

strove with conjecture. but what be the use of vain imagining? that

which be do be do. the harvest of his life have be annihilate.

if he die to-morrow, the world would be no rich by his existence than

by that of any dead goat whose body have just be cast into the

cesspool. to recover the harvest would cost he many year of uninspired

drudgery. it would be a horrible re-living, an impossible attempt to

recapture the ardour of the pioneer, the thrill of discovery. for the

first time he really feel the meaning of his age, the non-resilience of

fifty. for the black present the very meaning of his life have be wipe

out.



the man, weary, befoul and thirsty, sit silent in the cart, each

dreaming of the two gallon of beer that await he at the end of the

journey. they know they have be search for paper; but to they

valuable paper have only one signification; something perhaps to do with

a bank; something which constitute a claim to money: they have discuss

it during the half-hour midday interval for food. will, mortgage,

title-deed, they have hear of. the daughter of one of they, a

parlourmaid in the house of a lead solicitor in the neighbouring

cathedral city, rank next to legendary London in majesty in the eye

of the untravelled Water-Enders, have tell he that she have hear she

master say, at dinner, that the content of the tin-box range around

his office represent half a million of money. his announcement vastly

impress his colleague, one of whom explain that all real wealth

nowadays be a matter of bit of paper. he himself have fifteen pound in

the Savings Bank, but nothing to show for it but his Post Office book.

then the nature of their employer’s frenzied quest become obvious to

they all. they have find nothing. their employer sit like a ruin man.

they pity he and, in the delicacy of their english soul, refrain

from intrude by speech upon his despair. in the meantime, there be no

harm in surrender their imagination to the prospect of the incessant

flow of delectable liquid down their parch throttle.



when they halt at the gate of the Cedars, Baltazar pull out a sheaf

of Treasury note and give each man thirty shilling. the extra ten

shilling represent to their simple mind, not the promise two

gallon of beer, but beer in perpetuity. this generosity on the part of

one evidently ruin bewildered they. Baltazar stride down the drive

leave man impress with the idea that he be a gentleman of the old

school to whose service they be privileged to be devote. they

retire, singe his praise, be elderly man of a simple and

tradition-breed generation.



his golf club on the lawn beside he, Pillivant, attire in imaginative

golfing raiment, be take the air in front of the house. he lie in an

elaborate cane chair and smoke a great cigar. at the sight of Baltazar

he start up.



“Holy Moses! you be in a devil of a mess.”



“I’m afraid I’ve ruin your suit,” say Baltazar. “if you would only

let I know what your tailor charge for it——”



“the Sackville Street robber bleed I eight guineas,” say Pillivant,

rather greedily.



“here be eight pound ten,” say Baltazar, count out his note.



“two shilling change,” laugh Pillivant, handle he a florin.



“it’s kind of you to relieve I from this particular embarrassment. the

rest of my obligation I don’t quite see how to meet.”



“we willn’t charge you for board and lodge, old man, if that’s what you

mean. take it and welcome. with regard to Rewsby and the nurse, you can

do what you like. meanwhile, you’ll be glad to know that the ready-make

kit you order from Brady & Co. have turn up this afternoon.”



“I’d well clean myself up and put some of it on,” say Baltazar.



“you have indeed,” say Pillivant. “you look as if you have fall into a

sewer.”



the previous day, obey telephone instruction, a representative of a

firm of ready-make clothier in the cathedral city have call to take

measurement and order. this evening Baltazar be able to array himself

once more in clothe of his own. by getting rid of borrow garment he

feel relieved of an immense burden.



“well, how do you get on?” ask Pillivant heartily as they sit down to

dinner. “find anything?”



“nothing but an appetite,” reply Baltazar with a smile.



he could not tell this man of alien ideal and limited intellectual

horizon of his irreparable loss, or hint his intolerable despair. the

coarse husband and the common, over-bejewel wife laugh at his

sally, hope the menu would furnish sufficiency of food. he be but to

say the word, and they would kill the goose they be fatten up for

Michaelmas. the jest last off and on through the meal. they press

he to second and third helping, joke, though genuinely hospitable.

at first he strove to entertain they. speak picturesquely of his queer

life in remotest China, where he live the chinese life and almost come

to think chinese thought. Mrs. Pillivant yawn behind bediamonde

finger. Pillivant say: “dam funny,” with complete lack of enthusiasm

in the expletive, and as soon as he find a point of departure, set

forth on the story of a discreditable grievance against the War Office.

he couldn’t personally examine every plank of timber supply. it have

all be pass by their own inspector. if they send down a young idiot

of a subaltern who don’t know the difference between green pine and

green cheese, it be their affair, not his. he have get his contract, and

there it be. their talk about an enquiry be all nonsense. the War

Office ought to employ business man on business affair. he have just

go in, with another firm, on a big contract for a aerodrome in the

North of England. some political Paul Pry have discover—so he

say—that it could be build for half the money. rot. patriotism be one

thing, but run your business at a loss be another. the patriotic

contractor must earn his living, like anybody else. why should his wife

and family starve? in righteous indignation he pour himself a bumper

of 1904 Bollinger, which he drain before finish the whole grouse

which as a fifth course have be set before he. the entire system be

one vast entanglement of red tape, he continue. we be out to beat

Germany. how could we, when every effort be strangle by the red tape

aforesaid? Germany have to be beat. how? by british pluck and british

enterprise. Pluck, by God! be we not show it now on the Somme? and

enterprise? he pour out more Bollinger. if the fool Government would

let business man do business thing in a business way, we would get the

Germans beat and fawn for peace in a fortnight. there be nothing

wrong with England. he be English, through and through.



“although I willn’t deny,” say he, with an incipient hiccough, “that my

mother speak Yiddish. no, no my dear”—he turn with a protest wave

to his wife—“I want to make thing perfectly clear and above board to

our old friend Baltazar. I’ve get a coat-of-arm—look up Pillivant in

any book on Heraldry and you’ll see it—that go back to Edward the

something—not the Seventh. I’m English, I tell you. but I’m not

responsible for my mother, who come from Posen. now, what do you do to

prevent typhoid? you inoculate. I’m inoculate. that’s my fortunate

position. I’m inoculate against Prussianism and all it stand for.

could I be a pacifist or a conscientious objector? no. I’m immune from

the disease of pro-germanism. as I’ve be tell you, I’m english

through and through, and I’m spend my life and my fortune in see

that Old England come out on top.”



to prove the expenditure of fortune he seize a fresh bottle of

Bollinger which the butler have just open and fill Baltazar’s glass

and his own.



“if you don’t drink, you’re a pro-german. to hell with the Kaiser.”



Baltazar drink the toast politely and patriotically; the mere sip of

champagne; for beyond the first brandy and soda which have be pour

down his parched and exhausted throat, he have keep his vow of

abstinence, in spite of his host’s continued pressure. he feel sure of

himself now; wonder how he could ever have bring himself to the

present Pillivant condition. he like Pillivant less than ever; yet he

begin to be fascinate by the truth concern Pillivant which rise

unashamed to the surface of the wine-cup.



when the cigar be put on the table, Mrs. Pillivant rise. Baltazar

open the door for she to pass out. on the first occasion of his doing

so, the first time he have come down to dinner, she have be puzzle, and

ask he whether he be not go to smoke with her husband. she still

do not seem to understand the conventional courtesy. when the door be

close behind she, Pillivant draw a great breath of relief.



“pity you willn’t drink,” say he, refill his glass. “we might have

make a night of it. and this be such good stuff, too. about the most

expensive I could buy.”



after that, impel by the craving for self-revelation, he take up his

parable again, and entertain his guest with many detail of opinion,

habit and action, that have not be fit for wifely ear. when the

stream of confidence at last grow maudlin, Baltazar, plead an

invalid’s fatigue after a heavy day, bid he good night.



“I’ve be so long out of touch with english life,” say he, “that it be

most interesting to I to meet a typical Englishman.”



Pillivant clap he heavily on the shoulder.



“you’re right, my boy,” he assert thickly. “a downright, patriotic

John Bull Englishman. the sort of stuff that’s win the war for you,

and don’t you make no mistake about it.”



Baltazar go to bed ponder over his host. the annihilation of his

own life’s work do not bear think about. that way lie madness.

Pillivant bring a new interest. for all his adventurous journeying he

have not meet the Pillivant type—or if he have fortuitously encounter

it, he have pass it by in academic scorn. have his ironical remark any

basis of truth? be Pillivant after all typical of the force behind the

war in this unknown modern England? Vulgarity, bluster, self-seeking,

corruption, hypocrisy? the old aristocratic order change into

something loathsomely new? Pillivant pose as the successful man,

engage in vast affair, working night and day for his country—he be

only snatch, he have explain, a three week’ rest at this little

country shanty which he have not see for nearly a year. the luxury of

the “shanty” prove his success; prove the magnitude of his dealing

with the Government. so far there be no brag. but how come it that the

Government put itself into the hand of such a man, openly boastful of

his exploitation of official ineptitude? he could not be unique. there

must be hundred, thousand like he. be he, in sober earnest, a

typical modern Englishman? if so, think Baltazar, God help England.



and yet England must have still the quality that make Cressy,

Poitiers, Agincourt ring in english ear through the century: the

quality of the man who follow Drake and Marlborough and Nelson and

Raglan. . . . that very morning he have read of british heroism on the

Somme battlefield, and have be thrill at realize himself merge

into the unconquerable soul of his race.



he throw off his bedclothe—rose—fling the curtain wide apart, and

thrust out all the room’s casement window not already open, and

look out into the starlit summer night.



no. it be impossible for England to be people with Pillivants. they

be the fisher in troubled water, the blood-sucker, the parasite,

the excrescence on an abnormal social condition. but why be they

allow to live? what be wrong? who be the ruler? their very name

be but vaguely familiar to he. and he have read of strike; of man

earn—for the proletariat—fabulous wage, strike for more pay,

selfishly, criminally (so it seem to his unversed and aghast mind),

refuse to provide the munition of war for lack of which their own

flesh and blood, earn a shilling a day, might be slaughter in

hecatomb. he throw himself into a chair.



“my God!” say he, “I must get out of this and see what it all mean.”



after a few moment he suddenly realize that he have pull on his

sock, as though he be go, there and then, at midnight, to plunge

into the midst of the bewilder world at war.









                               CHAPTER X





quong HO sit up, take plentiful nourishment and definitely

pronounce out of danger, Baltazar present his cheque for a thousand

pound to Dr. Rewsby, and thank God for the preservation of Quong Ho’s

life and his own fortune. he also listen with much interest to Quong

Ho’s apologetic for leave he in ignorance of the war. for such exact

obedience and perfect fidelity reproach would have be unjust, even

have remorse for his own folly not have preclude they.



“and now, my dear fellow,” say he—he be sit by the bed in the

airy, sun-fill ward of the cottage Hospital—“tell I what you would

like to do.”



“I don’t care what he would like to do,” say Dr. Rewsby. “what he have

get to do be to stay here quiet and recover from the shock and mend up,

and not worry his mind with the war, or mathematic, or the condition of

your underclothe.”



“Quong Ho shall never wash a shirt of mine again,” declare Baltazar.

“henceforth he be the master of his destiny. I’m talk not of now, but

of the future. so far as I can manage it, he can do what he jolly well

like. that’s why I put the question to he. so, Quong Ho, never mind

this excellent medicine man, who cann’t see beyond his nose and don’t

want to, because all he’s concerned with be get you well—never mind

he, but tell I what most in the world you would like to do.”



“Sir,” say Quong Ho, “if you desire to dispense with my personal

service, which I have always regard it as a privilege to render to my

benefactor, may I dare to formulate an ambition which have hitherto be

but an idle dream?”



Dr. Rewsby knit his grizzle brow and drag Baltazar away from the

bed.



“do he always talk like that?” he whisper.



“do you think he would express himself with ‘Muchee likee topside,’ and

that sort of thing?”



“no; but he talk like an archbishop.”



“then perhaps,” grin Baltazar, “you’ll understand why I’ve insist

on his be treat as my close friend.”



he return to the bed. “I’m sorry, Quong Ho. what’s this famous

ambition of your?”



Quong Ho look up at he unsmile, with a dog-like yearning in his

slanting eye.



“if I could obtain the mathematical degree of the University of

Cambridge——”



“if you go in for the Tripos now, you would wipe the floor with

everybody.—Cambridge! that’s a wonderful idea.” he stick his hand

behind he in the waistband of his trouser and stride about for a

moment or two, his eye illuminate. “a splendid notion! you can begin

where I leave off. I’ll work up all the stuff that’s go, and put it

into your hand, and you’ll continue my life’s work. by God! you’ll

consummate it. Cambridge! the very thing! Damn China! any fool can teach

young China the Binomial Theorem and Trigonometry. but there’s only one

Quong Ho, the pupil and intellectual heir of John Baltazar, in the

world. yes. you’ll go to Cambridge, and by the Lord Harry! willn’t there

be flutter of dovecote!”



he stop suddenly in his enthusiastic outburst and his brow darken.

“wait a bit. perhaps you don’t realize that Cambridge be a matter of at

least three year?”



“if it be twenty year it would matter little,” say Quong Ho.



“there’s latin and greek—compulsory. I be forget.”



“greek,” reply Quong Ho, “I presume I could readily acquire. as for

Latin I think I be acquaint with the grammar and I have already read

the interesting Commentaries of Julius Cæsar on the Gallic War.”



Baltazar sink into a chair.



“Latin! you’ve learn Latin? when? how?”



Quong Ho explain apologetically that the simultaneous excitation of

mind over the quotation at the head of the paper of _the Rambler_, and

the discovery in the low rubbish shelf in the library of an old Latin

grammar and a copy of the _De Bello Gallico_, have inaugurate his study

of the Latin tongue. he have procure, not without difficulty, owe to

the limited intelligence of the young lady in charge, a Latin

dictionary, through the miniature bookshop in Water-End.



“well, I’m damned!” say Baltazar. “I’m just damned. and now, do you

mind tell I why you never mention a word of it to I?”



he look fierce and angry. Quong Ho reply in his own tongue. how

could the inconsiderable worm that be his illustrious lordship’s

servant, presume to importune he with his inferior and unauthorized

pursuit?



“I could have teach you twice as much in half the time,” say Baltazar.



Quong Ho profess regret. he have also buy, he say, the work of the

poet Virgil and Horace, but have find peculiar difficulty in

translate they.



the new conception of Quong Ho as an independent purchaser of

commodity set Baltazar’s mind on a different track. he have pay Quong

Ho wage—or rather Quong Ho have pay himself. he start up from his

chair.



“Good Lord! I’ve only just thought of it. all the money you must have

have on the Farm be lose. how much be it?”



“a trifling sum—a pound or two. it do not matter,” reply Quong Ho.



“but you’ve be draw a salary all the time. what’s become of it? you

couldn’t possibly have spend it all.”



“I have invest it in British War Loan,” say Quong Ho.



“Quong Ho,” say Baltazar, stand over he, with hand thrust deep

into his trouser-pocket, “you be immense.”



he go away, his head full of Quong Ho.



“Doctor,” say he, “I think that if there ever be a Westerner who have

get to the soul of the Chinaman, that man be I. yet the more I see of

Quong Ho the less do I know what queer mental working and strange

secrecy those soft, faithful eye conceal. he keep I in absolute

ignorance of the war, he learn Latin in the next room to I, without

my have the faint idea of it, and he have invest his money in War

Loan. of course, the philosophy of it all be perfectly lucid to he. in

a way, I can get at the logic of it. but one want to be wise not after

but before the event. what surprise be he go to spring on I next?”



“perhaps you’ve be nurture an oriental Caruso in your bosom,” the

doctor suggest.



“that—no!” laugh Baltazar. “chinese vocal chord ben’t build that

way. but, for all I know, he may have a complete critical knowledge of

the strategy of the war. the confound fellow learn Latin! that’s

what I cann’t get over. and calmly invest in War Loan!”



“you don’t think he may cut everything and slip away to China?”



“no,” say Baltazar seriously. “that at least I’m sure of. the

tremendous quality of the Chinaman be his loyalty. the scrupulousness of

his obedience be a thing beyond your conception. that’s why he allow

no whisper of the war to reach I. Quong Ho would never be guilty of

ingratitude. that you, Dr. Rewsby, should pick my pocket be far more

possible. in fact, Quong Ho would cheerfully die this moment in order to

save my life. that I know. but within those limit of utter devotion,

God alone know the weird working of his celestial mind.” he pull out

his pipe and fill it. “I think I know a lot. now I’m be knock

flat and begin to realize that I know nothing at all, and that

everything I’ve ever learn ben’t worth a tinker’s curse.”



“perhaps,” say the doctor, after a hesitate glance, “you have put

your foot on the first rung of the ladder of wisdom.”



Baltazar break into a great laugh.



“I wish,” say he, “I have meet more man like you. they would have do I

good. you have the most comforting way in the world of tell I that

I’m the Great Ass of the Universe.”



his head mend, his fear concern Quong Ho at rest, his decision

take to send Quong Ho to Cambridge, nothing more keep he in the

backwater of the little moorland town. he be for London, for the full

stream of national thought and energy. what he would do there he do not

know. he would learn. he would at least set his heart throb in

unison with the heart of the empire. he pack his newly purchase

suit-case with his scanty wardrobe, bade farewell to the detest though

embarrassingly hospitable pillivant, and take train to London with the

high hope of a boy.



his first taste of the metropolis be exhilarate. here be a new

world. every porter at the railway-station, every news-vendor, every

street urchin, be the possessor of accumulate knowledge and experience

of which he, John Baltazar, be deny a share. he read strange wisdom

in the eye of work girl and slatternly woman. he buy all the

evening paper, reeking, as they seem, with the pregnant moment’s

actuality. he go to a bookseller’s and buy every book and pamphlet

bear on the war. he would have an orgy of information. he would pluck

the heart of the world’s mystery of blood and sacrifice.



but where to begin? if he have but one solitary acquaintance in London,

who could put he into the way of understanding, his course would be

simple. but he find himself absolutely alone in an infinite mass of

unit, knit together by complexity of common tie.



what he see and feel, in his first eager search, reduce to dwindle

point the petty tragedy of his own life. for great issue be at

stake than the revolution of mathematical thought by a new theory of

group. in the wholesale destruction of what be think to be the

immortal work of man, the loss of a few chinese manuscript count as

little as that of paper-bag for bun. for excursion into the geometry

of four Dimensional Space, or scholarly translation of the mild and

benign chinese classic, _the Book of Rewards and Punishments_, the world

would have no use for another half-century. in face of the reality

with which London confront he, he feel that he have devote his life

to the pursuit of shadow.



if only he could grasp these reality. if only he could merge himself

into they, become part and parcel of they, bring his intellect and his

bodily strength into the stupendous machine which he see at work.



then he see himself, by his own action, condemn to sit and watch, an

inactive spectator of the great drama. his loneliness fall upon he like

a doom. he realize the uselessness of his age. he have as much place in

modern London as any chance inhabitant of Mars. he who have dare the

untrodden recess of the far eastern world, haughtily assert his

sympathetic right of citizenship, feel, after a day or two, a terror of

modern London. it be too vast, too unknown, too strange: a city at war,

unlike any city he have ever see. Youth, in civilian attire, have

disappear from its face. the unfamiliar dirty brown uniform fill the

street. he have read of khaki, be vaguely aware of it as the service

uniform of the British Army; he have come across the tropical drill

material which have clothe the troop in Hong Kong, but his mind

preoccupy with interest remote from military affair have barely

register the impression. his traditional and therefore instinctive

conception of the soldier in the London street be a thing in

swaggering scarlet. he miss the scarlet. it take he some time to

accommodate his mental vision to the military reality of the

dun-colour horde of man that throng the Strand, Whitehall, and

Piccadilly. soldier, too, slop about in an extraordinary kit of blue

jean and red tie. he do not grasp the fact that these be wound man

wear hospital uniform, until he pass the Westminster Hospital and

see some of they take the air on the terrace. after the first day’s

wandering he dine at his crowded hotel, a bewildered man. in London

itself he have behold an army. scarcely a table in the vast restaurant

show no man in uniform among its occupant. he contrast the place

with his last pre-war impression. then every man, young or old, have be

impeccably attire in the white tie and white waistcoat of high

convention. not a woman then who be not gown as for some royal

festival. now the outward and visible sign of gild youth have

vanish. even elderly buck wear plain dinner-jacket and black

tie—his own sloppily fitting, ready make dress suit seem ultra

ceremonious. here and there be exquisitely dress woman; but here and

there, too, be dowdy lady unblushe under obviously cheap hat. and

man with bandaged head come in, and legless man on crutch; and at the

next table a one-armed man depend for the cutting up of his food on

the ministration of a girl. and away over the other side of the room he

see a man, his breast cover with ribbon, carry pick-a-back by a

brother officer to his appoint place. no one seem to take notice of

the unusual. scarcely a casual glance linger on the pair. at no table

visible be there a break in the talk and the laughter. Baltazar lean

back in his chair and gasp at the realization that the incident be a

commonplace of modern life.



his heart throb with pity for these maim man, some of they boy

fresh from school; then with pride in their english courage and gaiety.

he look round the room curiously and, in his fancy, identify several

Pillivants. they generally sit two or three at a table and drank

champagne and lean over, head together, as they talk. but the

impression they make be efface by that of youth: youth pervade the

place; youth whole and gloriously insolent; youth maim and defiant;

youth predominating, too, among the woman, with its eye alight and

cheek aglow; youth nerve to war, take it as the daily round, the

common task. it be some new planet in which Baltazar find himself,

people with being of dimly conjecture interest and habit of

thought.



after dinner, the lonely soul in London, he take his hat and think

to go for a stroll. he emerge from the brightly light vestibule into

tartarean darkness and forbid silence. instead of the once glad

stream of life, a few vague form flit by on the pavement. now and

then a move light and a whir denote the passing of a taxi-cab on the

roadway. at first he stand outside the hotel door, baffle, until he

remember that he have hear of the darken thoroughfare. the sky

be overcloud, London be deny that night the kindly help of

star. Baltazar see it in all its blackness, and shrink involuntarily as

from the supernatural. he laugh and start. soon, when his sight grow

accustomed to the blackness, his sense be arrest and fascinate by

the wonder of this veil heart of the Empire, by its infinite tone of

gloom, by its loom masse of building melt upwards into black

nothingness, by the vista of narrow street, where at the end a dim lamp

give they a note of sinister mystery. but his walk do not last long. as

he be cross a street, an unseen and unheard taxi-cab just swerve in

time to miss he by a hair’s-breadth. he feel the wind of it on the back

of his neck and catch the curse of the driver. after that he lose his

nerve. the re-crossing of Trafalgar Square become a perilous and

breathless adventure. he be glad to find himself again in the light and

the safe normality of the hotel.



no. London be not for he. he find himself even more a strange than

during his last disastrous sojourn. there seem to be no chance for he

to be anything else than a stray number in an hotel. he feel like a bit

of waste cog-wheel seek a place in a perfect machine.



“a few day more of this and I’ll go mad,” say he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



he do not go mad, but at last, with the instinct of the home pigeon,

flee to Cambridge. there at least would he be able to pick up some

thread of life leave straggle twenty year ago. only when he have go

half-way do he remember that it be the Long Vacation, so long have he

live indifferent to time and season. Doubtless, however, the Long

Vacation Term be in progress as usual and the official don in

residence. but who would there be, after twenty year, in spite of the

proverbial longevity of don? who now be master of his college? when he

leave, Fordyce be get a bit elderly. why, of course, by now, if

alive, he would be over ninety. Fordyce must have be gather long ago

to his father. who could have succeed he? why haven’t he look it up

in a book of reference? it seem stupid to return to his own college

without know the name of the master. who be the prominent people?

Westgrove, the senior tutor; Barrett, senior dean; Withington, junior

dean; Raymond, bursar; Smith, Hartwell, Grayson, Mostyn—man more or

less of his own standing; sheepshank, the famous mathematical coach

upon whose shoulder have fall the mantle of the immortal Routh (maker

of senior wrangler), and his own private tutor and friend. there would

be somebody there out of all that lot, at any rate. he feel more

hopeful.



a grizzle porter throw his suit-case into a hansom cab, a welcome

survival of his youth, and in answer to his query whether the “Blue

Boar” be still in existence, stare at he as though he have question

the stability of the great court of Trinity or Matthews, the Grocers.



“the ‘Blue Boar,’ sir? why, of course, sir.”



so to that ancient hostelry Baltazar drive down Trumpington Street. it

seem all new and perky until he come to the great landmark, the

Fitzwilliam Museum. then in a flash he recapture his Cambridge:

peterhouse on his left; Pembroke on his right; the three-sided, low,

bricke court of St. Catherine’s face the dignified stone front and

gateway of Corpus; then the amazing grandeur of King’s College

Chapel—he crane his head out and drink in its calm loveliness; then

the Senate House; on the right the shop of the King’s Parade, just as

they use to be; then Caius, and the cab draw up at the “Blue Boar.”



he secure a room and go out again to fill his lung with the

atmosphere of the beloved place, his soul with its beauty and its

meaning. he wander, at first like a man distraught, his eye far above

the pavement, wrapt in the familiar glory of stone and brick; the

majesty of Trinity, the twin-tower, blazon gateway of St. John’s,

the venerable round church of the Holy Sepulchre. . . . he walk on

past Sidney, Christ’s, Emmanuel; turn up Downing Street. at the sight

of the vast pile of modern science building, he come down to earthly

thing. thenceforward he become aware of something new and strange and

alien to the academic spirit that once spread its brood wing over

the town. the quiet street be fill with soldiery. Khaki, khaki, on

road and pavement; khaki, khaki, in college court. there seem to be

regiment of rank and file. officer, gaitere and spur, clank

along as in a garrison city. much youth, whose status he could not

determine, wear a white band round its cap, laugh and jest,

undergraduate-like, on its way. he wander through the river-nest of

college, Queen’s, Clare, Trinity Hall, through court and gateway, and

it be the same story of military occupation. a bevy of nurse flit

about the court of King’s. a group of man in hospital blue lounge over

the balustrade of Clare Bridge.



it be a wondrous metamorphosis. almost the only young man in civilian

attire be a few indian student. he come across they carry

notebook under their arm, on their return from morning lecture.

lecture, then, be still go on. college authority be still in

residence; he have, in fact, pass many unmistakable don. but don and

Indians seem but the relic of a past civilization. in a spasm of

amazement he realize that the University, as he have conceive it, a

seat of learning, no long exist. the three thousand young man, the

average undergraduate population, who afford the University its reason

of be, be fight for their country or be train in the art

of war. yet the college through which he pass seem to be alive. no

sign anywhere of desolation or decay. Pembroke and Emmanuel have the

appearance of barrack. he stride hither and thither, in his impetuous

way, his mind exercise with the wonder of it all; see Midsummer Common

fill with troop at drill, find himself on the river. the tow-path

be overgrow with grass. War everywhere. the very boat-house be

incorporate into the military system. on the familiar front of his own

college boat-house be nail an inscription. such and such a regiment.

officer’ mess.



the University be at war. not for the first time in its glorious

history. troop have garrison his college in the Civil Wars. it have

melt down its plate for Charles the First. if it have possess a

boat-house it would have give it loyally to the king. yet that be

between two and three hundred year ago. Baltazar have the modern and not

the archæological instinct. condition be different in those day. but

now, in the second decade of the twentieth century, to be confront

with his remote, innocent college boat-house thus draw, a vital though

tiny unit, into the war, spur his imagination to a new

comprehension of the world-convulsion to which he have be but recently

awaken. if the war could reach and grip a pretty balconied shed on the

River Cam, in what other infinite ramification through the whole of the

national life do its tentacle not extend? as he retrace his step to

the town, the bombing of Spendale Farm and the commandeering of his

college boat-house appeal to he as the two most significant fact of

the war.



                 *        *        *        *        *



he stand in the gateway under the groin roof by the porter’s lodge of

his own college. the porter on duty, a young, consumptive-look man,

appear at the door. Baltazar say:



“I be an old member of the college, and I’ve be abroad for many year.

I wonder if there’s anybody in residence whom I use to know.”



“it depend upon who you want to see, sir.”



Baltazar search the young man’s face. “First”—he snap finger and

thumb—“yes, first, where’s westmacott?”



“my father, sir? he’s feel his age, and have a bit of a holiday.

do you know he, sir?”



“of course I do. he be senior porter when I be an undergraduate. he

must be about a hundred and ten.”



“no, sir, only seventy-five,” smile the young man.



“who’s master now?”



“Dr. Barrett, sir.”



“be he up?”



“not for the moment, sir.”



“what about Mr. Westgrove?”



“Westgrove? oh yes, sir. he die a long time ago. when I be a boy,

sir.”



“well, who be there in residence?”



the young Westmacott rattle off a string of unfamiliar name.



“I’m talk of twenty year ago,” say Baltazar. “what about Mr.

Raymond?”



“he’s Professor of Economics at—at one of those new sort of

university, sir.”



the Cambridge-train servitor’s tone express both regret at Mr.

Raymond’s decline and scorn of the new sort of university.



“Mr. Sheepshanks——?”



“Dr. Sheepshanks now, sir. _Honoris causa._ just before the war.”



“well, Dr. Sheepshanks then,” say Baltazar, rather impatiently.



“oh, he’s always here, sir. he’s senior tutor.”



“be he in?”



“I haven’t see he go out to-day. I’m pretty sure he’s in, sir. letter

E, New Court.”



“thank,” say Baltazar, and go in search of sheepshank, through the

familiar court.



when he stand at the doorway of Letter E and read the name,

white-lettered on black, “Dr. Sheepshanks,” he remember that here

sheepshank have live thirty year ago. probably the same room. on the

second floor. he mount the wind wooden stair. yes: above the

unsported oak (the infallible porter be right) the name of Dr.

Sheepshanks be inscribe. he pause for an instant before knock at

the inner door, because all his youth come surge back on he. he see

himself a freshman, tap with nervous knuckle at the almost sacred

portal of the famous coach, the fount of all mathematical science, the

legendary being who have the power to make senior wrangler at will. he

see himself the third year man, rap confidently, secure in the

knowledge that sheepshank have stake his reputation on his triumph. he

see himself smite the door defiantly, after the list have be

publish . . . “Spooner, Jenkins, Baltazar . . .” Spooner have read with

Roberts of Trinity; but Jenkins have be a Sheepshanks man. . . . he see

himself, many and many a time afterwards, when he have step into his

universally acknowledge own, thump it with friendly familiarity.

that heavy, black oak door, invitingly open, hold the secret of his

vivid youth.



at last he knock, but the knock—so it seem—be devoid of

character. a voice—the same sharp, nasal voice—it send he back again

to freshman’s day—cry:



“come in.”



he open the door, stand on the threshold. the back of sheepshank,

work at his desk by the great window look over the master’s

garden, meet his eye, across the large library table that occupy the

centre of the room. it be the same old table—the table at which he have

sit with the superior first batch of pupil, during his undergraduate

day. how often then and in after day he have enter on that crack

“come in,” and see that lean back and bow head, and wait the few

second, as he be do now, for the owner to finish his sentence and

swing round in his chair—the same old swivel-chair. after the same

second or two, Sheepshanks turn round and, as in one movement, rise to

his foot. he be a small, brown, wrinkle, clean-shaven man in the early

sixty, with eye mask by thick myopic lense, spectacle set in gold

rim. his hair short, but curly, gleam a dazzling white. it be a

shock of memory to Baltazar to realize that when he have last see it, it

be raven black.



“yes?” say sheepshank, enquiringly.



Baltazar stride past the library table with outstretched hand.



“don’t pretend you’ve never see I before, sheepshank.”



sheepshank make a step forward, peer through his glass, then

recoil and gasp:



“Baltazar!”



“you’ve hit it, my dear old friend. I’m not a ghost. I’m live flesh and

blood. I’m John Baltazar right enough.”



“God bless my soul!” say sheepshank. “we think you must be dead. do

sit down.”



Baltazar laugh as he turn to deposit hat and stick on a side-table;

then he come and clap both his hand on the elderly don’s lean

shoulder.



“you apostle of primness! ben’t you glad to see I?”



“of course I’m glad, my dear fellow. exceedingly glad. but your sudden

resurrection rather take one’s breath away.” he smile. “let we both

sit down, and you can tell I all about it.”









                               CHAPTER XI





if I don’t smoke, I’m afraid I cann’t talk,” say Baltazar.



sheepshank smile politely. “you remember my little weakness? but pray

smoke. I’ve got use to it of late year. time change, and we with

they.”



Baltazar fill and light his pipe.



“a couple of week ago,” say he, “I have all but complete two

epoch-mark mathematical treatise. I have get system and result you

good people here have never dream of. I have also stuff in the way of

chinese scholarship that would have be a revelation to the western

world. then german aircraft drop bomb on my house, a hermitage in

the middle of a moorland, and wipe out the labour of a lifetime. they

also nearly kill a young chinaman whom I regard as an extraordinary

mathematical genius and about whom I want to consult you. they also,

thereby, reveal to I a fact of which I be entirely unaware, namely,

that the war have be go on for a couple of year.”



he lean back in his chair and draw a few contented puff. his host

pass a hand over perplex brow and lean forward.



“I’m very sorry,” say he, in his precise, nasal voice, “to appear

stupid. but you have put forward half a dozen such amazing proposition

in one breath that I cann’t quite follow you.”



a smile gleam in Baltazar’s eye. “I think that would get you,” he

remark placidly. “but it’s an accurate presentment of my present

position.”



“no doubt, no doubt,” say sheepshank. “but you surely haven’t be

live a recluse on a moor for the last twenty year?”



“oh no,” reply Baltazar. “eighteen of they I spend in China. I go

out straight from here.”



“to China? dear I,” say sheepshank. “what an extraordinary place to

go to from Cambridge.”



“don’t anybody guess where I have vanish to?”



“not a soul, I assure you. your disappearance create a sensation. quite

a sensation. a painful one, because you be a man we could ill afford

to lose.”



“it’s good of you to say so. but it’s odd that no one seem to be

interested enough in I to reason out China. you all know I be keen on

Chinese.” he cast a swift glance around the bookshelf that line the

room, and shoot out an arm. “I shouldn’t be surprised if that’s my little

handbook—_Introduction to the Language, on a Scientific Basis_.”



sheepshank’ myopic vision follow Baltazar’s point finger.



“yes. it’s somewhere there. you haven’t change much from the creature

of flash that you use to be.”



“it happen to be the only yellow-back book on the shelf. to say

nothing of the purple dragon, which be grossly incorrect and unmeaning.

it jump to the eye. just as my go to China ought to have jump to

the eye of everybody.”



“I’m afraid it don’t. perhaps we be too much paralysed with dismay.”



“I often try to guess what you all think about it,” say Baltazar.

“a human being cann’t escape his little vanity. it be like be dead

and wonder what the dicken people be say about one.”



“we don’t know what to say,” reply sheepshank. “we have no precedent

on which to base any conclusion. we look for motive for flight and

we could find none. we seek for possible imperative objective, and

one so apparently uncompelling as China never occur to we. here

to-day, go to-morrow. you vanish, ‘like a snowflake on a river.’ to

see you now, after all these year, look scarcely a day old, be an

experience which I must confess be bewilder.”



“I suppose you think I mad or a fugitive from justice, or one drive

by the Furies.”



“we don’t know what to think, and that’s the truth of it,” reply

sheepshank.



“well, call it the last. I ben’t very old and harden. perhaps I

mistake Mrs. Grundy with an upraised umbrella for one of the lady who

play the devil with Orestes and Company. I have quite decent reason

then for clear out. whether I be wise or not be another matter.

anyhow I clear, sink my identity and go out to China. after eighteen

year I come back. the rest I’ve tell you in a sort of pemmican form.”



“I don’t deny,” say sheepshank, “that I be still somewhat confused.”



“all right,” say Baltazar. “you sit there, and I’ll tell you what I

can. anyhow, I’ll try to explain why I’m here. I’ll begin from the day I

sail for China.”



the primness of Edgar Sheepshanks,D.SC., relaxed, to some extent, during

Baltazar’s story. like Dominie Sampson’s “prodigious!” his “wonderful!

wonderful!” punctuate the interval. to he who have stick limpet-like

to the same academic wall, Baltazar appear a veritable modern

Ulysses. he sigh, wish that he too have perform the scholarly

travel through that far land of Mystery, the Cathay of ancient time,

which be now the little well know interior of modern China; he

sigh, as he do when gallant youth return from high adventure in

that land of equal mystery, the Front. Baltazar be half through his

tale when there enter a venerable man-servant, sheepshank’s gyp for

innumerable year. at the sight of the guest he start back with the

drop jaw of one who see a ghost. “Mr. Baltazar!”



“Lord, it’s Punter!”



it be odd how name come back from the moss-grow recess of memory.

he shake hand with the old man.



“yes, it’s I. and you’re look just as young as ever. I recognize

you at once. and look here, Punter, if you want to do I a service, just

spread the news about Cambridge. if I’ve get to go through an Ancient

Mariner or Wandering Jew explanation every time I meet anyone, it’ll

eventually get on my nerve.”



“I’m sure every one will rejoice to have you back, sir,” say the gyp.



“Punter’s bring my lunch. I hope you’ll stay and share it with I,”

say sheepshank politely.



“delight,” say Baltazar, and the old man having retire, he go on

with his tale.



he continue it over lunch in the next room, a homelier chamber, where

sheepshank keep his choice book and his two or three good italian

picture and a few ivory and photograph of nephew and niece. it be

during the meal that he notice for the first time a lack of

effusiveness on the part of his host. not that he have expect the prim

sheepshank to throw his arm about he and dance with joy; but he have

hope for more genial sign of welcome. after all, he reflect, he have

let the college down very badly; possibly he be still unforgiven. well,

if that be so, he would have to earn forgiveness.



in his tale he have reach the first visit to London.



“I be out of my element, as you perceive,” say he, “and then something

happen which make I decide suddenly to go into seclusion for two or

three year. real seclusion. I don’t do thing by half. in some remote

spot where not a whisper of the outer world could ever reach I.”



“but what kind of thing could have happen to cause you to take such an

extraordinary step?” ask Sheepshanks.



Thought Baltazar: “if I tell he the real reason, he’ll turn into a

pillar of frozen don.” besides, he have not the faint intention of

open his soul to sheepshank, even though the latter should have

enact the part of the father of the Prodigal Son. he wave the

question aside.



“nothing of any importance. just one of the idiot trifle that always

seem to arise and deflect my course through life. the main point be that

I find the place I want, and go there with Quong Ho.”



Luncheon have be clear away and he have finish a couple of pipe

before he come to the end of his narrative.



“so now you see my position,” say he.



“I think I do,” reply sheepshank.



“my whole life-work have go—except that part of it which exist in the

cultivate brain of my remarkable young Chinaman. there seem to be no

place for I in London, where everybody’s fit into the war, where I’m

simply daze and unwanted. so I’ve come here—if only to find something

left of my old life to attach myself to.”



“I’m afraid there’s not very much to be do in Cambridge,” say

sheepshank. “it’s no long a university, but a military camp.”



“but at any rate,” say Baltazar, “I can find here a few human being I

know who might put I in the way of actual thing—help I on my

course.”



“that’s quite possible,” say sheepshank.



“I also have to see what can be do for Quong Ho. I want he to come up

next term. have the college ever have an undergraduate who have come up

with a knowledge of Elliptic Functions?”



“God bless my soul!” ejaculate sheepshank, in interested astonishment.



“he’s a wonder,” laugh Baltazar. “I ought to know, because I’ve teach

he daily for ten year. well, he’ll be on your list, if you’ll have

he. he’s a dear creature. manner like a Hidalgo. Mind cultivate in

the good of chinese and english literature. and speak English like his

favourite author, Dr. Johnson.”



sheepshank smile, a very pleasant smile, in which every wrinkle of his

dry brown face seem to have a part.



“how you keep your enthusiasm, Baltazar!”



“Quong Ho be worth they. you’ll see. as soon as he’s fit for it, I’ll

send he to you. you set he last June’s Tripos Papers—Part II, if you

like. I’ll bet you anything he’ll floor they. of course I’m

enthusiastic,” he say, after re-light his pipe, which have go out.

“I’ve no kith or kin in the world. I’ve adopt Quong Ho as my

intellectual son and heir.”



sheepshank rise, walk to the open window deliberately and look out.

presently he turn.



“it seem strange,” say he, “that you should adopt a Chinaman, when

your english son be give great promise of follow in your

footstep.”



Baltazar regard he in a puzzled way. then he laugh.



“my stepson. I’m afraid, my dear sheepshank, when I leave the mother I

leave her son. one of the defect of my quality be honesty. I may be

brutal, but I cann’t take a sentimental interest in the son of old Doon.”



“the man I’m talk about,” say sheepshank, in the precise clip,

nasal manner under which Baltazar remember many a delinquent and

uppish pupil to have wilt in the old day, “ben’t call Doon. his

name be Baltazar. he come up with a Minor Scholarship over the way”—he

wave a hand, indicate the grey wing of the neighbouring college

visible through the window—“and he be the most promising freshman of

his year.”



Baltazar rise too.



“I don’t know what on earth you’re talk about. I don’t suppose I’m

the only Baltazar leave in England. he can be no son of mine. it’s

idiotic. you ought to know.”



“I do know,” say sheepshank.



Baltazar’s eye flash in amazement and he make a stride towards he.

“what do you know? what be you suggest?”



“a child be bear here in Cambridge, three month after you leave we.”



something almost physical seem to hit Baltazar between the eye,

partially stun he. he feel his way to the near chair and sit

down.



“my God!” say he. “oh, my God!”



he remain for some time, his head on his hand, overwhelm by the

significance of the revelation. at last he spring suddenly to his foot.



“no wonder you haven’t forgive I,” he cry, with characteristic

directness. “to run away from a woman in such circumstance would be the

unforgivable sin. but I swear to God I never know. she give no hint, and

I see she only a few day before I leave. such a possibility never

enter my mind. have never enter it. I may be any kind of a sinner,

but not such a scoundrel as that. I leave she because we be miserable

together.—I do my good—now and then a brief reconciliation.—I

suppose she try too, in she way.—After the last, thing be bad

than ever. and then there be the life of someone else I couldn’t

sacrifice—a flower of a thing. I feel my wife would be glad to see the

last of I. so I flee like Christian from the Burning City. if I have

know that—well, that I be leave this responsibility behind I, I

should have face thing out. my God! man, you must believe I,” he

end passionately.



sheepshank through his thick gold spectacle meet Baltazar’s fierce gaze

for a few moment. then he hold out his hand: “I believe you, J. B., and

do so take a great load off my mind.”



“I’ve notice your avoidance of the old name,” say Baltazar. “it must

have be in pretty evil odour for the past twenty year or so.”



“you’re such an incalculable fellow,” say sheepshank, with a kind

smile. “the romance you so delicately suggest never occur to any of

we.”



“well, well,” say Baltazar, “all that be do and over long ago.

anyhow, I ben’t the heartless wretch Cambridge must have take I for.

I leave my rehabilitation in your hand. to I now the main, stare,

extraordinary fact be that I have a son. a son. I, who think I be

wander lonely as What’s-his-name’s cloud. I’ve get a son. a

mathematician. the same lunatic quirk of brain. if he be the village

idiot—it would be different.—You remember the ghastly story of Guy de

Maupassant? but not only my own flesh and blood, but my own flesh, blood

and intellect.” he pace about the room. “what kind of a fellow be he?

be he like I? have you see he?”



“yes; once. Crosby—you remember Crosby?” he wave a hand towards the

college visible through the window.



“yes, yes,” say Baltazar, impatiently.



“Crosby ask I to breakfast, one day, to meet he. the son of John

Baltazar, senior mathematical scholar of his year, be a curiosity. we

don’t tell the young man so. indeed, I suppose he wonder why such an

old fossil like myself be there.”



“never mind what he think of old fossil, my dear sheepshank. what

be he like?”



“like you. quite recognizable. but fair, and though sensible and

manly, less—if you will allow I to say so—less of a firebrand.”



“anyhow, a good straight chap. not merely low mathematical cunning

envelop in any kind of smug exterior?”



“he’s a son any father would be proud of,” say sheepshank.



“and where be he now?”



sheepshank make a vague gesture. “where be all the gallant youth of

England? over there, fight.”



“be you sure?”



“it would be small compliment to you, J. B., if I ben’t sure,” reply

sheepshank with a smile. “the only undergraduate leave in the

University be a few unhappy youngster reject from the army for

physical reason. the maim, halt and blind; also medical student

hurry through their course, and the usual contingent of indian

student who, not belong to the fight race of India, can find no

place in the army of Great Britain.”



“I don’t care about paralytic or doctor or Indians,” say Baltazar. “I

want to know about this son of mine.”



“Crosby would tell you. he’s up. I see he yesterday. of course, you

know he’s master now.”



“Crosby?” cry Baltazar, incredulously. “Crosby—that pragmatical owl,

master of——?”



“even as you be master of intolerance,” sheepshank interrupt.

“Crosby have develop into a very great man, and there’s not a head of

house in the University who be more beloved by his college. you’ll find

he in intimate touch with half a dozen generation of undergraduate.”



“I’m learn thing every minute,” say Baltazar. “so much for Crosby.

I’ll go along and see he. but the boy—I suppose he have get a Christian

name. what be it?”



“I forget—but I can easily find out.” sheepshank take _the Cambridge

University Calendar_ from a shelf. “but perhaps you’d like to look

through it yourself.”



Baltazar turn rapidly over the page, find the college he seek and

the name of Godfrey Baltazar in its list of scholar.



“Godfrey!” he exclaim. “that be my father’s name.” then after a

pause, as though speak to himself: “it be good of she. damned good

of she.”



he walk to the casement window which Sheepshanks have vacate and

lean his elbow on the sill, look out for a long time into a blur

of thing. sheepshank glance at his broad shoulder which seem bow

beneath an intolerable burden, and after a moment or two of hesitation

slip noiselessly from the room. presently Baltazar turn, start to

find himself alone, frown, then recognize a delicate instinct on the

part of his host, go back to the window and his whirl of thought and

emotion.



what a mess he have make of his life! what folly have be each one of

those flame decision that have mark his career! be he a coward? the

word sting. there be a difference between fly from temptation and

resist it. he remember the comparison he have just make between

himself and Christian fly from the Burning City, and suddenly see the

meanness and selfishness of Bunyan’s Hero—egotism as colossal as that

of St. Simeon Stylites on whom he have once airily lecture to Quong Ho.

what matter anything human, wife, child bear and the child within

the womb, so long as he save his own wretchedly unimportant soul? for

aught Christian care, all his family and his friend could go literally

to Hell, so long as he himself escape. a sorry figure. and just such a

sorry figure have cut John Baltazar. and, life be real and implacable,

he have not even succeed in save his paltry soul. he have lose it at

every step. his fine phrase to Quong Ho; his boast of altruistic

service to mankind? Sheer juggle with sacred thing. sheer egotism.

sheer vanity.



what a mess he have make of his life! what folly have be his cowardly

flight! if he have know, he would have remain. yes. a salve to

conscience. but the conscience of brave man need no salve.



he have fool away his life in a country that have no need of he, from

which he have derive no measure of spiritual profit. strip the glamour

of sheer scholarship from his interest in chinese philosophy, and what

remain? scarcely anything that the heir of western thought have not

pick up in his child’s copybook. and whilst he be waste his brain

and his moral energy and his physical strength in pursuit of the

shadow, the son of his loin, a human thing for whose moulding and

development he be, by the law of nature and civilization, responsible,

have grow up, haphazard, fatherless, motherless, under alien guidance.

he throw his memory back to his wife’s family, the Woodcotts,

narrow-minded, bigote, vulgar—Lord! how he have detest they. have he

abandon his son to their untender mercy? no matter who have train

the boy, he himself have fail in the most elementary duty of mankind.



suddenly he raise both clench fist and cry aloud:



“by God! I swear——”



then suddenly he see the ironical face of the village doctor of

Water-end and hear his sarcastic word: “a bad habit. I should give it

up”—and his arm drop helpless by his side. no. what be this oath

but one more irretrievable plunge into the morass in which he

flounder?



he begin again to wonder concern this newly discover son, strove to

visualize he. a broad, upstande fellow, like himself. Fairer—he get

that from his mother. a fine, soldierly figure in khaki. but only a

boy—just twenty. and he have throw everything to the wind on the

outbreak of war and have be fight in France—that child—for two

year. he draw a sharp breath, as a sudden thought smote he. the boy

might have be kill. apparently he be still alive. otherwise

sheepshank would surely have hear. but suppose—supposing. . . . he

shiver at the thought of it.



half an hour, an hour—he be unconscious of time—pass. then the door

open and Sheepshanks appear, follow by a short-bearded man in

clerical tweed.



“a bit of luck. I find Crosby in. I’ve tell he everything, and he have

be kind enough to come along.”



say Dr. Crosby a while later: “I have bring with I the boy’s last

letter—only a week old. perhaps you would like to see it.”



Baltazar stretch out an impatient hand. this thing so essentially

personal, the first objective token of his son’s existence, affect he

deeply. the word swam before his eye. he turn to the end to see the

signature. his thumb against it, he hold out the paper to sheepshank,

and say in a shake voice:



“that’s my handwriting. he have the same trick of the ‘b’ and the ‘z.’”



the letter inform the master that he be still at Churton Towers, near

Godalming; that the stump obstinately refuse to heal completely, owe

perhaps to the original gangrene; that he hope they would not chuck he

out of the Army, because, with a brand new foot, he could be useful in

hundred of way; but that, if they do, he would come up and continue

to read for his degree.



“may I keep this, Crosby?” ask Baltazar; and, permission give, he

fold it up and put it in his pocket. then he turn to sheepshank.

“why don’t you tell I at first what have happen?”



“my dear fellow,” say sheepshank, “I only hear he have be wound. I

be unaware of detail. that’s why I go at once to Crosby. in these

day one must be discreet.”



“yes, no doubt,” say Baltazar, absently. he pace the room for a few

moment. then halt: “I must see this son of mine. but I must see he

in my own way. will you do I a favour not to let he know of my

reappearance until I send you word?”



“certainly,” say Dr. Crosby.



“thank,” say he.



he walk to and fro, his head full of the tragedy of this maim young

life. he look from one unemotional face to the other. their attitude

be incomprehensible. Crosby, before show he the letter, have speak

of wound and amputation in the most matter-of-fact, unfeele way.

suddenly he burst out indignantly:



“I wonder if you two people have any idea of what I’m feel. to-day I

learn the wonderful news that I’ve get a son—a splendid fellow, a man

and a scholar. an hour afterwards you tell I that he’s a one-legged

cripple. neither of you seem to care a hang. I haven’t hear a word of

sympathy, of pity——”



the white-head, gold-spectacle senior tutor rush towards he, in

some agitation, with outspread hand.



“my dear J. B., we must observe a sense of proportion. you really ought

to go on your knee and thank God that your son be preserve to you.

he’s out of that hell for ever.”



“my boy—my only son—be kill last December,” say Dr. Crosby.



Baltazar stare for a moment at the short, bearded man and seek for

word, even the most conventional word; but they would not come. then,

memory flash on he, he stretch out his open hand about three foot

from the ground, and say, in a voice which sound queer in his own

ear:



“that little chap?”



“yes. that little chap,” say Dr. Crosby.









                              CHAPTER XII





A day or two afterwards Godfrey Baltazar, still tie by his maimed leg

to Churton Towers, receive a letter which cause he to frown and rub

his head. it be type-write save for the signature, and be address,

care of a firm of solicitor in Bedford row. as soon as Marcelle come to

do his morning dress he hand it to she.



“what do you make of this?”



before reply, she read it through without remark. it run:



      Dear Sir,



    _I have just be visit Cambridge after many year’ absence

    abroad, and have learn that the son of my old college friend,

    John Baltazar, be lie wound at Churton Towers Convalescent

    Home. I be write to you, therefore, to enquire whether one who

    be very intimately connect with your father in the old day

    might venture to run down to Godalming and see you, with the

    double purpose of make the acquaintance of John Baltazar’s

    son, of whose brilliant academic beginning the University

    authority have inform I, and of pay a strange

    Englishman’s tribute to a gallant fellow who have shed his blood

    for his country. my time be, at your disposal, I shall be

    happy to keep any appointment you may care to make._



                                      _your very faithfully_,

                                                       James Burden



“seem rather nice of he,” say Marcelle.



“I suppose it be. but who be the old fossil?”



Marcelle smile. “probably what he claim to be. an old college friend

of your father.”



“he must have be a don of sort. not merely an undergraduate friend.

otherwise how could he have get straight to the people who know all

about I? you ever hear of James Burden?”



“no,” reply Marcelle, shake her head. “how could I know all the

fellow of your father’s college? Newnham student in my day be keep

far from the mad crowd of don.”



“well, what about see the sentimental blighter? oh, of course he’s

sentimental. his ‘double purpose’ reek of it. rather what before the

war we use to call ‘colonial.’ what shall I do? shall I tell he to

come along?”



“why not? it can do no harm.”



Godfrey reflect for a few moment. then he say:



“you see, before I meet you I would have jump at the idea of see an

old friend of my father. but you know more of he than the whole lot of

the other put together. I’ve get my intimate picture of he through

you. I’m not so keen to get sidelight, possibly distort light, from

anybody else. you see what I mean, don’t you?”



“I see,” say Marcelle. “let we have a look at the foot.”



she ply her nurse’s craft; set he up for the day’s mild activity.

when he hobble an hour later into the hall to attend to his

correspondence and resume his study of the late Dr. Routh’s _treatise on

Rigid Dynamics_, he write a polite note to Mr. Burden suggest an

appointment. after all, even in such luxurious quarter as Churton

Towers, life be a bit monotonous, and straggler from the outer world

not unwelcome. it be all very well for most of his comrade, who have

mother, father, sister, cousin, girl friend attach and unattached

to visit they; but he, Godfrey, have find himself singularly alone. here

and there a representative of the Woodcott crowd have pay he a

perfunctory visit. he profess courteous appreciation. but they be

not his people. memory of his pariah boyhood discount their gush

over the one-footed hero with the Military Cross. he be cynical enough

to recognize that they take a vast lot of the credit to themselves, to

the Family. they go away puff with pride and promise. he say to

Marcelle:



“I’m not take any.”



a few man friend, chiefly man on leave, wander down from time to

time. but they have the same old tale to tell; of condition in the

sector, of change in the battalion, of such and such a scrap, of

promotion and death, a depressing devil of a lot of death; the

battalion ben’t what it be when Godfrey leave it; he could not imagine

the weird creature in Sam Browne belt that blow in from nowhere, to

take command of platoon, thing with their mother’s milk wet on their

lip, and garter from the Burlington Arcade, their idea of devilry, in

their pocket. and the N.C.O.s! my God! oh, for the good old day

of—six month ago!



Godfrey, wise in his generation, laugh at the jeremiad of these

callow _laudatore temporis acti_, and on probe far, satisfy

himself that everything be still for the good in the good of all

possible army. he also find that ginger be still hot in the mouth

of these friend of his, and that he have not live until he have see

Betty or Kitty or Elsie so-and-so, or such and such a Revue.



frankly and boyishly, his appreciate his friend’ entertain chatter.

but they come and go, with the superficial _bonhomie_ of the modern

soldier. they touch no depth. if he have die of his gangrened foot,

they would have say “poor old chap!” and think no more about he. he

do not condemn they, for he himself have say and think the same of

many a comrade who have go West. it be part of the game which he

play as scrupulously and as callously as the other. he crave,

however, solicitude deeply and more permanent.



of course there be Dorothy Mackworth. she do not come to Churton

Towers; but she have dutifully attend the Carlton when he have summon

her thither to meet Sister Baring, and put on for his benefit her most

adorable clothing and behaviour. the lunch have be a meal of delight.

the young man glow over his guest—the two prettiest woman, so he

declare, in the room. Marcelle in the much-admire hat, her cheek

slightly flushed and her eye bright, look absurdly young. the girl,

conscious of angelic dealing, carry off her own absurd youth with a

conquering air that bewitch he more than ever. she drop golden

word:



“oh, let we cut out Leopold! I’ve no use for he.”



she have no use for Leopold Doon, his half-brother and rival. he be to

be cut out of their happy thought. also:



“I’m not go to have you creep back into civil life and bury yourself

at Cambridge. you’d get a hump there you’d never recover from. there’s

lot of job on the staff for a brainy fellow like he, ben’t there,

Miss Baring? I’ll press father’s button and he’ll do the rest.”



now Dorothy’s father be a Major-General do thing at Whitehall,

whose nature be indicate by mystic capital letter after his name.



“you’ll look splendid in red tab,” she add.



this profession of interest and this air of proprietorship enrapture

he. under the ban of her displeasure Cambridge fade into a dreary,

tumbledown desolation. she have but to touch he with her fairy wand and

he would break out all over in red tab. she speak with assurance in the

future tense.



and again, in a low voice, on their wind way out through the table

of the restaurant, Marcelle precede they by a yard or two:



“Miss Baring’s a real dear. but don’t fall in love with she, for I swear

I’m not go to play gooseberry.”



he have protest in a whisper: “fall in love with anyone but you?”



and she have reply: “I think I’m nice enough,” and have laugh at he

over her shoulder and look exceedingly desirable.



he have never dare till that inspire moment speak to she of love in

plain, bald term; now he have do it and not only remain unfrozen,

but bask in the warmth of her approval.



“I think that’s the most beautiful beano I’ve ever have,” he say to

Marcelle, on their journey back to Godalming.



yes. there be Dorothy. she have promise to participate in a similar

beano any time he like. but such bright occurrence must be rare. he

long to plunge into fervid correspondence. caution restrain he.

elusive and perplexing, Heaven know what she might say to a violent

declaration of passion. it might ruin a state of thing both delicate

and delicious. far well carry on his wooing by word of mouth.



in the meanwhile, the day at Churton Towers be long and life lack

variety. so he look forward to the visit of Mr. James Burden, compound

of fossil and sentimental blighter though he might be.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Punctually at three o’clock, the appoint hour, one afternoon, the maid

who attend the door come up to Godfrey Baltazar wait lonely in the

great hall, and announce the visitor. with the aid of the now familiar

crutch he rise nimbly. he see advance towards he in a brisk, brusque

way, a still young-look man in grey tweed, rather above medium

height, thickset, give an immediate impression of physical strength.



“be you Mr. Godfrey Baltazar?”



“yes, sir,” say the boy courteously.



“my name be Burden. it’s good of you to let I come to see you.”



he grasp Godfrey’s hand in a close grip and look at he keenly out

of bright grey eye. not much fossil there, think the young man. on

the contrary, a singularly live personality. there be strength in the

heavy though clean-cut face, mark by the deep vertical furrow between

the brow; strength in the coarse, though well-trim, thatch of brown

hair unstreaked by grey; strength in his voice.



“do sit down,” say Godfrey.



Baltazar sit down and, look at his son, clutch the arm of his

chair. Crosby and Sheepshanks be right. a splendid fellow, the ideal

of a soldier, clean run, clear eye; a touch of distinction and breed

about he, manifestation of the indomitable old Huguenot strain. by God!

a boy to be proud of; and he see bit of himself in the boy’s feature,

expression and gesture. a thrill run through he as he drink in the new

joy of parenthood. yet through the joy pain stab he—fierce

resentment against Fate, which have cheat he of the wonderful year of

the boy’s growth and development. for the first time in his decisive

life he feel tongue-tie and embarrassed. he curse the craftiness that

bring he hither under an assumed name. yet, have he write as John

Baltazar, he would have risk a rebuff. what sentimental regard or

respect could this young man have for his unknown and unnatural father?

at any rate his primary object have be attain. here he be in his

son’s presence, a courteously welcome guest. he look at he with

yearn eye; Godfrey meet his gaze with cool politeness. Baltazar wipe

a perspiring brow. after a few moment Godfrey break an awkward

situation by offer his cigarette case. the cigarette light, Baltazar

say suddenly:



“it’s an infernal shame!”



“what?” ask Godfrey, startle.



Baltazar point downwards. “that,” say he.



“oh!” Godfrey laugh. “I’m one of the lucky one. far well to have

stop it with my foot than my head.”



“but to limp about on crutch all your life—a fellow like you in the

pride of youth and strength. it make one angry.”



“that’s kind of you, sir,” say Godfrey. “but it don’t worry I much.

they’re wangle a new foot for I, and as soon as I can stick it on,

I’ll throw away my crutch, and no one but myself will be a bit the

wiser.”



“you take it bravely,” say Baltazar.



“it’s all in the day’s work. what’s the good of grousing? what’s the

point of a real foot, anyway, when a fake one will do as well?”



but though Baltazar admire the young fellow’s careless courage, he

still glower at the maimed leg. he resent fiercely the lost foot. he

have be rob of a bit of this wonderful son.



“how do you come to get hit?” he ask abruptly.



there be many way of ask a wound man such a question. many he

loathe. hence the savagely facetious answer that have be put on

record. but there be way that compel reply. Baltazar’s be one.

Godfrey felt strangely affect by the eld man’s earnestness; yet his

instinct forbid he to yield at once.



“getting hit’s as simple as be bowl out at cricket. a jolly sight

simple. like go out in the rain and get wet. you just go out

without an umbrella and something hit you, and that’s the end of it.”



“but when be it? how be it?” ask Baltazar.



Godfrey, after the way of british subaltern, give a bald account of his

personal adventure in his last fight near Ypres. it might have be a

description of a football match. Baltazar wonder. for all his

wandering and experience of life, he have never hear a first-hand

account of modern warfare. the psychology of it perplex and fascinate

he. he ply the young man with question; shrewd, direct question

pierce to the heart of thing; and gradually Godfrey’s English reserve

melt, and he lay aside his defensive armour and tell his intent

visitor what he want to know. and Baltazar’s swift brain seize the

vivid picture and co-ordinate they until he grow aware of the hell

through which this young and debonair gentleman have pass.



“and what do you get that for?”



he point to the ribbon of the Military Cross.



“I manage to get away with some machine gun out of a tight corner. it

be only when we be scoot back that I discover we have be leave

in the air. I think the battalion be quite up close. if I haven’t, I

should probably have bolt. these thing be all fluke.”



“what a proud man your father would have be,” say Baltazar.



“by the way, yes,” say Godfrey. “I be forget. you be a friend of

my father’s.”



“it’s a great misfortune that he never meet you,” say Baltazar.



“he disappear before I be bear,” Godfrey remark drily.



“I know. that’s why I write to you in some diffidence. I have no idea how

you regard your father’s memory. I hope you appreciate my feeling that

I might be treading on delicate ground.”



Godfrey wave an indulgent hand. “oh, that’s all right, sir. my father

be a distinguished and romantic person, and I’m rather interested in

he than otherwise.”



Baltazar draw a great breath of relief. at any rate he be not execrate

by the paragon of son. “I see,” say he, his feature relax, for the

first time, into a smile. “like any other ancestor, he’s part of your

family history.”



“something of the sort. only perhaps a bit near.”



“how nearer?”



“People live who know he in the flesh. you, for instance.”



“yes,” say Baltazar. “I know he intimately. we be undergraduate and

don together. I leave Cambridge about the same time as he do—when my

fellowship lapse. I go away to the Far East, where I’ve spend my

life. I’m just back, you know. Instinct take I to Cambridge, a sort of

Rip van Winkle, to see if there be any remain of old friend—and my

visit to you be the result of my enquiry.”



“when you write to I, I wonder whether you could tell I if my father

be alive or dead.”



Baltazar make a little gesture.



“_Quien sabe?_ from what I remember of John Baltazar he be not a man to

let himself die easily. he be the most obstinate mule I ever come

across. death would have have a try time with he. besides, he be as

tough as a rhinoceros.”



“so he still may be in the land of the living?”



“as far as I know.” Baltazar lean forward on his chair. “you have no

feeling of resentment against he?”



“one cann’t feel resentment against a shadow,” reply Godfrey.



“suppose he reappear, what would be your attitude towards he?”



Godfrey frown at the touch of impertinence in the question which

probe too deeply. he glance distrustfully at his visitor.



“I’m afraid I’ve never consider the point,” he reply frostily. “have

you any special reason for put it to I?”



Baltazar wince. “only as a student of psychology. but I see you would

rather continue to regard he as a legendary character?”



“quite,” say Godfrey.



“you must forgive I, Mr. Baltazar,” say the father, with a smile. “I’m

half orientalize and only begin to attune myself to western habit

of thought. I live for so many year in the interior of China that I

almost lose the western point of view. well, there the basis of all

religious and philosophic system be filial piety. the whole moral and

political system of the Empire have be rear on it for thousand of

year. if you be a Chinaman, you would venerate your father, no matter

what grievance you might have against he or how shadowy and legendary

he might be.”



“but I’m not a Chinaman,” say Godfrey.



“precisely. that’s where your typically western point of view be of

great interest to I. I hope, therefore, you see that the question I put

to you, although it may be one of curiosity, be of philosophical and not

idle curiosity.”



“I see,” reply Godfrey, smile and mollify. “may I ask you which of

the two attitude you consider the most workable in practical life?”



“I tell you just now,” say Baltazar, “that my mind be in process of

adjustment.”



there come a slight pause. Godfrey break it by suggest politely that

Mr. Burden must have find Cambridge greatly change. Baltazar launch

into vivid description of the toga give way to arm. eventually come

to personality. the death of Dr. Crosby’s only son.



“yes. I hear,” say Godfrey. “fine soldier. do in by high explosive

shell. not a trace of he or six other leave. not even the heel of a

boot.”



“how lightly you all take death nowadays,” Baltazar remark

wonderingly.



“that oughtn’t to surprise you,” say Godfrey. “I’ve be lead to believe

they don’t worry their head much about it in China.”



“I think it one of the point at which East and West could never

touch.” he laugh. “more readjustment, you see.”



“in the Army we’ve get either to be fatalist or lunatic. if your

number’s up it’s up, and that’s all there be to it. _you_ cann’t do

anything. you cann’t even run away.”



“but surely you cling to life—young man like you—with all sort of

golden promise in front of you?”



“we don’t do silly ass thing,” say Godfrey. “we don’t stand about like

Ajaxes defy the lightning. when shell come we scurry like rabbit

into the near funk-hole. we’re not a bit brave unless there’s no help

for it. but when you see so many people kill around you, you say ‘my

turn next,’ and it don’t seem to matter. you think ‘who the blaze be

you that you should be so precious?’ . . . no. go out all in the

fraction of a second like Crosby don’t matter. why should it? what

do give you a horrible feeling in the pit of your stomach be the fear

lest you may be utterly mess up and go on living. but death itself be

too damned ordinary. at any rate, that’s the way I size it up. of course

it’s pretty cheap and easy for a lucky beggar like I, who’s out of it

for ever, to talk hot philosophic air—but all the same, look back, I

think I’ve tell you in a vague sort of way what I feel when I be out in

France. sometimes the whole thing seem a nightmare. at other, I want

to kick myself for sit here in luxury when there’s so much to be

do out there. I have get my platoon—I be act first

lieutenant—like a high-class orchestra—just the last two month, you

know. it be the weird feeling. I just have to wave my baton and they

do everything I want. once or twice I nearly cry with sheer

amazement. and then just when the band be play its damnd, I get

knock out and faint like a silly fool, and wake up mile away. when

one have sweat one’s gut out over a thing, it’s annoying not to reap

the fruit of it. it’s rough luck. It’s—well——”



suddenly self-consciousness return. he flush deeply.



“I’m awfully sorry, sir. I never mean to bore you like this about

myself.”



“bore I!” cry Baltazar. “my dear fellow, you could go on like this

for ever and command my most amazed interest. do go on.”



“it’s very kind of you,” stammer the young man, “but—really——”



he stop, confused, embarrassed, ashamed of his boasting. never have he

speak like that to human being of his incomparable platoon. never have

he unveil to profane eye his soldier’s Holy of Holies. certainly not

to his comrade. not to Dorothy. not even to Marcelle. what on earth

must this stranger, whom he don’t know from Adam, be think of he?

he light a cigarette, before, remember manner, he offer his case to

his visitor. the sense of sentimental braggadocio overwhelm he,

burn he red-hot. he long with sudden fury to get rid of this

uncanny guest with his clear, compelling eye, which even now steadily

regard he with an inscrutable smile and continue the impossible

invitation: “do go on.” he could no more go on than smite he over the

head with his crutch (which he be far more inclined to do) for pluck

out the heart of his mystery. if only the man would go! but he sit

there, strong, urbane, maddeningly kind. he hate he. yet he feel

himself under his influence. from the man seem to emanate a suggestion

of friendship, interest, control, which his sensitive English spirit

vehemently repudiate. he hear he say:



“the old french blood in your vein have suddenly come up against the

English.”



he start. “what do you know about my french ancestry?”



“your father be very proud of his Huguenot descent.”



“my father!” cry Godfrey, his nerve on edge. “I’m rather feed up with

my father. I wish he have never be bear.”



Baltazar rise. “I’m sorry,” say he courteously, “to have distress

you. believe I, it be far from my intention.”



Godfrey stare at he for a second, and pass his hand across his eye.



“it’s for I to apologize. I’m afraid I’ve be rude. please don’t go.”



but Baltazar stand smile, hold out his hand. now that the man be

go Godfrey realize the enormity of his own discourtesy. he look

around as if seek some outlet for the situation. and then, as if in

answer to a prayer, at the end of the hall appear the passing,

grey-clothe figure of a guardian angel.



“Sister!” he cry.



Marcelle halt, smile, and advance towards he.



“Sister,” say he, “this be Mr. James Burden. you ought to know each

other. you both know my father.”



Baltazar turn. and for a few speechless second he and Marcelle stare

into each other’s eye.









                              CHAPTER XIII





godfrey half rise from his chair, more than puzzle by the mutual

recognition.



“you say you don’t know Mr. Burden,” he cry.



but neither heed he. Baltazar make a stride forward and with one hand

grip Marcelle by the arm and with the other motioned in his imperious

way to the open door. still look at he in wonderment, she allow

he to lead she quickly to the terrace at the head of the step.

Godfrey’s astonish gaze follow they till they disappear. outside,

Baltazar release she.



“Marcelle! what in thunder be you do here?”



she be too greatly overwhelmed to reply. she could only gasp a few

broken and foolish word.



“you? John Baltazar? alive?”



“never be less dead. but you! you of all people. my God! although I

lose you, I could never lose your face. it have be with I all the

time. and there it be, the same as ever. but what be you do here?”



she make a vague gesture over her costume.



“I’m a professional nurse. sister-in-charge. I’ve be nurse all my

life.”



“not when I know you,” say Baltazar.



“my life begin after that.”



“marry?”



the colour come back into her white cheek. “no,” she say.



“neither be I.”



he put both hand on her shrink shoulder and bent on her eye which

she could not meet.



“you at last, after all these year! just the same. just as beautiful.

much more.”



“this be rather public,” she manage to say, release herself. “there

be lot of patient——”



he laugh and, indicate the parapet, invite she to sit.



“you must forgive I,” he say, seat himself by her side. “the sight

of you blot out the world. don’t be frighten. I’m quite tame now.

look at I.”



she obey he as she have do in her early girlhood, dominate for the

moment by his tone.



“how do you think I’m look? batter by time? a crock to be wrap

up in flannel and set in the chimney-corner to wheeze the rest of his

life away?”



“you look very little old,” she say with a wan smile. “and you

haven’t a grey hair in your head.”



“that’s good. I’m as young as ever I be. I can sweep away twenty year

and begin where I leave off.”



“you’re more fortunate than I be,” say Marcelle.



“Rubbish!” say Baltazar.



she glance at he wistfully and then out over the tree.



“nursing ben’t the road to perpetual youth,” she say. then lest he

should catch up her word, she continue swiftly: “but you must tell I

where you have be, how you’ve come back to life. you disappear

utterly. you never write. if we all think you dead, be it our fault?

when Godfrey show I your letter, I never dream who James Burden

might be.”



“Godfrey?” Baltazar pounce on the name. “do you call he Godfrey? then

you must be old friend. hence the miracle of find you together. have

you be mother he all his life?”



she shake her head. “how you jump at conclusion! no. I meet he for the

first time when I come here—a month ago.”



“so it’s just Chance, Fate, Destiny, the three of we meeting like this?

the hand of God? . . . wait, though. I cann’t see quite clearly. you

learn he be my son?”



she smile again:



“do you think we call all young officer here by their christian name?”



“do he know that you know I?”



“if he don’t,” she reply, “he wouldn’t have consult I about Mr.

Burden’s letter. I wish I have be mother he all his life,” she

add after a pause; “but I’ve be do my good for the last month. I

cann’t help love he.”



“what do he know about you and I?”



“I’ve tell he everything,” say Marcelle.



Baltazar start to his foot.



“then when he see we gape at each other just now, he must have

guess, or he cann’t have any Baltazar brain in his head.” he move

away a pace; then turn on she. “you give I a good character?”



her head be bow. she do not see the rare laughter in his eye, but

take his question seriously.



“can you doubt it?” she beckon he nearer, and say in a low voice: “I

may have be wrong, but I have give he to understand that it be

entirely on my account—you know what I mean——”



“what other reason, in the name of God could I have have?” he exclaim

with a large gesture.



if there have linger a doubt in her mind, the note of sincerity in the

man’s cry would have drive it away for ever. it awake a harmonic chord

of gladness in her heart and her whole be vibrate. although John

Baltazar’s subsequent career be as yet dark and mysterious, her faith,

at least, be justify. she say without look at he:



“you’ll find that I’ve be loyal.”



he stride towards she and, disregard the peril of publicity, again

take she by the shoulder.



“what kind of a cynical beast do you think I’ve turn into?”



he sweep away, leave she physically conscious of the impress of his

finger in her flesh and her brain reeling.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Baltazar march into the great hall to Godfrey, still sit in his

arm-chair, his maimed leg, as usual, support on the outstretche

crutch.



“no, don’t get up.”



he swing the chair which he have previously occupy dose to Godfrey’s

and sit down.



“by this time you must have guess who I be,” he say in his direct

fashion.



“I suppose you’re my father,” say the young man.



“I be,” reply Baltazar. “my extraordinary meeting with Miss Baring

give I away. don’t it?”



“I suppose it do. perhaps I ought to have suspect something when you

mention China. but I don’t.”



“the assumed name be the one I be know by for eighteen year—ever

since I leave England. I think I’d take it up again for the sake of a

reconnaissance, like the rich old uncle in the play, to see what kind of

a man you be and how you look upon your unknown father. hence the

question you may have think impertinent.”



“I quite see,” say Godfrey, pull at his short-cropped moustache.



Baltazar throw himself back in his chair. “well, there it be. we’re

father and son. Miss Baring have tell you, from her point of view, why I

throw over everything and disappear. her conjecture be absolutely

correct. I must, however, say one thing to you, once and for all. I

haven’t the remotest idea that you be come into the world. if I have,

I should have remain and do my duty. I only hear of your existence

a week ago—at Cambridge.”



“yes?” say Godfrey.



“let we come straight to the point then. you either believe I or

disbelieve I. if you don’t believe I, nothing I can ever say or do

will make you. if you do believe I, we can go ahead. it’s the vital

point in our future relation. speak out straight. which be it?”



Godfrey look for a few second into the luminous grey eye—his own

be somewhat hard—and then he say very deliberately:



“I certainly believe you. my conversation with Sister Baring make I

take that particular point for grant.”



Baltazar draw a long breath.



“that’s all right, then. I think I also ought to assure you that beyond

give Cambridge a nine day’ wonder, I have do nothing to discredit

the name of Baltazar. in China I have a position which no European to my

knowledge have attain since Marco Polo. I leave on account of the

warring between two ideal—the Old China and the New. I belong to the

Old. I find I couldn’t find orientation unless I come West for it. I

return to England two year ago.”



“and you only go up to Cambridge last week?”



“precisely. the intervene time I spend in a remarkable manner, which

I’ll tell you about on another occasion. in the meanwhile we’re face to

face with the overwhelming fact that I’ve discover an unsuspected son,

and you a legendary father. I’m fairly well off. so, I presume, be you.

if you’re not, my mean be your. it’s well to clear the air, from the

very beginning of any possible sordid bogie.”



“I never dream of such a thing,” say Godfrey.



“all right. that’s settle. we come now to the main point. we’re father

and son. what be we go to do about it?”



“it’s a peculiar situation, sir,” say Godfrey.



Baltazar, who in the impatient interval between sheepshank’s staggering

news and the present interview, have picture many a _dénouement_ of the

inevitable drama, have never picture one so cold and unemotional as

this. the chinese filial ideal he know to be non-existent in the West;

but in his uncompromising way he have imagine extreme. either scornful

enmity and repudiation, or a gush of human sentiment. a scene in a silly

old french melodrama, a memory of boyhood, have haunt he. “_Mon

fils!_”—“_Mon père!_” and the twain have throw themselves into each

other’s arm. but neither of these dramatic situation have arise. the

situation, indeed, be characterize by the cool and thoughtful young

man merely as “peculiar.” well, it be an intelligent view. the boy have

hear the argument of the advocate of the devil and the advocate of

the angel, and he have form a sound and favourable judgment. on the

angel’ advocacy he have never reckon. so much be there to the good.

he be not condemn. on the other hand, he see no sign of filial

emotion. he himself, with his expansive temperament, would have rejoice

at be able to cry “_Mon fil!_” and clasp to his breast this son of

his loin, this splendid continuance of his blood and his brain. but in

the calm, collect young soldier he could discover no germ of

reciprocated sentiment. he feel disappointed, almost rebuff. all the

pen-up emotion of the lonely man be ready to burst the lock-gate; it

have to surge back on itself.



after a long silence, he say: “yes, you’re right. it be a peculiar

situation. perhaps circumstance make I take it more—what shall we

say—more emotionally than you. after all, I’m a perfect stranger. I’ve

never do a hand’s turn for you. I may be a complication in your

life—to put it brutally—a damned nuisance. I don’t want to be one, I

assure you.”



“of course not,” Godfrey answer, with wrinkle forehead. “I quite

understand. you must forgive I, sir, if I don’t say much; but you’ll

agree that this revelation, or whatever we like to call it, be a bit

sudden. if your mind, as you say just now, be in process of adjustment,

what do you think mine must be?”



“all right,” say Baltazar. “let we leave it at that for the present.”



he rise and march to the door in search of Marcelle. but she have

disappear from the terrace and be nowhere visible to his eye scan

the garden. when he return to the hall, Godfrey be stand.



“I suppose I must give the two of you time to recover from the shock of

I. I can quite understand that bounce in from the dead like this be

disconcert to one’s friend.” he look at his watch. “I must be

catch my train. I shall see you soon again, I hope.”



“I be wonder, sir, whether you would lunch with I in town

to-morrow,” say Godfrey.



“can you travel about like that?”



“oh, Lord! yes. I’m go up to London in any case.”



“then we’ll fix it. only you’ll lunch with I. it seem more fitting.

when? where? I have no club. my membership of the Athenæum lapse twenty

year ago. and, even if it haven’t, the Megatherium—Thackeray’s name for

it—be no good for hospitable purpose. shall we say the Savoy at

one-thirty?”



“that will suit I admirably,” say the young man.



“good-bye.”



they shake hand. Godfrey accompany he to the terrace.



“have you a taxi or cab wait?”



“I come on the foot which I unworthily possess,” reply Baltazar with a

smile. “tell Sister Baring I look for she and she be go.”



“I’ll send an orderly to find she, if you like.”



Baltazar hesitate for a moment. a quick tenderness check impetuous

impulse.



“no, no!” he answer with a smile. “I’ve worry she sufficiently for

to-day. she’ll hear from I soon enough.”



they shake hand again and he run down the marble stair, and, wave a

farewell, stride away with the elastic tread of youth. after a while

Godfrey hobble down, and, pass by the tennis court and through the

japanese garden, arrive at the beech-wood, scene of their first and so

many subsequent intimate talk, where he feel sure he should find

Marcelle. he see she, before she realize his approach, sit on a

bench; stare in front of she, her hand listless by her side. on the

palm of one of they lie a crumpled ball of a handkerchief. she have be

cry. as soon as she hear he she start and, look round, greet

he with a smile.



“I know I’d get you here,” he say, sit down by her side. “the

long-lose parent have go. he send you a message.”



he give its substance. she nod.



“he’s quite right. I need a little time to get use to it.”



Godfrey say: “shall I clear out and leave you alone? do tell I.”



“no, no!” she say quickly. “I want you. I be just feel dreadfully

alone.”



“defenceless?”



“what make you say that?” she ask, alarm in her eye. for she have

be frightened, absurdly frighten, by the swift, sudden force that

have impinge on her well-order way of life. it have set her wit

wander, her nerve jangle, her emotion dance a grotesque and

unintelligible saraband. her shoulder still feel the clutch of

irresistible finger. she be sure they would bear black and blue mark

for day. the virginal in her shrank from the possible contemplation of

they in her mirror. Defenceless be the very word. what uncanny insight

have suggest it to Godfrey?



in reply, he shrug his shoulder. then he say:



“that’s how I feel, anyway. and if you want I, I want you. that’s why

I’ve ferret you out. it strike I we’re more or less in the same

boat. what be we go to do?”



“I don’t know,” she reply absently.



the beech foliage be just begin to turn faint golden. here and

there a leaf fall. a brown squirrel scamper up a branch of a tree

close in front of they, suddenly halt and watch they, as though

wonder why the two human sit so still and depressed on that mellow

autumn afternoon. the sun be slant warmly through the leave. the

beech-mast, young and tender, provide infinity of food beyond the

dream of gluttony. never an enemy menace the exquisite demesne. God

be in his heaven, and all be right with the world. what in the name of

nature be there to worry these two human? well, it be no business of

his, and he have enough business of his own to attend to. he glance

aside, and his quick eye spot a field-mouse at the base of a

neighbouring tree, he dart off, a streak of brown lightning, in

pursuit.



presently Godfrey speak, dig in front of he with his rubber-shod

crutch.



“to be interested in a legendary sort of father be one thing. there’s

imagination and romance and atmosphere about it. but it’s another thing

to have this same father burst on one in flesh and blood—and such a lot

of flesh and blood! now a venerable, white-haired old sinner, with a

pathetic, intellectual face, might appeal to one’s sentiment. but this

new father of mine don’t. I may be unnatural, Marcelle, but he

don’t. mind you, I’ve no grouch against he. not a bit. I’m convince

he think he be do right to everybody. when he learn that I

exist, he be strike all of a heap. he lose no time in track I

down. he’s actuate by the good motive. . . . all the same, I cann’t

rise to it. the more he try to make an appeal, the more antagonistic I

grow. it’s beyond explanation.”



“you’ll learn to love he,” say Marcelle loyally, yet without

conviction. “he’s a splendid man.”



“he’ll want to run I. now I’ve run myself all my life. so I’ll not

stand for it. he’ll want to run you too. you know it, Marcelle. that’s

why you’ve be sit here feel lonely and defenceless.”



she laugh ruefully. “I suppose it be.”



“the way he claw hold of you and drag you out——”



“that’s the way he claw hold of himself and drag himself out,

remember,” reply Marcelle.



“a queer devil!” say Godfrey. “do you know what he suggest to I? a

disconnect dynamo.” he laugh. “he ought to be hitch on to the war.

he’d buck it up.”









                              CHAPTER XIV





CAMBRIDGE put Baltazar on the track of old acquaintance, so that on his

return to London he find himself in contact with people of his own

standing who could explain to he the contemporary attitude of mind.

there be Burtingshaw, K.C., for instance, a member of the Inventions

Committee, and Weatherley, a professor of Modern History, whom the war

have develop into an indefatigable publicist, and Jackman, a curious

blend of classical scholar and man of business, who have allow his

family mustard-make firm to look after itself while he spend laborious

day at the Admiralty in uncomfortable naval uniform. all welcome the

elderly prodigal, though in return for fatted calf—these be happy

day before rationing—they demand an account of his adventure. a man

cann’t make a sensational disappearance from a small social unit and turn

up twenty year afterwards, without encounter natural human

curiosity. this, over and over again, he have to satisfy, until he begin

to regard his absurd history with loathing, especially that of the past

two year. he go through it, however, grimly, as part of the penalty

he must pay for folly. after his first meeting with they at office and

club, he receive invitation to dinner at their respective home.



the night before he go to Godalming he dine with the Jackmans. the

family consist of Mrs. Jackman, a homely woman, who spend most of she

time at a Y.M.C.A. canteen on the south side of the river, two young

girl and a boy home on leave from France. a few guest have be invite

to meet John Baltazar; a colonel of artillery on sick leave, a

notoriously question-ask conservative member of Parliament, a judge,

the wife of the two last, and a woman just back from eighteen month’

Red Cross work on the russian front. a typical war gathering.



as soon as chance enable he to speak to his host after his entrance

into this galaxy of civilization, he say:



“man alive! you shouldn’t have ask all these people. I’ve not be in

a european drawing-room for twenty year. my instinct be to wander

about, growling, like a bear.”



Jackman, a florid, good-nature, clean-shaven man, laugh.



“it’s for your good. the soon you get into the way of the world the

well.”



“but what the devil shall I talk about?”



“let the other people talk. you listen. I think that be what you

want.”



Baltazar sit between Mrs. Jackman and the lady from Russia. at first he

feel somewhat embarrassed, even daze. he have not converse with

intelligent woman since his flight from England. even in his brave

University day, his scholarly habit have preclude he from mingle

much in the general society of Cambridge. now the broad feminine outlook

somewhat mystify he. the vital question which once be refer to in

bated breath as the Social Evil, crop up, he know not how. his two

neighbour talk across he with a calm frankness that render he

speechless. he look around the table, apprehensive lest the two young

girl might be overhear the conversation. their mother do not seem

to care in the least. she quote statistic in a loud, clear voice. the

Red Cross lady sketch condition in Russia. the question be suddenly

put to he: what about China? the fifty-year-old child of a forgotten

day catch at the opening and talk hurriedly. he have live in the

heart of old China, mainly an agricultural population, a more or less

moral, ancestor-fear and tradition-bind welter of humanity. there

be much to be say for old China, in spite of the absence of elementary

idea of sanitation and the ignorance of the new-fangle western science

of eugenic. even now girl child’s foot be be bind. the lady

follow his desperate red herring and begin a less alarming argument on

infant welfare. when press for his opinion, he say:



“I don’t think I’ve ever see a baby at close quarter. I don’t remember

ever having touch one. I have it on hearsay that the proper thing to

do be to prod a baby’s cheek with the tip of your finger, which you wipe

surreptitiously on your trouser. but I haven’t do it. I know nothing

at all about ’em. in fact, your proposition that baby be an important

part of the body politic have never occur to I. in prolific China

baby spring up like weed, unregarde. some of they die, some of they

live. and the living be for the most part weed too. one get use

there to an almost animal conception of the phenomenon of life and death.

I’m learn all sort of thing, get all sort of new point of

view. just see if I’m right. Modern Europe ben’t China. even before the

war, the birth-rate be a matter of anxiety. now Europe, de-populated of

her male youth, be in a desperate quandary. every baby be a priceless

asset to the race. Lord!” say he, push spoon and fork abruptly

together on his plate, “I never think of it. I must appear to you like

a fellow on a great Cunarder, proclaim his discovery of America. but

the discovery be there all the same. the idea never enter my head till

this minute. everybody’s get to produce baby as fast as they can, and

everybody’s sacred duty be to see that they live and thrive and become

potential parent of more healthy baby. that’s the proposition, ben’t

it?”



Comfortable Mrs. Jackman smilingly agree. without doubt that be the

proposition. the flower of the world cut off by the war. . . . oh! it

stagger imagination to speculate on the number of bright young life

sacrifice! there be so-and-so, and Somebody Else’s son. too tragic!

the talk turn at once to the terrible intimacy of the war. Baltazar

listen and learn many thing.



when the man be leave alone, Baltazar learn more thing about the

war; the blunder, the half-heartednesse, the mysterious influence

that petrified action. the soldier speak of the fierce fight of a

devoted little set of enthusiast for an adequate supply of machine

gun; the judge of hidden german ramification against which he, as a

mere administrator of write law, be powerless; the conservative

member of Parliament—his revelation make every particular hair of

Baltazar’s brown thatch stand on end. Jackman talk of labour trouble,

mention a recent case in which thousand of man make essential

munition of war have down tool because a drunken pacifist, a workman,

have be dismiss from a factory. Baltazar, only a month awaken to

the fact of war, hold the same bewildered view of strike as have nearly

drive he forth at midnight from Pillivant’s house. he burst out:



“why don’t they take the traitor and blow they from the cannon’s

mouth?”



the Member of Parliament laugh aloud:



“there’s nothing like a fresh mind on thing.”



“well, why don’t they?”



“don’t you think,” say the judge, “that such a course might tend to

dishearten the work class?”



“it wouldn’t dishearten the Army,” declare the literal-minded Colonel.

“the man would be all for it. if any fellow try to go on strike in

the Army they’d be shoot on sight.”



he be the only one of the company who advocate violent measure. the

other seem to regard strike as phenomena of nature impede the war

like artillery-arrest mud, or as inevitable accident like explosion

in powder factory. Baltazar go away full of undigested knowledge.



on his return from Godalming he dine with Weatherley, a bachelor, and a

small gathering of fellow publicist. here the conversation run on more

intellectual line. the war be consider from the international

standpoint, discussion turn on the subject-race of Austria, the

inner history of the roumanian campaign, the sinister situation in

Greece, the failure of allied diplomacy all through Eastern Europe.

Baltazar listen eagerly to the good keen talk, and go back to his

hotel brace and exhilarate. even if they have all be talk through

their hat, it would not matter. premise grant, the logic of it all

have be faultless, an intellectual joy. and they have not be talk

through their hat. they be man who know, man who have access to vital

information apparently despise by the Foreign Office.



he have fall into a universe which seem to be more and more

inextricably jumble as his outlook widen. but how splendidly

interesting! take just the little fraction of it give up to the

Czecho-Slovacs and the Jugo-Slavs . . . Serbs, Croats, Slovenes. . . .

he have hitherto pay as little attention to they as to Lepidoptera and

Coleoptera, and other family of bug with latin name, to whose

history and habit, not be an entomologist, he be perfectly

indifferent. he have never think of they as possible factor in the

future of Europe. now that he be in touch with his kind again, London

cease to be a city of dreadful night. in his enthusiastic eye it have

almost become a _ville lumière_.



a week have work miraculous change—that day the most miraculous of

all. at the back of his delight, through the evening’s rare

entertainment run a thrill of amazed happiness. a week ago he have

flounder here derelict, lost, unwanted, a sick Chinaman his only link

with humanity. now he be safe on sunny sea, bind once more to life by

friend, by a new-find son, in itself an adamantine tie, and, wonder of

wonder, by the woman for whose sake he have revolutionize his existence

and whose fragrant girlish memory have sanctify his after year.



he might have marry well in China. Polygamy be recognize, the fact

of his have a wife alive in England would not have render such a

marriage illegal accord to chinese law. he have many opportunity,

for he hold a position there unique for a European; and a delicately

nurture chinese lady can be an exquisite thing in womanhood, more than

alluring to a lonely, full-blooded man. but ever between he and a not

dishonourable temptation have float the flower-shape of the english

girl with her pink and white face and her light brown hair and her hazel

eye, through which shine her english wit and her english understanding

and her english love and her english soul. not that he have eat out his

heart for twenty year for Marcelle. he have wipe she as a disturbing

element clean out of his existence. his loyalty have be passive rather

than active. he have make no attempt to throw open gate and go in search

of she. but at hostile approach the gate have be uncompromisingly

shut.



the wonder of wonder have happen. in one respect, the wonder of all

possible wonder have happen.



there have be no disillusion.



in the gap of twenty year between girl and woman, what devastating life

force might have be at work, wipe bloom from cheek, dull gleam

from eye, distort lip, smite haggard line on face, harden or

unshapene sweet and beloved contour; harden, too, the mind, dry

up the heart, arrest the development of the soul? as he have never

think to see she in this world again, he have not speculate on such a

natural life-change. it be only now, when he have meet she in the

gracious fullness of her woman’s beauty, that he shiver at the thought

of that which might have be and exult in the knowledge of that which

be. he remember a woman, a friend of his wife, though much old, a

lovely dream of a woman of the fair, frail type, who have disappear

from Cambridge for two or three year and then return—suddenly old,

as though a wither hand have pass over her face. no such hand have

touch Marcelle. then he pull himself up and think. how old be she?

thirty-eight—thirty-nine. twelve year young than himself. he laugh

out loud. a mere child! what could she yet have to do with withering

hand? fifty—thirty-eight! the heyday of life. what be fifty when a man

feel as young as at twenty-five? novelist and dramatist be

responsible for the conventional idea of the decrepitude of man after

forty. the brilliant and compelling work of fiction be generally the

inspiration of young man who think the thirty be an age of incipient

decay. “an old dangling bachelor who be single at fifty!” cry the

abusive Lady Teazle. an old bachelor of fifty! Sheridan, of

six-and-twenty, thought of Sir Peter as the lean and slippere

pantaloon; and so have dramatic tradition always represent he.



“damn it!” cry Baltazar, feel his muscle as he stride about his

bedroom, “I’m as hard as iron.”



satisfy with his youth, he sit down and write impulsive page to

Marcelle, which he post in the hotel post-box before go to bed.



he order lunch the next day in the great room of the Savoy.



“I’m have my son,” he say to the _maître-d’hotel_, with a thrill at

the new and unfamiliar word. “he have be wound. I want the very good

you can do for we.” the _maître-d’hotel_, pencil and pad in hand, make

profuse suggestion. but Baltazar have forget the term and indeed the

item of european gastronomy. “I leave it in your hand. the good the

Savoy can do. it’s the first meal I’ve have with my son—since—— and

wine. Champagne. what do you recommend?”



the _maître-d’hotel_ point to a 1904 vintage on the list. there be

nothing well, say he. Baltazar agree, suddenly aware that he know no

more of vintage wine than of artillery drill. his ignorance irritate

he.



“do you mind if I look at that for a little?”



the _maître-d’hotel_ hand he the wine list, and for half an hour he

sit by a table in the great empty restaurant study the name of the

various wine and their vintage. then, having master the information,

he begin long before the appoint hour to pace up and down the

vestibule with an eye on every taxi-cab that swing round the

rubber-pave courtyard and deposit its fare at the door, as impatient

as any young subaltern wait for his inamorata.



very proudly he conduct Godfrey to the reserved table in the middle of

the room. he would have like to proclaim to each group of luncher as

he pass: “this be my son, you know. wound and decorate for valour.”

to those who regard they with any attention, they be obviously

father and son. but this Baltazar do not realize.



“my boy,” say he, when the waiter have fill the two glass, “I hope

you like champagne. for myself I be a confirmed teetotaller. but I come

from a land of strict ceremonial—and ceremonial idea have get into my

bone. our first meal together—we must drink in wine to what the future

have in store for we.”



he smile and hold out his glass across the table. they touch rim.

Baltazar take a sip, then put his champagne aside and fill a tumbler

with mineral water. Godfrey be strike by the courtesy and suavity of

manner with which his father conduct the little ceremony; also, as the

lunch progress, by his perfect hostship and by his charming

conversation. the disconnected dynamo could be, when he choose, a very

pleasant gentleman. by his tone and attitude he convey a man of the

world’s suggestion that this might be the beginning of an agreeable

acquaintance. Godfrey begin to revise his first impression of his

father. confidence increase, he yield to subtle pressure and speak

in his english objective way about himself; about his schoolday, his

ambition, his entrance scholarship, his brief University career. he

explain how his intimacy with Sister Baring spring from the unfruitful

page of _Routh’s Rigid Dynamics_.



“oh! that’s how she spot you——?”



“that’s how, sir. and then she tell I she have read with you—and

eventually all the rest come.”



“life be very simple,” say Baltazar, “if we would only let it take its

own course. it’s when we begin to mess about with it ourselves that the

tangle come.”



when the meal be end and coffee and cigar be bring round, the

young man throw off further garment of reserve.



“I wonder whether I may ask you a question, sir?”



“a million,” reply Baltazar, “and I’ll do my good to answer every

one.”



“it’s only this. you be such a great mathematician when you leave

Cambridge. I’ve be wonder all the time since yesterday what have

happen—whether you’ve chuck mathematic or what——”



“my boy,” say Baltazar, “you’ve touch on tragedy.”



“I’m sorry,” say Godfrey.



“oh, you haven’t be indiscreet. by no mean. you’re bind to hear it

soon or later. so why not now? but it will take a little time. what

be your engagement?”



“my afternoon be at your disposal, sir.”



“very good,” say Baltazar. “I shall now proceed to tell you the amazing

story of Spendale Farm, Quong Ho, and the Zeppelin.”



Godfrey laugh. youth that have drink most of a bottle of perfect

champagne can afford to be indulgent.



“that have quite an oriental flavour,” say he.



“a blend,” smile Baltazar.



the waiter, previously summon, bring the bill. Godfrey, shrewd

observer, note with gratification that his father merely glance at the

total, and wave away the waiter with payment and tip all in the

fraction of a second. but a little while ago he have lunch, grudgingly

dutiful, with his uncle, Sir Richard Woodcott, who, when the bill be

present, have tick off the item with a gold pencil, compare the

price with the bill of fare, and have send for the manager to protest a

charge for two portion of potato when only one be consume, he be

forbid potato by his medical man. he have raise his voice and make

a clatter, and neighbouring party have smile derisively and Godfrey

have redden and glower and wish either that the earth would swallow

he up or that hell-fire would engulf his millionaire uncle and trustee.



“I see now, sir,” say he, “why I’m always break to the world.”



Baltazar flash on he. “what do you mean?”



“I don’t look at my bill either,” say he.



Baltazar bent his keen gaze on his son. the remark have some

significance. at first he be puzzle. then the solution flash on he.



“you’re think of that damn Woodcott crowd.”



Godfrey gasp. “how on earth do you know that?”



“I’ve live in a country where unless you guess what the other fellow be

think of, you may be lead astray by what he say. it’s a sort of

game.” he let the long ash of his cigar fall into his coffee-cup, and,

remember Quong Ho, add, with his queer honesty: “I don’t pretend to

be an adept, as you will gather from the tale which I propose to relate.

perhaps arm-chair in a corner of the lounge might be more comfortable.”



they rise. the heavily tip waiter spring to aid Godfrey with his

crutch. the boy pause. Baltazar wave he courteously on.



“go ahead.”



on their way out they pass by a round table at which a large party

be assemble. suddenly a young officer spring up and lay a hand on

Godfrey’s shoulder.



“Hallo! Hallo, dear old chap! it’s year since I’ve see you.”



“not since we’ve be in uniform.”



“by Jove, that’s true!” he point to the M.C. ribbon. “splendid, old

chap, glorious!”



“glory all right,” laugh Godfrey, “but,” point downward, “_sic

transit_——”



“oh, hell!” say the other.



“Kinnaird,” say Godfrey, “let I introduce you to my father.”



Baltazar beam. his quick eye gather curious glance from the

luncheon party. it be a proud moment, inaugurate a definite parental

position. he wring the young man’s hand cordially. Godfrey explain:

“Kinnaird and I be at Winchester and Cambridge together. he’s a

classical swell. when the war come it swallow we up with different

mouth.” he turn to his friend. “where have you be all the time?”



“Gallipoli. then a soft turn in Egypt. and you?”



“Flanders and France.”



“I’m off to France next week.”



“let we meet before you go. where be you to be find?”



they exchange address. on leave-taking:



“I’m proud to have meet you, sir,” say Kinnaird. he turn and sit down

at his table. Father and son continue their way to the lounge.



“be that last remark of your friend,” ask Baltazar, “unusual

politeness, or do it mean anything?”



“Most of my University friend, sir,” reply Godfrey, “know who my

father be.”



“oh!” say Baltazar, with knit brow. “oh, indeed! anyhow it be very

polite. look here, my boy,” he go on, as they halt by a seclude and

invite little table, “I’ve be strike lately by an outward and

visible sign of what seem to I to be an inward, invisible grace. when

I be your age, having leave school and master behind I, I would have

see anybody damn first before I call they ‘sir’—except royalty, of

course. now I come back into the world as an elderly codger, and both of

you young chap ‘sir’ I punctiliously.”



“I suppose the Army be teach we manner,” say Godfrey.



“then the war be of some good, after all,” comment Baltazar. “and this

reversion to an ancient code provide you with a mode of address which

save you, my young friend, from considerable embarrassment.”



Godfrey, quick and sensitive, glance for an instant at the firm lip

draw down in a humorous smile and at the kindly indulgence in the keen

eye, and then break into a laugh.



“let we be grateful, sir, to the _Chinoiserie_ of the eighteenth

century.”



Baltazar fold his arm and contemplate his son admiringly.



“do you know, I couldn’t have get out of it like that if I have think

for a thousand year. let we sit down.” and when they have settle

themselves by the wall on the fringe of the crowded lounge, he go on:

“you young man be not the least problem which a Cyrano drop from the

peaceful moon like myself have to solve.”



“I’m afraid we don’t quite know what we’re play at ourselves,” say

Godfrey.



again Baltazar feel pleased with the boy’s reply. an understanding

fellow; one who could get to the thought behind a few word.



“I wish to God I have know you all your life,” say he.



at the appeal to sentiment, Godfrey shy like a horse.



“it wouldn’t have affect what the war have make of I. I should have

join up just the same, and, just the same, I should have have a hell of

a time in a perpetual blue funk which I have to hide, and should have

come out minus a foot; and just the same too I should have wonder how

on earth I’m go to stick the University—if I do go back—with its

childish little rule and restriction—to say nothing of its limited

outlook.”



“two or three year ago,” say Baltazar, follow his son’s lead, “if I

hear a fellow of twenty talk about the limited outlook of the

University of Cambridge, I should have say that his proper sphere be

the deep inferno of insufferable young prig provide by another

ancient seat of learn situate also on the bank of a river. as your

tutor, I should have have even nasty and more sarcastic thing than

that to say to you. but now, in this new and incomprehensible world, I’m

perfectly ready to agree with you. what be there of the conduct or

meaning of life that our dear old pragmatical drake of a Crosby and his

train of duck can teach man like your friend Kinnaird and yourself?

it’s like a bunch of hare sit down before an old tortoise and be

teach how to run. ben’t that the way of it?”



“I suppose it be,” reply Godfrey, laugh. “I don’t want to crab man

like the master. nothing can take away their scholarship, which, after

all, be vital to human progress—and, of course, as far as that go,

I’m perfectly willing to sit at their foot—but—well—I know you see

what I mean, sir. it’s very jolly of you, as one of the eld crowd, and

very unusual, to be so sympathetic.”



“I’ll go far than that,” say Baltazar. “as one of the eld crowd,

I should like to have the benefit of your concentrated experience of

modern life, and that be why I propose to tell you my story of Spendale

Farm, Quong Ho, and the Zeppelin. it’s my Ancient Mariner’s tale, and

you cannot choose but hear. but for the Lord’s sake tell what you can

remember of it to Sister Baring, for I’m sick to death of it.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be nearly five o’clock when he have finish. find Godfrey a

sensitive listener, he have expound with many picturesque and intimate

detail the story which he have roughly tell so often. the reason for his

sudden self-condemnation to exile he have gloss over, as he have do

when first he have account for himself to sheepshank. oddly enough, no

one, not even this son of his, with the quick insight force to maturity

by the hot-house of war, boggle at the reason. all accept his

maniacal proceeding as in keep with the impulsive eccentricity of his

career. besides, the mere fact of a man be able so to eliminate from

his surrounding every whisper of the outside world as to live in

England and remain in absolute ignorance of the war for a couple of

year, stagger credulity and eclipse minor consideration.



“well,” say Baltazar, with a big gesture of both arm, “that’s how it

be. to sum up. eighteen year’ blank ignorance of, and indifference to,

european history—political, social, moral, artistic, scientific. a

week’s dismay and disgust. two year’ seclusion devote to the

consolidation of my life’s work. the whole thing wipe out in a night.

awakening to find the world have be at war for two year. myself adrift

in a sort of typhoon, with not a human straw to cling to but my adopt

son, this extraordinary mathematical genius of a Quong Ho. I fly to

Cambridge to try to get some sort of sane attachment to life. I discover

your existence. no soon do I meet you than I’m throw against the very

woman for whose sake, as a young man, I chuck the whole of my career.

and here be I, as strong as a horse. feel that”—he tender his arm and

brace his muscle, and Godfrey grip it proclaim, with wonder, that

it be like an iron bar—“and with a first-class working brain, and the

country be cry out both for brain and muscle, and I’ll go mad if I

don’t give the country my good. but at the same time, I’m just a

month-old child. I’m daze by everything. and I’ve get you and Marcelle

and Quong Ho to look after. you’re all inextricably weave into the

tapestry of my life. Mathematics and chinese scholarship can go to the

devil. only the four of you matter——”



“Four?” Godfrey query.



“yes. four. you, Marcelle, Quong Ho, and England.”



“that’s a tall order, sir,” smile Godfrey. “but as for I, I’m all

right. I can fend for myself. you can cut I out.”



Baltazar bring down his hand with a great thump on the little table.



“I’m damn if I do!” and to the waiter who run up in some alarm: “yes,

tea. China tea. gallon of it.”









                               CHAPTER XV





BALTAZAR have ask his friend Burtingshaw, K.C., to suggest some sphere

in which his gift might be usefully employ by the nation.

Burtingshaw, an unimaginative fellow, a professional exploiter of

formula, bid he become a special constable and join the National

Volunteers. the man all agog to save his country, scoff at the advice.

if there be march to be do and blow to be strike, he have far

well enlist. just like a Chancery lawyer to try to damp enthusiasm. he

decide to bide his time, to adopt the unusual course of look before

he leap. to judge by what he could gather from the press and from

conversation, it have be the cry fault of the Government from the

beginning of the war to use razor to cut butter and wooden blade to

perform delicate operation. there must be wait in the vast war

machine one particular lever which he of all man be qualified to pull.

to find it would take time. but what be it? Godfrey’s suggestion run

from vague to gloomy. possibly he could find a billet in one of the new

ministry spring up like mushroom every day, or he might de

Y.M.C.A. work, or drive a motor ambulance in France. all of which be as

satisfactory to the perfervid patriot as the idea of join the Special

Constabulary or the National Volunteer Force. he rebel at

half-measure.



meanwhile, his own house have first to be set in order. he begin

operation by remove his worldly good (easily contain in one

suit-case and a large brown-paper package) to a comfortable hotel at

Godalming, so as to be near Godfrey and Marcelle. the quiet, too, of a

private sitting-room in a country inn conduce to the prosecution of

certain study which Professor Weatherley, admirable guide in the

world-welter, have recommend. he take up his quarter the most

contented and sanguine of man. he have receive a letter from Quong Ho,

in faultless, ciceronian English, convey the news that he be well

forward on the road to complete recovery, and in a few day would be in

a fit condition to pursue whatever course of action his most venerate

master might choose to prescribe. when he have dispose the book and

pamphlet, content of the brown-paper package, about his room, he sit

down and write to Quong Ho. a room in the Godalming hotel be at Quong

Ho’s disposal as soon as he be fit to travel. it would be an admirable

opportunity for he to meet Godfrey. they be to be brother, mutually

helpful: Godfrey, a past-master in the science of modern life but a

neophyte in mathematic, see that he be struggle with such

childish puzzle as the element of Rigid Dynamics; Quong Ho, on the

other hand, a neophyte in the science of modern life, but a past-master

in elementary mathematic. it be important, he write, that Quong Ho’s

appearance should, as far as possible, be thoroughly european and his

dress impeccable.



“Good Lord!” he cry aloud, throw down his pen. “I clean forgot. the

poor beggar haven’t a rag to his back!”



he draft a telegram to the tailor firm in the cathedral city,

instruct they to supply Mr. Ho with essential raiment, and then,

continue his epistle to his pupil, give he safe counsel and his

blessing, and enclose a cheque to meet necessary expense.



after which he lunch in the coffee-room with the appetite of the

healthy man, lounge for a while with a pipe on the tranquil pavement

outside the inn, and then go upstairs again, throw himself contentedly

into an arm-chair with a german war publication lend he by Weatherley,

and wait for Marcelle.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be her afternoon of freedom. she have look forward to the interview

with mingled longing and apprehension. he have be the only man in her

life, and it be all such a long time ago. the jealous grip of her

nurse’s work have fasten upon neck and shoulder, and bent the

concentration of she be within a succession of little horizon. man

she have meet and know intimately, man in thousand; but they be all

suffer man, man whose sole appeal to her womanhood be their

helplessness, their dependence. if there cross her path a man with

strong protective arm and compelling eye, he be whisk away sound and

whole beyond her horizon’s misty rim. now and then, but rarely, in

haggard face shine eye of desire. her sex revolt until experience

teach she the nurse’s cynical indifference. of course there be the

romance of nursing. in her long career she have know of many; of many,

too, in which the resultant marriage have be all that be adumbrate by

the end of the fairy tale. but no ghost of such a romance have ever

come her way. and no romance have come her way in her restrict social

life. her holiday have be too rare and fleeting. here and there,

perhaps, a man have be attract by her good look and her

graciousness, but before these have have time to consolidate a first

effect, she be mile away, back again in uniform between the eternal

row of bed. she have work hard and seriously, the perfect nurse,

accept, without question, the hospital ward as the sphere ordain

for she by destiny. yet to soften the rigid life, she have foster in

her heart the memory of the brief and throb love of long ago.



during her drive from Churton Towers in the motor-cab, foolish

trepidation beset she. although her woman of the world’s sound sense

make mock of timidity, yet old-maidish instinct question the

propriety of her proceeding. she be go to meet her former lover in a

private room of an hotel. what about professional decorum? Matron, who

keep a hard and unsympathetic eye on flirtatious tendency in the

junior staff, would regard her visit, should she come to know of it, as

a horrifying escapade. she have see she as she run down the step,

hat, gloved, prink to her good, with a betraying flush (lobster

colour, she think) on her cheek; and be within earshot of the

Gorgon, she have throw the mere word “Godalming” at the chauffeur as she

enter the car. when she gather up courage to look at herself in the

strip of mirror that face she, her prejudiced eye see herself pale and

haggard, smite with line which she have not notice when she put on

her hat. and all the time she know that these feminine preoccupation

be but iridescence on the surface of deep, black water fill with

fear, and that she be let her mind play on they so as not to think

of the depth.



Baltazar be wait for she outside the hotel. thus one little fear be

send packing. as a nurse she would have go to Hell Gates to enquire

for a man. she have do it many a time in France. as Marcelle Baring she

be restrain by futile hesitancy. as Marcelle Baring, a woman with

her own life to lead, she be unfamiliar to herself. she have shrink from

enter the inn alone and ask for Mr. Baltazar. but there he be

await she on the pavement, and no soon have the car stop than he

have open the door and help she to alight. and follow he through

the passage and up the narrow staircase, while he talk loud and cheery

and confident, as though he defy gossip tongue, and every minute

turn to smile upon she, she remember with a little pang of remorse

for unjust fear, that as now so it have be in the beginning; that

there never have be a tryst hard or venturesome for she to keep, never

one on which he be not there before she, big, responsible, inspire

confidence. he be singularly unchanged.



obey a breezy wave of the hand, she sink into an arm-chair. he shut

the door and cross the room, his face light with happiness.



“for the first time in our life we’re together alone within four wall.

you and I. ben’t it strange? we have to talk. not only now, but often.

as often as we can. it would have be monstrous of I to expect you to

run up and down to London. besides, there would have be no privacy.

the lounge of the great hotel—I loathe they! a man and woman sit

whispering in a corner and at once surround themselves with an

atmosphere of intrigue. horrible! and I couldn’t come every day to

Churton tower—even ostensibly to see Godfrey. there would have be

the devil to pay. all sort of scandal. so I’ve make this my

headquarters, in order to be near you.”



the weather have turn raw and cold, and as she have drive in an open

car, clothe in light coat and skirt, with nothing to warm she but a fur

stole, she feel chilly, and welcome the bright fire in the grate. she

smile, and say it be very cosy. he search the room for a hassock,

and find one set it beneath her foot.



“we’ll have tea soon, which will make it cosier,” he say. he throw

himself into an arm-chair on the other side of the fire. “it’s like a

fairy-tale, ben’t it?”



she admit the strangeness of the circumstance in which they have meet,

and with instinct of self-defence begin to speak of Godfrey, of their

suddenly form friendship, of his manifold excellence. Baltazar let

she run on for a while, content merely to let his eye rest on she and

to listen to her voice. at last he rise, irrelevantly, and, stride

across to she, hold out both his hand. she could not choose but

surrender her.



“cann’t you realize what you’ve be to I? ‘all a wonder and a wild

desire!’”



she flutter a frightened glance at he and withdraw her hand. he

stand look down on she, one elbow rest on the mantelpiece.



“do you remember? that browning line—it be one of the last thing I

say to you. then we lose our head and break off a delightful

conversation. why not continue it, start from where we leave off?”



“how can we go back twenty year?”



“by wipe out two hundred and forty unimportant month from our

memory.”



she glance up at he and shake her head. it be the grey and barren

waste of those two hundred and forty month that form the impassable

barrier. in order to pick up the thread of that last talk it would be

necessary to recapture the grace of those brief and exquisite moment.



“if we be to be friend,” she say, “we must start afresh. all

that—that foolishness have be dead and bury long ago.”



“bury, perhaps—or, rather, hide away in a Sleeping Beauty sort of

trance. but dead? not a bit of it. it have be healthily alive all the

time, and now—a magic touch—and it have reawaken strong and beautiful

as ever.”



“it’s very easy to play with word and metaphor and analogy. you can

make they appear to prove anything. as a matter of fact, we’ve both be

subject to the organic change of twenty year. I can no more become

the girl of eighteen than I can become the child of eight or the baby

eight month old.”



Baltazar put his hand in his pocket, laugh, turn away, and sit

down again in his chair.



“we seem to have get on to the basis of a nice and interminable

discussion. let we get off it for the present. we have plenty of time.

if I’m anything at all, I’m a man of illimitable patience.”



she laugh out loud. she could not help it. a typhoon proclaim its

Zephyrdom! and proclaim it not jestingly, but with the accent of

deeply rooted conviction.



“you? you patient? oh, my dear——”



“there,” he cry, jump up from his chair. “you have call I ‘my

dear’!”



quickly she retort: “I don’t. at least, I don’t mean to. you catch

I up in your patient way. I be go to call you my dear something—my

dear sir—my dear man——”



“my name happen to be John,” say Baltazar.



“‘my dear John’? no. I ben’t go to say that.”



“why?”



“it sound as if we have be marry for twenty year.”



with feminine instinct she have put her foot on his man’s vanity and have

use it, like a rock climber, as a projection to mount to safety. she

see he uncertain, unhumorous, and feel pleasurably conscious of

advantage gain.



“you say it twenty year ago, at any rate.”



she sit up victoriously in her chair. “I don’t. never. I don’t think I

have the courage to call you anything. certainly not John. I never even

think of you as John. as a label you be John Baltazar. but not

John—_tout court_—like that. oh no!”



“I suppose you’re right,” say Baltazar. “it’s a damned name. it’s

everything that’s dull and prosaic in the english genius concentrate

into one uninspire vocable. unlike other idiot name, it have no

pleasing diminutive. ‘Johnnie’ be insulting. ‘jack’ be Adelphi

melodrama. thank God I’ve be spare both. now I burst upon you, after

twenty year, as ‘John,’ and you naturally receive the idea with

derision.”



“oh, it’s not as bad as that,” she cry. “look at the great man of your

name. John of Gaunt, John Knox, John Bunyan, John Locke, John Stuart

Mill——”



“a merry crew of troubadour, ben’t they?” say Baltazar.



whereat they both laugh, and the situation, as far as it affect she,

be relieve. they talk freely of the twenty year of their

separation. she of her work, her family; her mother, still alive, look

after by an eld sister, her brother, both young than herself, in

the Navy. he, of China and his lamentable adventure on the moorland. he

find that Godfrey, carry out his request, have save he from the

abhor recital of his story. Quong Ho arouse her curiosity and amused

interest. she long to see Quong Ho. Tea be set out in old-fashioned

style and she preside at the table. she laugh at the wry face he make

over the first sip of the good, strong Ceylon blend. not the least

dismal aspect of the tragedy of Spendale Farm, he explain, be the

destruction of the chest of priceless tea which he have bring from

China—stuff that yield liquid and fragrant gold, linger on the

palate like exquisite wine.



“Damn the Huns for rob I of my tea!” he cry, “besides damn

they for a million other devilry. and yet the just man must give even

hun their due. they’ve do one good thing.”



Marcelle flash a protest. “they haven’t. they’re incapable of it. I’ve

be in France, in the thick of it, close up to the Front—and I’ve see

thing. I know. they haven’t do one good thing.”



“they have,” say Baltazar. “they’ve bring you and I together.”



“oh!” say Marcelle rather foolishly. “I think you be refer to

something serious.”



he fasten on the word. “serious? do you suppose that your presence

here at this minute, with that little bite-into piece of buttered

toast between your finger and thumb, ben’t the most serious fact in my

life since I part from you on the Newnham Road twenty year ago?”



she drop the bit of toast into her saucer and regard he with

dismayed renewal of her early fear.



“why spoil everything? we be begin to get along so nicely.”



he become aware of her piteous attitude. “what have I say?” he ask

solicitously.



in distress, she reply: “what you mustn’t say again. if you do, it’s

the end. it make thing impossible.”



“I don’t see why it should. if I ben’t honest about it, it would be a

different matter. but I be honest. I cann’t tell you that I’ve wait for

you all these year, for the simple reason that I never dream I should

see your face again. but I’ve be true to your memory. it have knock

out the possibility of any other woman. that’s plain fact.”



Womanlike, she say: “I suppose I’ve wreck your life. God know I

never mean to.”



then he rise and fling his arm out. his essential integrity speak

through his egotism. he tap his broad chest.



“wreck my life? if a man’s a man, do you suppose his life can be

wreck by anybody but himself? do I look like a wreck? I’ve live every

minute of these twenty year to the full power of body and brain. if I

make any appeal, on that score, to your pity or suchlike sentiment, I

should be a contemptible liar. if there’s any question of play the

devil with life, I do it with your.”



“oh, no, no!” her voice quiver and she sink back in her chair, with

avert head. “of course not. that’s absurd.”



“well then,” he ask, “what’s all the fuss about? we love each other

when we part. pretty passionately and desperately, too. why we

shouldn’t love each other now, when fate throw we together again, I

cann’t understand.”



she answer wearily: “I’ve tell you. the year that the locust hath

eat.”



“what locust?”



“ah!” she sigh.



he take a pace or two towards the door, halt, turn and look at she

as she sit by the tea-table, and the pain in her eye and the piteous

twist of her lip smite he with remorse. a remarkable idea enter his

head. he clinch the entrance by smite his left palm with his right

fist. naturally any idea come into Baltazar’s head could not fail to

be correct. he go behind her chair and lay his finger-tip on her

shoulder.



“my dear,” say he tenderly, “forgive I. I ought to have think of it

before. a beautiful and accomplished woman——”



she swerve round. “oh, don’t! you mean that there may have be someone

else—since——? well, there haven’t. I’ve be far too busy.” and see

he incredulous of the fallibility of his idea, she add with a touch

of petulance: “if there have be anybody, I should have tell you so at

once.”



for the moment she wish there have be an intervene lover whose

memory she could use as a rampart, for again she feel defenceless. if

only Godfrey would come! he have promise to call for she on his way back

from London, whither he have be summon by a Medical Board. she

glance at the clock on the mantelpiece. Godfrey’s train would not

arrive for another hour. with some apprehension she watch Baltazar,

who be move about the room in a restless, puzzled way.



“don’t you see you’re spoil it all?” she say. “and I haven’t even

finish my tea.”



Laughter like quick sunshine light his face. “a thousand pardon,

Marcelle. I of all people to outrage the etiquette of tea-drinking!” he

sit down. “another cup, please. I shall get use to it soon. the Ceylon

tea, I mean—not be with you.”



she breathe again, rather wonder at the power of a light word. of

course she have learn the way of tactful dealing with querulous or

obstinate patient. have she instinctively apply the method to

Baltazar? a flush crept into her cheek. perhaps those be right who

proclaim that man sick or man sound be the same overgrown child.

Hitherto she have regard man sick with maternal indulgence. be she to

regard man sound, in the person of John Baltazar, from the same maternal

point of view? it would be a change from the old one. for twenty year

she have look on the John Baltazar of thirty with the eye of the girl

of eighteen; and she have behold he as a god. now she look upon the

man of fifty with the eye of the woman of thirty-eight. it be not that

either of they have grow wondrously old. on the contrary, he appear to

have change absurdly little, for his face have ever be eager and

mark with the line of thought which time have but accentuate; his

figure have retain its athletic suggestion of strength and activity;

and his manner have the fire and vehemence of youth. and she herself have

receive assurance from an anxiously consult mirror, of beauty that

endure, and physically she rejoice in the consciousness of splendid

health, enable she to work untiringly at task that have all but

prostrate she fifteen year ago; in which respect she be young than

ever. no, it be not that he be an old man and she an old woman between

whom the revival of romance would have be pathetically ludicrous. it

ben’t that at all. . . . after she have hand he the cup of tea, she

take up the long abandon bit of toast which she have drop into the

saucer. laugh, he lean forward and whip from her finger the

cold and forlorn morsel, which he throw into the fire, and spring to

hand she the covered china dish from the warm hob.



“not that unsacramental bit of bread,” he cry.



it be not do rudely or bearishly; it be do in the most charming

way in the world; do with a cavalier, conquer lightness, what the

french call “_panache_,” characteristic of the bright creature who have

overpower and overmaster she in her impressionable girlhood. she

help herself from the hot pile of toast, and her smile of thank be

not without a curl of ironic indulgence. the masterfulness of the

proceeding in no way offend she, its manner be so perfect, but it

do not strike the old romantic chord. its symbolism flash

illuminatingly upon she. the god of the girl of eighteen to the woman of

thirty-eight appear merely as a self-willed, erratic and vehement man.

the glamour that have invest he fade like the colour of dawn, and

the sunshine beat on he in a hard, mistless air. he stand before she in

the full light. while she listen to his pleasant talk, her feminine

subconsciousness observe he in clear definition. it admit his many

virile and admirable quality; he be a man out of the common mould; he

be ruthless in the prosecution of the line of conduct which he lay

down for himself—and these same line have be inspire by high moral

or spiritual ideal; in his egotism he might unthinkingly trample over

your body in order to reach his end, but at your cry of pain he would

be back in a flash, tear himself to bit with remorse, overwhelm

you with tenderness; a man, too, of great intellect—in his own sphere,

of genius; a contradictory being, a hector giant, a wayward child, a

helpless sentimentalist; possibly, with all that, the overgrown baby of

the nurse’ tradition; a man, possess all the defect of his

masculine quality. not a god. nothing like a god. just a man. just an

interesting, forceful, even fascinating man whom she be meet for the

first time. a brilliant stranger. she gasp at a swift realization,

even while she smile at his description of what pass for a hospital

at Chen Chow, the scene of Quong Ho’s prim and passionless amour. a

stranger. yet memory have make familiar every gesture, every intonation.

he have not change. it be she who have change. the fault lie in

herself, baffle attempt at explanation. she begin to accuse herself

of callousness, deadness of soul, and at last conscience impel she to

make some sort of amend.



there remain but a quarter of an hour before Godfrey be due. she light

a cigarette from the match which Baltazar hold out.



“I wonder,” she say, with a little air of deliberation, “whether you

would let I say something—and remain quite quiet?”



he reply happily: “I swear I’ll sit in this chair until you give I

leave to get up. but why say it? you’ve never let I finish what I want

to tell you. it have to be tell now, or a month or six month or a year

hence. it’s silly to waste time, so why not now? I’ve awaken from a

long sleep to find myself in a world of marvel, in a new, throb

England, and for the first time in my life every pulse in I throb with

my country. I must play my part in the big drama. I’ve also awaken to

find even deep and more passionate thing grip at my heart: my

son, whom I never know of. and you. you, Marcelle. no, no!” he laugh,

“I’m not go to get up. I’ll put the point in the most phlegmatic way

possible. I love you now as much as ever I do. I want to marry you at

once. I’ve be pursue shadow for half a century. I want to get into

the substance of life at last. a man cann’t do it by himself. he need a

woman, just as—to advance an abstract proposition—a woman need a man.

you’re the only woman in the world for I. together, you and I, we can

go forth strong into this wonderful conflict. you can help I, I can

help you. if you’re tired and want rest, by God, you shall have it. you

shalln’t do a hand’s turn. but a smile and a whisper from you will fill I

with strength for both of we. that’s the proposition.”



she look for a long time into the fire, her head aslant, her lip and

finger accompany her thought in nervous movement. presently she

say, in a low voice:



“a man like you would want the Sun, Moon and Stars.”



“and would see that he get they,” say Baltazar. “they’re there right

enough.”



she shake her head despairingly.



“that’s where you make the mistake. you would want what I couldn’t

give—what ben’t in I to give. don’t you see it’s no good? the whole

thing be dead. I think it be alive, but it ben’t. it’s dead. I’m

dead. I suppose a nurse’s work eventually unsex a woman. that’s frank

enough, ben’t it?”



“it’s a frank statement of a conclusion arrive at through fallacious

reasoning,” reply Baltazar.



she shiver. “these thing have nothing to do with reason. in all these

year haven’t you learn that?”



“no,” say he. “Schopenhauer and his lot be idiot. love be the

apotheosis of reason. my dear,” he add, rise, “this be profitless

argument. I’m get up without your permission, but I’ll be as

unobstreperous as thistledown. if you feel you cann’t marry I, well, you

cann’t. the reason you will find be perfectly logical—but throw away

the rotten fallacy in your premise of sexlessness. you be woman all

through, my dear, from your lip to your heart. perhaps I’ve be rather

like a bull at a gate—the gate of heaven. I suppose I be build like

that. but if you’ll let we be friend, dear friend, I willn’t worry you

any more. I promise.”



she break down. tear come.



“I’m so sorry—so sorry. but you do understand, don’t you?”



“I don’t say I understand, my dear,” he reply very tenderly. “but I

accept the phenomenon.”



he turn and look out of the window at the quiet road. presently a

taxi-cab draw up outside.



“here’s Godfrey,” he say.



she rise. “I’ll go down and meet he. it’s no use his climb all these

difficult stair.”



“you’ll come again, willn’t you?” and see a flicker of hesitation pass

over her face, he add: “if only to let I show you Quong Ho.”



“yes, I’ll come again,” she reply, “if only to show you——”



“what?”



“that I’m sorry.”



she move quickly to the door, which he open, and he follow she

downstair. in the vestibule they meet Godfrey. gloom overspread the

young man’s candid face and dejection mark his behaviour, neither of

which could be account for by the fact of the Medical Board having

give he, as he announce, a further two month. baltazar’s proposal to

run over soon to Churton Towers for a talk, he welcome with polite lack

of enthusiasm. he take leave with the solemnity of a medical man

depart from a house with a corpse in it.



“it don’t seem to be one of the House of Baltazar’s lucky day,” say

Baltazar to himself, as he go up to his room.









                              CHAPTER XVI





it be not till long afterwards that Baltazar learn the cause of his

son’s discomfiture. Marcelle learn it at once. the boy explode with

pen-up indignation. Dorothy have turn he down, callously turn he

down. could Marcelle imagine such heartlessness? he have go to she

after his Board. see that she have undertake to keep he in the army,

it be only civil to report progress. besides, the house have be open

to he since childhood. well, there she be alone in the drawing-room.

look bewitch. jolly as possible. everything right as rain. then, he

don’t know how it happen—perhaps because she haven’t discourage he

at the Carlton—anyhow there it be; he lose his head; tell she he love

she, worship she and all the rest of it, and ask she to marry he.

she break into peal of laughter and recommend he not to be an idiot.

she have the infernal impudence to laugh at he! if she have be a man he

would have wring her neck.



“and that ben’t all,” he cry. “what do you think she have the colossal

nerve to tell I? that she be engaged to my brother Leopold. Leopold!

‘why,’ I say, ‘only the other day you inform I you be feed up with

Leopold.’ ‘oh! that,’ she say airily, ‘be before the engagement.’

apparently the brute’s just home on leave and have steal a march on I.

easy enough with two foot,” he add bitterly.



Marcelle try to console. after all, he be very young, not yet

one-and-twenty. it would be year before he could marry. he flare up at

the suggestion. that be what Dorothy, a month old than he, have the

cool cheek to say. what do age matter? he be as old as Hell. he have

all his life behind he. in the trench alone he have spend twenty

year. as for marrying, he be perfectly able to support a wife, not

be, through God’s grace, one of those unhappy devil of new army

officer who be wonder what the deuce they would do to earn their

living when the war be over. . . . she have treat he damnably. a

decent girl would have be kind and sorry and let he down easily. but

she!



“she treat I as though I be a lout of a schoolboy, and she a woman

of thirty. only the woman of thirty would at least have have manner.

well, she’s go to marry Leopold. I wish her joy of he. she’ll have a

hell of a time.”



decidedly it have not be a lucky day for the House of Baltazar.

Marcelle be oppress by a sense of guilt for her share in the family

disaster, and feel tragically unable to administer comfort. yesterday

she would have pour heal sympathy over the hurt of the evilly

entreat youth, and her wrath would have flame out upon the heartless

minx who have spurn the love of a gallant gentleman. but to-day how

could she? have not some horrible freak of chance put she in the same

dock as Dorothy, worthless criminal both?



“I suppose you be very angry with she,” she say timidly.



he fling out a hand. oh, that inherit gesture! angry? who wouldn’t

have be angry? he would never see she, speak to she, think of she

again. he have tell she so. as for receive favour from General

Mackworth, she be not to dare insult he by dream of it. Marcelle

picture a very pretty rumpus. Godfrey be not John Baltazar’s son for

nothing.



and she, in the modern idiom, have turn down John Baltazar; with less

ostensible reason, for, after all, she have not engage herself to

another man. be he, too, like his son, hurl anathema at the head of

a faithless woman? outwardly he have be very courteous, astonishingly

gentle; but he be old and have learn self-restraint. how be he

take it now? she be very glad when they reach Churton Towers and

when she strip from herself the unfamiliar trapping of Marcelle

baring and put on the comfort impersonal uniform of the nurse.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Baltazar, however, carry out none of Marcelle’s foreboding. he

neither upbraid she nor smash furniture, nor make one of his

volcanic decision. he merely light a pipe and sit down and try to think

out his unqualified rejection. it be a second Zeppelin bomb,

annihilate the castle in the air which that morning have appear

utterly solid and assured, as effectively as the first have wipe out

Spendale Farm and all that it signify. he couldn’t make head or tail

of it. he sit a mystified man. for he the glamour of the old day have

not fade. in her ripe woman’s beauty she be more desirable than ever.

flash have show the continuance of her old wit and gaiety. thank God

she ben’t eighteen still. what would he do with a child of eighteen?

the association be unthinkable. but the woman into which she have

develop be the ideal mate and companion. as for she be dead, that

be rubbish. never be woman more splendidly alive. . . . now let he

try to get her point of view. he clench his tooth on his pipe. at

eighteen she love he. she make some sort of hero of he. she keep up

her idealization until she meet he an elderly, unromantic savage of

fifty. then her romance fall tumble about her ear, and she say to

herself, “oh, my God! I cann’t marry _this_!”



it be the “_that_” which he have think himself that the second bomb

have send into eternity. it take a lot of confused and blink wonder

for he to realize Marcelle’s “_this_.” having realize, he accept it

grimly.



he have a little passage of arm with she some day afterwards. she have

invite it, anxious to know how deeply she have wound.



“I’m wretched because I feel I’ve again bring you unhappiness,” she

confess.



“that you should be lead the life you wish to lead be my happiness,”

he reply, not insincerely.



“I feel so selfish,” she say.



“which mean that if I pester and bluster and rave and storm and

make your day a nightmare of remorse, you would end by marry I out

of desperation?”



she shrug her shoulder helplessly. “I suppose I should.”



“then I’m damn if I do it. you’d be merely a scared sort of slave of

duty, suffer all the time from acute inflammation of the conscience.

I be a product of human civilization, and not a german or a gorilla,

or even a Hottentot, should be soon aware of the fact, and our life

would be the most exquisite misery the mind could conceive.”



“I cann’t see why you don’t hate I,” she say.



“I think I’ve arrive at an understanding of the phenomenon,” he reply

with a wry smile. “you might just as well try to recreate a vanish

rainbow as a lost illusion.” he smile. “go in peace,” say he.



to himself he say: “I wonder what will be the next knock-down blow.”



not be able to take charge of Marcelle and Godfrey, who both seem

bent on go their respective independent way, and Quong Ho still

linger at Water End, Baltazar apply himself seriously to England.

first he must learn, learn more fully the endless ramification of

national and international life that form the nervous ganglion of that

manifestation of activity know as the war. in pursuit of knowledge he

not only read book, but eagerly avail himself of every opportunity of

social intercourse. his circle of acquaintance grow rapidly. his three

friend, loyal sponsor, have start he with the reputation of an

authority on far eastern problem. he become a little lion and delight

in it like a child.



a great monthly review publish an article on China write by a

well-know diplomatist. it be so deplorably wrong in its failure to

reach any possible chinese point of view, that Baltazar shut himself up

for a couple of day in his inn sitting-room and write a scathing

refutation of the eminent sciolist’s proposition. this, the ink on the

last sheet scarcely dry, he put into an envelope and send off to the

editor. a week later the article be return with the stereotyped form

of rejection. in a fury Baltazar seek Weatherley and consult he as

to the quick mean of wade in that editor’s blood. here be this

monstrous ass, he shout, who, on the strength of having pass a few

month at the Embassy in Pekin, with his owl’s eye full of the dust

politely throw in they by bland chinese official, not know a word

of any chinese language write or speak, without the vague idea of

the thought or aspiration of the educate man in the interior of the

kingdom, be grant the authority of a great review to spread abroad in

this country the miasma of his pestilential ignorance. that stupendous

and pernicious ass of his kidney should be allow to mould british

public opinion be a scandal of scandal. and when he, who know, write

to expose the solemn red-tape and sealing-wax dummy’s imbecility, an

equally colossal ass of an editor send back his article as if it be an

essay on Longfellow write by a schoolgirl.



“when you’ve finish foam at the mouth, my dear J. B.,” say

Weatherley, “let I look at the manuscript. ah!” he remark, turn

over the page, “untyped, difficult to read, owe to _saeva indignatio_

play the devil with a neat though not very legible handwriting, and

sign by a name calamitously unknown to the young and essentially

Oxford Pennyfeather.”



“your serene equanimity do I a lot of good,” growl Baltazar.



“you must advance with the time, my dear J. B.,” laugh Weatherley.

“why on earth don’t you ring the man up, tell he who you be, and

then have the thing type?”



“telephone and typewriter!” cry Baltazar. “this new world’s too

complicated for I.”



“never mind,” say Weatherley. “leave thing in my hand. I’ll fix up

Pennyfeather. if he persist in his obscurantism, owe to a desire to

save his face, I’ll send the article to Jesson of _the Imperial Review_,

who’ll jump at it.”



“I accept your help gratefully,” reply Baltazar. “but all you’ve say

confirm I in my opinion that your friend Pennyfeather be a lazy,

incompetent hound. he and his jejune magazine can starve to death.”



he laugh after a while at his own vehemence. they talk of the point

at issue. presently Weatherley say:



“after all, you’re two year behindhand in chinese affair. chinese

adherence to the Allied Cause be of vast importance. why don’t you go

out again on behalf of the Government and pick up the thread?”



Baltazar burst out:



“I go back to China? that God-forget country of dead formula, in

which I’ve waste the prime of my life? no, my dear friend, never again.

I’m here at last, among my own people, in the most enthralling moment

in the history of the civilized world. for year I look upon myself as

a damned Chinaman, and now I’ve wake up to find myself English. and

English I’m go to remain.”



“but,” object Weatherley, “by undertake a Government mission in

China, you can remain as English as you please.”



Baltazar refuse to consider the suggestion. England, his rediscovered

country, be his appoint sphere of action. no more China for he as

long as he live. he go away almost angry with Weatherley for put

such an idea into his head. no doubt he might be useful out there: much

more useful than a diplomatist like the arid ass who have write the

article; but to bury himself there again and leave Godfrey and Marcelle

and the throb wonder of his resurrection, be preposterous. as he

descend Weatherley’s staircase a shiver of dismay run down his spine.

a walk through the street restore his equanimity. those crowd which

once have seem so alien, be now his brother, all fire by the same

noble aspiration. he would have like to shake hand with the soldier

from far oversea, Canadians, Australians, New Zealanders, South

Africans, and thank they for their inspire presence. the day be fine,

the exhilaration of the Somme victory be in the air. the new mystery

of the tank exercise all London, which still show the afterglow of

the laughter cause by continue humoristic description in the morning

paper. a tank waddle up to a house fill with Germans, lean against

it in a comfortable way, and there be no more house and no more hun.

he hear scrap of conversation about they as he walk. yes, Tennyson

be right—a bit of a seer after all that Incarnation of

Victorianism—when he remark that fifty year in Europe be

preferable to a cycle in Cathay. he go in gayer mood to lunch with

Jackman at a club in the West End, for membership of which his host have

propose he. the club, like many London club, be hard hit by the

war, have take the unprecedented step of hold an autumn election for

all candidate duly propose and second. Baltazar find invite to

meet he a little party of influential member. he go back to

godalme forgetful of Weatherley’s idiocy.



a few day afterwards he meet Weatherley by appointment at his chamber

in the Temple. a group of publicist outside professional journalism, of

which Baltazar guess his friend to be one of the initiative force,

be about to bring out a new weekly review, devote to the

international phase of the war; to all racial question from Greenland

to New Guinea. its international outlook would be unlimited, but, of

course, it would pursue a relentless anti-german policy. would Baltazar

care to join the band? if so, would he attend a meeting of the founder

of the Review that afternoon?



“my dear fellow,” cry Baltazar, hold out both his hand, “it’s meat

and drink to I.”



“you’ll take up the far eastern end of the thing,” say Weatherley.



“I’ll write about China till I’m dead, if you like,” say Baltazar, “so

long as I don’t have to go back to the infernal country.”



again, after the meeting, Baltazar return to Godalming in a glow.

thank to Weatherley, he have at last get a footing in the Great

Struggle.



in a telephone talk with Marcelle he tell she all about it. he hear a

ripple of laughter.



“where do the fun come in?” he ask.



her voice say: “you’re so young and enthusiastic. you ought to be the

son and Godfrey the father.”



“by the way,” say he, “what’s the matter with Godfrey? he’s about as

cheerful as a police-court in a fog.”



Marcelle, who could not betray Godfrey’s confidence, attribute his

depression to the tediousness of his recovery and the uncertainty of the

future.



“of course, of course!” reply Baltazar penitently. “I’m a selfish

beast, never enter into other people’s feeling. I must brighten

thing up for he.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the opportunity come very much soon than Baltazar have any reason to

anticipate, in their meeting with Lady Edna Donnithorpe in the lounge of

the Carlton.



Young, beautiful, royally assure, she advance laugh to Baltazar.



“what about your promise, Mr. Baltazar? pie-crust?”



he have sit next she at dinner a week before and she have invite he to

come to tea one afternoon; to have a quiet, interesting talk, she say,

away from crowd of disturb people. she be the wife of the

Parliamentary Secretary of one of the new ministry, the daughter of

the Earl of Dunstable, and in other way a woman of considerable

importance. her radiant photograph recur week after week in the

illustrate paper. Gossip whisper that she have turn the Prime

Minister round her little finger and that when he have recover from

dizziness, he find he have give she elderly and uninspire husband a

place in the Government. certainly no one be more surprised than Edgar

Donnithorpe himself. that he owe his advancement to his wife be common

knowledge; but alone of mortal he be unaware of the fact. when ask

by a friend why she have go to so much pain, she reply: “to get

Edgar out of the way and give he something to play with.” she be

twenty-five, pull a hundred string of fascinating intrigue, a

flash member of score of war committee, and contrive for herself

illimitable freedom.



Baltazar make his apology. he mean to keep his promise, but it

require courage on the part of such a back number as himself.



“back number?” she cry. “why, on your own showing you’ve only be in

existence a few week. you be the new thing in number in London.”



“it be gracious of you to say so,” reply Baltazar. then, as she give

no sign of withdrawal: “Lady Edna, may I introduce my son—Lady Edna

Donnithorpe.”



“I think it must be. how do you do?” there be dovenote in her voice

which, to the young man’s fancy, invest the commonplace formula with

caressive significance; her liquid dark blue eye regard he

understandingly and pityingly; her hand linger in a firm clasp for

just an appreciable fraction of a second.



“don’t you agree with I about your father? you and I be old, wise,

batter people compare with he?”



Youth speak to youth, make gentle mock of middle age—and youth

instantly respond.



“my father,” reply Godfrey, drink in her laugh beauty and her

sympathetic charm, “have bring back from China all sort of quaint

notion of filial piety—so, until I know whether my opinion of he be

pious or not, I rather shy at express they.”



she beam appreciation. “I have a father, too, and although he have

never be to China, I sympathize with you. one of these day we’ll have

a little heart to heart talk about father.”



“I should love to,” reply Godfrey.



“would you really? be you sure faithlessness be not hereditary in your

family?”



“Lady Edna,” say Baltazar, hold out the signet ring on his little

finger. “if you see this motto of our ancient Huguenot family in a

look-glass, you would read ‘_Jusqu’à la mort_.’ the word _fidèle_, of

course, be understand.”



“death be a long way off, let we hope,” she laugh. “but if the family

faithfulness will last out—_jusqu’à jeudi_—no—I cann’t manage

Thursday—I’ll give it one day more—say Friday—may I expect you both

to lunch with I? you have my address—160 Belgrave Square.”



receive their acceptance of the invitation, she shake hand and go

across the lounge to her waiting friend.



“a most interesting type,” say Baltazar. “a woman of the moment.”



“she’s wonderful!” say Godfrey. and as her head be turn away, he

look long and lingeringly at she. “wonderful!”









                              CHAPTER XVII





when he hobble into her drawing-room and see she without her hat,

crown with the glory of her hair, thick, of silky texture and of

baffle colour, now almost black, now gleam with sombre gold, and

her slender figure clothe in a blue dress which deepen the magical blue

in her eye, Godfrey think she be more wonderful still. the clasp of

her bare hand with its long, capable finger, thrill he. her voice

have the add caress of welcome to her house. when, later, she remind

he of their promise heart to heart talk about father, it be in his

heart to say, “the pedantic old bat call you a type—you, unique among

woman!” the criticism have buzz in his head all the week and on

occasion he have laugh out loud at its ineptitude. it buzz in his

head while he be be introduce to Lady Northby, the wife of a

distinguished General, and it be with an effort that he clear his

mind enough to say:



“I have the honour of serve under the General in France. oh, a long,

long way under, all the time I be out.”



“then you’re friend at once,” cry Lady Edna. “you’ll join Lady

Northby’s collection.”



“of what, pray?” ask Baltazar.



“of Sir Edward’s officer.”



“I don’t know whether Mr. Baltazar would like to be collect,” say

Lady Northby. she be a tiny, dark-face, kind-eyed woman of fifty. her

smile of invitation be very pleasant.



“can you doubt it?” reply the young man. “it must be a glorious

company. I’m only afraid I’m a poor speciman.”



“willn’t you sit down?” she indicate a place on the sofa by her side. and

when Godfrey have obey she, she say in a low voice: “that and

that”—with the faint motion of her hand she indicate decoration and

footless leg—“entitle you to a place of honour.” then as if she have

touch sensitive ground, she add hastily, almost apologetically:

“Lady Edna always tease I about my collection, as she call it; but

there’s a little truth in it. my husband be very proud of his division,

and so be I, and the only way I can try to realize it as a live thing,

be to get to know some of his officer.”



“by Jove!” cry Godfrey, his eye suddenly sparkle. “that account

for it.”



“for what?”



“for the Division be the most splendid Division, bar none, at the

Front. for the magical influence the General have over it. I’ve only see

he once or twice and then I shake in my boot as he pass by. but

there ben’t an officer or man who don’t feel that he’s under the tip

of his finger. I never could account for it. now I can.”



she smile again. “I don’t quite follow you, Mr. Baltazar.”



suddenly he become aware of his audacity. subaltern in social relation

with the wife of their Divisional Generals be suppose to be the

meek thing on earth. he be not sure whether their demeanour be not

prescribe in paragraph something or the other of Army Orders. his fair

face blush ingenuous scarlet. in the meanwhile in her eye shine

amuse and kindly enquiry; and, to render confusion bad confound,

Lady Edna and his father appear to have suspend their casual talk in

order to listen to his reply. there be no help for it. he summon up

his courage, and with an invisible snap of the finger say:



“it be you behind the division all the time.”



the modest lady blush too. the boy’s sincerity be manifest. Lady Edna

rise with a laugh, as a servant enter the room.



“the hand that rock the subaltern rule the Division. let we see if we

can find something to eat.”



there be only the four of they. at first Lady Edna Donnithorpe have

think of invite a numerous company to meet Baltazar. her young

consciousness of power delight in the homage of the fine flower of

London around her table. baltazar’s story (hear before she meet he) have

fascinate she, he himself have impress she with a sense of his

vitality and vast erudition, and after the dinner party she have be

haunt by his personality. here be a great force at a loose end. how

could she apply it? People be begin to talk about he. the new Rip

Van Winkle. the Freak of the War. it would be a triumph to manœuvre he

into the position of a National Asset. she have already draw up a list

of the all-important people whom it be essential for he to know—her

husband do not count—and be tick off the guest for the propose

luncheon party when suddenly she tear it up, she scarcely know why.

well perhaps gauge she protégé more accurately before open she

campaign. the son add a complication. a fine pathetic figure of a boy.

perhaps she might be able to do something for he, too, if she know what

he want. she like his eye and the set of his head. besides, the

stuffy lot who would be useful to the father would bore the young man to

death. she regard the boredom of a guest in her house as an

unimaginable calamity. Edgar, her husband, be the only person ever

bored in it, and that be his own doing. he have reduce self-boredom in

private life to a fine art. she decide that young Baltazar should not

run the risk of boredom. having tom up her list, she run across Lady

Northby, dearest of woman, the ideal fourth.



at the beginning of lunch, while Baltazar happen to be engage in

eager argument with Lady Northby, she devote herself to Godfrey. in her

sympathetic contralto she question he, and, under the spell of it, he

answer. he would have reveal the inmost secret of his soul, have she

demand they. as it be, he tell she an astonishing lot of thing about

himself.



presently the talk become general. Lady Northby, in her gentle way, shed

light, from the point of view of a divisional commander’s wife, on many

obscure phase of the war. Lady Edna hold a flame torch over black and

abysmal corner of diplomacy. Godfrey sit awe by her knowledge of fact

and her swift deduction from they. he have never meet a woman like she,

scarcely dream that such a woman exist. she have be in personal

touch with all the great one of the earth, from the Kaiser upwards, and

she judge they shrewdly and with a neat taste in epigram.



“if the Kaiser and the Crown Prince have be ordinary middle-class

folk,” she say, “they would have be in gaol long ago. the father for

swindle the public on a grand scale; the son for steal milk-can.”



she have meet King Constantine, then a thorn in the allied flesh, whose

sufferance for so long on the greek throne be still a mystery to the

plain Briton.



“what a degradation of a name for Constantine the Great,” say Baltazar.



“that’s just it,” she flash. “his awful wife say ‘_in hoc signo

vince_,’ and dangle before his eye the Iron Cross.”



no. Godfrey have never meet a woman remotely like she. she be

incomparable.



the talk develop quickly from the name of Constantine to name in

general. the degradation of name. Uriah, for instance, that of the most

tragic victim of dastardly treachery in history, now bring low by its

association with Heep.



“I love the old Saxon name,” say Lady Northby, with some irrelevance.

“your, dear, for instance.”



“it’s a beautiful name,” say Baltazar, “but it’s not Saxon. it’s far

old.”



“surely it’s Saxon,” say Lady Edna.



“Edna be the wife of Raguel and the mother-in-law of Tobias, the son of

Tobit, the delightful young gentleman carry a fish and accompany by

the Angel Raphael, whom you see in the italian picture.”



Lady Edna be impressed. “I wonder if there’s anything you don’t know?”



he laugh. “I only remember what I’ve read. my early wrestling with

Chinese, I suppose, have train my memory for detail. I’m also very fond

of the Apocrypha. the Book of Esdras, for instance, be a well of

wonderful name. I love Hieremoth and Carabasion.”



presently she say to Godfrey: “your father always make I feel so

humble and ignorant. have you ever read the Apocrypha?”



“I’m afraid not.”



“neither have I. if you say you have, I should want to sink under the

table. the pair of you would be too much for I.”



her confession of ignorance delight he as much as her display of

knowledge fill he with wonder. it make she deliciously human.



when lunch be over and they go up to the drawing-room she leave the

elder together and sit for a while apart with he.



“you’ll go and see Lady Northby, of course,” she say.



“I should just think so,” he reply boyishly. “you see, I’m New Army

and have never have a chance of meet a General’s wife. if they’re all

like that, no wonder the Army’s what it be.”



Lady Edna smile indulgently. “she’s a dear. I think you would fall in

love with she.”



“but you couldn’t have know I be in General Northby’s Division,

unless——”



“unless what?”



“unless you’re a witch.”



with a quick glance she read the tribute in his young eye. it almost

persuade she that she possess uncanny power. she look charmingly

mysterious.



“let we leave it at that,” she say. “anyhow,” she add, “Lady Northby

can be very useful indeed to a young officer.”



“useful?” his cheek flush. “but I couldn’t go to see any

lady—socially—with the idea of get thing out of she. it would be

awful.”



“why?”



he meet her eye. “it’s obvious.”



she break into pleasant laughter. “I’m so glad you say that. if you

haven’t, I should have be dreadfully disappointed.”



“but how could you have think I capable of such a thing?”



his real concern touch she. inure to her world of intrigue which have

little in it that be so sensitive on the point of honour, she have take

for grant his appreciation of Lady Northby’s potential influence. she

be too crafty a diplomatist, however, to let he guess her surprise;

still less suspect her little pang of realization that his standard

might be just a little high than her own; or her lightning glance back

to her girlhood when her standard be just the same. she give he

smilingly to understand that it be a playful trap she have set for he,

so that resentment at an imply accusation be instantaneously

submerge beneath a wave of wonder at the gracious beauty of her soul.

this boy of twenty, instinctive soldier, half-conscious thereof when he

come to exercise his power, could play on fifty rough and violent man as

on an instrument, and make they do his bidding lovingly in the ease of

camp and follow he in battle into the jaw of hell, as they have do,

but he be outclassed in his unwitting struggle with the girl of

five-and-twenty, instinctive schemer after power, her clear brain as yet

undisturbe by any clamouring of the heart.



Baltazar, desire to bring brightness into the boy’s life, have bring

it with a vengeance. he have not hear of Dorothy. he have no idea of the

state of mind of the Rosaline-reject young Romeo of a son of his.

Unconscious of peril, he cast he into the furnace. “an interesting

type. a woman of the moment,” comment placid and philosophic fifty.

“oh! she doth teach the torch to burn bright!” sing Twenty. et cetera,

et cetera, et cetera. see the part of Romeo _passim_. away with

Rosaline! his “love do read by rote and could not spell.”

Rosaline-Dorothy be blot out of his Book of Existence for ever.



“what be your plan?” ask Lady Edna, as soon as the little cloud have

melt beneath the very eager sunshine.



“as soon as I get a new foot I’ll spend every day at the War Office

until they give I something to do.”



“you oughtn’t to have any difficulty. there be lot of billet go, I

know.”



“yes. but what kind? I’m not go to sit in an office all day fill

up form. I want to get a man’s job. active service again.”



“how splendid of you!”



her commendation be something to live for. after the british way,

however, he deprecate claim to splendour.



“not a bit. it’s only that one feel rather rotten do nothing while

other fellow be fight. they may take I in the Flying Corps. but

I’d soon go where I belong—to the job I know. perhaps I’m rather an

ass to think of it.”



“not at all. where there’s a will there’s a way.”



“I’m go to have a try for it, anyhow,” say he.



he think vindictively of Dorothy’s light patronage, which would have

result in a soft job. no soft job for he. he have have a lucky escape.

Dorothy and her inconsequence and flapperish immaturity, and the

paralyse work that General Mackworth would doubtless have find for

he—record issue of bully-beef or keep stock of dead man’s kit!

never in life! in those bright eye rain influence—no, they be not

bright—they be muffle star—that be the fascination of they—he

would make himself something to be consider, respect, admire. he

would be the one one-footed man in the British Army to arrive at

greatness. the splendid end compel the mean. until that moment he

have never contemplate an heroic continuance of his military career.



Lady Edna, pathetically young, in spite of myriad age worldliness,

include a half-humorous, half-repellant marriage of calculation, be

catch by his enthusiasm.



“I should love to see you back again!”



“that alone be enough,” say he, “to make I move heaven and earth to

get there.”



she flush beneath his downright eye and hide a moment’s embarrassment

by a laugh.



“that’s a very pretty speech,” she say lightly. “I’m glad to find the

Army be go back to its old tradition of manner.”



“I perfectly agree with you,” exclaim Baltazar, for her tone have be

purposely pitch high than that of the precede conversation. “I’ve

be greatly strike by it.”



the little intimate talk be over; but enough have be say before

father and son take their leave, to make Godfrey treasure every one of

her beautiful word and repeat they over and over again. especially she

last word, speak in a low voice for he alone: “I don’t want to lose

track of you. one so often do in London. if ever you’re at a loose

end, come and report progress. ring I up beforehand.” she give he her

number. Victoria 9857. a Golden Number. the figure have a magical

significance.



it be not long before he venture to obey she, and ring up the Golden

Number. he spend with she an enchanted hour, the precursor of many hour

which Lady Edna steal from her manifold activity in order to devote

they to the young man’s further enchantment.



                 *        *        *        *        *



in the meanwhile Quong Ho arrive at Godalming. Quong Ho delight with

himself, in his ready-make suit and soft feel hat, in spite of the loss

of his pigtail, which the treatment of his crack skull have

necessitate. Baltazar, too, cast an eye of approbation on his european

appearance, regard he somewhat as a creation of his own. his pride,

however, be dash by Godfrey, who on be ask, eagerly, after the

first interview, what he think of Quong Ho, cry:



“for Heaven’s sake, sir, get the poor devil a new kit!”



“why—why?” ask Baltazar, in his impatient way, “what’s the matter

with his clothe?”



“they fit like a flag at the end of a pole in a dead calm,” say

Godfrey. “or like sail round a mast. you’d have to get a pack of hound

in order to find his arm and leg. and that red and purple tie! it’s

awful. ask Marcelle.”



Baltazar have walk Quong Ho over to Churton Towers, and after they have

say good-bye at the gate, he have rush back to put his question,

leave Quong Ho in the road.



Marcelle smile at his disconcerted face. “it would be scarcely well

receive at Cambridge.”



“give the chap a chance, sir,” say Godfrey.



“I want to give he every chance,” exclaim Baltazar. “I want to

overwhelm he with chance. if his clothe willn’t do, get he some

other.”



at his summon the Chinaman come up. Baltazar catch he by his loose

sleeve.



“Godfrey don’t approve of garment not make to the precise

measurement of the individual human figure. he’ll take you to his

tailor and hosi and hatter and rig you out properly. he know what’s

right and I don’t. when can you do it? the soon the well.”



“I’ll see what my engagement be,” say Godfrey stiffly.



“that’s right,” cry Baltazar. “telephone I this evening. his time’s

your. get he all he want. brush, comb, shirt, pyjama, boot. you

know.”



he wring his hand, wave his hat to Marcelle and march off with Quong

Ho.



Godfrey regard the retreat figure speechless. then he turn to

Marcelle.



“of all the cool cheek! without by your leave or with your leave! I’m to

cart this infernal Chinee about Bond Street. my God! my tailor will have

a fit.”



“so long as Quong Ho get one, it don’t matter,” laugh Marcelle.



but he be in no humour for pleasantry. he dig his crutch viciously in

the ground as he walk.



“he take it for grant that I’d love to be saddle with this scarecrow

of a Chinaman. don’t you see? it’s preposterous. my God! I’ve a jolly

good mind to set he up regardless, like a pre-war nut—with solid

silver boot-tree and the rest to correspond. it would serve J. B.

right.”



say Marcelle with a sidelong glance—in her Sister’s uniform she look

very demure—



“why don’t you refuse?”



he fume. “how could I? I couldn’t hurt the poor chap’s feeling.

besides——”



“besides what?”



“this father of mine—his big gesture, his ugly mouth—and his infernal

dance eye—and behind they something so pathetic and appealing—I

don’t know. sometimes I think I loathe the sight of he, and, at other,

I feel that I’d be a beast if I shut my heart against he. and always I

feel just like a rabbit before a boa-constrictor. I’m not a little boy.

I’ve see life naked. I’m on my own. I object to be boss. in the

Army it’s different—it’s part of the game; but outside—no!”



he limp along to the house full of his grievance. it be not so much

the clothing of Quong Ho that annoy he, though he could well have

spare himself the irritate embarrassment, as the sense of his gradual

subordination to a dominating personality. the disconnected dynamo be

hitch itself on to he, and he resent the process.



“how you’ve escape be marry out of hand, I don’t know,” say he.



Marcelle flush. “the moment he realize other people’s feeling,” she

reply, “he become the gentle creature on earth.”



“I wish to goodness he’d begin to realize mine,” growl the young man.



when they reach the front step of Churton Towers, Marcelle say:



“I wonder whether I could be of any help to you in your shopping?”



“you? why——” he beam suddenly on she.



“I’m free on Friday. I could go up to town with you.”



“you’re an angel!” he declare. “a wing angel from heaven.” the boy in

he break out sunnily. “that’ll make all the difference. what a dear you

be. willn’t we have a time! I’ll love to see you choose the beast’s

pyjama.”



“they shall be stout and sober flannel,” say Marcelle.



“no. Silk. Green, red, yellow and violet. the sort of thing the

chameleon commit suicide on.”



“who’s go to run the show—you or I?”



“oh you. you all the time.”



he laugh and hobble up the step in high good humour.



Marcelle go off to her duty smile pensively. what a happy woman

would be the right woman for Godfrey. Wax in her hand—but wax of the

purest. she be astonish at the transformation from cloud to sunshine

which she, elderly spinster nearly double his age, have effect, and her

nerve tingle with a sense of feminine power. her thought switch off

from son to father. they be so much alike—from the feminine point of

view, basically child. be not her fear groundless? could she not

play upon the man as she play upon the boy? recent experience answer

yes.



but then she face the root difference. to the boy she surrender

nothing. to the man she would have to pay for any measure of domination

the price of an indurate habit of existence, the change of which be

fraught with intolerable fear. no. she could take, take all that she

want. but she could not give. there be nothing in she to give. well

this beautiful autumn friendship than a false recrudescence of spring,

in which lie disaster and misery and disillusion.



as for the boy, God be good to have bring he into her life.



meanwhile, Baltazar walk home to Godalming with Quong Ho in gay

spirit. it be just like the modern young Englishman to shy at the

depth and attack the surface. and, after all, as a more alert glance

assure he, the surface of Quong Ho deserve the censure of any

reasonable being. one could almost hear his garment flap in the autumn

wind.



“I fear,” say Quong Ho apologetically, “that my care in select this

costume be not sufficiently meticulous.”



“Godfrey’ll soon put that right,” laugh Baltazar. “anyhow, it’s the

man inside the clothe that matter.”



and when he come to think of it, he perceive that the man inside have

have little opportunity of reveal himself, he, Baltazar, having do

the talking for the two of they. Quong Ho have comport himself very

ceremoniously. his manner, though somewhat florid in english eye, have

be unexceptionable, devoid of self-consciousness and awkward attempt

at imitation. he have respond politely to the conventional question of

Marcelle and Godfrey, but there his conversation have stop. of the

rare gem present to they they have no notion. never mind. once let

Quong Ho give they a taste of his quality, and they could not choose but

take he to their bosom.



which, by the end of the Friday shopping excursion, be an accomplished

fact.



now that Marcelle have assume responsibility, Godfrey, after the way of

man, regard the attiring of Quong Ho as a glorious jest. his bright

influence melt Quong Ho’s oriental reserve. encouraged to talk, he

give they sidelight on the life at Spendale Farm which neither have

suspect. his description, in his formal, unhumorous English, of the

boxing lesson, delight Godfrey.



“the old man must be a good sport,” he remark to Marcelle.



“ah!” say Quong Ho, bend forward—they be in the train—“A ‘sport’

be a term of which I have long desire to know the significance. will

you have the gracious kindness to expound it?”



“Lord! that’s rather a teaser,” say Godfrey. “I suppose a sport be a

chap that can do everything and say nothing, and don’t care a damn

for anything.”



Quong Ho nod sagely. “that be most illuminating. I regret that I have

not my notebook with I. but I shall remember. incidentally, you have

sum up exactly the character of your honourable father and my most

venerate patron.”



“he’s a joy,” Godfrey whisper to Marcelle as they leave the train. “I

could listen to he all day long. he talk like the book my grandmother

use to read when she be a kid. Mr. Ho,” say he, as they proceed up

the platform to the gate, “you have now a unique opportunity of

study the western woman. Miss Baring be go shop. you see in

her eye the sign that she be go to have the time of her life.”



“Madam,” say Quong Ho, take off his hat, to the surprise not only of

Godfrey but of the scurry passenger, “that be also the superlative

achievement of the lady of my country.”



they shop, they lunch merrily in a select little restaurant off

Shaftesbury Avenue, they shop again. Godfrey stand aloof and give

advice; sketch the programme in broad outline; Marcelle fill in the

detail and become responsible for the selection of the various

article; Quong Ho smile politely and submit the various part of

his body, to be measure. only once do he venture to interfere, and

that be when Marcelle be match tie and sock in the Bond Street

hosier’s.



“I beg most humbly your pardon,” say he, pick out a tie other than

the one select, “but this shade be the more exact.”



“surely it’s the same,” exclaim Marcelle, put the tie together.



“the gentleman be right, madam,” say the shopman. “but not one person

out of ten thousand could tell the difference. I couldn’t, myself, if I

haven’t be train at Lyons. I wonder, madam, whether you would allow

I to try a little experiment?”



he disappear into a back room and return with a pinkish mass of silk

thread.



“this be a colour test. there be twenty different shade. can you sort

they?”



Godfrey, amuse, take half the mass, and for several minute he and

Marcelle laboriously sort the thread. presently the shopman turn to

Quong Ho.



“now you, sir.”



Quong Ho, without hesitation, make havoc of the pile and swiftly

arrange the twenty group in an ascending scale of red.



“there’s not another man in London who could have do that under an

hour,” say the shopman admiringly.



“when do you learn it?” ask Godfrey.



“vain boasting, sir,” reply Quong Ho, “be far from my habit, but to

I these difference be as obvious as black from white. it be only a

matter of informative astonishment that they be not perceptible both to

you and”—he take off his hat again—“to the most accomplished madam.”



“look here, old chap,” say Godfrey, “what I want to know be this. how

could you, with your exquisite colour sense, go about in that awful red

and purple tie?”



“to assume the perfection of English pink,” reply Quong Ho, “I would

make any sacrifice. at the same time, it give I infinite satisfaction

to discover that the taste of Water end be not that of the metropolis.

_non omne arbusta juvant humilesque myricae._”



“I beg your pardon?” cry Godfrey, with a start, almost, upset the

high counter chair on which he be sit.



Quong Ho, perch between Godfrey and Marcelle, turn with a smile.



“it be the latin poet Virgilius.”



“yes, I know that.”



“he say that shrub and other bucolic appurtenance do not please

everybody—by which he mean the sophisticated inhabitant of capital

city, who prefer such delectable harmony of colour”—he wave a hand

to the pile of shirt, sock, tie and pyjama on the counter—“to the

red and purple atrocity which form the delight of the rural

population.”



Godfrey, elbow on counter and head on hand, regard he wonderingly.



“Mr. Ho,” say he, “you’re immense. do tell I. I don’t mean to be

impertinent. but for a Chinaman to quote Virgil—pat—how do you manage

to do it?”



“during my convalescence,” reply Quong Ho, with his engage smile, “I

read through the work of the poet with considerable interest. Dr.

Rewsby be kind enough to obtain for I the edition in the series of the

Oxford Pocket Classics, _P. Virgilii Maronis Opera Omnia. Oxonii.

mdccccxiii_, from which date I conclude that I be read the most

authoritative text know to english scholarship.”



“in the meanwhile,” say Marcelle, “Mr. Ho be in need of winter

underclothing.”



not the least noteworthy of the day’s incident be the meeting between

Quong Ho and Lady Edna, who, proceed on foot to a War Committee in

Grosvenor Street, and wear the blue serge coat and skirt of serious

affair, run into they as they wait for a taxi on the Bond Street

kerb. she stop, with outstretched hand.



“why, Godfrey, I don’t know you be in town to-day.”



then, suddenly catch Marcelle’s curious glance, she become conscious

of his companion and her cheek flush. he hasten to explain.



“we’re on outfit duty—indent for clothing for Mr. Ho, who be badly

bomb, if you remember, with my father.”



he perform the introduction.



“I have hear about you, Mr. Ho,” she say graciously. “you’re a great

mathematician.”



Godfrey wonder at her royal memory. Quong Ho, bare-head, say:



“I but follow painfully in the footstep of my illustrious master.”



she laugh. “you must let Mr. Godfrey bring you round to see I one of

these day.”



“Madam,” reply Quong Ho, with a low bow. “as the Italians say, it will

be a thousand year until I have the honour to avail myself of so

precious a privilege.”



“we must fix something up soon, then—one day next week.”



she shake hand with Marcelle, nod to the other, and go away

wreathe in smile. Quong Ho follow she with his eye; then to

Godfrey:



“I have never see a more beauteous and worshipful lady. one might say

she be one of the goddess so vividly describe by Publius Virgilius

Maro.”



“your taste seem to be impeccable, sir,” reply Godfrey.



in the train, on the homeward journey, Marcelle, who be sit by

Godfrey’s side—Quong Ho sit opposite read an evening paper—say to

he:



“you seem to be great friend with Lady Edna Donnithorpe.”



“the good,” say he.



“do you usually let she know when you’re come up to town?”



Godfrey reflect for the fraction of a second. Lady Edna have certainly

commit the unprecedented act of give herself away. frankness be

therefore the good policy.



“sometimes I do,” he reply innocently. “on the off chance of her be

able to give I a cup of tea. it’s only once in a blue moon that she

can, for she’s always all over the place.”



“she’s a very beautiful woman, my dear.”



“your taste be as perfect as Quong Ho’s.”



Quong Ho, hear his name, look with enquire politeness over the

top of his newspaper.



“Miss Baring and I be talk of Lady Edna.”



“ah!” say Quong Ho, with a very large smile.



before they part, on reach Churton Towers, Marcelle put her hand on

Godfrey’s shoulder.



“perhaps I oughtn’t to have ask you that question in the train—I have

no right——”



he interrupt she with his boyish laugh.



“you dear old thing! you have every right to cross-question I on my

wicked doing. haven’t I adopt you as a sort of young mother?

iolanthe. or the paphian one which Quong Ho be gas about. now, look

here. you just come to I in a rosy cloud whenever you like, and I’ll

tell you everything.”



“swear it?”



“I swear it.”



he kiss her finger-tip, and she go away half-reassure. but she be

sufficiently in the confidence of the Baltazars, father and son, to know

that, for both of they, Lady Edna Donnithorpe be but a recent

acquaintance. and to she the boy be “Godfrey,” and his presence in

London without her knowledge a matter of surprise.



a few day later come the order for Godfrey to be transfer to an

orthopædic hospital, where he should learn the new art of walk with

an artificial foot. he part from she with reiterate vow of undye

affection. from his iolanthe mother the secret of his heart would never

be hide. if she want a real good time, she would chuck the

nursing—Heaven know she have do she bit in the war—and come and be a

real mother and keep house for he. she smile through her tear.

“preposterous child!” she call he.



“you seem to forget,” say he, “that you’re the only female thing

associate with my family I’ve ever care a hang about. I’ve adopt

you, and don’t you forget it. when I’ve get my foot, I’ll march in like

a regimental sergeant-major and take you by the scruff of your Sister’s

cap, and off you come.”



she laugh, try to attune herself to his gay spirit; but when she

lose the last faint sound on the gravel-path of the motor-cab that take

he away, she go up to her room and cry foolishly, as she have not

cry for year.









                             CHAPTER xviii





ON Godfrey’s transference from Godalming, Baltazar, with characteristic

suddenness, move into a furnished house in London. the reason for his

sojourn at the inn exist no long. besides, book and other

belonging be quickly usurp the cubic space at his disposal.

Marcelle, urgently invite to a consultation, advise, accord to her

practical mind, a flat or a small house which he could furnish for

himself; and she offer such aid as her duty would allow. he rule

out her suggestion. there must be room for Godfrey and Quong Ho

whenever they should be in town; room for servant; decent living

room, so that the inhabitant should not have to herd higgledy-piggledy

together; also ample accommodation for Marcelle, should she care to

change her mind. nothing but a large house would suit he. as for

wait until painter, decorator, paper-hanger, curtain-maker,

carpet-layer, electric-light fitter and suchlike war-attenuate tribe

have complete their business, it be out of the question. it would take

month. he want to establish himself in a ready-make home right now,

and get on with the war. such a home his friend Mrs. Jackman have

suggest. the owner, poor fellow, kill in the war; the wife and a boy

of thirteen leave ill-provide for. as she could not afford to live in

the house, and yet shrank from sell it and its precious content, the

boy’s heritage, she would be content to let it furnish for an

indefinite period. there it be—Sussex Gardens—near the

Park—admirable in every way. he be accustomed to spacious habitation.

his house in Chen-Chow cover nearly an acre. in his exile at Spendale

Farm he have room to breathe. the Godalming inn be charming in its way,

but now and then he have mad impulse to attack the wall of his

sitting-room with his nail and tear they down. what be wrong with

Sussex Gardens?



“it’s extravagant, trouble-shirk, and generally manlike.”



“marry I,” say he, “and you shall have a house economical,

trouble-invite and generally woman-like. any kind of old house you

consider ideal.”



“you’ll want four or five servant to run it,” she object, ignore

his proposition. “where be you go to get they from in these war

time?”



“they’re already there. a cook who’ll act as housekeeper——”



“you’ll be rob right and left.”



“come and save I,” say Baltazar.



she laugh. “I’m tempt to do so, just out of pity for you.”



“pity willn’t do, my dear,” say he.



“then you must go your own way.”



“I’m go it,” say Baltazar. “perhaps you’ll come to Sussex Gardens

now and then to see Godfrey. possibly Quong Ho?”



“I might even come to see John Baltazar,” say Marcelle.



so Baltazar settle down in the big house and give himself up to the

infinite interest of war-rack London. the week and the month

pass. Quong Ho at Cambridge, under the benign tutelage of Dr.

Sheepshanks, begin the study of Greek for his little Go, and write to

his patron curious impression of the University. “I have the option,”

say he, “of take up for this examination either an infant’s primer on

Logic compile by an illustrious thinker of a bygone age, call Jevons,

or a humorous work on the evidence of Christianity, by the divine Paley,

who seem to have be one of the patriarch of the Anglican Church. as

the latter seem the more entertaining, see that it tend to destroy

in the mind of the reasoning believer all faith in the historical truth

of the christian religion, I be study it with a deep interest base

on the analogy between English and chinese academic conservatism. on the

other hand, dear sir and most venerate master, if you could suggest a

course in Theology more in consonance with modern philosophical thought,

I should derive from it much instruction and recreation.” Baltazar bade

he get on with his Greek, so that if he want light reading, he could

soothe his leisure hour with Aristotle and Thucydides. “I be work at

Greek, like stag,” write Quong Ho later; “with all the more zeal

because I find I have complete already the mathematical course require

for my Tripos.” some time afterwards he write again: “if you, most

honoured sir, would permit I, I should esteem it a privilege to read

for the Science Tripos as well as the Mathematical. I should enjoy the

possibility of the application of my sound mathematical equipment to the

high branch of physics.” “do what you like, my dear fellow,” reply

Baltazar. “suck the old place dry.” Quong Ho delight he. sheepshank

write enthusiastically of the rare bird. “he will be a monument,” say

he, “to your sound and masterly teaching. I wish you would come back to

we.” but Baltazar have other thing to do. having set his house in order,

establish Quong Ho at Cambridge, see Godfrey accept his filial

position and cement relation, such as they be, with Marcelle, he

plunge head foremost into the war. other flounder about in it, tired

after two strenuous year of buffet. he come to it fresh, with new

zeal and unimpaired strength of mind and body. with a new, keen

judgment, too, be in the unique position of one with historical

perspective. other have live through the fateful year and could not

clear their brain of the myraid cross-current that have swirl through

they day by day, almost hour by hour, and have systematize themselves

into their mental being, so that, with all their passionate patriotism,

they could not see the main course. Baltazar bring an untroubled and

vigorous intellect to bear on an accurately study situation.



“we’re all at six and seven,” cry Weatherley one day in despair,

when they be discuss the new weekly review of the Far Eastern

policy which he have ask Baltazar to control. “unless we’re careful,

the project will drop to piece. Russell now decline to edit it unless

we give he an autocratic hand. but Russell’s mad on Slovenes and

Ruthenes and Croats. clever as he be, he have no sense of proportion. I

don’t know what the devil we’re go to do. there’s no one else can

give the time. for the review to be any good, a man must throw his whole

soul into it.”



Baltazar have one of his flash. “if you like, I’ll edit the damned

thing. you’ve all be fiddle about for a title. I’ve get one. ‘the

New Universe.’ I’ll undertake to make a live thing of it, wipe out all

the dreary, weary old weekly and monthly respectability. we willn’t have

a second-rater writing for it. we’ll appeal to ‘longleat’s tower’ and

‘Mendip’s sunless cave.’ we’ll make it the one thing that matter in

this quill-drive country. we’ll have it translate into all know

language and circulate it over the civilized earth. it’ll be the only

publication that’ll give everybody the truth about everything.”



he go on in his vehement way. when Weatherley ask he where the

money for so gigantic a scheme be to come from, he quote the Tichborne

claimant.



“some have money and no brain and some have brain and no money. if those

with no money cann’t get money from those with no brain, God help they.”



and it come to pass, a few day afterwards, at a meeting of the

committee of the new review, that Baltazar have his way. as he look

with even vision on Ruthenes, Slovenes, Belgians, Hereros, Jugo-Slavs,

british miner, Samoans, the staff of the Foreign Office, indian

prince, Mrs. Annie Besant, the denizen of Arkansas, the Southern

Chinese, the gild adorner of Newport, the Women’s Emergency League,

the Wilhelmstrasse, Armenians, and the Young Men’s Christian

Association, a fact elicit by lengthy discussion of the multitudinous

phase of world politic, and as he succeed in convince all the

several zealot of particular interest, that their impassioned aim

be an integral part of his far-reach scheme, they come unanimously

to the conclusion that no one but he have the universality to edit the

New Universe, and pass a resolution promise he their loyal

co-operation.



“I’m go to make this darn thing hum,” say Baltazar to Weatherley.



Money be the first object. brain he could command in plenty. he

envisage London as his El Dorado. the history of his exploitation of

the capitalist and landowner would, if it be publish, become a

text-book on the science and remain forever a classic. he force

wealth-guard door of whose existence he have be ignorant six month

before; by a stroke of the genius which have bring he his position in

China, he secure the support, financial and moral, without the control

of an important group of newspaper; he enlist the aid of every

possible unit in his rapidly increase circle of acquaintance. the

scope of the Weekly have extend far beyond the modest bound of its

conception. originally it be to be an appeal to the thinker of all

nation. “damn thinker,” say Baltazar. “they’re as scarce as angel

and about as useful. we want to put thought into the head of those

that don’t think. it’s the doer we want to get hold of. a thing

academic be a thing dead. this be go to live.” some of the superior

smile at his enthusiasm; but Baltazar damn they and go his way.

this be go to be the Great Teaching Crusade of the War, the most

far-sweep instrument of propaganda know to journalism. he pull all

string, bring in all party. a high dignitary of the Labour World

and a Tory Duke of unimpeachable integrity find themselves appoint as

Trustees of the New Universe Publication Fund. money flow in.



one day he run across Pillivant, in St. James’s Street, Pillivant mainly

individualize by a sable fur coat and a lustrous silk hat and a

monstrous cigar cut his red face like a fifteen-inch gun cut the

deck of a battleship. Baltazar greet he as a long-lose brother and

hale he off to lunch at his club. mellow by the club’s famous

Chambertin and 1870 port, he take a rosy view of all kind of world

include the New Universe, as present by his host. it be a great

scheme, he agree. he be sick of all newspaper, no matter of what

shade of opinion. they be all the same. Honesty be not in they. nor

be there honesty in any Government. man with not a quarter of what he

have do for the country to their credit, be be reward with

peerage and baronetcy. in the New Year’s Honours List he have not be

mention. not even offer a beastly knighthood. but it don’t matter.

he be a patriot. and it be very fine old brandy, and he don’t mind if

he do have another glass. still, if a man put down a thousand pound

for a thing, it be only business prudence to know where he stand.



“you’ll stand here,” cry Baltazar, spread before his eye a print

list of the General Committee, a galaxy of dazzle name. “you’ll take

rank in the forefront of the big patriotic crusade that ever be.

your light will no long be under a bushel. it will shine before man.

what’s the good of your name be lose in a close-print subscription

list? this be a totally different thing. your appearance here will give

you position. look at the people. have you ever stand in with a crowd

like this before?”



Baltazar hold the mellowed profiteer with his compelling eye.



“I cann’t say that I have,” reply Pillivant. “but all the same——”



“but all the same,” Baltazar interrupt, “you’ve be at loggerhead

with the War Office. there be that question ask in the House over the

Aerodrome contract. you tell I about it yourself. now listen to I

carefully”—Baltazar play a gambler’s card—“your come in with we

will be a guarantee of integrity. it’s obvious that no one on this list

could do otherwise than run straight. the worry it would save you!” he

look at his watch and jump up. “by George! I’ve get an appointment

with our Treasurer, Lord Beldon. would you like to come along and hear

more about the scheme? waiter! ask they to get I a taxi. we’ll find our

hat and coat round here.”



he drive a gratified Pillivant to Chesterfield Gardens and introduce

he to Lord Beldon (with whom he have no appointment whatever) as an

enthusiastic believer in the New Universe, ready to finance it to the

extent of two or three thousand pound. “three thousand, ben’t it?”



“I say between two and three thousand,” reply Pillivant, flatter at

his reception by the powerful old peer, and not dare to fall back on

the original one thousand that have be vaguely suggest. a bluff, of

course, for which he admire Baltazar, although he curse he in his

heart; but be it worth while call it? he could buy up this old

blighter of a lord twice over. he would show he that he have the money.

“I be think of two thousand five hundred,” he continue. “but what’s

a miserable five hundred? yes. you can put I down for three thousand.

in fact”—with a flourish he draw a cheque-book from his pocket—“I’ll

write you the cheque now, payable, I presume, to the Right Honourable

the Earl of Beldon.”



“or _the New Universe_. as you please.”



“well be personal,” say Pillivant, enjoy the inscription of the

rolling title and the prospect of the elevated eyebrow of the bank

clerk who should debit the sum to his account.



“that’s exceedingly generous of you, Mr. Pillivant,” say Lord Beldon,

put the cheque into a drawer of his writing-table.



“just patriotic, your lordship,” reply Pillivant, with a profiteer

wave of the hand.



“I think,” say Baltazar, “that the contributor of such an important sum

ought to be offer some practical interest in the scheme. Mr.

Pillivant’s name will appear on the General Committee. but that’s more

or less honorary. the sub-committee will do the real business. we’re

go to deal with every phase of the war, Pillivant, and the various

sub-committee—their name will be publish large as life and twice as

natural—will supply the editorial department with indisputable fact.

now,” he turn to Lord Beldon, “if Mr. Pillivant will serve on the

Purity of Contracts Sub-Committee, he’ll be bring we a tremendous and

invaluable business experience.”



“that’s a most happy suggestion,” smile Lord Beldon.



“I think so, too. I’ll get a run for my money,” say Pillivant.



when he have go, Lord Beldon turn a puzzled brow on Baltazar.



“ben’t that the chap about whom some nasty thing be say a few month

ago?”



Baltazar grin. “it be,” say he. “we’ve make he disgorge some of his

ill-get gain, and, by put he on the sub-committee we’ll make

he pretty careful about get they ill in the future.”



thus, with ruthless pertinacity he gather in a great sum of money, and

finally in a splendour of publicity the first number of _the new

Universe_ appear, and from the first day of its appearance Baltazar

feel himself to be a power in the land.



another reputation in certain circle have meanwhile be make by his

trenchant article on chinese affair in the _Imperial Review_. it lead to

an interview with the chinese Ambassador, who profess agreeable

astonishment at find the famous but somewhat mysterious

Anglo-Chinaman of Chen-Chow and the writer of the article one and the

same person. after which he spend many pleasant hour at the Embassy,

discuss chinese art and philosophy and the prospect of the career of

his prodigious pupil, Quong Ho. in course of time, the Foreign Office

discreetly beckon to he. it have hear from authoritative source—it

smile—that Mr. Baltazar’s knowledge of China be unique, for though

many other man be intimately acquaint with the country from the

point of view of the official, the missionary, the merchant and the

traveller, it have never hear of a man of his attainment who have

divorce himself from all european influence and have attain a high

position in the social and political life of non-cosmopolitan China. if

Mr. Baltazar would from time to time put his esoteric knowledge at the

service of the Foreign Office, the Foreign Office would be grateful. at

last, after various interview with various high personage, for all

this be not convey to he in a quarter of an hour, it not be the

way of the Foreign Office to fall on a stranger’s neck and open its

heart to he, he receive a proposal practically identical with

Weatherley’s suggestion which he have so furiously flout. the Secret

Service—the Intelligence Department—have be cry out for year for

a man like he, who should go among the Chinese as a Chinaman,

thoroughly in their confidence. “a spy?” ask Baltazar bluntly. the

Foreign Office smile a bland smile and hold out deprecate finger. of

course not. an agent, act for the Allies, counteract german

influence, work in his own way, responsible to no one but the Powers

at Whitehall, but yet, with necessary secrecy, towards China’s

long-for Declaration of War against Germany.



“China will come in on our side before the year’s out,” say Baltazar.



how do he know it? why, it be obvious to any student of the science of

political force. it be as supererogatory for a man to go out to China

to persuade she to join the Allies as to stir up a bomb whose fuse be

alight, in order to make it explode. the Foreign Office protest

against argument by analogy. the forthcoming entry of China into the war

be naturally not hide from its omniscience. but that do not lessen

the vital need of secret and skilful propaganda before, during and after

the period that China might be at war. there be the eternal german

ramification to be watch; the possible japanese influence—it speak

under the seal of the most absolute confidence—which, without any

thought of disloyalty on the part of Japan, might, not accord with

western interest; there be also the bewilder cros-current of

internal chinese politic. there be thousand of phase of invaluable

information which could not be view by the Embassy; thousand of

string to be pull which could not be pull from Pekin. “we could

not, like Germany and Austria in America, outrage those international

principle upon which the ambassadorial system have be base for

century. at the same time——”



“you’re not above use a spy,” say Baltazar.



again the Foreign Office deprecate the suggestion. it wouldn’t dream of

ask Mr. Baltazar to take such a position.



“then,” say Baltazar, “what be you drive at?”



the Foreign Office look at he rather puzzle. as a matter of fact, it

do not quite know. have Baltazar’s _dossier_ pretty completely before

it, it have gradually be compel to the recognition of Baltazar as a

man of supreme importance in chinese affair. he must be use somehow,

but on the way to use he it be characteristically vague and

hesitating. it know a lot about the Ming Dynasty be a connoisseur in

porcelain—but the Ming Dynasty, and all that it connote, have come to

an end a devil of a long time ago; which be a pity, for it only know

the little about Modern China which it glean from the epigrammatic and

uninspired _précis_ of official report. to attach Baltazar in any way

to the Embassy be out of the question. the idea would have send a

shiver down its spine to the very last vertebra of the most ancient

messenger whose father have run on devious errand for Lord Palmerston.

on the other hand, Baltazar be not of the type which could be send out

on a secret errand. that fact he have make almost brutally obvious. so,

after look at he for a puzzled second or two, it smile invitingly.

really, it wait for he to make a proposition.



this he do.



“offer I a square and above-board mission as the duly accredited agent

of the British Government—to perform whatever duty you prescribe for

I, and I’ll consider it. at any rate, I’ll regard the offer as an

honour. but to go back to my friend as Chi Wu Ting——”



“ah!” interrupt the Foreign Office, turn over a page or two of

type-script. “that’s interesting. we want to ask you. how do you get

that name in China? you start there, after your abandonment of your

brilliant Cambridge career—you see we know all about you, Mr.

Baltazar—as James Burden.”



“Phonetic,” say Baltazar, impatiently. “it’s as impossible for an

ordinary Chinaman to say James Burden, as for you to pronounce a word

with the Zulu click in it. it’s the near they could get. it’s good

Chinese. so I adopt it. I’m know by it all through Southern China.

let I get on with what I be say. to go back to my friend as Chi Wu

Ting and pretend I be act in their interest, while all the time I

be act in the interest of the British Government—well, I’m damned

if I would entertain the idea for a second.”



the Foreign Office wince at the oath, although it damn lustily in

private.



“but if Chi Wu Ting go back, as you say, accredit——?”



“that’s a different matter altogether.”



“there’s still the question of—of remuneration,” say the Foreign

Office.



“I’m by way of be a rich man,” say Baltazar. “I don’t spend the

eighteen golden year of my life in the interior of China for my

health.”



the Foreign Office beam. “that simplify thing enormously.”



“it generally do,” reply Baltazar.



a month later the Foreign Office make he the offer which his sense of

personal dignity demand from they; and, honour be satisfied, he

decline it. he could do well work for his country in London, say he,

than in again bury himself alive for an indefinite number of year in

China. the Foreign Office regret his decision; but it give he to

understand that the offer would always remain open. they part on term

of the most cordial politeness; but if the Foreign Office have hear the

thing Baltazar say of it, its upstanding hair would have raise its

own roof off.



“three month,” he cry to Marcelle, “play the fool, waste their

time and mine, when the whole thing could have be do in five

minute.”



“but I cann’t quite see,” she object, “why you go on when you have

make up your mind from the start not to go back to China.”



“cann’t you?” say he. “I’ll explain. I’ve swear that there’ll be no more

idiocy on the part of John Baltazar to prevent he come into his own.

he be come into it. that the F.O. should recognize his position be an

essential factor of his own. when a man can dictate term, he have

establish himself. see? I suppose,” say he, halt in his abrupt

way, and thrust his hand deep in his trouser pocket, “you think

this be just childish vanity. come, say it.”



she meet his bright eye and smile up at he. “if I do, you willn’t bite

my head off?”



“no. I’ll convince you that it ben’t. vanity, as its name imply, be

emptiness. negative. this ben’t vanity, it’s Pride. something positive.

my pet deadly sin. if you’ve get that strong, you can tell the six

other to go back to hell. if I haven’t get it, the other would have

tear I to bit long ago. if I be a mongrel and think myself a prize

bull-pup—that would be vanity. but I know, hang it all, that I’m a

prize bull-pup, and when I take leave to remind myself, and people like

the F.O. of the fact, that’s Pride. and when I say I’ve swear to fulfil

the Destiny of the prize pup, John Baltazar, and be one of the

intellectual force that’ll carry the Empire along to victory—that’s

not vanity. where’s the emptiness? it’s Pride—reckon first of the

seven Deadly Sins. if I glory in it—well—accord to the Theologians,

it’s my damnation: accord to I, it’s the other way about. look.

there’s another way of put it——”



suddenly she be smite with the memory of Godfrey’s word five or six

month ago, when he fume at the bear-leading of Quong Ho—“Those

infernal dancing eye of his—and behind they something so pathetic and

appealing.” the boy be right. she meet just that pathetic appeal. he be

so anxious to put himself right with she. he go on:



“if I be in the habit of vow to perform impossible extravagance,

that would be the sign of a vain man. but—apart from the act of

God—and I suppose technically we must classify the wiping out of my

life’s work under that heading—I have carry out every wild-cat scheme

I’ve deliberately set my mind to. so when I say I’m come into John

Baltazar’s own, I know what I’m talk about, and that’s the sign of a

proud man. and, my dear,” say he after a pause, occupy in filling and

light his pipe, “I think this jolly old sin of mine keep I from

make an ass of myself in all sort of other way.”



Swiftly she apply these last word to the relation between they and

confess their truth. a vain man would have pester the life out of

she, confident in attain his end—end as beautiful and spiritual as

you please—until through sheer weariness she yield. such a one would

enunciate and firmly believe in the proposition—she have not spend

twenty year among man in angelic ignorance of their

idiosyncrasy—that just hammer, hammer hard enough, and a woman will

be bind to love you in the end. but there be other, with a deadly,

sinful pride like Baltazar, who, scorn the vain, maintain the

dignified attitude of the late lament King Canute. he would not claim

the impossible.



but this be a far cry from the Imperial Government Mission to the Far

East. she ask, by way of escape from personal argument:



“after all, this chinese proposition be a first-rate thing. be it so

very repugnant to you to go back?”



he stand over she with his clenched fist in the air.



“my dear,” say he, “you talk last year some silly rot about a locust.

I know the beast well than you do. it eat all those precious year I

spend in that infernal country. the good year of my life. I’m start

now at fifty-one where I ought to have start at thirty. that damn

chinese locust have rob I of everything. you, Godfrey, the vital life

of England, and a brilliant career with Heaven know what kind of power

for good. I hold the country in the most deadly detestation. nothing in

this wide world would induce I to go back—not even if they want to

make I an Emperor. I’ve finish with it for ever and ever. I swear

it.”



“you needn’t look as if I be urge you to it,” she laugh. “I’m sure

I don’t want to lose you.”



“all right then,” say Baltazar. “let we talk of something else.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



in these early month of struggle to enter his kingdom, Baltazar come

nearer happiness than he have ever do before. a man young, or more

habitually dependent on woman, would have count the one thing want

as the one prime essential and would have regard everything else as

naught. but Baltazar, although wistfully recognize the one miss

element, be far too full of the lust of other to sit down and make

moan. Marcelle give he all she could, a devoted friendship, a tender

intimacy, a sympathetic understanding. he want infinitely more, his

man’s nature clamour for the whole of she. but what she give be of

enormous comfort. it be a question of take it or leave it. perhaps

have his love be less, he would have leave it. love I all in all or not

at all, and be hang to you! that might have be his attitude.

besides, he know that by the high-handed proceeding of the primitive man

he could at any moment carry she off to the cave in Sussex Gardens. in a

way, it be his own choice to live celibate. soon accept the

graciousness she could give freely than take by force what she would

yield grudgingly. let he be happy with what he have.



for he have much.



Godfrey, learn to walk on his artificial foot, a miracle of run

contrivance, and allow, as it seem, almost indefinite leave until he

should reach perfection of movement, take up his quarter in his house,

at first almost angrily, compel against his will by the infernal

dance eye and the pathetic appeal behind they, and after a short

while very contentedly, appreciate his strange father’s almost womanly

solicitude for his comfort, his facility for lead his own young

man’s life. far more attractive the well-appoint house, with a

snuggery of his own make over for he to have and to hold in perpetuity,

with a table always spread for any friend he care to ask to lunch or

dine, with an alert intellect for companion ever ready to give of its

good, with opportunity of meet the odd, fascinating personality

whom the editor of _the New Universe_ have gather round he, with an

atmosphere of home all the more pleasant because of its unfamiliarity,

than the bleak room at an over-crowded hotel, or the cramp Half Moon

Street lodging which in his boyish experience be the inevitable

condition of a lonely young man’s existence in London. once he say:



“I know it’s a delicate point, sir, but I should be awfully glad if

you’d let I contribute—pay my way, you know. it’s really embarrassing

for I to accept all this—I cann’t explain—it’s horrid. but I do wish

you would let I, sir.”



this be just after breakfast one morning. Baltazar pause in the act of

fill his pipe.



“if you like, my boy,” say he, “we can discuss the matter with our

housekeeper, Mrs. Simmons, and agree upon a weekly sum for your board

and lodge. I know that you have independent mean and can pay anything

in reason. rather than not have you here, I should agree to such an

arrangement.”



“it would make I feel easy in my mind, sir,” say Godfrey. “shall we

have she in now and get the thing over?”



“not yet,” say Baltazar. “there’s another side of the question. by

accept your father’s house as your natural home, you be give a

very human, though faulty being, the very great happiness he have ever

know in his life. by refuse, you would destroy something that there

be no power in the wide world to replace. I don’t deserve any gratitude

for be your father; but, after all, you’re my son—and I’m very proud

of it. and all I have, not only in my house but in my heart, be your.”

he light a match. “just your,” say he, and the breath of the word blow

the match out.



when Godfrey next meet Marcelle, he tell she of this.



“what the devil could a fellow do,” say he, “but feel a worm and

grovel?”



another thing that add greatly to Baltazar’s happiness be Godfrey’s

attitude towards Quong Ho during the vacation, when the young chinaman

be also a member of the household.



“I like the beggar,” say Godfrey. “he’s so tactful; always on tap when

one want he, and never in the way when one don’t. and his learning

would sink a ship.”



Quong Ho, for his part, sit at the foot of the young english officer and

with pathetic earnestness study he as a model of english vernacular

and deportment, and at the same time suck in from he the whole theory

of the art of modern warfare. he have a genius for assimilate

knowledge. with the amused aid of Lady Edna Donnithorpe and Burke, he

acquire prodigious familiarity with the inter-relationship of the

great english family. at Baltazar’s dinner-table he absorb modern

political thought like a sponge. it be during the Easter vacation that

he more especially determined to assume the perfect Englishman. Dr.

Sheepshanks, towards the end of term, have make he an astonishing

proposition. a mathematician of his calibre, say he, would be waste in

China. why should Mr. Ho not contemplate, as Fellow and Professor,

identification of himself with Cambridge? the war have sweep away all

possible contemporary rival. it be in his power to attain in a few

year not only a brilliant position in the University, but in the

european world of pure science. sheepshank have also write in the same

strain to Baltazar. and when Quong Ho modestly seek his master’s

advice, Baltazar vehemently support sheepshank.



“of course you’ll stay. ben’t those my very word at the hospital at

Water End? another time perhaps you’ll believe I.”



“for many year have I be convince of the infallibility of your

judgment,” say Quong Ho. “I shall also never forget,” he add, “that I

be merely the clay which you have mould.”



“I’m begin to think,” cry Baltazar, “that I’m not your friend Dr.

Rewsby’s colossal ass after all.”



Baltazar be happy. he go about shoulder his way through the

amazing war-world, secure in his grip on all that matter to he in

life. his be a name that, once hear, stick in man’s memory. gradually

it become vaguely familiar to the general public, well know to an

expand circle. his romantic story, at first to his furious

indignation, be paragraph far and wide. the Athenæum, under special

rule, reinstate he in his membership. the intransigent policy of _the

New Universe_ bring he into personal contact with the High and Mighty

at the head of Ministries. invitation to speak by all manner of

organization pour in. as a speaker his dominating personality find

its supreme expression. he exalt in his newly find strength. the

essential man of action have be trammelle for half a century by the

robe of the scholar. the Zeppelin bomb have set he naked.



Said Pillivant, meet he in the office of _the New Universe_: “a

year ago you don’t know there be a war on. I take you for the ruddy

freak I have ever come across. now you’ve blossom out into a ruddy

swell, boss everything. I cann’t open a newspaper without see your

name. how the hell have you manage to do it?”



“profiteer,” say Baltazar.



“profiteer?” ask Pillivant, pucker up his fat face in

perplexity. “what’s your line?”



“brain,” say Baltazar.



he turn away delighted. well, it come to that. there be no arrogance

about it. he be give everything in his power to the country.

oppress, at one time, by the sense of physical fitness, and fire by

the sudden, urgent demand for man-power, he have, in one of his

gordian-knot cutting mood, march into a recruiting office and vaunt

his brawn and muscle. “I’m fifty,” say he, “but I defy anybody to say

I’m not physically equal to any boy of twenty-five.” but they have

politely laugh at he and send he away rage furiously. it be then

that he follow the despise counsel of the unimaginative Burtenshaw,

K.C., and join the Special Constabulary and the National Volunteers.



“what’s the next thing you’re go to take on?” ask Marcelle.



“first, my dear,” say he, “the whole run of this war. then the

administration of the Kingdom of God on Earth.”



“what a boy you be!” she laugh.



“a damned fine boy,” say Baltazar.



                 *        *        *        *        *



one fine Sunday in May she come up to town to lunch with he alone,

Godfrey be away somewhere or other for the week-end.



“my dear,” he cry, excitedly, as soon as she arrive, “I’ve be die

to see you. it’s go to happen.”



“what?”



she smile into his eager face. there be nothing so extravagant that it

could not happen to Baltazar.



“there’s talk of a new Ministry—a Ministry of Propaganda.”



“well?”



“cann’t you guess?”



her eye glisten suddenly.



“you—Minister?”



he nod. “it’s all in the cloud at present. at least these whiffler

of Cloud-Cuckoo-City think it be. but I don’t. they don’t see the Star

of John Baltazar in the ascendant. I do. my dear, there’s not an adverse

influence in all the bag of planetary trick!”



if he could have see and appreciate what be happen some forty

mile off he might have observe in a certain conjunction of planet, to

wit, Venus and Mars, something that would have modify his optimistic

prognostication.









                              CHAPTER XIX





there they be in a punt on one of the silent upper reach of the

Thames above Moulsford; Venus in white serge, with a blue veil around

hat and throat, recline gracefully on the cushion, and Mars in white

flannel stand, punt-pole in hand. it be one of those day when

Spring, in exuberant mood, throw off her shyness and masquerade in the

gorgeousness of Summer. the noontide vapour quiver over the sun-bake

meadow beyond the tow-path, and the shadow beneath the willow on the

opposite bank loom black and cool. the punt be proceed up a patch

of blaze river, and the drop from the pole sparkle like diamond.

just ahead there be a bend lap in the violent shade of overhang

elm.



“this be the near thing to Heaven,” say Lady Edna.



“wait till we tie up under the tree and it’ll be Heaven itself,” say

Godfrey.



even in the boat time of peace this stretch be rarely frequent,

be too far both for the London crowd whose general limit be Goring,

and for the Oxford town excursionist who seldom push below

Wallingford. also the _cognoscenti_ declare it an uninteresting bit of

river, dull and flat, devoid of the unspeakable charm of Clevedon and

Pangbourne, and therefore unworthy of especial consideration. still, the

River be the River. talk to an Englishman of the River, and he will not

think of the Severn or the Wye, or the historic highway between London

Bridge and the sea, but of those few mile of England’s fairy-stream,

the beloved haunt of beauty and gentleness and love and laughter, where

all the care of the world be soothe into dreamful ease and the vague

passion and aspiration of youth be transform into magical

definition. to the Londoner, at any rate, it be as sacred as Westminster

Abbey. so the stretch of loveliness pronounce dull by the superior,

be never neglect, and even this remote section, on Sundays

especially, have its sparse devotee. but now, in war-time, not a blade

or oar or paddle, not a glistening punt-pole disturb the sweet

stillness of the water. only once, since they have leave the boat-house,

have a barge pass they; a barge gay as to its poop with yellow and red,

a thin spiral of smoke from its cabin funnel proclaim the cooking of

the Sunday dinner, while the barge-folk lounge on deck, their eye and

attitude suggestive of those who be already overfe on lotus, and one

small, freckle sunwraith of a child flit along the tow-path beside

the mild old horse.



but half an hour have pass since then. the very meadow no long

show the once familiar pair of Sunday lover. be it not for the

pleasant cow, it would have be a scene of lovely desolation.



“there,” say Godfrey, ship the pole, and guide the punt by the

aid of the branch to a mooring. “allow I to introduce you to Heaven.”



she kiss her hand to the greenery and the dark water and laugh

lightly. “how d’ye do, Heaven?”



Godfrey turn from the rope which he have make fast and stumble to the

floor of the punt. she start up in alarm.



“your foot, dear!”



he laugh. “it’s all right this time. sometimes I forget it’s a fake.”



he sit beside she on the cushion and point to a basket in front of

they. “shall we start on the nectar and ambrosia, or be it too early?”



“let we wait a bit and take in Heaven first. what on earth be you

do?” she ask, a moment afterwards, as he establish himself elbow

on knee and chin in hand, and stare close into her blue eye.



“I’m take in all the Heaven that matter to I,” say Godfrey.



“do I matter so much?”



“you do.”



“light I a cigarette,” say Lady Edna.



he obey, hand she one alight and she put it between her lip.



“I love do that,” say he. “I’ve never do it for any other woman in

my life.”



she arch her eyebrow. “do his sultanship think he’s confer an

unprecedented honour on a poor woman?”



“oh, Edna!” his boyish face flush suddenly. “you know what I mean. I

never dream that a wonderful woman would ever dream of take anything

from my lip to her. look.” he light another cigarette and hold it out to

she. “let I have your.”



“Baby!” she say, make the exchange.



all of which imbecility be very bad and sad and mad, but to the united

youth in the punt it be peculiarly agreeable.



“what a difference from last week-end,” she say, contentedly, after a

while.



“what happen then?”



“I have all the stuff-box in London down, Edgar include.”



“and my venerable sire. I remember. I be at the War Office all Sunday.

and it pour with rain. what do you do with they?”



“I stroke they and feed they and put they through their little trick,”

she laugh. then she add more seriously, “it happen to be a very

important day for your father. the Government have go crazy on find

out new forceful man—and clear out the incompetent political hack.

Edgar’s just hang on by the skin of his tooth, you know. well,

they’ve discover your remarkable father, and last week-end they

practically fix it up with he. a new Ministry of Propaganda. oh!” she

laugh again. “I don’t have such a bad time after all. But”—she

sighed—“this be well. don’t let we think of war or politic or

Edgars and such horrible thing.” she throw her cigarette into the

water, and bend down to the basket. “let we lunch.”



it have be indeed an important day for Baltazar. the house near

Moulsford, Lady Edna’s personal possession, a vast square, red-brick,

late georgian building, stand in ground that reach down to the

river, have be fill with anxiously choose High and Mightinesses,

among whom her husband, minister though he be, shine like an inferior

satellite. it be the last move in the game on behalf of John Baltazar

which she have play for many week.



“what be you ask that damned fellow for?” Edgar Donnithorpe have

ask, look at the list of guest.



“because he amuse I.”



“he don’t amuse I,” snap her husband.



he be a little thin man, with thin grey hair and a thin moustache and a

thin voice. up to a few month ago she have treat he with contemptuous

tolerance. now she have begin to dislike he exceedingly.



“if you don’t want to meet Mr. Baltazar,” she reply, “you can stay in

London.”



they spar in the unedifye manner of ill-assorted husband and wife.



“I’m sick of see this overbearing adventurer in my house,” he say.



“what do you mean?”



“you know what I mean. I’m not go to let you make a fool of

yourself.”



“my dear man,” she reply cuttingly, “if I be look out for a

lover, this time I should take a young one.”



she laugh scornfully and sweep away. long smoulder resentment have

be suddenly fan into the flame of open hostility. she rage in her

heart against he. never before have he dare to insinuate such a taint

in her political interest in any man. she, Lady Edna Donnithorpe, to

carry on an intrigue with John Baltazar—the insult of it!



the next day bring a short but fierce encounter.



“you pretend to be jealous. you’re not. you’re envious. you’re envious

of a big man than yourself. you’re afraid of he. you little minnow

hate Tritons. I quite understand.”



in the wrath of a weak and foolish man he sputter unforgettable word

which no woman ever forgive. she face he with lip as thin as his

own, and her languorous eye harden into little dot of jade.



“you have well see to it that I don’t break you,” she say.



“break I? how? politically?” he laugh a thin laugh of derision. “in

the first place you couldn’t. in the second you wouldn’t. what would

become of your position if I be out of the government?”



“I can very well look after myself,” she reply.



on Saturday morning he make some apology for loss of temper which she

coldly accept on condition of his courteous treatment of John

Baltazar. and so it fall that, when the subject of all this to-do

arrive at Moulsford, he find himself almost effusively welcome by the

negative Edgar, and thrust into the inner circle of the high and

mightiness assemble. as the latter take Baltazar very seriously as a

come power in the country, and as Lady Edna’s attitude towards he be

mark by no especial characteristic, Edgar Donnithorpe come to the

unhappy conclusion that he have make a fool of himself, and during the

informal discussion on the creation of the new Ministry, for which

purpose the week-end party have gather together, he have dare do little

more than “just hint a fault, and hesitate dislike” when Baltazar’s name

be mention. which pusillanimity come to his wife’s ear, deepen

her resentment against he; and only Baltazar’s triumphal exit on the

Monday morning restrain she from give it practical expression.

sufficient for the day be the success thereof.



in the lazy punt, that gracious Spring morning, she strove to drive the

last week-end from her thought. she revel in the unusual and the

audacious. Edgar have go to Paris on an international conference. only

an ancient and fade Aunt, Lady Lætitia Vardon, a sort of permanent

aristocratic caretaker, be in the house; Godfrey the sole guest. and

Aunt Lætitia have catch a God-send cold and be stay in bed. they two

have the whole bright day before they, and the scented evening, with

never a soul to obtrude on their idyllic communion. she have always

snap her finger at convention. but, Lady Edna Donnithorpe, charter

libertine, have always observe the term of her charter, her heart never

having tempt she to break they. this delicious breach be a different

matter altogether. she have even dare to put off two or three previously

invite friend. . . .



she tell he this while he help she to chicken and ham. he proclaim

she the most wonderful thing in the world.



“don’t you think I deserve one little day’s holiday in the year? just a

holiday from the talk, talk, talk, the smiling, the wheedling, the

scheming, with my brain ever on the alert and seem to grow big and

big as the night go on, until it almost burst my head when I lie

down to sleep?”



“why do you do it?” he ask.



she shrug her graceful shoulder. “I don’t know. I use to love it.

now I’m begin to hate it. I be at a wedding a day or two

ago—Charlie Haughton and Minnie Lavering—you know whom I mean, don’t

you? they haven’t a sixpence between they—and they look so happy—oh!

so damn happy”—her voice break adorably—“that I nearly weep.”



he neglect his own plateful of chicken and ham and bend forward over

the basket between they.



“I’d do anything in the wide world to make you happy, Edna.”



“I know you would,” she smile. “you’re do your good now. it’s an

excellent well. but it might be well if you fish out the salt.”



while she help herself daintily from the paper packet which he hold

out, he laugh, adore she ever ready trick of switch off the

sentimental current.



“now you be really just a little bit happy, ben’t you?”



she nod intimately, which embolden he to say:



“for the life of I I cann’t see what induce you to take up with a

rotten sort of cripple like I.”



“neither can I,” she reply composedly. “except perhaps that the rotten

cripple be a very brave and distinguished soldier.”



“Rubbish!” say Godfrey. “there be hundred of thousand like I all

over the place, as indistinguishable from one another as pea in a

peck.”



“willn’t you allow a poor woman just a nice sense of discrimination?”



“I’ll allow the one woman in the universe,” say Godfrey, “to have

everything she please.”



“then that’s that,” say Lady Edna.



they finish their meal happily, drink hot coffee from a thermos flask

and smoke and talk. as on the first day he have sit beside she, so

now, under the spell of her keen sympathy, he tell she of all his

doing. for the past two or three month they have be of absorbing

interest. he have besiege the War Office, as he have gloriously

threaten, until one day he receive an appointment on the staff of the

Director-General of Military Operations. that it be due to any other

influence than his own furious and persistent attack, he have not the

remotest suspicion. he have dash away from the amazing interview in a

taxi to Lady Edna, whom by good chance he find at home, and vaunt his

generalship. his father’s blood sing in his vein. the lady to whom, in

close conspiracy with Lady Northby, he owe the billet covet by

thousand of man, wound and whole, welcome his news with the smile

surprise of a mother who listen to her offspring’s tale of the wondrous

gift of Santa Claus.



it be one of the characteristic of Lady Edna Donnithorpe to love the

secret meed of secret service, a far more subtle joy than the facile

gratitude pour on a Lady Bountiful. besides, such a reputation would

in itself destroy her power. many woman of her acquaintance who have

enjoy it for a brief season during the war, have see the sacred

shoulder of Authority turn frozenly upon they. she be not one of

those woman act from thoughtless impulse or vanity. the game of

intrigue fascinate she; she know her winning and hoard they; but

they be the concern of no one in the wide world. perhaps the time

might come when she could say to Godfrey: “all that you be you owe to

I. I have make you, and I have make your father. I can show you proof.

what be you go to do?” Blackmail of a kind, certainly. a woman

drive up against a wall be justify in use any weapon of defence.

but all this lie hide in the self-protective instinct. no thought of

it mar her triumph.



she listen to his fairy-tale of the Allies’ war organization with a

twofold pride. first, in this vicarious entrance into the jealously

guard Ark of the Covenant, whereby she gain exact knowledge of

mighty happening to come, deny even to the self-important Edgar.

secondly, in her unerring judgment of man. for Baltazar have tell she a

week before of his meeting with one of Godfrey’s chief, who have give

the boy unreserve praise. whereupon she herself have make it her week’s

business to track the social doing of the great man until she run he

down a day or two ago at a friend’s house, and, in reply to her tactful

questioning, he have reply:



“Baltazar? lot of brain. a brilliant fellow, with wonderful power of

detail. Son of that astonishing chap John Baltazar, who have just come to

life again, and everybody’s talk about. oh, you needn’t be afraid. we

have spot he right enough.”



she be sufficiently verse in affair to know that a major-general do

not speak of a third-grade staff officer, and at the very tail of the

grade at that, in eulogistic term, even to Lady Edna Donnithorpe,

without good reason. she hug the word “brilliant” to her heart.



and while Godfrey talk that May afternoon, she feel that she be

justify in all that she have do, be do, and be go to do. yet,

though what she have do give her perfect satisfaction, and what she be

do be blatantly obvious, what she be go to do lay dimly hide

behind a rosy veil. for the moment this handsome, clean run boy to whom

she have give her heart, much to her own amazement, be content with

platonic adoration in a punt. how long, she wonder, would his

contentment last? how long, indeed, would she own? well, well, _Vogue la

galère_. pole the spring-tide punt. let she drain to its full the

unprecedented glory of the day.



the care of her crowded, youth-consume life fall from she, and she

become young again, young than she have be before her loveless

marriage. as she respond laugh to his eager, boyish foolishness,

she feel that she have never know till then what it be to be young. she

feel an infinite craving for all she have miss. . . . and Godfrey,

stand there in careless grace, punt-pole in hand, alert, confident,

radiant in promise, be the incarnation of it all: of all the youth and

laughter and love that she have pass by, scornfully unheeding. she

feast her hungry eye on he. not only be he good to look at, in his

physical perfection. he be good to think upon. he have face death a

thousand time, no doubt as debonairly as he face the current of the

mild river. he, that boy whom a whisper could compel to her bidding, have

lead man through maze of unimagined blood and slaughter. if he have one

worm gnaw at his heart, it be the desire to get back again to this

defiant comradeship with death. she have look up the record of the

achievement that have win for he the Military Cross. what a man he be!

and as she watch he, there float across her vision the figure of a

thin, dry, self-seek politician, and she shiver in the sunshine.

and, as there chance to be a pause in the boyish talk, she let she

thought wander on. no one have ever call she thin, dry husband a

brilliant man, not even the most sycophantic place hunter who have

intrigue for a seat at her table. but in such term have the first

Authority to whom she have speak characterized Godfrey. not only be he

the ordinary heroic young officer; he be a brilliant man, who would

make his mark as part of the brain that control the destiny of the

British Army. and all the sex in she humble itself deliciously in the

knowledge that this paragon of all bayard, or this Bayard of all

paragon, love she with all his youth and manhood.



presently she notice a change in his happy face. a spasm of pain seem

to pass across it. he draw out the pole, stand with it poise. he drive

it in again, his jaw set in an ugly way. she wait till the end of the

stroke; then she rise to her foot.



“stop, dear, stop. you’re overdo it.”



“overdo what?”



“your foot.”



“nonsense! do sit down.”



he gather up the dripping pole preparatory for the thrust; but she

catch his arm.



“I’m sure your foot’s hurt you.”



“it ben’t,” he declare, bend his weight on it. “not a little bit.”



but even as he speak he make an unconscious grimace.



“do you love I?”



he draw a sharp breath at the categorical question. in a thousand

indirect way he have tell she of his devotion; but he have never speak

the explicit word. he say quietly and half wonderingly:



“you know I love you.”



“then don’t hurt I by hurt yourself.”



“do you really care what happen to I?” he ask.



“I love you well than anything in the world,” she say.



they paddle home somewhat sober by the mutual declaration, about

which they say nothing more. he admit overstrain of the still

sensitive tissue of the base of the stump, and rail at his

misfortune. it be so humiliating to confess defeat. she smile. there

might, she say, be compensation. when they land, she insist on his

lean on she for support, during the walk up to the house, and,

although he suffer damnable torture whenever he set the artificial

foot on the ground, for his pressure on her adorable shoulder be of the

slight, his progress be one of deliciously compensate joy.



they dine decorously under the inscrutable eye of butler and

parlourmaid, and after dinner they call for coat and wrap and go out

to sit on the moonlit terrace. as he put the fur-line cloak round she,

his hand touch her cheek. she put up a hand caressingly and hold his

there while she look up at he in the dimness. he bend down, greatly

daring, and touch her lip. then suddenly she clasp his head and

hold his kiss long and passionately.









                               CHAPTER XX





they arrange it all between they in the comfortingly short-sighted way

of thousand of reprehensible couple before they. they speak vaguely of

a divorce as though the wretched Edgar be the conjugal offender, and

picture a time in the future, after the war, when they should marry and

live the bright and perfect life. in the meanwhile they propose to find

much happiness and consolation together. he give she, she declare, what

she have vainly be hunger for since early childhood—love and

sympathy and understanding. into his sensitive ear she pour the story

of her disastrous marriage; of the far separated life of her husband

and herself; of his envy and trivial baseness. Godfrey have think

she court and flatter, a woman pass rich in love and friendship.

really she have move the lonely thing on earth. don’t he see now

what he mean to she? she have be starve and he give her food. if he

withdraw it now, she would die.



this self-abasement from high estate establish her martyrdom in the

eye of chivalrous youth. he swear eternal devotion, his soul

register the vow. they write frequently to each other, and meet as

often as they could. three morning a week, at an astonishingly early

hour, she leave her house soberly clothe, for the purpose of work at a

mythical canteen. on those morning Godfrey wait for she at a discreet

distance round the corner of the square, in a two-seater car for which,

as a crippled staff officer, he have contrive to obtain a petrol permit.

an hour’s run—Richmond Park, Barnes Common: it matter little

where—and Lady Edna go demurely home to breakfast and Godfrey to his

day’s work at the War Office.



of the canteen Edgar Donnithorpe know nothing, for she have merely toss

the invention to she maid, until one morning, come down early than

usual, he meet she ascend the stair.



“good lord!” say he. “what have you be do at this unearthly hour?”



irritate at have to lie to he, she reply: “I’ve be do an

hour’s shift at a canteen. have you any objection?”



he shrug his shoulder. “why should I? if it please you and don’t

hurt the tommie—poor devil.”



his sneer jar on her guilty sensitiveness. her eye harden. “why

poor devil?”



“like the rest of the country,” he reply, “at the mercy of the

amateur.”



he turn with his thin laugh and leave she speechless with futile anger.

she wonder how she have ever regard he otherwise than with

unmitigated hatred.



she tell the incident to Godfrey, having reach the point of confide

to he such domestic bickering. he set his tooth and damn the fellow.

how could this incomparable angel dwell in the same house with he? she

sigh. if it be not for the war. . . . but during the war the house

be the centre of her manifold activity on behalf of the country. as

for the social side of it, she would throw that up to-morrow only too

gladly. heaven, how weary she be of it all!



“I wish to God I could take you away with I!” say the young man

fiercely.



“I wish you could, dear,” she say in her caressing tone. “but in the

meantime we have these happy little hour. we mustn’t ask too much of

fate.”



“I only ask what fate give to any man—that bus driver and that

policeman—the woman he love.”



“I’m afraid,” she laugh, “if you hear the history of their _vie

amoureuse_, you would be dreadfully disillusioned. it seem to I that

everybody marry the wrong person in this muddle-pair world. we must

make the good of it.”



at this period, infatuate though she be, she have no idea of break

away from convention, even to the extent of set up a household

separate from her husband’s. social life be dear to she, for all her

asseveration to the contrary, and dearer still the influence that she

could command. yet, as the day go on she notice sign of restiveness

in Godfrey. an hour thrice a week in an open car, when half his

attention have to be devoted to the preservation of their own and other

people’s life, scarcely satisfy his young ardour. the time when he

could lounge free in her boudoir from four to six be over. as an

officer on the staff of the Director-General of Operations, he know no

hour. the intricate arrangement for the mobility of the British Army

do not depend on the convenience of young gentleman at the War Office.

such have to scorn delight and live laborious day, which on the

occasion of especial military activity be apt to run into the night.

now and then, of course, Godfrey could assure himself an hour or so for

lunch, but never could he foretell it on the day before. only once, by

hasty telephoning, do they manage to meet for lunch at the Carlton. in

the evening they be a little more successful. now and again a theatre

together. but Godfrey, suddenly become sensitive on the point of honour,

refuse opportunity of dining at Belgrave Square.



“if I love a man’s wife, I cann’t sit at his table and drink his wine and

smile at he,” he proclaim bluntly.



“it seem,” she say, at last, “there’s nothing leave but for I to run

away with you.”



“why not?” he ask, laugh, for her tone be light.



“what about the british Army?”



he reflect. if she have say what about morality, or Christianity, or

his immortal soul, he would have damn any item of they off-hand. but

he couldn’t damn the British Army. he temporize.



“I don’t quite see.”



“if you run away with I, you’d have to run an awful long way, and leave

the Army in the lurch.”



“that would never do,” say Godfrey.



“so we’ll have to sacrifice ourselves for our country till the war’s

over,” say Lady Edna.



then, in spite of philosophic and patriotic resolve, the relation

between they grow to be uncertain and dangerous. aware of this, she

seek to play rather the part of Egeria than that of the unhappy wife

claim consolation from her lover.



now about this time arise rumour of political dissatisfaction in

certain quarter; of difference of opinion between the civil and the

military high authority. wild gossip animate political circle, and

the wilder it become, the more it be foster, here malignantly, then

honestly, by political faction oppose to the Government or to the

conjecture strategical conduct of the war. Lady Edna Donnithorpe, in

the thick of everything that darken counsel, find the situation

obscure. what be the real fact from the military point of view? she

discuss matter with Godfrey, who, regard she as his second self,

the pure well of discretion, tell she artlessly what he know. as a

matter of fact, she loyally keep her inner information to herself; but

her eye be open to vast scheme of which the little political folk

about she be ignorant. and one of the most ignorant and most blatantly

cocksure about everything be Edgar Donnithorpe, her husband, whose

attitude, in view of her knowledge, begin to fill she with vague

disquietude.



                 *        *        *        *        *



to all this political unrest, Baltazar be loftily indifferent.



“the scum of the world’s hell-broth,” say he. “skim it off and chuck it

away, and let we get on with the cooking.”



he be cook with all his might, prepare the ingredient of the

contemplate new Ministry. everything must be organize before the final

step be token. no fiasco like the jerry-build Ministry of National

Service should be possible. brain, policy, a far-spread scheme complete

in detail first; then the building and the simple machinery of clerk

and typist. he work from morning to night, as indeed he have do all

his life long. _the Universal Review_ speed full-sail on a course of

fantastic prosperity. the man have the touch of genius that make

success. he spare himself neither mentally nor physically. he find

time for enthusiastic work with the National Volunteers and the Special

Constabulary, which formerly he have scorn. as a Special Constable he

quickly gain promotion, of which he be inordinately proud. say

Marcelle:



“I believe that run about in an air raid be the great joy of your

life.”



to which, in his honest egotistical way, he reply:



“I’m not quite so sure that it ben’t.”



and Godfrey to Marcelle, discuss he:



“the dear old dynamo have hitch himself on to the war with a

vengeance!”



he have. it absorb he from the moment of wake to the moment of

fall asleep. since Godfrey’s appointment at the War Office, father

and son, live in the same house, meet so seldom that they grow each to

set an exaggerated value on the other. the boy, conscious not only

himself of the force of the man, but of the tribute pay to it by the

god and demi-god of the land, withdraw his original suspicious

antagonism and surrender loyally.



“I’m proud of he. my God, I be!” he say to Marcelle. “my childish

faith be justify. I take back all I’ve say this last year. he’s a

marvel, and I’m glad I’m his son.”



he see perhaps, at this stage, more of Marcelle than of Edna. for

Marcelle, shortly after her lunch with Baltazar on the day of Godfrey’s

river idyll, have break down in health and leave Churton Towers. the

strain of three year’ incessant work have end in collapse. she be

order three month’ rest. after a weary fortnight alone in the Cornish

country, she have come to London, in spite of medical advice, and share

the bayswater flat of a friend, a work woman, engage at the

Admiralty. Chance, perhaps a little bit of design, for the motive that

determine a woman’s decision be often sadly confused; have thus bring

she within easy walking distance of Sussex Gardens and of what the

strange man to whose fortune destiny seem to link she, and whom

uncontrollable fear and force restrain she from marry, love to

call the House of Baltazar. of course, in his headstrong way, he have

vehemently put the house at her disposal. he would fix up a suite of

apartment for she where she could live, her own mistress, just as she

choose. Godfrey, Quong Ho and servant could go to the devil. they could

pig it anywhere about the house they like. they would all agree on the

paramount question of her comfort and happiness.



“in God’s name, why not?” he cry with a large gesture. “what be you

afraid of? I? Mrs. Grundy? what?”



but Marcelle shake her head, smile and stubborn, and would have none

of it. as a concession she agree to run round whenever she hear

through the telephone that she be want. Baltazar grin and foretold

a life of peripatetic discomfort.



“I’ll risk that,” she say.



thus it happen that Marcelle be in and out of the house at all

season, Godfrey clamour for she as much as his father. under vow of

secrecy he confide to she his love affair. at first she profess deep

disapprobation. he should remember her first suspicion and grave

warning. a married woman! no good could come of such an entanglement,

no matter how guiltless and romantic. as delicately as he could he

remind she that she herself have cherish a romantic attachment to a

married man. she have, far, avow her readiness to run off with he.

Edna and he be no whit bad than the impeccable Marcelle and his

revere father. Whereupon, dote rather foolishly on the young man, she

yield, listen to the varied development of his adventure, and give

sympathy or moral advice, accord to the exigency of the occasion.



her position of confidante, however, cause she many qualm of

conscience. her common sense tell she that he be tread the path to

an all too commonplace bonfire. the woman be some year old than he.

Marcelle admit her beauty and superficial charm; but her feminine

instinct pounce on insincerity, affectation and hardnesse undreame

of by the guileless worshipper. she divine, to her great dismay, a

sudden sex upheaval in this young and self-thwart woman rather than a

pure passion of love. what ought she to do? the question keep she awake

of night. she could not, without break the most solemn specific

promise, ask counsel of Baltazar. nor could she refuse to listen far

to the boy. he would go his own way and leave she in the misery of

incertitude. to go plead to Lady Edna, like the heavy mother in a

french play, be unimaginable. what then remain for she but to

continue to receive his confidence? and even then, if she meet they with

copybook maxim, he would turn on she with his original _tu quoque_,

and, if she persist, it would be equivalent to the withdrawal of her

sympathetic attention. the only course, therefore, that remain open

be to let thing go on as they be, and, as far as it lie in her

power, to keep his foot from pitfall. his strange mixture, precipitate

by the war, of child and man, appeal to all the woman within she. in

his dealing with man—she see he with pride at his father’s table—he

have the air and the experience of five-and-thirty. in deal with

woman, even with her own motherly self, he be the romantic,

unsophisticated boy of eighteen. his real age now be twenty-one. and at

the back of her clean mind lie the conviction that Lady Edna, however

indiscreet she might be, could not make the complete and criminal fool

of herself.



this conviction deepen when she have an opportunity of see they

again together, at a little dinner party of six to which Baltazar have

invite Lady Edna and the Jackmans. between they it be “Godfrey” and

“Edna” frank and undisguise. their friendship be obvious; obvious,

too, her charming assumption of proprietorship. but she carry it off

with the air of a beautiful woman accustom to such domination over the

man she admit to her intimacy. beyond this, Marcelle could espy

nothing; not a soft word, not a covert glance that betray a deep

sentiment. it be all play to she, she conclude, and grow happy in her

mind.



toward the end of the evening after the Jackmans have go, Lady Edna

say lightly to Baltazar:



“this boy have tell I all sort of wonderful thing about his den here,

and I’ve never see it.”



Baltazar wave one hand and put the other on Godfrey’s shoulder.



“he shall do the honour.”



“would you really like to see it?” Godfrey ask innocently.



“of course I should. your souvenir——”



Baltazar beam on they till they leave the drawing-room.



“it’s the good day’s work I ever do for Godfrey,” say he.



“what?”



“get he in with Lady Edna. a young fellow want a clever woman to

shepherd he. do he no end of good. broaden his mind.”



“Mayn’t it be a bit dangerous?” Marcelle hazard.



“dangerous? suppose he do think himself in love with she? all the

well. keep he out of mischief.”



“but she might possibly fall in love with he too.”



wise in the hermit’s theoretic wisdom, he dismiss such an absurdity

with a scornful laugh.



“that type of woman cann’t fall in love. she’s of the earth earthly, of

the world worldly. otherwise she couldn’t have marry that rat of a

Donnithorpe.”



“I suppose it’s all right,” say Marcelle.



“you belovedest mid-victorian survival!” he laugh. “I do believe the

young woman’s proposal shock you!”



they both would have be, if not shock, at least bring to a sense

of actual thing, have they see the transport to which the lover

surrender themselves as soon as the door of the den close behind

they. many hundred of million of youthful pair have do exactly the

same after long separation. she throw herself into his arm, in which he

enfold she. they kiss and sigh. they have think they would never

be alone again. he have be thirst for her lip all the tantalizing

evening. that wonderful brain of her—to suggest this visit to his

room. even if the idea have occur to his dull masculine mind, he

wouldn’t have have the daring to tender the invitation. her ever new

adorableness! and more kiss and rapture, until, side by side in the

corner of the couch, they begin to talk of rational matter.



“there be great thing brew,” she say, after a while. “just a

whisper have reach I—enough to make it dangerous.”



“what thing do you refer to?” he ask, with a quick knitting of the

brow.



she tell he of a wild distortion of the plan of the High Command

current in political dining-room.



“it’s damnable!” he cry angrily. “one tiny grain of fact to a mountain

of imagination. for God’s sake, make it your business to go about

crab the lie for all you’re worth!”



“I will. when you really _know_, you can speak with such moral authority

that you’re believe, although you don’t give away a bit of your

knowledge. at least, anyone with a little experience can do it.”



“and you’re an adept,” he say admiringly.



she draw he nearer, for he have start away on his proclamation of the

damnability of rumour.



“what be the grain of fact?”



“why, the great scale offensive.”



“and where’s the rest of the rumour incorrect?”



“I don’t think I ought to tell you.”



“but don’t you see how important it be that a woman in my position, and

a woman of my character, should know exactly? half the calamity of the

war be due to woman give away half secret of which they’re not

allow to realize the consequence. give a woman full confidence, and

she’ll be on the side of the angel.”



he kiss she and laugh. be she not one of the angelic band herself?



she plead subtly, her head on his shoulder, her deep-blue eye look

up into his, her breath on his cheek. surely he and she be one. one

heart, one mind, one soul. individually each be the other’s complement.

he could work out vast scheme—the most junior of Third Grade Staff

officer glow at the flattery—and she could see, not that they be

put into execution, but that wicked and irresponsible gossip should not

bring they to naught. in her woman’s wheedle she have no ulterior

purpose in view. she be not the political adventuress unscrupulously

seducing enamour youth to the betrayal of his country. it be all

insatiable curiosity and lust for secret power. and, as far as lie in

her nature, she love the boy; she love he with a sense of possession;

she crave he wholly, his devotion, his mind, his knowledge. his

physical self be her, at a moment’s call. she play with that

certainty in delicious trepidation. it invest their relationship in a

glamour unknown, mysterious, in spite of her married estate. but the

long-atrophy romantic in she spring to sudden life and prevail.



so subtly do she plead that he be unaware of her overmaster desire.

secure in her love and her loyalty, and confident in the twin heart and

soul, he tell she what he know; but the numerical and topographical

detail, prove too confusing for she, he laugh and go over to his

desk and, with she sit over he on the arm of his writing-chair,

sketch a map annotate with fact and figure on a sheet of notepaper.

when he have do, she return to the sofa and read the note.



“now I understand everything. it’s tremendously exciting, ben’t it?”



“if it come off.”



she fold up the paper and put it in her bosom.



“of course it’ll come off.”



“I say, sweetheart,” he cry, watch the disappear paper. “for

Heaven’s sake don’t go leave that about! well stick it in the fire.”



“I’ll do it as soon as I get home.”



she take his hand in delightful intimacy and glance at his wrist watch.

then she start up. they must get back at once, lest the other should

subject their absence to undesirable conjecture.



“oh, the elderly birds”—he laugh gracelessly—“they love to have a

little billing and coo now and then. they’ll be grateful to we.”



but she would not be detain. they go up to the drawing-room.



“he have get a perfect Hun museum downstair,” she say. “each piece with

a breathless history.”



“what interested you most?” ask Marcelle.



“I in a gas mask,” say Godfrey, lie readily, for never a glance have

Lady Edna give to the trophy and spoil which she have set forth to

see.



later, after put she into her taxi, he say through the window:



“you’ll destroy that scrap of paper, willn’t you?”



“if you doubt I, I’ll give it you back now,” she reply rather

sharply, thrust her hand beneath her cloak.



what could ardent lover do but repudiate the charge of want of faith?

she laugh, and answer in her most caressing tone:



“I’m glad, for where it be now it would be awfully awkward to get at.”



the taxi drive off. godfrey re-enter the house, his young head full of

the thought of the paper on which he have write lie warm, deep down,

in her bare and sacred bosom.



Lady Edna drive home to her solitary house, and, without ask whether

her husband be in or out, go straight to her bedroom. as soon as she

could she dismiss she maid and sit in her dressing-gown for a long,

long time, think as a woman think, when for the first time in her

life she be not sure of herself, when she be all but at the parting of

the way and when each way seem to lead to catastrophe. as a cold,

ambitious girl she have send the natural packing; now it have come

gallop back. at last she rise and go to her dressing-table. on it

lie the crumpled scrap of paper. she glance at it. the figure and

line convey no meaning to her tired brain. what be the warfare in

the world to the warfare in her soul? she couldn’t concern herself with

the high strategy to-night. to-morrow, when she be fresh, she would

tackle the intricate scheme. she put the paper into a little secret

drawer of her writing-table of which even her maid do not know the

spring.









                              CHAPTER XXI





she would read the paper to-morrow, she have say. but on the morrow she

awake with a violent headache and stay abed, and have only time to

scramble into her clothe and attend a twelve o’clock committee meeting

in Westminster. and for the remainder of the day, until she go to bed

exhaust at midnight, she have not a minute to spare. the next morning

she have her early appointment with Godfrey. she go forth into a raw

air with a threat of autumn in it, and a slight drizzle from an overcast

sky. the two-seater, with damp hood up, be wait round the corner of

the Square. she open the door and jump in, almost before he be

aware of her approach, and rather hysterically fling her arm about he.



“oh darling, be good to I! I’m feel so tired and miserable.”



he proclaim himself a brute for drag she out on such a filthy

morning. it be super-angelic of she to come, but he have scarcely

expect she. wouldn’t it be well to go back home and rest?



“no, no, dear,” she murmur. “this be my rest. beside you. storm or

sunshine, what do it matter, so long as we’re together?”



“it don’t matter to I,” say he, drive off. “hell and damnation

would be Paradise if I always have you with I.”



and in the same emotional key they talk all the time during their

drive through a dank and dismal world. they feel like Paolo and

Francesca in Watts’s picture, cling together alone in comfortless

space, remote from War Office and war and other affair of man. she

wail:



“oh, darling, if only I have meet you before I make my wretched marriage!”



“yes, by God!” say Godfrey, set his tooth and feel very fierce.



it do not occur to either of they, in their unhumorous mood, that when

she marry he be a gawky boy of sixteen.



gradually they come to vital thing.



“if I be little Mrs. Tomkins, whom nobody know, we could get a hide

nest somewhere, you and I. it would be happiness, and it would be

hurt or betray nobody. but I’m Lady Edna Donnithorpe, relate to

half the peerage, and know by sight to everybody who look at an

illustrate paper.”



“why not cut everything and make a bolt of it?” ask Godfrey, glare

straight in front of he at the cheerless, almost empty road, his young

face set very stem.



“your career——”



he curse his career.



“your soldier’s post. how can you leave it? you’re do a man’s work

for your country.”



“Hell take it!” say he.



“take what?”



“the whole infernal universe,” he growl, and swerve viciously so as

to avoid imminent collision with an indignant motor-bus. again they come

to the bed-rock fact of his soldier’s duty.



on their return journey it rain in torrent.



“you’ll get wet through if you walk,” say he, when they arrive at

their tryste spot. “I’ll drive you up to the house and chance it.”



he chance it, help she out of the car and stand on the pavement,

watch she until she have let herself in with her latchkey. she run

upstairs, to be confront with her husband at the door of his room

which be on the same landing. he be in his dressing-gown, and one side

of his face be shaven, the other lathered.



“I think you go to a canteen in the morning?”



“so I do,” she reply calmly.



“do young Baltazar work there too?”



“Young Baltazar very often call for I, when it rain, on his way to

the War Office, and give I a lift home.”



“you’re see far too much of that young man.”



“the last time we discuss the Baltazar family,” she say with a

scornful laugh, “you accuse I of an intrigue with his father. my dear

Edgar, go on with your shaving and don’t be idiotic.” she fling into her

room angry and humiliate. after all, Edgar have the right to consider

his good name, even though his jealousy could not proceed from betrayed

affection. this be the first time he have refer to Godfrey in any

way. Uneasiness beset she; so do the eternal question of the deceitful

wife: “how much do he know?” they do not meet that day till

dinner-time—it be one of the rare occasion on which they dine alone

together—when he seem to be make amend for the morning’s attack by

more than usual courteous conversation on current event. they part

amicably.



the next afternoon, arrive home very late, she be surprised at see

he come, half dress for dinner, from her room. he smile in a

friendly way and hold up a button-hook.



“mine’s nowhere to be see—that confound new parlourmaid—I hope you

don’t mind.”



“we’re get quite domestic,” she say ironically.



“it’s pleasanter,” say he.



she wonder much at his graciousness for the next few day. he become

attentive, manifested dry solicitude as to her health and her social and

political interest. she dread a recrudescence of the thin sentiment

that, on his part, have sanction their marriage. the fear taint the

joy of her visit to the mythical canteen. soon open hostility than

this semblance of conjugal affection.



“I’m sorry, darling, to have be so mouldy,” she say, take leave of

Godfrey one morning, “but the situation be get on my nerve. I’m feed

up.”



a day or two later Edgar Donnithorpe enter her sitting-room, where she

be write letter.



“sorry to interrupt you, Edna,” say he, “but have you definitely

decide to go to Moulsford this next week-end?”



“certainly. I tell you. the Barringtons and Susie Delamere and one or

two other be come.”



“do you mind if I don’t turn up till Sunday?”



“of course not,” she reply. he be exceedingly polite.



“thank,” say he. “the fact be, I want to ask a dozen man or so to

dinner here. only man, you know.”



she glance at he rather puzzle, for his proposal be an unprecedented

departure from the custom of the house. Hitherto he have give his man’s

political dinner party at his club. there have be no arrangement or

understanding between they as to this mode of entertainment, but so have

it chance to be; and he be a creature of routine.



“of course. just as you like. but what’s wrong with the only place fit

to dine at in London?”



“it’s war time, my dear,” say he, eye she shiftily. “war time. all

the club have go to the devil.”



“all right. if you’ll tell I how many be come, I’ll see to it.”



“no, please don’t. please don’t worry your head about it.” he make a

step forward and hold up his thin hand in a deprecatory sort of way.

“I’ll fix it up. I don’t want it to be the slight bit of a concern to

you. thank so much.”



he hurry out. Lady Edna frown at her half-write letter. a devious

man, Edgar. what be in the wind? the cook the next day, however,

submit to she a menu which, with a housewifely modification or so,

she pass, and think no more of the material banquet.



during the week the hint of a rumour reach she, when, at a public

meeting, she run up against the Rt. hon. Sir Berkeley Prynne, a member

of the Government who have be hostile to her husband for many year and

have only give the hatchet superficial burial during the party truce.



“I suppose you know a lot of we be quake in our shoe?” he say, half

banteringly.



“I don’t,” she say. “but I’ve no doubt it’s good for you. what’s the

matter?”



“sign of underground rumbling. your quick ear have detect nothing?”



“no. really. honour bright. do tell I.”



he shake his head and laugh. “it’ll be a wash-out,” say he, move

away.



Gibe or warning, Sir Berkeley’s word be not devoid of significance.

they be aim at her husband. underground rumbling mean intrigue.

she have long suspect Edgar of half-hearted support of the Government;

but passionate devotion to anything be so foreign to his crafty,

opportunist nature, that she have not greatly trouble her mind about his

loyalty. here, however, be cause for deep consideration. the old

hack, as she have say to Godfrey, be be squeeze out as decently

as might be, so as to give place to fresher and honester man, and

Edgar’s position be daily grow more insecure. but she have think he

be stick to it desperately. be the worm about to turn? and have the

project dinner-party anything to do with the turning?



she ask he casually who be come.



“man connect with the business of the Ministry,” he reply. “People I

must be civil to and who don’t expect we to worry about their

woman-folk.”



and she have to be content with the answer.



on the Saturday afternoon, at Moulsford, she be surprised to see

Rolliter, the old butler, who she think be stay the night at

Belgrave Square to superintend the dinner party. why be he here?



“Mr. Donnithorpe’s order, my lady. he say he could get on quite well

without I this evening. I couldn’t insist, my lady, but I don’t like

leave at all, especially as Lord Trevanion be come.”



“Lord who?” she cry, for he have mention a name that be anathema

maranatha in Government circle.



“I think it’s trevanion, my lady,” say the butler, rather take aback

by her expression of incredulity. he fish a paper from his pocket and

consult it. “yes, my lady. I see the list on Mr. Donnithorpe’s table,

so I copy it out so as to write the name-card before I leave.”



an idea strike she. “you do this without Mr. Donnithorpe’s order?”



“why, yes, my lady. Mr. Donnithorpe be so busy, I think it might

slip his memory.”



“do you write the card?”



“no, my lady. when Mr. Donnithorpe tell I to come down here, I ask

he about the name-card, and he say he don’t want they.”



“let I see the list,” she say, recover her languid manner.



“certainly, my lady.” he hand she the paper. “the only reason I

mention Lord Trevanion,” he continue, “be because I happen to know

his lordship be one of the most particular man in England, and I

couldn’t bear to have thing do anyhow when he be dine at the

house.”



she laugh in her charming way. “the blood’s on Mr. Donnithorpe’s head,

not your, Rolliter.”



Rolliter have be in her father’s service before she be bear and have

follow she, as butler, when she marry.



“thank you, my lady,” say he, retire and leave she with the list of

guest.



it be an instructive and at the same time bewilder document. it

contain the name of representative of all the disgruntled and

pacifist faction in England. no wonder Edgar dared not face the

publicity of a club or restaurant dinner! no wonder he have lie to she

about his guest. no wonder he have send Rolliter to the country without

write out the card. he want to hide the identity of his guest even

from his butler! at each name a new shiver go down her back. Lord

Trevanion, blatant millionaire Little Englander whom even the Radical

Government of 1906 have joyfully allow to purchase a peerage, so as to

get he out of the House of Commons. there be Benskin and Pottinger

and Atwater, member of a small parliamentary gang who lose no

opportunity of impede the prosecution of the war. Lady Edna gasp.

Finch of the Independent Labour Party. be Edgar go mad? Samways,

M.P. and Professor of History, pessimistic apostle of german efficiency

and preacher of the hopelessness of the Allies’ struggle. editor of

pacifist organ—Featherstone, the most brilliant, whose cranky brain

have make he the partisan of England’s enemy all through his

journalistic career; Fordyce, snaky in his intellectual conceit;

Riordan, dark and suspect. . . . there be other, politician and

publicist, self-proclaim patriot and war-winner, but openly hostile

to the Government. altogether the most amazing crew that ever Minister

of the Crown delight to honour.



that the ultimate object of this gathering be the overthrowal of the

Government there could be no doubt. how they be go to manage it be

another matter. a rabble like that, think Lady Edna scornfully, could

not upset a nervous old lady. it look rather like a preliminary

meeting, hold in secrecy, to start the network in which great

personality should be enmesh and involve. at any rate, on the part

of Edgar Donnithorpe it be black treachery. the more she scan the

list the more do her soul sicken within she. it seem intolerable that

this pro-german orgy should take place in the house of which she be the

mistress, while she remain here, fool, with her little week-end

party. she burn with vengeance against her husband.



it be half-past four. she stand in the drawing-room, which she have

enter a few minute before, leave her guest on the lawn, in order

to give some trivial order, and twist the accuse paper in her hand,

her lip thin, deep in thought. presently into her eye creep a smile of

malice, and she go out of the french window and cross the grass and

join her friend. there be only three, Colonel and Mrs. Barrington

and Miss Delamere. a couple of man who be to have come down have

providentially be detain in London.



“my dear people,” she say, smile. “the war have spread to Moulsford.

there’s nothing in the house for dinner. there’ll be heap to-morrow,

but none to-night.”



“I’ll go down to the river and angle for a roach,” say Colonel

Barrington.



“or else come with I to town and dine at the Carlton. I’ll take you all

in the Rolls-Royce. it will be a lovely run back.”



“but, my dear, it’ll be joy-ride!” cry Mrs. Barrington.



“it will be indeed,” say Lady Edna.



“but suppose we’re hold up?”



“I’ll say I have to see my husband on important political business.”



“and I’m a soldier on active service,” say Colonel Barrington, “and

must be feed.”



“you don’t mind, do you?” ask Lady Edna.



mind? not they. what could be pleasanter on a perfect summer night?

besides, they have not taste the guilty sweet of joy-riding for many

month. it would be an adventure.



they start merrily about six o’clock. Lady Edna be in gay spirit, as

though enjoy a schoolgirl’s freak. through the perfumed leafiness of

Streatley, Basildon, Pangbourne, they fly at the high speed of the

great car, through Reading and Maidenhead and Slough, through Hounslow

and Brentford. what be fifty mile? as they approach London Lady Edna

say:



“will you think I funny if I look in at Belgrave Square for a minute?”



she speak a word to the chauffeur. a while later the car swerve to the

right from the direct route to Piccadilly, and at eight o’clock pull

up at the Donnithorpes’ house in Belgrave Square. Lady Edna spring from

the car and trip up the step.



“I’ll let myself in with my latchkey,” she cry to the chauffeur who

be about to ring the bell.



in the hall she throw off her wrap, give an instinctive tidying touch

to her hair before a mirror, and walk smile on her errand. she wave

aside the hire stranger man-servant busy with plate outside the

dining-room door and boldly enter.



for a second or two no one observe she, then one or two guest catch

sight of the slender figure stately in her evening gown, and half rise

from their chair. so the attention of all be call to she. Edgar

Donnithorpe, sit at the head of the table with his back to the door,

turn and spring to his foot with a gasp. to stay polite commotion she

laugh and hold up her hand.



“please don’t anyone get up.”



her husband, in white anger, say:



“I think you be at Moulsford, Edna. be anything the matter?”



“only your dinner party,” she reply with derisive graciousness. “I

happen to be dine in town, and it occur to I to look in and see

that your guest have everything they want—especially”—she scan

the face deliberately—“as they be all new to the house.”



she bow and withdraw. her husband throw down his napkin and follow

she. neither speak till they reach the hall, when they face each

other.



“I couldn’t make a scene before all those man,” he begin.



“of course you couldn’t. I know that,” she interrupt.



“but I’ll make one now. by God I will! what do you mean by this

outrageous behaviour?”



“to queer your game, my friend. I think it would be amusing to show

all your pretty conspirator that the gaff be blow.”



“I’m free to ask anyone to my own house. I’m master here, and the soon

you learn it the well. be you aware that you’ve insult the whole of

my guest?”



“I flatter myself I behave with peculiar courtesy,” say Lady Edna.

“it’s you who be be rude to they. you have well go back. be you

come down to Moulsford to-morrow?”



“no, I’m damn if I be!”



he fling away from she, then turn.



“by God! you shall pay for this.”



“Willingly. it’s worth a lot.”



he glower at she impotently. what scene could he make other than one

of vulgar recrimination? she have catch he in a domestic lie and a

public act of treachery. for the moment his wife have all the weapon. so

they stand there in the rosy light of the hall, deadly enemy; she

triumphant, radiant in her scornful beauty; he small, thin, foxy and

malignant. presently, with a laugh she move to the front door.



“I never think you particularly clever, Edgar,” she say. “but in

diplomatic crudity you could give lesson to the Wilhelmstrasse.”



with which parthian shot she open the door and rejoin her friend in

the car.



“forgive I, dear people,” she say, settle in her place. “I’ve be

have the time of my life.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



she return to town with her guest on Monday morning, but do not see

her husband until late in the afternoon, when, on his return from the

Ministry, he find she alone in her sitting-room.



“my dear Edna,” say he, in a conciliatory tone, “we owe each other a

little mutual understanding. it’s so undignified to quarrel.”



she put the book she be read page downward on her knee.



“most undignified,” she assent.



“you be rather under a misapprehension as to Saturday night.”



“I’m glad to hear it,” she say, “for I be go to ask you a

question.”



“what be that?”



“have you send in your resignation to the Prime Minister?”



“no, no. of course not. that’s where your error in judgment, if I may be

allow to say so, come in. I’m aware I couldn’t be see publicly with

that crowd. I have to manage a secret meeting. but it be in order to get

they on our side. I think a frank discussion with they might produce

good result.”



“have it?”



“I think so,” say he. “oh yes, I think so. I’m speak at Bristol

to-night. you’ll see from my speech what my position be. I mean to

define it unmistakably.”



“I’m glad to hear it.”



she turn away, hate he and despise he more than ever. she pass

a hideous day, overwhelm with fear of treason and disaster.



they be justify the follow morning when, look through the

newspaper bring to she bedside, she first glance at and then pore

over the lead article in the important daily edit by Fordyce, one

of the guest at the amazing dinner-party. it be an attack on the

Government’s conduct of the war, base, ostensibly, on the rumour whose

inaccuracy Godfrey have beg she to contradict, but, to those with

inner knowledge, on the real fact of the plan of the High Command. it

be do with diabolical craft. challenge as to the source of his

information, Fordyce could point to the article and defy anyone to prove

that he be possess of any esoteric information at all. it be mere

logical deduction from the general trend of the war policy of the Allied

Military Authorities. and yet the shiver woman know that the scheme

have be divulge to Fordyce. how? in terror she spring from her bed and

open the secret drawer of her desk. the sheet of notepaper be there

just as she have leave it. for a moment or two she stand, her hand on her

breast, laugh in a silly way. Edgar be capable of many thing; but

not of rifle her private paper. he be capable of betray the

Government to Fordyce, but as a Minister, she reflect, he would

possibly be aware of the scheme. as the Saturday evening host he have

communicate it to Fordyce. possibly to other. but no. that would have

be madness. a man do not blacken himself to a dozen man at once. the

other he have assemble so as to prepare they, in his underhand,

insinuate way, for this master-stroke. . . . she close the secret

drawer with an impatient snap, and go about the room clench her

hand and uttering futile word.



“the villain! the infernal villain!”



no. life with he henceforth be impossible. she would break away. . . .

she have her house at Moulsford, her own income. as for her London life,

she could take a suite at Claridge’s. in the indignant moment she almost

forget Godfrey. loathing of Edgar overspread all other thought.

suddenly she remember his Bristol speech, and run through the _Times_

to find the report. condense, it contain nothing but the facile,

uninspired claptrap that have characterize his public utterance since

the beginning of his career. he be lie to the country which he have

set out to betray. . . . meanwhile—so her excited fancy tell she—he

be a peril run loose about the world. what could she do? drive off

then and there and denounce he to the Prime Minister? he would

certainly ask she why she connect the leader in _the Morning Gazette_

with the dinner-party give to her husband’s political opponent. whence

do she derive her knowledge that anything more than conjecture underlay

the criticism in Fordyce’s paper? and she would not have a word to say.

once again she open the drawer and take out Godfrey’s note. Better

destroy they. her finger meet in the middle of the sheet prepare to

tear. then she pause. no. she think of Sir Berkeley Prynne—a man of

unstaine honour in private and public life. she would go to he, this

in her hand, tell the whole story and ask his advice. she thrust the

paper back into the drawer, ring for she maid and dress.



a busy woman’s correspondence keep she occupy all the morning. at

half-past twelve come a telephone call from Godfrey:



“when and where can I see you? something most important.”



“oh, darling, what be it?” her voice shake. “where be you?”



“War Office. I cann’t tell you anything over the phone. besides, I

haven’t a minute. I’ll be free in about half an hour.”



“come round here. I shall be alone.”



“right.”



he switch off, leave she in throb suspense. naturally he be

come to she about _the Morning Gazette_ article. to her excited fancy

the whole War Office be in a state of blind ferment like an ant-heap

bomb with a drop of kerosene. his tone, too, have be brusque,

imperious, that of a man deal with crisis. she wish she have go at

once in search of Sir Berkeley Prynne, instead of waste her morning

over correspondence. still, when one be Chairman and Treasurer of

practical concern, their business have to be attend to. she go on

with her work, her eye on the little agate clock in front of she.



the rattle of a car. a moment of horrible waiting. Rolliter at the door.



“Captain Baltazar, my lady.”



they stand for a breathless second until the butler have close the door

behind he. then he stride up and catch she in his arm. when she could

collect herself she look into dancing, triumphant eye. a wave of

relief sweep through she. suddenly she catch the echo, as it be, of

Rolliter’s announcement.



“Captain——?”



“yes. and more than that. I’m go to France.”



she feel herself grow pale. “my dear——”



“it’s a great stunt,” he say exultantly. “Northby have get an Army

Corps. he want I on his staff. I’m go out as the Brainy One, with a

step in rank. old man Widdowes talk to I as if I be an infant Haig.

you could have knock I down with a bunch of straw.”



“I’m so glad, dear. I’m so glad you’ve get what you want.”



“my God, yes!” say he, all aglow. “it’s the good thing a one-footed

cripple have do up to now. the W.O. ben’t the real thing. out there it

be. as soon as I meet you, I swear I’d make good. to be worthy of you, if

such a thing be possible.”



“I’m a proud woman,” say Lady Edna. “but I don’t understand—General

Northby—I never hear——”



“of course you don’t. neither do I. it be all secrecy and

suddenness.”



he explain roughly the circumstance.



“and when do you go out?”



“in three day’ time. I’m on leave till then.”



“three day?” she look at he aghast. “and then you go away

indefinitely?”



she pause, draw a long breath or two, and sink limply into a chair. he

look at she rather wonderingly.



“what about I, Godfrey?”



in the gratification of his wildest boyish ambition he have forget

her woman’s point of view. he have expect she to share his elation.

remorseful, he bent quickly over she, redden and stammering. he be a

selfish brute. do he really matter so much to she? if she would but say

the word, he would go straight back and refuse the appointment.



“don’t talk like a child,” she say. “if you do such a thing, we should

despise each other for the rest of our life. but three day—only three

day! and I’m at my wit’ end with unhappiness.”



he sink lover-like by her side and take her hand. what be wrong?



“have you see _the Morning Gazette?_”



he laugh. “oh yes! there’s a hell of a hullabaloo! but the beauty of

it be, that the whole thing go fut three or four day ago. I cann’t

tell you why. we’re work out quite a different plan. all the same,

there’s loud cursing in the camp.” he look at she with one of his

swift man’s glance. “of course, dearest—I’m bind to ask—you never

breathe a word to anybody of what I tell you?”



“not a word.”



“and you destroy that paper at once?”



“of course.”



the lie be out before she realize it. well, it don’t matter. the

thing be obsolete. she would tear it up. no. she wouldn’t. she still

have to wage her war against her husband, with the aid of Sir Berkeley

Prynne, and the document would be of great value.



“it be he who give it away to the editor of _the Morning Gazette_,” she

say, vindictively.



“but how the deuce could he have know?” ask Godfrey. “these thing

be dead secret. they never go beyond the Army Council.”



“he do know, anyhow. I’ve not see you since. I’ve a lot to tell you.”



she tell he. he scramble to his foot.



“my God! what a swine! you must leave he.”



“I’m go to. I’m go to hound he out of public life.”



“and then?”



“it’s for you to say.”



an hour later Godfrey run down the step of the house in Belgrave

Square, his head in a whirl.









                              CHAPTER XXII





BALTAZAR and Quong Ho be finish lunch when Godfrey, flushed and

excited, burst in with his news. an enthusiastically sympathetic parent

fail to detect an unusual note, almost one of vainglory, in the boy’s

speech and manner. he vaunt his success, proclaim his entry on a

brilliant career. he talk wildly. this to be a war to end war? a

maudlin visionary’s dream. we might crush the Hun this time and have a

sort of peace—a rotten politician’s peace, but the Hun would apply

himself to the intensive cultivation of Hate, and in twenty year at the

late would have another go at Frightfulness. and that’s where the

modern scientific soldier would come in. that be his career. he see it

all before he. and Baltazar, lead away by the boy’s bright promise,

clap both his hand on his shoulder in a powerful grip, and cry:



“I’m proud of you! my God, I’m proud of you! you and I will make our

name famous again, as it be in the day of Admiral de Coligny. we’ll do

thing. we’ll make this rock old Europe hum.” he laugh, and fire

leap into his eye. “it’s good to be alive these day!”



“it be. it’s glorious!” reply Godfrey.



Quong Ho, smile, urbane, approach with outstretched hand.



“I hope I may be allow to offer you my sincere congratulation,” say

he. “although I do not see eye to eye with you in your prognostication

of a recrudescence of warfare after the pacification of this present

upheaval, yet——”



but Godfrey slap he on the back, interrupt his eloquence.



“that’s all right, you dear old image. when you get your fellowship,

I’ll say the same to you.”



he cut a hunk from a cake on the table and pour out a whisky and soda.



“my dear boy,” cry Baltazar, dart to the bell, “haven’t you

lunch? you must have a proper meal.”



Godfrey restrain he. no. he haven’t time. he must leave London that

afternoon, for a day or two, and the next two or three hour would be a

mad rush. a shade of disappointment pass over Baltazar’s face.



“I be hope we might have a little dinner to-night to celebrate your

appointment—just ourselves, with Marcelle—and Lady Edna, if she could

come.”



a smile flicker round Godfrey’s lip.



“dreadfully sorry, sir,” say he. “I’m not my own master. anyhow, I know

Lady Edna’s engage. but my last night—yes, if you will. I’d love it.”



as soon as he have bolt food and drink, he rush out. he must throw

some thing into a bag, say he. presently he return and take hurry

leave. Baltazar grip he by the hand and God-bless he. at the door

Godfrey nod to Quong Ho.



“just a word, old chap.”



Quong Ho follow he into the hall.



Baltazar go to the open dining-room window, and presently see Godfrey

clamber into his little two-seater. he wave a hand.



“good luck!”



“see you on Friday, sir.”



the car drive off. Quong Ho return to the dining-room.



“I think, sir,” say he, “that we have just part from a happy young

man.”



“if a man’s not happy when he get his heart’s desire at twenty-one,”

say Baltazar, “he have well apply for transference to another planet.

I throw mine away,” he add in a tone of reminiscence. “Wilfully. I

ought to have be Senior Wrangler. but I be a fool. I be always

take false step. that’s the wonderful thing about Godfrey, Quong Ho,

as doubtless you’ve notice—he always take the right step. a

marvellously well-balance mind.” he smile in a meditative way,

thank Heaven for spare Godfrey those storm of temperament in which

he have so often suffer shipwreck. a steady chap, discipline, not to

be turn out of his course. “well, well,” say he, “now from

refreshment to labour. come upstairs and let we get on with the work.”



it be the long vacation, and Quong Ho, tireless and devote, be

replace Baltazar’s secretary absent on a much-need holiday. a busy

afternoon lie before they. that evening the week’s number of _the new

Universe_ must go to press; the final proof be pass, modify

footnote add to bring statement and argument up to the hour’s date,

so swift be the kaleidoscopic variation in the confused

world-condition; and Baltazar’s own editional summary, the dynamo of the

powerful periodical, have to be finish.



they sit in Baltazar’s library, at the orderly pile writing-table, very

much as they have sit, a year ago, in the scholarly room at Spendale

Farm. but now no long as master and humorously treat pupil. the

year of training have bear excellent fruit, and Quong Ho prove himself

to be an invaluable colleague; so much so that Baltazar, at time,

curse the University of Cambridge for deprive he, for the great

part of the year, of one of the most subtle brain in the kingdom. Quong

Ho could point unerringly to a fallacy in an argument; he seem to be

infallible on question of fact in war politic; and such a meticulously

accurate proof-corrector have never be bear. in such a light at least

do his _rara avis_ appear to Baltazar. they work in silence. Baltazar

furiously indite his article, Quong Ho, pen in hand, intent on the

proof. the open window admit the London sound of the warm summer

afternoon. presently Baltazar rise and cast off coat and waistcoat, and

with a sigh of relief at the coolness of shirt-sleeve, sit down again.



“why don’t you do the same?”



Quong Ho, impeccably attire in a dark suit and a high stiff collar,

reply that he do not feel the heat.



“I believe it would hurt you not to be prim and precise,” say Baltazar.

“I wonder what would happen if you really ever let yourself go?”



Quong Ho smile blandly. “I have be teach, sir, that self-discipline

be the foundation of all virtue.”



Baltazar laugh. “you’re young. Stick to it. I’ve have as much as be

good for I at my time of life. I’m go to end my day, thank God, in

delightful lack of restraint. I’m go to let myself go, my friend,

over this new job, like a runaway horse. at last I’ve bully they into

give I a free hand. it’s a change from a year ago, ben’t it?”



“I agree that the change have be most beneficent,” say Quong Ho.



“yes, by Jove!” cry Baltazar. “then we be just a couple of grubby

bookworm do nothing for ourselves or our fellow-creature. now—here

you be deal with thought that shake the world; and I—by Jove!—one

of the lead man in England. I should like to see the bomb that would

knock we out this time.”



he hitch up his shirt-cuff and plunge again into his article. he have

scarcely write a sentence, when the door open and Marcelle appear

on the threshold. he push back his chair and rise, and advance to she

with both hand outstretche.



“hello! hello! what have blow you in at this time of day?”



she look up at he as she take his hand, and he see there be trouble

in her eye.



“I know I’m disturb you, but I cann’t help it,” she say quickly. “I

must speak to you.”



“perhaps you would like to speak with Mr. Baltazar in private,” say

Quong Ho.



“indeed I should, Mr. Ho. please forgive I.”



Quong Ho bow and retire. Baltazar draw a chair for she. “now what’s

wrong, my dear?”



“Godfrey.”



“my God!” he cry. “not an accident? he’s not hurt?”



“oh no, no! nothing of that sort.” she smile in wan reassurance.



Baltazar breathe relief. “I believe if anything happen to he now, it

would break I,” he say.



“he come round to see I an hour or so ago.”



“after he leave here. to tell you of his appointment. ben’t you glad?”



“of course I be. but I should be more glad if that have be all.”



“what’s up?” he ask, frown. “tell I straight.”



“ought I to tell you?” she ask rather piteously. “it’s betray his

confidence shamefully. I know I’m to blame. I ought never to have give

he my promise. but I cann’t see he go and ruin everything without

make some sacrifice.”



“my dear Marcelle, you’re talk in riddle. for Heaven’s sake give

I the word of the enigma.”



“it’s Lady Edna Donnithorpe.”



“well. what about she?”



“I wish he have never set eye on the woman,” she cry passionately.



“if he’s in love with she, he’ll have to get over it,” say Baltazar.

“France will cure he. and, as I tell you the other evening, the lady’s

perfectly callous. so my dear, go along and don’t worry.”



“you don’t seem to understand I, John dear,” she say urgently. “the

woman be in love with he. it have be go on for month. he have tell

I all about it. she get up and go out drive with he in the car at

eight o’clock in the morning.”



“silly woman!” growl Baltazar.



“Silly or not, she wouldn’t do it if she don’t care for he. not Lady

Edna Donnithorpe. they meet whenever they can. he come to I and pour

out everything. I ought to have tell you. but I couldn’t break my word.

they’re lover——”



“lover? what do you mean?” he ask, bend his heavy brow.



“not yet. not in that sense, I’m sure. but they soon will be.” she

look at he anxiously. “I know I’m go to forfeit Godfrey’s

affection, and perhaps your respect—but I cann’t do otherwise.” she

pause, then burst out desperately: “she’s go to run away with he

this afternoon.”



“the devil she be!” cry Baltazar. he stride about the room and throw

up his hand. “oh, the damned young fool!” he wheel round on Marcelle.

“why on earth don’t you stop it?”



she plead helplessness. how could she? naturally she have use every

argument, moral and worldly. as it be, he have dash off in a fume,

call her unsympathetic and narrow-minded, regret that he have ever

give she his confidence. he have promise long ago to let she know

everything. now that he have keep his word she turn against he. she

have be powerless.



“he’s old enough to look after his own moral,” say Baltazar, “and I’m

not the silly hypocrite to hold up my hand in horror. but to go and run

away with the most notorious society woman in London and play the devil

with his career be another matter. oh, the damned young fool!—That rat

Edgar Donnithorpe will get on to it at once. he’s just the man to stick

at nothing.—A filthy divorce case.—The boy’ll have to resign, if he

don’t get chuck—then marry the woman five year old than himself.

where’s the happiness go to be?”



he resume his striding about the room, in his impetuous way, and

Marcelle follow he timidly with her eye. “oh, damnation!” say he.

he have just be lecture Quong Ho on Godfrey’s steadiness and balance.

why, he himself have never do such a scatter-brain thing.



“where be the precious pair go?”



a remote week-end cottage, she say, belong to a complaisant friend

of Lady Edna’s. five mile from station, post office or shop. a lonely

Eden in the wilderness. whether it be north, east, south or west of

London she do not know. an old woman in charge would look after they.



“I suppose they’re well on their way by now,” say he.



“I don’t know. possibly not. he say he have to rush about town to order

his kit. besides,” she add hopelessly, “what do it matter when they

start?”



Baltazar curse in futile freedom.



“there’s nothing I wouldn’t give for it not to have happen,” he

exclaim. “I suppose I be a fool. you warn I. and it be I who,

like an ass, encourage they. I could kick myself!”



“it’s like you, John, dear, not to blame I,” she say humbly.



“of course I don’t blame you. you think it boyish folly. . . . what’s

the good of talk about it?”



they do talk, however, in a helpless way.



“they have no intention of do anything desperate,” she say, “until

this morning. if he have remain in London, they might have go on

indefinitely. the prospect of endless month in France set the whole

thing ablaze. . . . when I put the moral side before he, he retort

with a _tu quoque_.”



“what do he mean?”



“that I be ready, at his age, to run away with a married man.”



“be you?” he ask.



“I suppose so,” she reply with a weary little smile.



“that be an entirely different affair.”



“not from the moral point of view.”



“oh, damn moral,” say he.



she laugh in spite of her distress. it be so characteristic of the

man. if anything get in his way, he just damn it, and regard it as

non-existent.



he move restlessly about; then, catch sight of his discard coat

and waistcoat, plunge savagely into they, as though he be go in

pursuit of the err pair.



“what be you go to do?” she ask.



“I don’t know,” he say, abandon half-way the furious buttoning of

his waistcoat. “that’s the devil of it, there’s nothing to be do.”



at that moment Quong Ho discreetly appear at the door.



“will you have particular need of my service for the next hour?”



“yes, of course I shall. look there!” Baltazar fling a hand towards the

paper-strew table. “we go to press this evening.”



Quong Ho consult his watch. “I be sorry then, for I don’t know how I

shall proceed. I promise Captain Godfrey to take his bag to the railway

station at five o’clock.”



Smiles wreathe Baltazar’s face of annoyance, and he exchange a quick

glance with Marcelle. “what railway station?”



“Waterloo.”



“I think he have take his kit with he in the car.”



“he explain, sir, when he call I into the hall before he leave, that

he couldn’t garage the car at Waterloo station.”



“I see,” say Baltazar.



“therefore I be to seek it in his bedroom and convey it by taxi to

Waterloo.”



Baltazar nod approvingly, and the humorous light appear in his eye

which Quong Ho could never interpret.



“it’s very lucky you’ve tell I, Quong Ho. I want particularly to say a

word or two to Godfrey before he leave London. I’ll take his bag. you

get on with the work. perhaps you’ll send somebody out for a taxi.”



“I’ll fetch one myself,” say Quong Ho, and bow as usual politely to

Marcelle, leave the room.



Baltazar clutch her arm with both hand and lift she from her seat

and, laugh exultantly, kiss she a hearty, unintelligible kiss—the

first for twenty year—leave she utterly bewildered.



“the Lord have deliver they into my hand!” he cry. “the star in

their course fight for the House of Baltazar.”



“what in the world be you go to do?” she ask.



“play hell,” say he.



ten minute afterwards Baltazar be speed eastward, grimly smile.

by skilful contrivance he have despatch the helpful Quong Ho upstairs

to Marcelle at the last moment, and have pitch Godfrey’s kit into the

dining-room and have drive off without it. if the infatuated youth would

not listen to reason or the lady to the plainest of speech, he should go

off to his love in a cottage unromantically destitute of toothbrush and

pyjama. Ridicule kill. the boy would hate he for the moment; but

would assuredly live to bless he. once in France, he would have no time

for folly. the imperious man’s thought fly fast. the lady herself

should cure the boy. he would see to that. if he couldn’t break an Edna

Donnithorpe, bring she to heel, he be not John Baltazar. in his

jealousy for the boy’s honourable career he sweep the woman’s possible

emotion into the limbo of inconsiderable thing. what kind of a woman

be she, anyhow, to have marry a rat like Donnithorpe? he read she in

rough intolerance. just a freak of thwarted sex. that be it. if nothing

be discover, she would return to her normal life and, size up the

episode in her cold intellectual way, would discover that the game be

not worth the candle supply by the old woman in the remote cottage,

and would send Godfrey pack to any kind of byronic despair. if the

intrigue come out and there be a divorce and subsequent marriage, there

would be the devil to pay.



the taxi clatter through the gloomy archway approach at Waterloo and

draw up at the end of the long line of cab at the entrance to the

station. the summer exodus from London be just begin, and the

outside platform be a-bustle with porter, truck, passenger and

luggage. Baltazar, after pay his fare, linger for a moment at the

great door of the Booking Hall, and then enter and pass through it

into the hurrying station. a queue stand at the suburban ticket office.

he scan it, but no Godfrey. he walk the length of the platform

entrance, through the crowd of passenger and their dump of luggage

and knot of soldier, some about to entrain, sit on the ground with

their pack around they, other, newly arrive on leave: australian

with their soft hat, wiry Cockneys still encase in the clay of the

trench, officer of all grade and of all arm. presently at the

central bookstall, turn away, his arm full of periodical, Godfrey

come into view. Baltazar approach smile. his son’s face darken. “I

don’t expect to see you here, sir.”



“if you want to study the way of a country, there’s nothing like its

great railway station. they’re a favourite haunt of mine.”



“it’s rather stuffy under this glass roof, don’t you think?” say

Godfrey.



“I don’t mind it, my boy,” reply Baltazar cheerfully. “but it’s lucky

I hit upon Waterloo. I shall be able to see you off. by the way, where

be you go?”



“Somewhere Southampton way, sir,” say Godfrey stiffly.



“lot of light literature,” remark Baltazar, motion to the

periodical.



“quite a debauch,” say Godfrey.



Baltazar’s quick eye pick out the board by the Southampton platform.



“your train, I see, go at 5.45. you’re a bit early.”



“yes, sir. it’s such a long time till the train start that I couldn’t

think of ask you to wait.”



“that don’t matter a bit, my dear boy. time be no object.”



“I’m very sorry to be rude, sir—but as a matter of fact I have an

appointment,” say Godfrey desperately. “an important appointment.”



“oh!” say Baltazar.



“and, if you don’t mind, I must wait outside the station. Quong Ho be

bring my suit-case. I shouldn’t like to miss he.”



he make a step forward, but an ironic glitter in his father’s search

eye arrest the movement.



“Quong Ho ben’t bring your suit-case. I’ve come instead.”



Godfrey draw himself up haughtily. “I don’t understand. have you be

kind enough to bring my luggage?”



“no,” reply Baltazar calmly. “it’s on the floor of the dining-room.”



“your interference with my arrangement, sir, be unwarrantable,” say

the boy, pale with anger.



“possibly. unless we adopt the Jesuitical principle of the end

justify the mean.”



“and what be the end, might I ask?”



“to prevent you from make an infernal fool of yourself.”



the young man regard he inimically. Baltazar feel a throb of pride in

his attitude. a lad of spirit.



“I suppose Marcelle come straight to you with my confidence. in give

it to she I make a fool of myself, I admit. as for what I propose to do,

I fail to see that it’s any concern of your.”



Baltazar’s heart yearn over the boy. he say in a softened tone: “it

be ruin to your career and a mess up of your whole life. and your future

mean so much to I that I’d sacrifice anything—honour, decency, even

your affection which I think I have gain—to see you off at any rate

to France with a clean sheet.”



but Godfrey in cold wrath do not heed the pleading note. he have be

betray and trick. only his soldier’s training keep he outwardly

calm. to the casual glance of the preoccupied crowd pass by they

nothing in the demeanour of either man give occasion for special

interest. they stand, too, in a little islet of space apart from the

general stream of traffic. Baltazar go on with his parable. he have not

the heart to hint his project gibe at the unromantic lack of

tooth-brush. thing run too deep.



“I admit none of your argument,” say Godfrey at last. “besides, I be

my own master. I owe you a debt for many kindness; your affection—I

don’t undervalue it. but there thing end. after all, we meet a year ago

as stranger. I’ve run my life as I choose, and I mean to run it as I

choose. I expect Lady Edna to arrive at any minute. in common delicacy I

must ask you to let I go my own way.”



“all right, go,” say Baltazar. “but I’ll go with you.”



Godfrey’s eye flame.



“you wouldn’t dare!”



“my dear fellow,” say Baltazar, “I don’t think there’s a damned thing

in the world that I wouldn’t dare. haven’t you find that out?”



so they stand there for a while long, talk in their islet beneath

the glass roof of the busy station, and the boy’s heart be fill with

anger and wild hatred of the thick-shoulder, smile man, with the

powerful face and infernal dancing eye.



then suddenly Baltazar stride away at a great pace, and Godfrey,

turning, see that he be cut off Lady Edna, who have enter,

precede by a porter wheel her luggage. before he have time to

overtake he, Baltazar be already take off his hat to an amazed lady

and have imperiously check the porter.



“Lady Edna,” say he, “I’m here to prevent Godfrey and yourself from

commit the insanity of your life.”



she say, mistress of herself, “I don’t understand you, Mr. Baltazar.

you seem to be take an outrageous liberty. I be go to stay at the

house of a friend who have ask Godfrey to be my fellow-guest.”



before Baltazar could reply, Godfrey come hurry up with his slight

limp and plunge into angry explanation. she look at the clock.



“if you telephone home now,” she say coolly, “a servant will have ample

time to bring your thing.”



“by God, yes!” say Godfrey, angrily deposit the sheaf of periodical

on her luggage.



“have you get the ticket?”



“of course.”



he march away across the station.



“Porter——” say Lady Edna.



but no porter be there, for, unperceive by either of the lover,

Baltazar have slip five shilling into the man’s hand and tell he to

come back later.



“there’s heap of time,” say Baltazar. “now, my dear lady, what be

the good of make-believe? card on the table. you’re go to make a

bolt with Godfrey and throw your cap over the windmill. there’s a nice

little cottage in a wood—in the depth of the New Forest, I presume,

lend you by a friend who be represent by one solitary old woman.”



“how do you know that?” she ask, her soft eye harden in their

characteristic way. “Godfrey have surely not be such a——“—she pause

for a word—“well—such an imbecile as to tell you?”



“Godfrey have tell I nothing. you may be certain of that. his fury

against I be sufficiently obvious.”



“then how do you know?”



“that’s my affair,” smile Baltazar. “Lady Edna,” say he, “don’t you

think that my come the heavy father like this put you into rather an

absurd position?”



she reply, white-lipped: “I’ll never forgive you till I’m dead!”



“I’ve naturally count on the consequence of your resentment,” say

Baltazar.



“what do you propose to do?”



“if you persist, to thrust upon you the displeasure of my company,

without luggage—just like Godfrey.”



“you——” she begin indignantly. and then suddenly: “oh, my God!” and

clutch he by the arm.



he follow her stare across the station, and there, in the archway of

the Booking Hall, peer from right to leave in his rat-like way, stand

Edgar Donnithorpe.









                             CHAPTER XXIII





“you seem to have manage your little affair rather clumsily,” say

Baltazar.



“what’s he do here?” she ask wildly.



“probably catch you and Godfrey.”



“he mustn’t see Godfrey here.”



“that’s easily manage,” say Baltazar. “I’ll send he fly out of the

telephone box. but what on earth could have put your husband on the

track? what indiscretion have you be commit?”



“I leave a letter for he tell he I wouldn’t stay any long in his

house. he’s a traitor to his country.”



Baltazar throw up his hand. “oh, Lord! the usual idiocy. for a clever

woman—well! anyhow, I’ll head off Godfrey. when your husband spot you,

use your brain. don’t say a word to give yourself away.”



“you’ll come back?” she cry, lose her head.



“I’ll see,” say he.



he leave she, and fetch a compass round the station, mingle as much

as possible with the never-cease throng of soldier and civilian and

woman and luggage, until he arrive at the row of telephone box. there

he find Godfrey, wait his turn and fume at the delay.



“my boy,” say he, “here be all the element of a first-class farce.

the injured husband, Edgar Donnithorpe, have turn up. you have well

make track as quick as you can.”



“I suppose you give he the hint,” snarl the young man, with set

tooth.



“you’re insult your own blood to make such a damfool remark,” say

Baltazar. “go home, and stay there till I come.”



Godfrey meet the infernal eye and, for all his anger and humiliation,

know that he have accuse basely.



“I apologize, sir,” say he, in his most haughty and military manner,

and march off.



Baltazar hesitate. should he or should he not return to Lady Edna? if

he have escape the eye of Edgar Donnithorpe, it be well to leave

Lady Edna, injure innocent, to tell her tale of solitary retirement to

sylvan depth where she could be remote from the consequence of his

political turpitude. on the other hand, if he have be observe, or if

Lady Edna have avow his presence, his abandonment of she might be

idiotically interpret. he decide to return.



he see they at once through the move traffic: the husband, his back

towards he, grip a handle of the truck on which the luggage be

pile; the wife face he, an ironical smile on her lip. a devilish

handsome woman, think Baltazar. the boy have taste. there she stand,

slim, distinguish in her simple fawn coat and skirt and little hat to

match, beneath which wave her dark brown hair, very cool, aristocratic

and defiant. Baltazar come up to they.



“ah, Donnithorpe!”



the thin, grey man wheel round, and then Baltazar realize that he have

make the wrong decision, for he be the last man the other expect to

see.



“you? what be you do here?” he shout.



“hush!” say Lady Edna, with a touch on his arm. “you’re not at home or

in the House of Commons. you’re in a public place, and you’ll get a

crowd round we in no time. let we pretend we’re a merry party go on a

holiday.”



Edgar Donnithorpe throw an anxious glance round to see if they have

attract undesired attention. but people pass they by or stand in

knot near they, unheede, intent on their own affair.



“I ask you,” he say in a low voice, “what you be do at this railway

station with my wife?”



Baltazar, his feel hat at the back of his head and his hand thrust into

his trouser’ pocket beneath the skirt of his button-up,

double-breasted jacket, eye he in exasperate amusement.



“I be see Lady Edna off on a railway journey. be it necessary to ask

your permission?”



Lady Edna laugh mockingly. “as far as I can make out, my husband

expect to find I elope with your son Godfrey.”



Donnithorpe shift his eye from one to the other, look at they

evilly.



“he be with you for nearly a couple of hour to-day. I have my own very

good reason for suspicion. I go round to your house, Mr. Baltazar,

and ask for your son. I see your chinese secretary——” he catch

Baltazar’s involuntary sudden frown and angry flush. “in justice,” he

continue in his thin, sneer manner, “I must absolve he from

indiscretion. he know my position in the Government, and when I

inform he that it be imperative I should see your son on important

political business, he tell I I should find he at Waterloo station.”



“you overreach yourself,” say Baltazar with a banter grin.

“Godfrey know no more about politic than a tom-cat. Quong Ho naturally

think you mean I. you come. here I be, see your wife off. she

telephone I that she be leave your house—go to stay with

friend—want a man of the world’s advice on the serious step she be

take—woman-like, of course, she take the step first, and ask for

advice afterwards—and I naturally put myself at her ladyship’s

disposal. don’t you think you have well let Lady Edna get on with her

journey? here’s her porter. come with I and see she safe into her

carriage.”



he be enjoy himself amazingly. Donnithorpe, baffle, tug at his

thin grey moustache. the porter come up, touch his cap.



“Time’s get on, ma’am. I’ve reserve the two seat——”



“one seat,” say Lady Edna swiftly.



“beg your pardon, ma’am. I think you say the gentleman be go with

you.”



“one seat. I say I be meet a gentleman.”



the porter wheel off the luggage. Lady Edna turn to follow, but she

husband grip she viciously by the wrist.



“not yet.”



“drop that,” growl Baltazar.



Donnithorpe release she, plunge his hand into his breast pocket and

draw out a couple of sheet of paper.



“you do say two seat. you mean to go off with he. there’s some

damned trickery about it. but I’ve get the whip hand, my lady. just look

at this before you go.”



Lady Edna turn ghastly white and clutched Baltazar’s arm to steady

herself from the sicken shock. in the desperate rush, after Godfrey’s

departure, the scheming, the packing, the telephoning, the temporary

straightening of affair, the chase over London for the complaisant

friend whose connivance be essential, the eagerness to get free of the

house before her husband should return, she have forget the scrap of

paper in her secret drawer, with its obsolete information. now the

horror flash on she. her husband have go to the drawer before. hence

the article in Fordyce’s paper. her first instinct have be right. he

have go to the drawer again. her sway brain wonder how he have

discover the secret of the spring. but he have find the paper which in

her folly she have not destroy—and what else besides? she hear, as in

a dream, her husband say:



“if he ben’t your lover, what about these? here’s proof. here’s a matter

of court-martial and gaol.”



she regain her self-control with a great effort, still hold to

Baltazar. “you hound!” she whisper.



Baltazar, smite with the realization that comedy have vanish—the

comedy in which he have play so debonair and masterly a part—vanish

in the flash of a cinematographic film, and that something very near

tragedy be stare he in the face, stretch out his hand for the

paper.



“let I see.”



but Donnithorpe smile his thin, derisive smile. “no. they’re too

precious. I’ll hold they for you to look at. keep away.”



and there, in the airless glass-roof railway station, on that hot

summer afternoon, in the midst of the reverberate noise of train

let off steam, of a thousand human voice, of scurry foot, of

grating luggage trunk, in the midst of a small town’s move and

lounge population, surge now, at that hour’s height of the suburban

traffic with home-go stream; there, with hundred of eye to watch

they, hundred of ear to hear they, hundred of successive ear of

people dart bee-like around the busy bookstall not ten yard away,

there three quietly talk human being stand at grip with destiny.



“this be write on your notepaper. it be a War Office secret. it

reveal the whole strategy of the High Command.”



Baltazar’s lip grow grim and his eye bent on the little man burn

like fire. in Donnithorpe’s hand the document be Godfrey’s death

warrant.



then Baltazar remember the shock he have receive in Sheepshanks’s room

at Cambridge when first he see a letter of Godfrey’s, and Godfrey’s

after explanation of the identity of their handwriting.



“don’t you see? it give the whole thing away,” Donnithorpe continue.



“I’m quite aware of it,” say Baltazar. “I draw it up for your wife.”



“you?” exclaim Donnithorpe in incredulous amazement, while Lady Edna

catch a sharp breath and clung more fiercely to Baltazar’s arm. “where

do you get your information from?”



“I be to be Minister of the new department in a day or two,” say

Baltazar, “and I’m in the inner confidence of the War Cabinet.”



“but it’s in your son’s handwriting!”



“it’s my handwriting,” say Baltazar calmly.



he draw from his pocket a sheaf of note for a speech and hand they to

Donnithorpe. “Compare, if you like.”



Donnithorpe return they with a curious thin snarl and hold out the

other paper.



“then you write this too?”



Baltazar glance at it. it be the first sheet of a letter from which

the other sheet have be tear. Lady Edna see it and again sway, half

faint with sicken humiliation. the only one of Godfrey’s

letter—and only part of one—which she have keep: two page breathe

such a passionate love as she have never dream that a man in real life

could express to woman. she have forget that she have leave that, too,

in the secret drawer. she stare haggardly into Baltazar s face. his

lip twist into a smile.



“yes. I write that too,” say he.



“then you’re a damned villain!” cry Donnithorpe.



“very possibly,” say Baltazar.



Donnithorpe turn in his rat-like way to his wife.



“what have you to say about it?”



suddenly recover from her fit of terror and shame, she withdraw she

grip from Baltazar’s arm and hold herself up with the scornful poise of

her head.



“nothing,” she say. “you can flatter yourself now you know everything.”



he do not heed her word, but once more look from one to the other

with a thin, chuckle laugh.



“you’re a pretty pair. you, my lady. and you, Mr. Minister of Publicity.

it strike I you’ll have to postpone your elopement.”



“you’ve get elopement on the brain, my good fellow,” say Baltazar. “a

Minister of Publicity don’t elope with a lady with nothing but what he

stand up in. where’s my luggage?”



“there,” reply Donnithorpe, point to the barrier to the platform.

“didn’t the porter say she have order two seat—one for a gentleman?”



“this be get wearisome,” say Lady Edna. “I’ve already tell you how

the mistake arise.”



the solicitous porter, already reward with five shilling, and

belong to a race as richly endow with human failing as any other

in the world, hurry up.



“I’ve find a corner seat, ma’am. put everything into the carriage.

you’ve not much time leave.”



suddenly she become aware of the awful desolation that await she in

the remote cottage in the New Forest with one horrible old servant woman

for company. within her feminine unreason clamour. no, no! she

revolt against the grotesque absurdity of such comfortless living

burial. she would go mad, cut off from every opportunity of hear

instant development of this nerve-rack situation. she couldn’t stick

it.



“I’ve change my mind, porter. I’m not go. get my thing out and

bring they back.”



“certainly, ma’am.”



the porter run off. Baltazar thrust his hand again into his trouser’

pocket. his face be a grim mask.



“why don’t you get your luggage out too?” sneer Donnithorpe.



“don’t be a brainless fool,” say Baltazar.



the finger in his pocket twitch, and Lady Edna catch a malevolent

flash in his eye that make she shiver. he would have like to wring she

neck. why the devil don’t she play the game and go to the cottage and

the old woman? he read she through and through. and mingle with his

contempt run a thrill of gladness. Godfrey be well rid of she.



Donnithorpe cackle at his abjuration. he turn to Lady Edna.



“you haven’t condescend to tell I where you be go.”



“I be go, if you want to know, to stay with Sybil Manning at her

little place in the New Forest.”



“indeed?” say her husband, in his rasp voice, and a gleam of triumph

sparkle in his crafty eye. “now it happen that I, not be quite the

fool you and Mr. Baltazar have think I, ring up Lady Manning. it be

the first thing I do when I read your letter. I know you would bolt,

straight to she. I’ve often think of bring in a Bill in Parliament

to deprive she of existence. she answer I herself. she have hear

nothing of you, know nothing of you.”



“naturally,” she say jeeringly. “but,” she add, carry the war into

enemy’s quarter, “she know everything about you. everything, my

friend. so will the Prime Minister.”



“I be with the Prime Minister this morning,” say Donnithorpe. “I tell

he all about my Saturday evening’s effort in the cause of solidarity.

we part the good of friend, and my position be secure.”



“what about Fordyce’s article this morning?”



“this morning I couldn’t conceive how the fellow have get the

information. this evening or to-morrow morning”—he tap his breast

pocket—“if I be ask, I can point to a dual source of leakage.”



he fold his arm, the crafty political intriguer, thin and triumphant.



“of we two,” say Baltazar, “it strike I that you be the damnder

scoundrel.”



“what you think be a matter of perfect indifference to I,” retort

Donnithorpe. “what do interest I be the fact that my wife be go

to stay with Lady Manning in the New Forest while Lady Manning be in

London, and that when I find she here with you, she decide not to go to

the New Forest after all.”



Lady Edna flush angrily. she be out-manœuvre, outclassed, beat on

all side by the thin grey man whom she despise. she have act like a

brainless, immoral schoolgirl.



“where do you propose to go now?” ask Donnithorpe.



she spit her venom at he. “anywhere to get out of the sight of you.

yes, I be go alone to Sybil Manning’s cottage. I have just leave she

when you telephone. I want to get as far away from you as I could and

from the disgusting impression of the last few day. now the whole

thing would be spoil by this abominable insult. I shall stay with my

mother to-night and go down to Moulsford to-morrow.”



“I’m glad,” reply Donnithorpe acidly, “you’re not think of

return to my house. I’m not go to have any plea of condonation.”



Lady Edna move away haughtily toward the barrier.



“I see my porter. Mr. Baltazar, will you kindly put I into a taxi?”



“no, he shalln’t. you shall go in my car.”



Baltazar, in a cold fury, stand over he threateningly.



“you stay here,” say he, “or by the live God I’ll half kill you!”



he catch up Lady Edna and follow with she in the wake of the porter.



she say: “I owe you a debt of gratitude which I cann’t ever repay.”



he feel merciless towards she, murderous. “you let that boy alone, do

you hear? you’ve come within a hair’s-breadth of blast his life. it

remain yet to be see whether that hair’s-breadth will save he——”



“I’d do anything in my power——” she begin.



“for God’s sake stop do thing. hold your tongue. you’ve be

criminal in your piling folly on folly. you’ve do enough.”



“but you——?”



“I can take care of myself—and the boy, if you keep quiet. you’ve get

to remember the position. I’m your lover. avow before your husband by

both of we—you implicitly. you’re not to lose sight of that fact.

understand? if you hold any communication with Godfrey, you’ll get he

court-martialle. disgrace, probably imprison. and then, by God! I

willn’t have any pity on you.”



talk thus they reach the outer platform of the station and wait

while the porter secure a taxi. she whisper, for they be brush by

the throng of passenger arrive and depart:



“if Edgar bring a divorce action——? he’s vindictive——”



“he’ll bring no action, if you stop play the fool. I’d advise you not

to interfere with my game.”



the porter swing from the step of the taxi bring a new arrival, and

as soon as the latter, a young officer with a suit-case, have alight

and pay his fare, he pile in Lady Edna’s belonging. she enter the

cab very white and scared. Godfrey have tell she enough about his father

for she to realize the unyielding nature of the man. she be terrify,

cow. he blaze before her irresistibly elemental. . . . she carry

away with she a blurred impression of his thatch of brown hair coarse

and strong like the crown of some relentless beast as he lift his hat

when the taxi drive off. she shudder, and hate he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Baltazar let himself into the house in Sussex Gardens, and go straight

to Godfrey’s room. he find he write hard. when the young man spring

up, his quiet eye note the desk strew with many sheet of notepaper.



“write to she, I suppose.”



“it’s not altogether unnatural,” Godfrey reply in stiff hostility.



“where be you go to address it?”



Godfrey, look into the infernal eye, see that it be not an idle and

impertinent question. besides, he have spend a very agitated hour, gnaw

by bitter disappointment and impotent anger and torture his brain with

conjecture as to what have happen.



“where be Lady Edna, sir?” he ask.



“she have go to stay with Lady Ralston.”



“her mother?”



“the Dowager Countess of Ralston be, I believe, her mother,” say

Baltazar.



he throw himself into a chair and mop his forehead.



“why the devil don’t you open a window?”



“I don’t notice,” say Godfrey, and go and throw up the sash.



it be a cosy room at the back of the house, the smoking den of the late

dead owner, furnish with green leather arm-chair draw up at each end

of a green leather-cover fender-seat, with a great green

leather-cushion Chesterfield, with solid comfortable mahogany table,

writing-desk and bookcase. on the wall hang well-frame old engraving

of solid worth, and Godfrey have add a little armoury of war trophy,

Hun helmet, rifle, flare pistol, gas-mask, bayonet, gleam shell

case of all size, a frame blood-stain letter or two in german

script. . . . a cosy room more suitable for a winter’s evening than a

close summer afternoon. Baltazar fill his lung with the fresher air.



“that’s well,” say he.



Godfrey stand by the fireplace, his face set and unyielding.



“perhaps you might tell I, sir, what have happen. what bring

Donnithorpe to the station?”



“the hope of catch you, my son, _in flagrante delicto_ of elopement.”



“Quong Ho be sure that he want you.”



“Quong Ho make a mistake. Donnithorpe be exceedingly surprised to find

I.”



there be a long pause, during which Baltazar bend his disconcerting and

luminous gaze on the young man.



“Godfrey,” he say at last, “what make you such an infatuated fool as to

give away War Office secret in write to that woman?”



a look of horror dawn in the young man’s eye and he take a step

forward. he gasp:



“what do you mean?”



and then, when Baltazar describe the disastrous paper, he cry

passionately:



“it cann’t be! it cann’t possibly be! only this morning she tell I she

have destroy it.”



“she lie, my son,” say Baltazar.



“but she know it be my honour, my everything——”



“of course she do. do you suppose that matter to she?”



Godfrey repeat in a daze way: “there must be some mistake. she tell

I she have destroy it.”



“well, she don’t,” say Baltazar. “she keep it—to gratify some vanity

or ambition. I don’t know. our talk be too concentrated to divagate

into motive. anyway, care for your honour don’t affect she. she leave

it about, and Edgar Donnithorpe have get it and mean to use it.”



the distracted young man sit down, his head in his hand, and groan.

“my God! that’s the end of I.”



Baltazar deliberately fill and light a pipe, and say nothing. Better

let the consequence of the lady’s betrayal soak in. . . . presently

Godfrey rise to his foot and his face be haggard.



“I’ll go to Donnithorpe and get it back. he daren’t show it. it’ll be

accuse himself of give away the information to _the morning

Gazette_.”



but Baltazar hold he with his inscrutable eye.



“you’re a brilliant soldier, my son, but you’re no match for a foxy old

politician—a past master of dirty craft. he put himself right with the

Prime Minister this morning. besides, there’s the lady to be

consider—not that I think she deserve much consideration. still,

it’s a convention of honour.”



Godfrey flash: “I’m not go to bring her name into it!”



“he will. he’ll get the whole story out of you.”



“what the devil be I to do?” ask Godfrey with a helpless gesture.



Baltazar rise. “my boy,” say he, “in two or three day’ time they’re

go to make I, a man suddenly spring from nowhere, a Minister of the

Crown. that show I’m not altogether a silly fool.”



in spite of the welter of disillusion and catastrophe in which the boy

founder, he detect in his father’s voice the pathetic, apologetic

note which he have never be able to resist, the note convey his

father’s yearning desire to make good in his eye.



“you know I’m proud of you, sir,” he say. “which be a lot more,” he

add with a break in his voice, “than you can say of I.”



Baltazar put his arm round his son’s shoulder very tenderly.



“my boy,” say he, “I’d give my life for you.” and the young man hung

his head. “the only thing be, will you trust I?”



ten minute afterwards Baltazar, cheery and confident, stand at the door

prepare to depart from a chasten though more hopeful Godfrey. love

have conquer. what have pass between his father and the Donnithorpes

the boy do not know. of his father’s assumption of the part of

indiscreet lover he have no suspicion. but his father have fascinate he,

dominate his will, evoke in he a blind, unquestione confidence,

compel from he a promise of implicit obedience. of course there be

condition. he be to petition the War Office to be allow to sacrifice

his leave and start for France, at the early opportunity, the next

day if possible. he be not to communicate with Lady Edna until his

return to England, whenever that might be. he give the latter

undertaking readily, her lie rankle in his heart, her callous

disregard of his honour monstrous in its incomprehensibility. whatever

might be his revulsion of feel afterwards—and his clear young brain

grapple with the possibility—whatever might be his unregenerate

torment of longing, he accept the condition as his punishment. she, so

his father say, be bind by the same condition. . . . Baltazar stand

by the door.



“it’s all damn hard, old man, I know. but you’ll worry through. it’s

the english way.”



he walk out, hum “Tipperary” out of tune, the only modern air he

know, and ascend the stair and thrust his head into the drawing-room.

there, as he expect, he find a desolate Marcelle, who, throw down

the book which she be try to read, jump up and run to the door.

what have happen? Quong Ho have tell she of Edgar Donnithorpe’s call.

Godfrey be in black anger against she.



“go down,” say he, “and make your peace with he. you’ll stay and dine.

I must go now and finish my work before dinner.”



he leave she and, still hum “Tipperary,” enter his library, where

Quong Ho be patiently and efficiently work at the proof.



“Miss Baring and Captain Godfrey have upbraid I for indiscretion in

that I inform Mr. Donnithorpe of your whereabouts,” say Quong Ho.



“the good day’s work you ever do in your life,” say Baltazar, seat

himself at the table and take up his pen.



                 *        *        *        *        *



the dinner be not quite the success for which Baltazar have hope, in

spite of his effort to set a tone of light-hearted gaiety. his good

champagne flow to little purpose. Godfrey acknowledge the toast to

his promotion and appointment with irreproachable politeness and

lamentable lack of fervour. Marcelle confess afterwards that she have

never sit through so unjoyous a meal. to make her peace with Godfrey have

be no easy matter. it be but an armistice that she have patch up.

twice that day have he be betray by woman, and he feel sore against

an untrustworthy sex. he have admit she not an inch far into his

confidence. of the incriminate scrap of paper he tell she nothing. she

sit at the table puzzle and unhappy. Quong Ho eat philosophically when

he be not drink in the word of wisdom that come from the master’s

lip.



they break up early. Godfrey retire to his room. Quong Ho depart to

the printer to correct the proof of the editorial. Baltazar walk home

with Marcelle: a somewhat silent and miserable little journey. in vain

he assure she that she have be Godfrey’s salvation. she only realize

that the boy’s faith in she have go. of the extent of the salvation he,

like Godfrey, say nothing. the position for the moment be too delicate

and grotesque to be tell to another person—even to Marcelle, and his

forthrightness scorn half confidence. he walk back disappointed,

ever so little depressed. hadn’t he tell everybody to put their trust in

he and worry their head no more about the matter? and they be

worry considerably.



at the end of the passage beyond the hall he see a streak of light

signify that Godfrey’s door be ajar. he go down, open the door

and look in. there be Godfrey, huddle up on the Chesterfield, his

head in his hand, his finger clutch his crisp fair hair. as he

seem unaware of intrusion, Baltazar close the door quietly and

tiptoe away. no one know well than he that every man must go through

his little Gethsemane alone. but the pity of it! he creep upstairs with

an aching heart. paper by the last post in connection with the new

ministry lie on his desk. he sit down and try to deal with they; but

at last abandon they and suck a gloomy pipe. have he save the boy

after all? would the woman hold her tongue? be Donnithorpe such a fool

as to believe his story? meanwhile he be the avow lover of the

detest woman and the betrayer of official secret. and the vindictive

little rat hold the proof. what use be he go to make of they?



yet the situation have a grimly humorous aspect. if he have not see the

boy huddle up in grief and shame downstairs he would have envisage it

with one of his great laugh. . . .



the next day pass quietly. Godfrey be absent till the evening. he have

be to the War Office and arrange to leave for France on the morrow by

the staff train. an agreeable evening be mar by no reference to Lady

Edna or the scrap of paper. they speak of book and mathematic and the

war and the probable scope of Godfrey’s duty.



only when they shake hand for the night do Godfrey say:



“I think, sir, you’re the good father that ever a man have.”



and Baltazar, with gladness leap into his eye and a grin on his

face, reply:



“God know I try to be.”



on the following morning the post bring he a letter from

Donnithorpe’s solicitor. would Mr. Baltazar make an appointment to meet

Mr. Donnithorpe and themselves, at his early convenience, on a matter

of very serious importance? he bid Quong Ho ring up and fix the

appointment for three o’clock that afternoon.



“will you not,” hazard Quong Ho, “be also accompany by your

solicitor?”



“no,” say Baltazar in his grand self-confidence. “damn lawyer.”



when the long train move out of Charing Cross station amid the wave

of handkerchief and hat, he draw a breath of unutterable relief. as

far as God would allow, the boy be safe. safe, at any rate, from the

woman with whom he have pledge his honour not to communicate while he

be in France. and the boy would keep his word. he have be disentangle

from the imbroglio. it be all that matter. he make his powerful,

almost ruthless way through the sobered crowd of lately cheerful friend

see off those dear to they, almost heedless of the stream eye of

woman who but a moment ago have be so brave and smile. he be unique

among they. his son be not seek, but escape death.



Jubilant he walk across the station yard, up Cockspur Street and Pall

Mall. he feel strong—nay, more—all-powerful. a force before which all

the rat of donnithorpe and lawyer in the world must crumble. he have

no plan; no idea how he should counter Donnithorpe’s machination. he

have be accustom all his life long to wait for the perilous moment

and then get in his grip. he have glorious faith in his destiny. his and

Godfrey’s. the destiny of the House of Baltazar. the war over, Godfrey

would find some sweet english girl and marry she; and there would be a

son to carry on the torch and hand it, in his turn, to the next

generation. stride up St. James’s Street, he see the babe; make

calculation of date. he would last at least till seventy-five. the

grandson then would be on the verge of manhood. . . . he laugh. Odd

that he should have live for fifty year before dream of the

continuance of his race. those infernal year in China! he curse they.

never mind. if he have go on in the humdrum certainty of the

perpetuation of his name he would have miss the present glory of the

conception. it be a wonderful world.



he lunch at his club with Weatherley and Burtenshaw, optimistic to

gasconade, prophesy the speedy end of the war; then the millennium;

the world rule by Anglo-Saxon fibre of brain and body inspire by Latin

nervous force—the combination towards which civilization have be

grope for century. at ten minute to three he wave they farewell

and drive in a taxi to his appointment in Bedford Row.



he be show into a room where Edgar Donnithorpe and an impassive

elderly man with a face like a horse await he. he feel that he

enter like an irresistible force.









                              CHAPTER XXIV





he stand, an hour later, on the pavement of that noiseless and forlorn

thoroughfare, and stare at the late catastrophe which, like all the

other in his impulsive life, he have of his own deliberate act

contrive. as yet he fail fully to understand his defeat—for defeat

it be, surrender absolute and unconditional. he thrust his hat to the

back of his head and mop his forehead, and move slowly up the street

in amazed reaction from the glow of conquest which warm he as he have

enter the office. he have go without any plan of campaign, confident

in his intellectual resource to meet emergency. merciless craft and

cunning vindictiveness meet he. under the fierce sunshine, angry shame

make he hotter, and the sweat pour down his face. he have be able

only to bluster and threaten in vain retaliation. the grey rat of a man

have laugh at he with rasp thinness. the horse-face lawyer have

smile professional deprecation of heroic. “I shall do this and that,”

he declare. “then our action will be so and so,” they counter. like

the Duke of Wellington, he cry: “publish and be damn.” they point

out with icy logic that not they but he and his would suffer inevitable

condemnation.



“you and your.” that be the lawyer’s phrase. on the last word two

pair of eye be bent on he narrowly and significantly. the

unmistakable hint—the only one during the interview—of Godfrey’s

complicity, he have repudiate with indignation. the consequence

concern himself alone. they smile again. “let it be so, then,” say

they, “for the sake of argument. . . .” as he walk along the burning

street he wonder how much they know, how much they guess. save for

that significant glance, both the grey politician and the longlipped

lawyer have be as inscrutable as buddhist idol. and he, John Baltazar,

have be hopelessly outmatch.



yet, after all, at a cost, he have win the game. Godfrey be save.

mechanically he put his hand to the breast pocket of his thin summer

jacket and feel the incriminate document crackle beneath his touch.

that and the sheet of clot passion of which he have confess himself

the author. . . . he continue his way westward, down the mean and

noisy Theobald’s Road, half conscious of his surrounding. the drab man

and woman who jostle he on the pavement and pass he in the roadway

traffic seem the happy creature of a dream—happy in the inalienable

possession of their London heritage. . . . fragment of the recent

interview pass through his mind. his adversary have threaten not to

stand alone on the write disclosure of War Office secret. they could

bring evidence of leakage through Lady Edna, for some time past, of

important military information. he could quite believe it. the write

paper could scarcely be the boy’s sole infatuated indiscretion; and as

for the lady—reveal as she be yesterday, he count she capable of

any betrayal. Bluff or not, he have yield to the threat. while the

paper remain in Donnithorpe’s possession, Godfrey be in grave

peril. . . . “you and your.” the phrase haunt he. if he defy they,

they would strike through he at Godfrey.



be they aware of farce? if so, why, save for this veil allusion, do

Godfrey, the real lover, seem to matter so little? during the interview

their attitude puzzle he, until he become aware of Donnithorpe’s

implacable enmity towards he, John Baltazar. and now he wonder

whether the pose of the injured husband be not a blind for revenge

root in deep motive. only a fortnight or so ago Godfrey have say:



“the little beast hate you like poison.”



he have ask why. Parrot-like, Godfrey have quote from Lady Edna’s

report of the conversation before his father’s visit to Moulsford.



“a Triton like you give these political minnow the jump.”



he have laugh at the affectionate exaggeration. but be the boy right

after all? certainly he have pay scant courtesy to Donnithorpe, whom he

have lustily despise as one of the brood of little folk still

parasitically feed on the empire which they have do their good to

bring to ruin. be this the abominable little insect’s vengeance?



he halt at the hurrying estuary of Hart Street, Bloomsbury, take off

his hat, and again mop his forehead and the short thatch of thick

brown hair. the word of Dr. Rewsby of Water-end flash across his

mind—“Have you generally conduct your life on these extravagant

principle?” . . . and . . . “I should say you be cultivate a very

bad habit, and I should advise you to give it up.” and he remember his

confession, a year ago, to the sagacious doctor: “you have the most

comforting way in the world of tell I that I’m the Great Ass of the

Universe.”



“that man’s diagnosis,” say Baltazar to himself, put on his hat,

“be perfectly correct. I be.”



he march in his unconsciously hector way down Holborn and Oxford

Street, deep in his thought. yes, once again his episodical life

history have repeat itself. the same old extravagant principle have

once again prevail. they be part and parcel of his being, resistless

as destiny. once again, without thought of the future, he have cast the

glowing present to the wind. once again he have prove himself the great

Ass of the Universe. but what do it matter? Godfrey be save. again he

make the paper crackle in his pocket. he have tell he he would give his

life for he. he stride along fiercely. by God! stupendous Ass that he

might be, he have never in his life break a vow or a promise. . . .

apart from the passionate love he have conceive for the boy, there be

no reparation adequate for his twenty year’ unconscious neglect. he

swing his stick to the peril of the King’s liege on the pavement. it

be a young man’s world—this new world that be to follow the war. old

man like himself be of brief account. Godfrey should have his chance,

unstaine, unfettered in the new world which his generation, throw

mildew tradition on a universal bonfire, would have to mould.



he draw near to the bright life of West end London, Oxford Circus,

with its proud sweep of great shop and its plentiful harbour from the

stream of the four great thoroughfare. reluctant to confine himself

yet awhile within the four wall of his library, he abandon the

straight course home and go down Regent Street, and at last stand

uncertain at Piccadilly Circus, the centre of London, more than any

other one spot perhaps, the true heart of the empire. though it be the

broad day of a summer afternoon, his memory speed swiftly back over

twenty year to the night when he see it alive with light and flash

movement and the great city’s joy of life, for the last time before he

sail for China; when, in spite of decorous and scholarly living, his

heart have sink within he at the realization that he be give up all

that, and all that it symbolize—the familiar and pulsate life of

England. and now he stand in the same glamour-haunted precinct, and

again his heart sink like a stone. he turn, creep for a few step down

Piccadilly and, catch a taxi put down a fare at the Piccadilly

Hotel, engage it and drive home to Sussex Gardens.



the house appear bleak and desolate. Quong Ho have go some whither.

Godfrey—he thank God—be on his way to France. foolishly he have

hope that Marcelle might be await he, to hear the late tiding of

the boy; but she be not there. for all its carpeting and pleasant

luxury of furniture the house seem to be full of echo, as though it

be an empty shell. for the first time in his life he shrink almost

afraid, from the intolerable loneliness of the lot to which he have

condemn himself. for the last year he have give way to his

long-pen-up craving for human affection. he have cast his soul into the

orgy of love that he have compel from the only three dear to he in

the world. it have be more than his daily bread. it have be a kind of

daily debauch. it have lift he above himself. Marcelle love he,

Godfrey love he, Quong Ho love he, each in their separate way. they

be always there, ready at hand, to appease the hunger of the moment.

and now, in a flash, he have cut himself adrift from the beloved three.

the love would remain. that he know. but from the precious food of its

daily manifestation he would be many thousand of league sunder by

ocean and continent. at thirty he could forsake love and face solitude

with the brave fool’s confidence. at fifty he gaze terrify at the

prospect. he have embrace loneliness as a bride, three year ago, in

order to save himself from perdition. but then his heart have be stone

cold, unwarme by any human touch. he have feel himself to be an unwanted

wanderer in an alien planet. Spendale Farm have be a haven of comfort,

an Eden of refuge. but the german bomb have revolutionize his world. it

have magically bring he into indissoluble bondage to human thing of

unutterable dearness. and now once more—_finis_ to the episode which he

have think to be the story end only in death.



he sit mechanically at the writing-table in his library and begin to

open the letter that have come during his absence. a leathern government

despatch case contain the day’s paper from the office which he have

only hurriedly visit that morning, await his attention. the deathly

sensation that they no long concern he hold he in a cold grip.

there be a flame article from a croatian statesman which have reach

_the New Universe_ through devious channel, fraught with pregnant

information. he glance through it in impotent detachment, like that of

a dead man bring back to the conduct of his affair. he be no long

the dynamo of _the New Universe_. other force, who and what he know

not, would in a day or two take his place. _the New Universe_ would have

to get on, as good it could, without he. he be dead. he have no more to

do with _the New Universe_ than with the internal affair of Mars.



he open an envelope address in a well-know handwriting and frank

with distinguished initial. it have be deliver by messenger. like a

dead man he read the achievement of his ambition: he be a Minister of

the Crown. the public announcement await only his formal acceptance.

he stare dully at the idle word. and then suddenly mad rage against

the derisive irony of his destiny shake he and he spring from his

chair, and, in the unsympathetic privacy of the room which he have not

furnish, he storm in foolish fury and vain agony of soul. . . .



it be the end of John Baltazar—the John Baltazar in whom he have always

believe, at the moment of proof positive of the justification of his

faith. to Godfrey he have not boast unduly. a year ago he have awaken,

a new Rip Van Winkle, to a world for two year at war. in a few month,

God know how, save through his resistless energy, his new-bear and

flame patriotism and his keen brain, he have establish himself in

England as a drive force compelling recognition and application to the

country’s need. he have win his position by sheer strength of

personality. transcendental mathematic and chinese scholarship he have

throw into the dust-heap of broken toy. he have emerge from

philosophic childhood into the active life of a man, with his strong

hand finger the string of the world’s war. now the string be in

his grasp. . . . he have look far ahead. this Ministry, though of vast

importance, be yet subordinate to the Greater Powers of the State. he

be young. what be fifty-one? the infancy stage of statesmanship. why

should not he, John Baltazar, rise to high power and guide the

civilized world to victory and to triumphant peace?



the man have dream many dream. what great man do not? never yet have

the human being whose day’s vision be blacken by the curtain of the

night reach the shadow of achievement. then again: be it of England

or of John Baltazar that he dream? who can tell? can any man of noble

ambition, of deep conviction of his own power, strip himself naked

before his God and tell?



and now the dream be but dream. Blankness confront he. rave

against fate bring no consolation or relief. in utter dejection he

throw himself into an arm-chair and once more gaze hopelessly at

catastrophe.



there be no long a John Baltazar. as far as England be concern he

have cease to exist. in that lawyer’s office he have sign his

abdication. there be the letter write and address, formally

decline the almost hourly expect offer of the ministerial

appointment. the offer have now come. he have pledge his honour to give

immediate signal for the posting of the answer. that be part of the

price demand for the surrender of the disastrous document. he go to

the telephone and curtly carry out those term of his contract.



there remain the other condition to be fulfil, for which they have

no other guarantee than his word. there at least—and a gleam of pride

irradiate his gloom—he have triumph. he have compel they to trust

his word without a scrap of write obligation. he would sail for China

within a month.



he sit there alone in the silent house, wonder again whether he have

not set the final seal on himself as the Great Ass of the Universe. he

have be drive, it be true, into a corner by the malignity and craft of

his opponent; but it be he himself who have dictate the term of

surrender. act on one of the wild impulse that have deflect from

childhood the current of his life, he have make the amazing proposal.



it be the end of John Baltazar. he rise, go over to his table and

fill his pipe. anyhow, the House of Baltazar stand firm in honour. he

would yet dandle the grandson on his knee. _La course du flambeau_ be

the beginning and end of human endeavour. the torch be in Godfrey’s

hand now. . . . feel for his match-box, his wrist meet the hide

paper in his jacket pocket which he have almost forget. he draw they

out, fold the one fraught with court-martial and disgrace to Godfrey

into a long strip and set fire to it, a torch not to be hand on. he

light his pipe with it instead and watch it burn till the flame touch

his finger-tip. then he go over to the grate and burn the

love-letter.



he sit down and write to Godfrey.



    “my dear boy:



    I think you ought to know that I have be as good as my word.

    three hour after part from you, I recover possession of

    the document, and this time you may be certain that it no long

    exist, for I have myself destroy it. your sheet now be clean

    in this respect, and also in other, if the barrage of silence

    be maintain.



      I cannot possibly tell you how I shall miss you.

                               your ever affectionate father,

                                                    John Baltazar.”



that be all. time enough to tell he about China when he have make

definite arrangement for the voyage. he pray anxiously that he might

make the announcement in such a way that Godfrey should never

self-reproachfully suspect the cause of his exile.



Quong Ho, return a short while afterwards, find he deeply engage

with the content of the despatch-case.









                              CHAPTER XXV





as he have expect, the Foreign Office beam on he. it be immensely

gratify that a man of his statesmanlike quality should have

differentiate so acutely between the value of the two sphere of his

suggest activity. in bureaucratic satisfaction it rub its hand

at a departmental score. Mr. Baltazar have only to name his term and

condition. with the Foreign Office it be all plain sailing. Nay, more.

if it could have prevail with an ultra-conservative Admiralty, it

would have send he out to China in the new, fast and most

mysterious battle-cruiser. but in Government circle outside the Foreign

Office there be the devil to pay. consternation also reign in the

office of _the New Universe_. for two or three week Baltazar have a grim

time.



the first announcement in an evening newspaper of his retirement from

the project Ministry smite the eye of an incredulous and bewildered

Marcelle. she catch he on the telephone.



“be it true?”



“yes. quite true.”



“but I don’t understand.”



“I’ll come round this evening and explain.”



“no. I’ll come to you. I shalln’t be alone here.”



“come to dinner.”



“Miss Graham and I be just sit down to ours. I’ll run round after.”



“all right. I’m free all the evening.”



Baltazar dine alone with Quong Ho, and talk cheerfully of matter far

remote from the war. no reference be make to his retirement from

english politic, about which Quong Ho know everything, or to the

Chinese Mission, of which Quong Ho as yet have no official knowledge.

apart from the express desire of the Foreign Office to keep the

appointment from the press, it be characteristic of Baltazar to

maintain silence, even to those dear to he, as to his especially

meteoric doing. besides, of the two, Marcelle must have the privilege

of be the first to learn from his own lip.



she arrive about half-past eight, and he receive she in the

drawing-room. she wear a simple, semi-evening old black dress into which

she have change before her quiet dinner with her friend, a long pre-war

confection, a favourite of Godfrey’s, mould she, as he say, in

soldierly dare, like Juno. her thick brown hair crown she

gloriously. rest have restore she to health, and in spite of the anxiety

in her eye, she appear to Baltazar in the ripe fullness of her

beauty. he stride to meet she, with his usual gesture of outstretche

hand, strong, confident, admire, smile. yet never do she appear

more desirable, or more remote from his desire.



“what be the meaning of it—your resignation? I think it be the one

thing in life you be work for.”



“I find,” say he, “I can serve my country well in other way.”



she put a hand to a puzzled forehead.



“how?”



he look steadily into her eye. what be the use of beat the air

with idle word? she would have to know the truth soon or later.



“by go to China.”



she stare at he open-mouthed.



“China?”



“why not?”



he stand, his hand deep in his dinner-jacket pocket, balance himself

alternately on toe and heel, with the air of a conqueror.



“I know more about inner China, I suppose, than any man live. I go out

with a free hand to pull two or three million people together and

establish a wise government and exterminate the German. hundred of man

can do my job in England. but those who can do it in China may be

count on the finger of a mutilate hand.”



“it’s all so sudden.”



“I’m a sudden sort of fellow, as you ought to know,” he laugh.



“but you always say you hate the place—would rather die than go

back.”



“in these day you’ve get to do thing you hate—for the good of your

country.”



she sit down, feel stupefied by his news. she ask:



“how long will you be away?”



he shrug his shoulder. “possibly year. who know?”



“and when do you start?”



“as soon as I can wind up here. say in a fortnight’s time.” she shake

her head and look at the floor, make little hopeless gesture with

her finger. “you see, my dear,” say he, “except my own personal

ambition, which I have scrap for the time, there’s nothing very much

to keep I here. I’ve do my duty by Quong Ho. he’s on the road to fame

at Cambridge. Godfrey’s settle in France till the end of the war. and

you—well, my dear,” he smile, “we willn’t lose touch with each other for

another twenty year.”



“no, of course not,” she say in a queer voice. “We’ll—we’ll write to

each other.” she raise her eye to his timidly. “willn’t you be rather

lonely out there, without we?”



he turn swiftly aside so that she should not see his face. “naturally

I’ll miss you. miss the three of you. I’m human. but, on the other hand,

I’m use to be alone. I’m a solitary by temperament.” then he flash

round on she. “don’t you worry about I. I’ll have my hand too full to

be lonely. I’ll have a real man’s job to get through.”



in his vehement way he sketch the kind of work that lie before he,

go off into picturesque reminiscence, unfold some of the plan he

have already make for the conquest of those in power in disaffect

district. anyone but Marcelle he would have convince of the

whole-hearted and enthusiastic anticipation of his mission. but a woman

whom a man love be apt to know he even well than the woman who love

he. a suspicion, vague but insistent, begin to haunt she. presently she

give word to it.



“have Godfrey’s affair anything to do with this sudden decision of

your?”



he assume a puzzled look. “Godfrey’s affair?”



“yes. the Donnithorpe business.”



he laugh. “my dear, we’re deal in high international politic. what

on earth can a boy’s calf love have to do with it?”



“you’ve never tell I what happen at Waterloo. nor do Godfrey.”



“I simply pull they apart. Sent Lady Edna home, and despatch Godfrey

to France a day before his time. that’s all over.”



“but you meet Mr. Donnithorpe. Quong Ho——”



“oh yes, I meet Donnithorpe. that’s what save the situation. he expect

to find Godfrey. find I instead.” he grin in the most disarm

manner. “a comedy situation. and off he went defeat.” he take she

hand, apparently in the gayest of mood. “it’s only a woman,” say he,

“that could throw a bridge between Waterloo station and the interior of

China.”



she let the question drop; but the suspicion remain, and every minute

that pass, until the ormolu clock on the drawing-room mantelpiece give

she the signal for conventional retirement, convert it into certainty.



he walk with she as usual to the door of her block of flat. on

parting she find tremulous utterance for the sense of utter forlornness

which she have be try all the evening to formulate:



“what’s to become of I when you’re go?”



she flee upstairs, not wait for the lift, and go straight to her

room, with the word echo in her ear. no. they do not at all convey

her heart’s meaning. they sound heartless, selfish. yet they be

true. what would become of she? for a year she have be enwrap soul

and mind and think in the dynamic man. dynamic, yet so tender, so

chivalrous, so childlike. without he existence be a blank full of

shudder fear. and then a coldness as of death fall upon she. never

once, on this night of the parting of the way, have he hint at his

love for she. have she, by her selfish folly, she now incomprehensible

sex shrinking, kill at last the love that once be her for the

taking? slowly she undressed and creep into bed; but sleep mock she.

agonizingly awake, she stare at her life. . . . and she stare too,

almost in rhythmic alternation, at the life of John Baltazar. nothing

but some supreme emotional crisis could have cause this characteristic

revolution, this sudden surrender of the prize of his ambition, this

gorgeous acceptance of exile. for all his contemptuous dismissal of the

suggestion, she know, with a woman’s unerre logic, that Baltazar have

buy Godfrey’s release from entanglement at the price of his own

career. and never a hint of regret, never a murmur against fate. never

the faint appeal to pity. . . . and she arraign her own narrow

nurse’s self, and condemn it mercilessly. and the low she sink in

her own esteem, the high rise Baltazar until he loom gigantic as a

god above her puny mortality.



her throat be dry. she get out of bed and drink a glass of water. on

her way back across the room her glance fall on the little brass Yale

latchkey, lie on her dressing-table, which he, in his big, careless

way, have insist on her having, so that she could gain entrance, as of

right, to the house, whenever she choose. she take it up, gaze at it

stupidly. the key to his home, the key to his heart, the key to his

soul—all in her keeping. and she have despise it. now she have lose it.

the home would pass into alien hand. his heart be bar. for the

first time, for a whole year, they have meet without his uttering one

little word, playful or wistful or tyrannic, to prove that his nature

be open hungrily for she. to-night she have be but his dear friend. he

have accept her gift of friendship. she remember the old French

adage: _L’amitié, c’est le tombeau de l’amour_. she sit on the edge of

the bed and mourn hopelessly the death of his love.



and the brass Yale latchkey lie mockingly within her range of vision.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Baltazar walk home, her last word echo in his ear. his absence in

China would naturally make a difference to she. she have become part of

his household. Godfrey, to whom she have give a mother’s heart, be

indefinitely in France and alienate from she by his resentment of her

breach of confidence. she have identify herself so unreservedly with

the fortune of the House of Baltazar that now, cut adrift, she would be

on the high sea, derelict. what could he do to mitigate her loneliness?

if he die, she would be well provide for. he have make his will some

month ago. but he have every hope of live for many robust year. what

indeed would become of the beloved woman now that their new attachment

to life be break? the nurse’s career, in which she have spend the

splendid energy of her young womanhood? if Godfrey be in London, he

could commend she, with authority, to his care. but Godfrey’s vanish

to France be the essence of the whole business. there remain only

Quong Ho. his appreciation of the comic put Quong Ho out of court.



he enter his house in Sussex Gardens remorseful for lack of

consideration for Marcelle. but, hang it all, one couldn’t think of

everything at once. if she have care enough for he to marry he,

well—there would have be the light that never be on Sea or Land. he

would have snap his finger at the doing of the little planet Earth.

he would have be Master of the Universe. but that be not to be.

either all in all as a wife or not at all. an irrevocable decision. it

be not Marcelle’s fault that she do not love he in that way. . . . no

use thinking of it. it be all over. they have drift, however, into an

exquisite companionship, as exquisite to she—he have no false modesty

about it—as to he. and now that be over. what be to become of

Marcelle?



he be fill his pipe when Quong Ho enter the library with his

little deferential bow.



“Sir,” say he, “may I be allow to commit an indiscretion?”



“you’ll do it so discreetly,” say Baltazar, “that it willn’t matter. fire

ahead.”



“in the event of your leave this country on a mission to the Far

East——”



“what the devil do you know about it?” ask Baltazar.



“in high chinese circle in London it be common knowledge,” reply

Quong Ho.



“together with lot of other thing concern I, I suppose.”



“you have many time observe,” say Quong Ho, “that my countryman be

afflict with an abnormal thirst for unessential information.”



in spite of his heavy-heartedness, Baltazar smile grimly.



“well, suppose I be go to China. what of it?”



“may I postpone Cambridge degree and Fellowship for several year and

accompany you?”



Baltazar’s brow grow black. “ben’t england good enough for you?”



Quong Ho break into florid Chinese, the only vehicle for his emotion.

England be the land of his dream. but why should he lie beneath the

passion-flower of luxury while his master eat the bread of exile? surely

his degraded unworthiness might be useful to his illustrious Excellency

as confidential secretary not unversed, thank to his honoured master

and patron, in the language and scholarship of the Mandarins. or, if

that be deem too honourable a position, his filial piety ordain

that he should offer himself as slave or any debase instrument for

which use could be find.



“oh, for God’s sake talk English!” cry Baltazar, his nerve on edge,

foresee such endless verbiage in similar perfect phrasing that

await he in China.



Quong Ho spread out his hand and his face grow impassive. “I have

speak,” he reply simply.



“I don’t want any more career upset,” say Baltazar, irritably. “you’re

fix. you’ve to get your Fellowship. you’ll stay in England. besides, I

need you here to look after Miss Baring’s interest.”



“I confess,” say Quong Ho, gravely, “to be oblivious of that side of

the question.”



Baltazar, lie deep in his arm-chair, pipe in mouth, gaze intently

into the oblique steadfast eye of the son of his quaint adoption. the

idea of leave Marcelle under his protection do not seem in the least

comic. he pass an impatient hand over his brow. be he lose his

sense of value?



apart from his intellectual gift, Quong Ho be a man of shrewd common

sense and of infinite trustworthiness. Marcelle know this. unlike so

many untravelled Englishwomen, she do not regard a Chinaman as a sort

of dangerous toy dog. she share his faith in Quong Ho.



“I thank you for your offer, my dear fellow,” he say at last, repent

his ungraciousness. “I know you make it out of affection for I. I

deeply appreciate it. if it ben’t for Miss Baring, I wouldn’t

hesitate. as it be, I leave you here as my agent.”



Quong Ho bow. “so long as I can be of service to you, sir, your word

be law,” say he, and retire.



Baltazar, leave alone, resume his uninspired reflection. he feel

physically and morally weary, a beat man. he shrink from his chinese

exile with pathetic dread; shrink from the toilsome journey, the

eternal compliment of convention that delay serious discussion, the

perpetual ceremonial, the futile tea-drinking, the mass of tradition and

prejudice and ignorance, the smile craft that use it as a buffer

against enlightenment. he look with dismay on his exclusion from the

keen intellectual talk in which he have revel for the past year, from

the brain-thrilling battle of Western Thought. it be a man’s work, his

mission; a pick man’s work. hundred would have regard it as a

climax of their diplomatic ambition. but to he, who have throw himself

into vast scheme for the reconstruction of the war-tear world, it be

exile, defeat. it be not in his nature to regret his sacrifice. what

be do be do. the star in their course have fight against he

individually, even though, in their inscrutable wisdom they fight, as

he believe, for his House. no man who have saturate himself for year

with chinese thought can escape the spiritual influence of fatalism. he

be a fatalist. it be write that he should fail in every one of his

great adventure. yet the fact of it be write make his lot none the

less damnable for the very human and vivid man, once more involve in

predestine shipwreck.



he smoke many pipe think disconnectedly, without method, and

feel old and lonely and break, and very, very tired. at last his

pipe drop to the floor and he fall asleep.



suddenly the subconsciousness of a presence in the room cause he to

awake with a start. he look up and, bewildered, see Marcelle stand

by his chair. she be cry. he spring to his foot, pass his hand

over his eye.



“you here?” his glance instinctively seek the clock on the

mantelpiece. “why, it’s half-past two in the morning!”



she say: “I couldn’t sleep. I couldn’t rest. I have to come.”



he do not understand.



“what be the matter, my dearest? what can I do for you?”



“only go on love I, and forgive I,” she say desperately.



“but I do,” he cry, puzzle. “it’s just hell for I to leave you. but

I cann’t help it, my dear. my hand have be force. it’s even hard to

leave you than it be twenty year ago. I love you and want you more

than ever I do in my life.”



“so do I,” she say, in a shake voice. “that’s why I’m here, at

half-past two in the morning.”



Baltazar utter a great triumphant cry and clasp she in his arm.



“my God,” say he, “I’ve win after all!”



he hold she at arm’s length and look at she exultantly. thank Heaven

she have no suspicion of his sense of downfall. not Pity, but love at

last awaken, have bring she to he.



“yes,” he repeat. “I’ve win after all.”



after a while, when he have almost forget his word, she ask he:



“what do you think you have lose?”



“my faith in my destiny. the star of Baltazar. once upon a time the

original bearer of my name, with the other, have faith in a star, and he

follow it and find God.”



she smile. “dear, ben’t you talk a bit wildly?”



“what’s the good of speech if one cann’t use it wildly in wild moment?”

he laugh. “oh, you beloved woman,” say he, and kiss she.



presently: “you’ll come out to China with I? you’ll progress like a

queen. I’ll see to that.”



“it don’t matter how I progress,” she say, “so long as I’m with you.

I’m yours body and soul to the end of time.”



“to the end of eternity,” he cry. “I prefer that. it’s big. the

big there be be good enough for I.”



his dancing eye burn like flame of pride and happiness. twenty year

seem to have fall from he, and she see before she the young man

whom as a girl she have love.



“you and I be go over to the great work ever attempt by man.

the regeneration of half the continent of Asia. I couldn’t have do it

alone. the prospect frighten I. yes, it do. I haven’t the heart. but

with you—I stake my faith in the Star—it’ll be one of the great

accomplishment of the war. Quong Ho will come with we. he’ll have his

chance. I’ll make he one of the great man of the New China.”



he go on, expound his vision of the new order of oriental thing.

she marvel at he, for it seem as if he have but live for that

moment.



and divine his Great Sacrifice, she forget the selfless year that have

all but mould she into a mere machine of tender service to maim and

diseased humanity, and feel a thing of small account before this man

whose unconquerable faith and indomitable courage transform his

colossal vanity into virtue, and who, for all his egotism, be

endow with the supreme gift of love.



“Godfrey will be astonish at all this,” she hazard.



“Astonishment,” say he, “be an emotion salutary for the very young. it

stimulate think.”



                                the END

                           TRANSCRIBER note



Misspelled word and printer error have be correct.



where multiple spelling occur, majority use have be employ.



Punctuation have be maintain except where obvious printer error

occur.



















end of Project Gutenberg's the House of Baltazar, by William J. Locke







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the HOUSE of baltazar ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





