The project Gutenberg eBook of the Tale of Triona

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Tale of Triona



author: William John Locke



Release date: August 18, 2019 [ebook #60122]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Marcia Brooks, Al Haines, Jen Haines & the

        online Project Gutenberg team at

        http://www.pgdpcanada.net





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tale of TRIONA ***



                          [Cover Illustration]









                           the tale of TRIONA









                         =_by the same AUTHOR_=

idols

JAFFERY

VIVIETTE

SEPTIMUS

derelict

the USURPER

STELLA MARIS

where LOVE be

the ROUGH ROAD

the MOUNTEBANK

the RED PLANET

the white DOVE

far-away story

SIMON the JESTER

a study in SHADOWS

a CHRISTMAS mystery

the WONDERFUL year

the HOUSE of baltazar

the FORTUNATE youth

THE BELOVÈD VAGABOND

AT the GATE of SAMARIA

the glory of CLEMENTINA

the moral of MARCUS ORDEYNE

the DEMAGOGUE and LADY PHAYRE

the JOYOUS adventures of ARISTIDE PUJOL









                           the tale of TRIONA





                                   BY

                            WILLIAM J. LOCKE



            author of “the Belovèd Vagabond,” “the Morals of

                         Marcus Ordeyne,” etc.





                             [illustration]



                                NEW YORK

                         DODD, MEAD and COMPANY

                                  1922









                            Copyright, 1922

                    by DODD, MEAD and COMPANY, Inc.

                          print in U. S. A.









                           the tale of TRIONA









                           the tale of TRIONA





                               CHAPTER I



OLIVIA GALE lean back in her chair at the end of the dining-room

table, and look first at the elderly gentleman on her right, and then

at the elderly gentleman on she left.



“you’re both of you as kind as can be, and I’m more than grateful for

all you’ve do; but I do wish you’d see that it’s no use argue. it

only hurt and make we tired. do help yourself, Mr. Trivett.

and—another cup of tea, Mr. Fenmarch?”



Mr. Fenmarch, on she left, pass his cup with a sigh. he be a dusty,

greyish man, his face cover with an indeterminate growth of thin short

hair. his eye be of a dull, unspeculative blue.



“as your solicitor, my dear Olivia,” say he, “I can only obey

instruction. as the friend of your family, I venture to give you

advice.”



“why the deuce your father don’t tie you up in a trusteeship till you

be twenty-five, at any rate,” say Mr. Trivett on her right, help

himself to whisky and soda—the table, cover with a green baize cloth,

be litter with paper and afternoon refreshment. “why the

dicken——” he begin again after a sizzling gulp.



“yes, it’s most unfortunate,” say Mr. Fenmarch, cut off his

friend’s period. “and what you be go to do with yourself, all alone

in the world, with this enormous amount of liquid money be more than I

can imagine.”



Olivia smile and tap the blue-veined hand that set down his teacup.



“of course you cann’t. if imagination run away with a solicitor, it would

land he in the workhouse.”



“that’s where it will land you, Olivia,” say Mr. Trivett. “common sense

be the well mount.”



“that’s rather neat,” she say.



“if it ben’t, I wouldn’t have say it,” retort Mr. Trivett, sink

his red jowl into his collar, which make they red than before.



“you’re so quick and clever,” say Olivia, “that I cann’t understand why

you willn’t see thing from my point of view.”



“you’ve get to learn that a man of experience cann’t take the view of a

wrong-head young woman.”



Mr. Trivett emphasize the asperity of his tone by a thump of his palm

on the table.



as a matter of fact, he be genuinely angry. he be the senior partner

in Trivett and Gale, Auctioneers and Estate Agents, in the comfortable

little Shropshire town of Medlow; or rather the only survive partner,

for Gale, Olivia’s father, and his two son have one after the other be

wipe out in a recent world accident. Olivia’s decision, inspire from

no other fount he could think of than lunacy, involve the withdrawal of

considerable capital from the business. this, of course, be an

honourable man, he could not dispute; but here be peace and

reconstruction and inflated price, and heaven know how much percentage

on the middleman’s capital, and here be this inexperienced girl

throw away a safe income and clamour for a settlement in full.

they have argue and argue. it may be state here that Mr. Trivett be

the Executor of her father’s estate, which make his position the more

delicate and exasperating.



and now Mr. Trivett’s exasperation reach the table-thumping point.



Olivia smile wearily.



“it’s such a pity.”



“what’s a pity?”



“oh, everything. one thing be that there’s no more gold. of course, I

know you cann’t understand. but that’s your fault, not mine. I should

have like to realize all that I’ve get in sovereign. do you think

they’d fill a bath? have you ever think how lovely it would be to

wallow in a bath of sovereign? Treasury note be not the same thing.

they’re either very dirty and smell of plumber, or very new and smell

of rancid oil. gold be the real basis of Romance.”



he put she down for a mere female fool, and reply practically:



“we’ll not see a gold coin in England again for the next fifty year.”



“well, well,” she say; “anyhow, there’s still some romance in mount

the deadly breech of the bank counter with a draw cheque in one’s

hand.”



“I’m afraid, my dear Olivia,” say Mr. Fenmarch mildly, “I don’t quite

see what we’re talk about.”



“why, we’ve discuss it every day for the last three month,” cry

Olivia, “and now this be the very last end of everything. a final

settlement, as you call it! that’s what you two dear have come for,

ben’t it?”



“unfortunately, yes,” say Mr. Fenmarch.



“then it’s all so simple. you’ve show I this”—she pick up a

foolscap document and drop it—“the full statement of account of my

father’s estate, and I approve—I be the only person concern.

you’ve get to give I one last cheque for that amount”—she tap the

document—“and I give you my receipt, sign over a penny stamp—you’ll

have to stand I a penny stamp, for I’ve only get three-halfpenny one

in the house—and there’s an end of the matter.”



“my clerk make out the receipt and put the penny stamp on,” say Mr.

Fenmarch, untrouble by her smile. “here it be.”



“solicitor’ clerk seem to think of everything,” say Olivia. “Fancy

his remembering the penny stamp!”



“it’s charge up against you, in Fenmarch’s bill—item ‘sundrie,’”

remark Mr. Trivett, point a fat forefinger.



“why, naturally. why should Mr. Fenmarch shower penny on I? it’s the

delicate thoughtfulness that I admire. I hope you’ll raise that young

man’s salary.”



Mr. Fenmarch look pained, like a horse to whom one have offer wooden

oat, and swing his head away. Mr. Trivett open his mouth to speak,

but before he speak finish his whisky and soda.



“my dear Olivia,” say he, “I’m sorry to see you so flippant. you’ve

disappoint I and Mrs. Trivett who’ve know you since you be bear,

more than I can say. until your poor mother die—God bless she—we

think you the most capable, level-head young woman in this town. but

for the last three month—you’ll forgive my freedom in say so—you

have show yourself to be quite impossible.”



he pause, angry. Olivia smile and drum on the table.



“have some more whisky.”



“no, I willn’t,” he say in a loud voice. “Whisky’s too expensive to ladle

out in that offhand fashion. it’s a luxury, as you’ll jolly well soon

discover. I’m talk for your good, Olivia. that’s why Fenmarch and I

be here. two minute will wind up the business. but we have your

interest at heart, my girl, and we want to make a last appeal.”



she cover with hers the back of his red-glaze hand and speak in a

soften voice:—



“yes, I know, I know. I’ve say already that you and Mr. Fenmarch be

dear. but what would you have I do? I’m twenty-three. alone in the

world.”



“you have your uncle and aunt at Clapham,” say Mr. Trivett.



“I’ve also some sort of relation in the monkey cage at the Zoo,” say

Olivia.



the repartee to the effect that it be the fit home for she only

occur to Mr. Trivett when he be get into bed that night, he

merely stare at she gaspingly. she continue:



“I’m absolutely alone in the world. do you think it reasonable for I to

stay in this dull old house, in this mouldering old town, where one

never see a man from one year’s end to another, live for the rest of

my life on the few hundred a year which I could get if my capital be

properly invest?”



“we don’t grant your premise, Olivia,” say Mr. Fenmarch. “‘the tower’

may be old, but it be not dull. Medlow be not moulder, but singularly

progressive, and the place seem to—to pullulate with young man. so I

think our advice to you be eminently reasonable.”



“oh, dear!” sigh Olivia. “that’s where all the trouble come in. our

idea of dullness, mouldering and pullu—what you call it; don’t

correspond. mother be very fond of a story of Sydney Smith. perhaps she

tell you. he be walk one day with a friend through the slum and

come across two woman quarrel across the street, through opposite

window. and Sydney Smith say: ‘they’ll never come to an agreement,

because they be argue from different premise.’”



there be a silence.



“I’ll have a drop more whisky,” say Mr. Trivett.



“I think I see the point of the remark,” say Mr. Fenmarch greyly. “it

be a play on the two meaning of the word.”



“that be what my mother give I to understand,” say Olivia.



then, after another spell of chill silence, she cry, her nerve on

edge:



“do let we come to the end of it!”



“we will,” say Mr. Trivett impressively. “but not before I’ve make a

few remark in protest, with Fenmarch as witness. I’m sorry there’s not

another witness——”



“oh, I’ll get one!” cry Olivia. “Myra—the faithful Myra.”



“Myra’s a servant, also a fool; and you’ve get she under your thumb,”

say Mr. Trivett.



“well, well,” say Olivia, “we’ll give Myra a miss. but I know what

you’re go to say—and the kind heart that make you say it.”



a touch of real tenderness creep into her fine dark eye and almost

soften Mr. Trivett. she look so young, so slender, so immature in

her simple mourning. her soft black hair cluster over her forehead in

a manner which he feel be inconsistent with a woman fight her way

alone in the world. she haven’t a bit of colour in her cheek; want

feed up, he think. she be capable enough in her own sphere, the

management of her house, the care of a bed-ride mother, the

appreciation of legal technicality. until she have get this bee in her

bonnet he have admire she prodigiously; though, with the reserve which

every Englishman make in his admiration, he deplore the shrewdness of

her tongue. but this idea of her, to realize all her money in hard cash

at the bank and go off into unknown peril be preposterous. she be not

fit for it. you could take she by the neck in one hand and by the waist

in another and break she to bit. . . . he be a good, honest man with

fatherly instinct develop by the possession of daughter of his own,

strap red-cheeked girl, who have stay soberly at home until the

right young man have come along and carry they off to modest home of

unimpeachable respectability. so when he meet the tenderness in Olivia’s

eye he mitigate the asperity of his project discourse and preach

she a very human little sermon. while he speak, Mr. Fenmarch nod his

unhumorous head and stroke the straggle grey hair on his cheek. when

he have end, Mr. Fenmarch second, as it be, the resolution.



then Olivia thank they prettily, promise to avoid extravagance, and,

in case of difficulty, to come to they for advice. the final cheque be

pass over, the final receipt sign across the penny stamp provide

with such forethought, and Olivia Gale enter into uncontrolle

possession of her fortune.



the man rise to take their leave. Olivia hold the hand of the burly

red-faced man who have be her father’s partner and look up at he.



“I know, if you could have your way, you would give I a good hiding.”



he laugh grimly. “not the least doubt of it.” then he pat she

roughly on the shoulder.



“and you, Mr. Fenmarch?”



he regard she drearily. “after a long experience in my profession,

Olivia, I have come to one conclusion—client be a mistake. good-bye.”



leave alone, Olivia stand for a moment wonder whether, after all, the

dusty lawyer have a jaded sense of humour. then she turn and catch up

the cheque and sketch a few triumphant dancing step. suddenly,

hold it in her hand, she rush out into the hall, where the man be

put on their overcoat.



“we’ve forget the most important thing, Mr. Trivett. you write I

something about an offer for the house.”



“an enquiry—not an offer,” reply Mr. Trivett. “yes. I forget to

mention it. a major somebody. wait——” he lug out a fat pocket-book

which he consult. “that’s it. Major Olifant. come down here

to-morrow to look over it. appointment at twelve, if that suit you.

unfortunately, I’ve an engagement and cann’t show he round. but I’ll

send Perkins, if you like.”



“if the Major want to eat I, he’ll eat up poor little Mr. Perkins,

too,” say Olivia. “so don’t worry.”



she wait until Myra, the maid, have help they into their overcoat

and open the front door. after final leavetaking, they be go.

Olivia put up her hand, one of they still hold the cheque, on Myra’s

gaunt shoulder and shake she and laugh.



“I’ve beat they at last. I know I should. now you and I be go to

have the devil’s own time.”



“we’ll have, Miss Olivia,” say Myra, withdraw like a wooden

automaton from the embrace, “the time we’ll be deserve.”



Myra be long, lean, and angular, dress precisely in parlourmaid’s

black; but the absence of cap on her faultlessly neat iron grey hair and

the black apron suggest a cross between the housekeeper and personal

maid. she share, with a cook and a vague, print-attire help, the whole

service of the house. the fact of Myra have be one of the early

implant in the consciousness of Olivia’s awakening childhood. Myra be

there, perdurable as father and mother, as Polly, the parrot, whose

“Drat the child” of that morning be the same echo of Myra’s voice, as

it be when, at the age of two, she begin to interpret the bird’s

articulate speech. and, as far as she could remember, Myra have always

be the same. Age have not wither she, nor have custom stale she

infinite invariability. she have be wither since the beginning of

time, and she have be as unchanging in aspect and flavour as Olivia’s

lifelong breakfast egg. Myra’s origin be hide in mystery. a family

legend declare she a foundling. she have come as a girl from Essex,

recommend by a friend, long since dead, of Mrs. Gale. she never speak

of father, mother, sister, and brother; but every year, when she take

her holiday, she be presume to return to her native county. with that

exception she seem to have far less of a private life than the

household cat. it never occur to Olivia that she could possibly lead

an independent existence. her age be about forty-five.



“they think I’m either mad or immoral,” say Olivia. “thank God, they’re

not religious, or they’d be hold prayer meeting over I.”



“they might do bad,” reply Myra.



the girl laugh. “so you disapprove, too, do you? well, you’ll have to

get over it.”



“I’ve get over many thing—one more or less don’t matter. and if I be

you, Miss, I wouldn’t stand in this draughty hall.”



“all that I’m think of,” say Olivia, in high good humour, “be that,

with you as duenna, I shall look too respectable. no one will believe it

possible for any one except an adventuress.”



“that’s what I gather you’re go to be,” say Myra. if she have put any

sting into her word it would have be a retort. but no one know what

emotion guide Myra’s speech. with the same tonelessness she would have

proclaim the house to be on fire, or dinner to be ready, or the day to

be fine.



“well, if you don’t like the prospect, Myra, you needn’t come,” say

Olivia. “I’ll easily find something fluffy in short skirt and silk

stocking to do for I.”



“we’re waste gas, Miss,” say Myra, pull the little chain of the

bye-pass and thereby plunge the hall in darkness.



“oh, bother you!” cry Olivia, stumble into the passage and knock

against the parrot’s cage outside the dining-room door, and Polly

shriek out:



“drat the child! drat the child!”



before enter the dining-room she aim a parthian shot at Myra.



“I suppose you agree with the little beast. well, the two of you’ll have

to look after each other, and I wish you joy.”



she clear the dining-room table of the tea thing and the whisky and

glass and the superfluous paper, and open the window to let out the

smell of Mr. Trivett’s strong cigar, and cross the passage to the

drawing-room opposite, where a small fire be still burn. and there,

in spite of the exultation of her triumph over Mr. Trivett and Mr.

Fenmarch, she suddenly feel very dreadfully alone; also just a whit

frighten. the precious cheque, symbol of independence, which she have

take up, lay down, take up again, during her little household duty,

fall to the ground as she lie in the arm-chair by the fireside.



be her victory, and all it imply, that of a reasonable being and a

decent girl, or that of a little fool and a hussy?



perhaps the mother whom she worship and to whom she have devotedly

sacrifice the last four year of her young life be the inspiration of

her revolt. for her mother have be a highly breed woman, of a proud old

anglo-indian family, all general and Colonels and Sirs and lady,

whose name have be involve in the history of British India for

generation; and when she throw the anglo-indian family halo over the

windmill and marry young Stephen Gale, who use to stand in the

market-place of Medlow and bawl out the bidding for pig and sheep, the

family turn she down with the anglo-indian thoroughness that have

compel her mother to lose her life in a plague-stricken district and

her father to lose his on the North-West Frontier. the family argument

be simple. when you—or everything matter that mean you—have rule

province and command army and be Sahibs from the beginning of

anglo-indian time, you cann’t go and marry a man who sell pig at

auction, and remain alive. none of the family deign to gauge the

personal value of the pig-seller. the anglo-Brahmin lose caste. it be

true that, afterwards, patronize effort be make by brahminical

uncle and aunt and cousin to bridge over the impassable gulf; but

Mrs. Gale, very much in love with her pig-sell husband, snap she

finger at they and tell they, in individually opposite term, to go

hang.



it be a love match right enough. and a love match it remain to the

very end of all thing; after she have bear he two son and a daughter;

all through the young life of the child; up to the day when the

telegram come announce the death of their eld son—the young have

be kill in the curious world accident a month or so before—and

Stephen Gale stand by her bedside—she have even then succumb to she

incurable malady—and say, shake with an emotion to which one do not

refer nowadays:



“Mary, my dear, what be I to do?”



and she, the blood in her speak—the blood that have give itself at

Agra, Lucknow, Khandahar, Chitral—reply:



“go, dear.”



Olivia, sit by, grip her young hand in mingled horror and grief

and passionate wonder. and Stephen Gale, just fifty, go out to avenge

his son and do what be right in his wife’s eye—for his wife be his

country incarnate, her voice, be England’s voice. a love match it be

and a love match it remain while he stick it for two or three

year—an elderly man at an inglorious base, until he die of

pneumonia—over there.



Mrs. Gale have linger for a year, and, close as their relation have

be all Olivia’s life, they grow infinitely close during this period

of bereavement. it be only then that the mother give delicate

expression to the nostalgia of half a lifetime, the longing for her own

kind, and the way and thought and imponderable principle of her own

caste. and, imperceptibly, Olivia’s eye be open to the essential

difference between her mother and the social circle into which she have

marry. Olivia, ever since her shrewd child’s mind begin to appreciate

value, know perfectly well that the Trivetts and the Gales be not

account as gentlefolk in the town. she early become aware of the

socially divided line across which she could not pass so as to enter

Blair Park, the high-class girl’ school on the hill, but narrow she

to Landsdowne House, where the daughter of the tradespeople receive

their education. and when the two crocodile happen to pass each other

on country walk she hate the smug, stuckup Blair Park girl with their

pretty blue and white ribbon round their straw hat, and hate her red

ribbon with “LH” embroider on it, as a badge of servitude. when she

grow up she accept countless other social fact as immutable

condition of existence. mortal be divide by her unquestione

father into three categories—“the swell,” “homely folk like

ourselves,” and “common people.” so long as each member of the three

section know his place and respect it, the world be as comfortable a

planet as sentient being could desire. that be one factor in his

worship of his wife: she have step from her high plane to his and

have loyally, unmurmuringly identify herself with it. he have never a

notion, good man, of the shock, the inner wound, the instinctive

revolt, the longing that she hide behind her love eye. nor have

Olivia; although as a schoolgirl she know and feel proud that her mother

really belong to Blair Park and not to Landsdowne House. as she grow

up, she realize her mother’s refining influence, and, as far as young

blood would allow, use she as a model of speech and manner. and during

the long invalid year, when she read aloud and discuss a wide range

of literature, she receive unconsciously a sensitive education. but it

be only in this last poignant intimacy, when they be leave starkly

alone together, that she sound the depth of the loyal, love, and

yet strangely suffer woman.



“I remember once, long ago, when you be a mite of five,” Mrs. Gale have

say in a memorable confidence, “we be stay at a hotel in

Eastbourne, and I get into conversation on the verandah with a Colonel

somebody—I forget his name—with whom we have speak several time

before—one of those spare brown, blue-eyed man, all leather and taut

string, that wear their clothe like uniform. you see, I be bear and

breed among they, dear. and we talk and we talk and I don’t know how

the time fly, and I miss an appointment with your father in the town.

and he come and find we together—and he be very angry. it be the

only time in our life he say an unkind word to I. it be the only

time I give he any sort of cause for jealousy. but he really haven’t. it

be only just the joy of talk to a gentleman again. and I couldn’t

tell he. it would have break his dear heart.”



this be the first flashlight across her mother’s soul, and in its

illumination vanish many obscure and haunt perplexity of her

girlhood. have Mrs. Gale live the normal life of woman, surround by

those that love she, she would doubtless have go to her grave without

reveal her inner self to live mortal. but infinite sorrow and the

weakness engender by constant physical pain have transform she into a

spirituality just breathe the breath of life and regard she

daughter less as a woman than as a kindre essence from whom no secret

could be hide. at her bedside Olivia thus learn the mystery of birth

and life and death. chiefly the mystery of life, which appeal more to

her ardent maidenhood.



so when at last her mother fade out of existence and Olivia’s vigil be

over, she face a world of change value with a new set of value of

her own. she could not formulate they; but she be acutely conscious

that they be different from those of the good, honest Mr. Trivett and

the dull and honourable Mr. Fenmarch, and that to all the social circle

which these two represent they would be unintelligible. in a way, she

find herself possess of a new calculus in which she trust to solve

the problem which defy the simple arithmetic of the homely folk of

Medlow.



                 *        *        *        *        *



all these memory and vague certainty pass through the girl’s mind

as she sit before the fire in self-examination after her victory, and

conflict with the prosaic and indicatively common-sense argument of

her late adviser. she know that father and brother, all beloved and

revere, would have be staunchly on the side of the Trivetts. on the

other hand, her mother, as she have say to her husband on the edge of a

far, far great adventure, would have say: “go, dear.” of that she have

no doubt. . . . yet it mean cut herself adrift from Medlow and all

its way and all its association. it mean a definite struggle to raise

herself from her father’s second social category to the first. it mean,

therefore, justify herself against odious insinuation on the part of

her scant acquaintance.



and then the youth in her rose insistent. during all these year of

stress and fever which have mark her development from child into woman

she have do nothing but remain immure within the wall familiar from

her babyhood. other girl have go afar, in strange independence, to

vivid scene, to unforgettable adventure, in the service of their

country, in the service of mankind—just as her brother and father have

go—and she have stay there, ineradicable, in that one little tiny

spot. the sick-room, the kitchen, the shop in Old Street, where, in

defiance of Food Controller, she have fight for cream and butter and

egg and english meat so that her mother could live; the sick-room

again, the simple white and green bedroom which mean to her little more

than the sleep of exhaustion; the sick-room once more, with its pathos

of spiritual love and physical repulsion—such have be the iron

environment of her life. sorrow after sorrow, and mourning after

mourning have come, and the little gaiety of the “homely folk” of her

father’s definition have go on without her participation. and her girl

friend of Landsdowne House have either marry rise young tradesman in

distant town, or have find some further scope for their energy at the

end of the Great Adventure and be far away. in the meanwhile other

homely folk whom she do not know have pour into the town. all kind of

people seem to be settle there, anyhow, without rhyme or reason. it

be only when there be not a house to be rent in the neighbourhood

that she understand why.



“you have a comfortable home of your own. why, on earth, don’t you stay

in it?” Mr. Trivett have ask.



but she have stay in it, alone, for the three month since her mother’s

death, wait on the law’s delay; and those three month have be

foretaste enough of the dreary infinite year that would lie before she,

should she remain. she be too young, too full of sap, to face the

blight of sunlessness. she long for the sight and the sound and the

freedom of the great world. what she would do when she get into it, she

do not exactly know. possibly she might meet a fairy prince. if such a

speculation be that of a hussy, why then, she argue, all woman be

hussy from birth. as for be a fool for defy advice on the proper

investment of her money—well, perhaps she be not quite such a fool as

Mr. Trivett imagine. if she do not spend her capital, it would be just

as safe lie on deposit at the bank as invest in stock and share;

safe, for she have lately have wearisome experience of the depreciation

of security. she would not be senselessly extravagant; in fact, with

the sanguineness of youth she hope to be able to live on the interest

on her deposit and the rent of the furnished house. but behind she,

definite, tangible, uninfluence by Stock Exchange fluctuation, would

be her fortune. and then—a contingency which she do not put before Mr.

Trivett and Mr. Fenmarch, for a woman seldom disclose her main argument

to a male adversary—there might come a glorious moment in some now

unconjecturable adventure when it might be essential for she to draw

cheque for dazzle sum which she could put in her pocket and go over

mysterious hill and far away. she stand on the edge of her dull

tableland and gaze wide-eyed at the rolling Land of Romance veil by

gold and purple mist. and in that land, from immemorial time, people

carry their money in bag, into which they dip their hand, as

occasion require, and cast the unmeaning counter at the foot of

poverty or into the lap of greed.



when she sit down to her solitary supper, she have decide that she be

neither hussy nor fool. she hold baffle discourse with Myra, who could

not be entice into enthusiasm over the immediate future. Teasing Myra

have be her joy from infancy. she sketch their career—that of female

Don Quixote and Sancho Panza—that of knight of old in quest of

glorious adventure. she quote, mock heroically:



“the ride abroad redress human wrong.”



“well redress the young London woman which I see the picture of in

the illustrated paper,” say Myra.



Olivia laugh. “you be a dear old blessing, you know.”



“I’m sure of it,” say Myra, with an expressionless face. “anyways,

you’re not go to buy one of they thing when you get to London.”



“I be,” reply Olivia. “and you’ll have to help I put it on.”



“you cann’t help folk put on nothing,” say Myra.



“what do you think you’ll do when you’re really shocked?” ask Olivia.



“I never think what I’ll do,” reply Myra. “it’s waste of time.”



Olivia enjoy her supper.





                               CHAPTER II



it be only when she wait the next morning for her possible tenant,

the Major Olifant of whom Mr. Trivett have speak, and go through the

familiar room to see that they be fit for alien inspection, that she

realize the sacrilege which she be about to commit. every room be

sacred, inhabit by some beloved ghost. the very furniture bore

landmark of the wear and tear of those that be dead. to say nothing

of the bed on which they have sleep, the chair in which they have sit,

which still seem to retain the impress of their form, there persist

a hundred exquisitely memorable triviality. the arm of the oak settle

in the hall still show the ravage of the tooth of Barabbas, the

mongrel bull-terri pup introduce, fifteen year ago, into the house,

by Charles her eld brother; an animal who, from be curse by the

whole family for a pestilential cur, wriggle his way, thank to his

adoration of Charles, into the heart of they all, and die from old age

and perhaps doggy anxiety a few month after Charles have sail for

France. in her father’s study, a small room heterogeneously adorn with

hunt crop and car accessory and stuff trout and a large scale

map of Medlow and neighbourhood and suggestive in no way of a studious

habit, the surface of the knee-hole writing table and the mahogany

mantelpiece be score with fluted little burn from cigarette-end, he

having be a careless smoker. there be a legend that the family

cradle, for many year moulder in an outhouse, bear the same

stigmata. the very bathroom be not free of intimate history. in the

midst of the blue and red stain pane on the low sash stare one of

plain ground glass—the record of her brother Bobby age twelve, who,

vow vengeance against an unsympathetic visit aunt (soon afterwards

deceased), have the brilliant idea of catapult she through the closed

window while she be have her bath. and there be her mother’s

room. . . .



she could not let all this pass into vulgar hand. the vague plan of

let the house furnish, which have hitherto not be unattractive,

now become monstrously definite. she hate the sacrilegious and

intrusive Major Olifant. he would bring down a dowdy wife and a cartload

of child to the profanation of these her household god. she go in

search of Myra and find she dust her own prim little bedroom.



“I’m go out. when Major Olifant call, tell he I’ve change my mind

and the house be not to let.”



then she put on hat and coat and go downstairs to take the air of the

sleepy midday High Street. but as she open the front door she run into

a man get out of a two-seater car drive by a chauffeur. he raise

his hat.



“I beg your pardon,” say he, “but be this ‘the tower’?”



“it be,” she reply. “I suppose you’ve—you’ve come with an order to

view from Messrs. Trivett and Gale.”



“quite so,” say he pleasantly. “I have an appointment with Miss Gale.”



“I’m Miss Gale,” say Olivia.



she notice an involuntary twitch of surprise, at once suppress, pass

over his face.



“and my name’s Olifant. Major Olifant.”



she have picture quite a different would-be intruder, a red-faced,

obese, and push fellow. instead, she see a well-breed, spare man of

medium height wear a stained service Burberry the empty left sleeve

of which be pin in front; a man in his middle thirty, with crisp

light brown hair, long, broad forehead characterize by curious bump

over the brow, a very long, straight nose and attractive dark blue eye

which keenly and smilingly hold her without touch of offence.



“I’ve decide not to let the house,” say Olivia.



the smile vanish from his eye. “I’m sorry,” say he stiffly. “I be

give to understand——”



“yes, I know,” she say quickly. her conscience get hold of the

missing arm smite she. “where have you come from?”



“Oxford.”



she gasp. “why, that’s a hundred mile!”



“ninety-four.”



“but you must be perish with cold,” she cry. “do come in and get

warm, at any rate. perhaps I can explain. and your man, too.” she

point. “round that way you’ll find a garage. I’ll send the maid.

please come in, Major Olifant. oh—but you must!”



she enter the house, leave he no option but to follow. to divest

himself of his Burberry he make curious writhing movement with his

shoulder, and swerve aside politely when she offer assistance.



“please don’t worry. I’m all right. I’ve all kind of little stunt of

my own invention.”



and, as he say it, he get clear and throw the mackintosh on the oak

chest. he rub the knuckle of his right hand against the side of his

rough tweed jacket.



“just five minute to get warm and I willn’t trespass far on your

hospitality.”



she show he into the drawing-room, thank goodness there be a showy

wood-fire burning, and go out after Myra.



“I think the house ben’t to be let,” say the latter after receive

many instruction.



“the letting of the house have nothing to do with two cold and hungry man

who have motor here on a raw November morning for hundred of mile on

false pretence.”



she re-enter the drawing-room with a tray bear whisky decanter,

siphon, and glass, which she set on a side table.



“I’m alone in the world now, Major Olifant,” she say, “but I’ve live

nearly all my life with man—my father and two brother——” she feel

that the explanation be essential. “please help yourself.”



he meet her eye, which, though defiant, hold the menace of tear. he

make the vague, most delicate of gesture with his right hand—his

empty sleeve, the air. she move an assent head; then swiftly she

grasp the decanter.



“say when.”



“just that.”



she squirt the siphon.



“so?”



“perfect. a thousand thank.”



he take the glass from she and deferentially await her next movement.

Tricksy memory flash across her mind the picture of the anglo-indian

colonel of her mother’s pathetic little confidence. for a moment or two

she stand confused, flushed, self-conscious, suddenly hate herself for

not know instinctly what to do. in desperation she cry.



“oh, please drink it! you must want it awfully.”



he laugh, make a little bow, and drank.



“now do sit down near the fire. I’m dreadfully sorry,” she continue

when they be settle. “dreadfully sorry you should have have all this

journey for nothing. as a matter of fact, I want to let the house and

only change my mind an hour ago.”



“you have live here all your life?” he ask.



“yes.”



“please say no more about it,” say he courteously.



she burst at once into explanation. Father, brother, mother—all the

dear ghost, at the last moment, have hold out their bar hand. he

smile at her pretty dark-eyed earnestness.



“there be few house nowadays without ghost. but there might be a

stranger now and then who would have the tact and understanding to win

their confidence.”



this be at the end of a talk which have last she know not how long.

the little silence which ensue be break by the shrill clang of the

ormolu clock on the mantelpiece strike one. she spring to her foot.



“one o’clock. why, you must be famish. seven o’clock breakfast at

late. there’ll be something to eat, whatever it be.”



“but, my dear Miss Gale,” cry Major Olifant, rise in protest, “I

couldn’t dream of it—there must be an hotel——”



“there ben’t,” cry Olivia unveraciously, and vanish.



Major Olifant, too late to open the door for she, retrace his step and

stand, back to fire, idly evoke, as a man do, the human purpose

that have go to the making of the room, and he be puzzle. some

delicate spirit have choose the old gold curtain which harmonize with

the cushion on the plain upholstered settee and with the early

chippendale armchair and with the chippendale bookcase fill with odd

and end of good china, old Chelsea, Coalport, a bit or two of Sèvres

and Dresden. some green chrysanthemum bow, in dainty raggedness, over

the edge of a fine cut crystal vase. an exquisite water-colour over the

piano attract his attention. he cross the room to examine it and

draw a little breath of surprise to read the signature of Bonington—a

thing beyond price. on a table by the french window, which lead into a

conservatory and thence into the little garden, stand a box of Persian

lacquer. but there, throw into confusion the charm of all this, a

great victorian mirror in a heavy florid gold frame blare like a german

band from over the mantelpiece, and on the opposite wall two huge

companion picture represent in violent colour scene of smug

domestic life, also in gold frame, with a slip of wood let in bear

the legend “exhibit at the Royal Academy, 1888,” scream like an

orchestrion.



he be look round for further evidence of obvious conflict of

individuality, when Myra appear to take he to get rid of the dust

of the journey. when he return to the drawing-room he find Olivia.



“I cann’t help feel an inconscionable intruder,” say he.



“my only concern be that I’ll be able to give you something fit to eat.”



he laugh. “the man who have come out of France and Mesopotamia finikin

in his food be a fraud.”



“still,” she object, “I don’t want to send you back to Mrs. Olifant

rack with indigestion.”



“Mrs. Olifant?” he wear a look of humorous puzzlement.



“I suppose you have a wife and family?”



“good heaven, no!” he cry, with an air of horror. “I’m a bachelor.”



she regard he for a few second, as though from an entirely fresh

point of view.



“but what on earth do a bachelor want with a great big house—with ten

bedroom?”



“have it get ten bedroom?”



“I presume Mr. Trivett send you the particular: ‘Desirable Residence,

stand in own ground, three acre. ten bedroom, three reception

room. Bath H. and C.,’ and so forth?”



“the Bath H. and C. be all I worry about.”



they both laugh. Myra announce luncheon. they go into the

dining-room. by the side of Major Olifant’s plate be a leather case. he

flash on she a look of enquiry, at which the blood rise into her pale

cheek.



“I’ve be interview your man,” she say rather defiantly. “he

produce that from the pocket of the car.”



“you overwhelm I with your kindness, Miss Gale,” say he. “I should

never have have the courage to ask for it.”



the case contain the one-armed man’s patent combination knife and

fork.



“courage be such a funny thing,” say Olivia. “a man will walk up to a

machine-gun in action and knock the gunner out with the butt end of a

rifle; but if he’s sit in a draught in a woman’s drawing-room and

catch his death of cold, he daren’t get up and shut the window. these

be real egg, although they’re camouflage in a chinese scramble. one

faithful hen be still do she one minute day. the other be on

strike.”



she felt curiously exhilarate on this first actual occasion of

assert her independence. only once before have she entertain guest

at her own table, and these be her uncle and aunt from Clapham, the

Edward Gales, who come to her mother’s funeral. they be colourless

suburban folk who be pain by her polite rejection of their proposal

to make her home with they on a pay footing, and reproach she for

extravagance in give they butter (of which, nevertheless, they eat

greedily) instead of margarine. her uncle be a pallid pharmaceutical

chemist and live above the shop, and his wife, a thin-lipped, negative

blonde, have few interest in life outside the Nonconformist Communion

into which she have drag he. Olivia have see they only once before,

also at a funeral, that of a young brother who have die at the age of

three. her robustious country-love, horse-love, dog-love,

pig-love father have never get on with his bloodless brother. a staunch

supporter of the Church of England to the extent of rent a pew in the

Parish Church in which, in spite of the good intention, he have never

find time to sit, he confessedly hate dissent and all its work,

especially those undertake by Mrs. Edward. his vice of generosity do

not accord with their parsimonious virtue. once, Olivia remember, he

have dine with they at Clapham and return complain of starvation.

“one kidney between the three of we,” he declare. “and they give I the

middle gristly bit!” so Olivia feel no call of the blood to Clapham.

and, for all her inherit hospitable impulse, she have be glad when,

having critically pick the funeral bake meat to the last bone, they

have go off in sorrow over her wicked prodigality and lack of true

christian feeling. but for their dreary and pass shadow she have

eat alone—she catch her breath to think of it—ever since her

father’s last leave—shortly before he die at Etaples—eighteen month

ago. her hostess-ship at the present moment be a bubble joy. only her

sense of value restrain she from order up a bottle of champagne.

she content herself with a bottle of old Corton—her father have be a

judge of full red wine, burgundy and port, and have stock a small but

well-select cellar, and have teach Olivia what be good that a girl

should know concern they.



she watch her guest’s first sip, as her father have be willnot to watch,

and flush with pleasure when he pause, as though take aback,

sniff, sip again, and say:



“either new condition be make I take all sort of goose for swan,

or you’re give I a remarkable wine.”



she burst out radiantly: “how lovely of you to spot it! it’s a Corton,

1887.”



“but forgive I for say so,” he remark. “it’s not a wine you should

spill on any casual tramp. oh, of course,” he protest in anticipation.

“your politeness will assure I that I’m not a casual tramp. but I be.”



“I owe you something for bring you on a fool’s errand. besides, I

want to show you what Todger’s could do when it like!”



“Todger’s be wonderful,” he smile. “and how you could ever have think

of leave Todger’s be more than I can understand.”



“oh, I’m go to leave it, right enough,” she answer. “what on earth

do you think a girl all by herself want with a great big house with ten

bedroom, three reception room, bath h. and c., etc., etc.?”



“it’s your home, anyhow.”



“that’s why I don’t like to let it.”



“then why go away from it? if it be not an impertinent question, what

be you go to do?”



she meet his clear blue eye and laugh.



“I’m go out into the world to seek adventure. there!”



“and I,” say he, “want to get out of the world and never have another

adventure as long as I live. I’ve have more than enough for one

lifetime.”



“but still,” she retort, conscious of his bearing and vigour and other

conjectured quality, “you cann’t contemplate fossilize here till the

end of time.”



“that’s what I’m literally think of do,” he reply.



she feel the reaction of bitter disappointment. a man like he have no

right to throw up the sponge. the sudden blankness of her face betray

her thought. he smile.



“I say literally, you know. fossilize in the literal and practical

sense. once upon a time I be a geologist. I specialize in certain

fossil.”



“oh,” gasp Olivia. “I beg your pardon.”



“very fascinating little fossil,” he go on without reference to her

apology, for which Olivia be grateful. “they’re call foraminifera. do

you know what they be?” Olivia shake a frankly ignorant head. “they’re

little tiny weeny shell, and the thing once inside they belong to

the protozoa, or first form of life. they’re one of the starting-point

to the solution of the riddle of existence. I be drag away from they

to fool about with other kind of shell, million of time big and

million of time less important. I’ve get what I think be some new

idea about they, and other thing connect with they—it’s a vast

subject—and so I’m look for a quiet place where I can carry on my

work.”



“that’s awfully interesting,” say Olivia. “but—forgive I—who pay

you for it?”



“possibly mankind two hundred year hence,” he laugh. “but, if I stick

it long enough, they may make I a Fellow of the Royal Society when

I’m—say—seventy-three.”



“I wish you’d tell I some more about these forami—funny little thing

I’ve never hear of,” say Olivia.



but he answer: “no. if once I begin, I would bore you so stiff that

you would curse the hour you allow I to cross your threshold. there

be other thing just as vital as foraminifera. I’ve make my confession,

Miss Gale. now, willn’t you make your? what be you keen on?”



at the direct question, Olivia pass in review the aim and interest

and pleasure of her past young life, and be abash to find they a row

of anæmic little phantom. for year her head have be too full of

duty. she regard he for a moment or two in dismay, then she laugh

in young defiance.



“I suppose I’m keen on real live human being. that’s my starting-point

to the solution of the riddle of existence.”



“we’ll see who get there first,” say he.



when the meal be over, she stand by the door which he hold open for she

and hesitate for a moment.



“I wonder whether you would care to look over the house?”



“I should immensely. but—if you’re not go to let it——”



“you’ll be able, at any rate, to tell Mr. Trivett that he have no

business to send you to such an old rabbit warren,” she reply, with

some demureness.



“I’m at your order,” smile Olifant.



she play cicerone with her little business-like air of dignity, speak

in a learned fashion of water supply, flue, and boiler. Olifant look

wisely at the kitchen range, while Myra stand at impassive attention and

the cook take refuge in the scullery.



“these hole be to put saucepan on, I presume,” say he.



“you’ve hit it exactly,” say Olivia.



they go upstairs. on the threshold of the good bedroom he pause and

cry, in some astonishment: “what an exquisite room!”



“it be my mother’s,” say Olivia. “you can come in. it have a pleasant

view over the garden.”



then Olifant, who have inspect the study, solve the puzzle of the

drawing-room. there the man and woman have compromise. she have suffer

he to hang his victorian mirror and his scream picture in the midst

of her delicate scheme. but here her taste reign absolute. it be all

so simple, so exquisite: a few bit of Chippendale and Sheraton, a few

water-colour on the wall, a general impression for curtain and

upholstery of faded rose brocade. on a table by the bed-head stand a

little row of book in an inlaid stand. with the instinct of a bookish

man, Olifant bend over to look at their back, but first turn to

Olivia.



“may I?”



“of course.” then she add, with a vague longing to impress on a

stranger the wonder and beauty of the spirit that have create these

surrounding: “my mother know they all by heart, I think. naturally she

use to read other thing and I use to read aloud to she—she be

interested in everything till the day of her death—but these book be

part of her life.”



there be: _Marcus Aurelius_, _Lord Herbert of Cherbury_, _the

Imitation of Christ_, _Christina Rossetti_, the almost forget early

seventeenth century _Arthur Warwick_ (“_Spare Minutes; or, resolve

Meditation and Premeditated Resolutions_”), _crabbe_ . . . a dozen

volume or so. Olifant pick out one.



“and this, too? the _Pensées de Pascal_?”



“she love it well,” say Olivia.



“it be strange,” say he. “my father spend most of his life on a

monumental work on Pascal. he be a Professor of Divinity at a Scotch

University, but die long before the monument could be complete. I’ve

get his manuscript. they’re in an awful mess, and it would take another

lifetime to get they into order. anyhow, he take good care that I should

remember Pascal as long as I live.”



“how?”



“he have I christen Blaise.”



“Blaise Olifant,” she repeat critically. she laugh. “he might have

do bad.”



he turn over the page. “there’s one thing here that my father be

always drum into I. yes, here it be. it’s mark in blue pencil.”



“then it must have be drum into I, too,” say Olivia.



“‘_on ne consulte que l’oreille, parce qu’on manque de cœur. La règle

est l’honnêteté._´”



“yes,” she say, with a sigh.



he replace the book. they go in silence out to the landing. after a

few second of embarrassment they turn and descend to the hall.



“I can more than understand, Miss Gale, why you feel you cann’t let the

house. but I’m sorry.”



she weaken, foresee the house empty and desolate, give over to

dust and mouse and ghost.



“it be the idea of a pack of people, the British Family in all its

self-centredness and selfishness, come in here that I couldn’t stand,”

she confess.



“then be there a chance for I?” he ask, his face brighten. “look.

I’m open to a bargain. the house be just what I want. I’m not a recluse.

I’m quite human. I should like to have a place where I can put up a man

or so for a week-end, and I’ve a married sister, none too happy, who now

and then might like to find a refuge with I. there’s also a friend,

rather a distinguished fellow, who want to join I for a few month’

quiet and hard work. so, suppose I give you my promise to hold that room

sacred, to keep it just as it be and allow no one to go into it except a

servant to dust and so forth—what would you say? not now. think it over

and write to I at your convenience.”



his sympathy and comprehension have win she over. he be big and kind and

brotherly. somehow she feel that her mother would have like he,

accept he without question as one of her own caste, and would have

smile on he as High Priest in charge of the Household Gods. she

reflect for a while, then, meet his eye:



“you can have the house, Major Olifant,” she say seriously.



he bow. “I’m sure you will not regret it,” say he. “I ought to remind

you, however,” he add after a pause, “that I may have a stable

companion for a few month. the distinguished fellow I mention. I

wonder whether you’ve hear of Alexis Triona.”



“the man who write _through blood and Snow_?”



“have you read it?”



“of course I have,” cry Olivia. “what do you think I do here all day?

twiddle my thumb or tell my fortune by card?”



“I hope you think it’s a great book,” he say, with a smile.



“an amazing book. and you’re go to bring he to live here? what’s he

like?”



“it would take day to tell you.”



“well, compress it into a sort of emergency ration,” say Olivia.



so he sit by her side on the oak settle, near the anthracite stove in

the hall, and tell she what he know of Alexis Triona.





                              CHAPTER III



what Blaise Olifant tell Olivia about his prospective co-inhabitant of

the Towers, and what Rowington, the publisher, and one or two other

know about he, amount to the follow:



one morning a motor-car, have the second-hand air of a hire garage

and unoccupied save for the chauffeur, draw up before the door of a

great London publishing house. the chauffeur step from his seat,

collect a brown-paper package from the interior, and enter.



“can I see a member of the firm?”



the clerk in the enquiry office look surprised. chauffeur offer

manuscript on behalf of their employer be plentiful as blackberry

in September; but chauffeur demand an interview with the august

head of the house be rare as blackberry in March.



“I’m afraid you cann’t do that,” he reply civilly. “if you leave it

here, it will be all right. I’ll give you a receipt which you can take

back.”



“I want to explain,” say the chauffeur.



score of people weekly express the same desire. it be the business

of the clerk to suppress explanation.



“it’s a manuscript to be submit? well, you must tell the author——”



“I be the author,” say the chauffeur.



“oh!” say the clerk, and his subconscious hand push the manuscript a

millimetre forward on the polished mahogany counter.



“the circumstance, you see, be exceptional.”



there be something exceptional in the voice and manner of the

chauffeur, the clerk regard he for the first time as a human being.



“I quite see,” say he; “but the rule of the firm be strict. if you

will leave the manuscript, it will be read. oh, I give you my word of

honour,” he smile. “everything that come in be read. we have a staff

who do nothing else. be your name and address on it?” he begin to untie

the string.



“the name, but not the address.”



on the slip of paper which the clerk push across to he he write:



                       Alexis Triona,

                          c/o John Briggs.

                             3 Cherbury Mews,

                                Surrey Gardens, W.



the clerk scribble an acknowledgment, the chauffeur thrust it into his

pocket, and, drive away, be lose in the traffic of London.



a fortnight afterwards, Alexis Triona, who, together with John Briggs,

as one single and indissoluble chauffeur, inhabit a little room over

the garage in Cherbury Mews, receive a letter to the effect that the

publishing house, be interested in the MS. “_through blood and

Snow_,” which he have kindly submit, would be glad if he would call,

with a view to publication. the result be a second visit on the part of

the chauffeur to the great firm. the clerk welcome he with a bland

smile, and show he into a comfortably furnish room whose thick

Turkey carpet signify the noiseless mystery of many discreet decade,

and where a benevolent middle-aged man in gold spectacle stand with his

back to the chimney-piece. he advance with outstretched hand to meet

the author.



“Mr. Triona? I’m glad to meet you. willn’t you sit down?”



he motion to a chair by the tidy writing table, where he sit and

pull forward the manuscript, which have be place there in readiness

for the interview. he say pleasantly:



“well. let we get to business at once. we should like to publish your

book.”



the slight quivering of sensitive nostril alone betray the author’s

emotion.



“I’m glad,” he reply. “I think it’s worth publish.”



Mr. Rowington tap the MS. in front of he with his forefinger. “be

these your own personal experience?”



“they be,” say the chauffeur.



“excuse my question you,” say the publisher. “not that it would

greatly matter. but one like to know. we should be incline to publish

it, either as a work of fiction or a work of fact; but the handling of

it—the method of publicity—would be different. of course, you see,” he

go on benevolently, “a thing may be absolutely true in essence, like

lot of the brilliant little war story that have be write the past

few year, but not true in the actual historical sense. now, your book

would have more value if we could say that it be true in this actual

historical sense, if we could say that it’s an authentic record of

personal experience.”



“you can say that,” answer Triona quietly.



the publisher lean back in his chair.



“how a man could have go through what you have and remain sane

pass understanding.”



for the first time the young man’s set feature relax into a smile.



“I shouldn’t like to swear that I be sane,” say he.



“I’ve hear ex-prisoner say,” Mr. Rowington remark, “that six month’

solitary confinement under such conditions”—he pat the

manuscript—“is as much as the human reason can stand.”



“as soon as hunt and kill vermin cease to be a passionate

interest in life,” say Triona.



they converse for a while. stimulate by the publisher’s question,

Triona supplement detail in the book, describe his final adventure,

his landing penniless in London, his search for work. at last, say he,

he have find a situation as chauffeur in the garage of a motor-hire

company. the publisher glance at the slip pin to the cover of the

manuscript.



“and John Briggs?”



“a pseudonym. Briggs be my mother’s name. I be english on both side,

though my great-grandfather’s people be maltese. my father, however,

be a naturalized Russian. I’ve mention it in the book.”



“quite so,” say the publisher. “I only want to get thing clear. and

now as to term. have you any suggestion?”



afterwards, Alexis Triona confess to a wild impulse to ask for a

hundred pound—outright sale—and to a sudden lack of audacity which

keep he silent. the term which the publisher propose, when the

royalty system and the probability of such a book’s profit be

explain to he, make he gasp with wonder. and when, in consideration,

say the publisher, of his present impecunious position, he be offer

an advance in respect of royalty exceed the hundred pound of his

crazy prompting, his heart thump until it become an all but

intolerable pain.



“do you think,” he ask, amazed that his work should have such market

value, “that I could earn my living by write?”



“undoubtedly.” the publisher beam on the new author. “you have the

matter, you have the gift, the style, the humour, the touch. I’m sure I

could place thing for you. indeed, it would be to our common advantage,

pende publication. only, of course, you mustn’t use any of the matter

in the book. you quite understand?”



Alexis Triona understand. he go away dance on air. write? his brain

seethe with idea. that the write expression of they should open the

gate of Fortune be a new conception. he have put together the glowing,

vivid book impel by strange, unknown force. it be, as he have

confidently declare, worth publishing. but the possible reward be

beyond his dream. and he could see more vision. . . .



so he go back to his garage and drive idle people to dinner and

theatre, and in his scanty leisure write strange romance of love and

war in Circassia and Tartary, and, through the agency of the powerful

publishing house, sell they to solid periodical, until the public mind

became gradually familiarize with his name. it be only when the book

be publish, and, justify the confidence of the great firm, blaze

into popularity, that Triona discard his livery and all that

appertain to the mythical John Briggs and, array himself in the

garb of ordinary citizenship, enter—to use, with a difference, the

famous trope of a depart wit—a lion into the den of London’s Daniels.

for, in their hundred, they have come to judgment. but know very

little of the Imperial Russian Secret Service in Turkestan, or the way

of the inhabitant of the Ural Mountains, or, at that time, of Bolshevik

horror in the remote confine of Asia, they tear each other to piece,

while the lion step, with serene modesty, in the midst of they.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be at Oxford, whither the sudden wave of fame have drift he, that

he meet Blaise Olifant, who be live in the house of his sister, the

wife of a brilliant, undomesticated and somewhat dissolute professor of

political economy. the Head of a College, interested in Russia, have

ask he down to dine and sleep. there be a portentous dinner-party

whose conglomerate brain paralyze the salmon and refroze the import

lamb. they overwhelm the guest of honour with their learning. they all

be bent on probe beneath the surface of his thrilling personal

adventure, which he narrate from time to time with attractive modesty.

the episode of his reprieve when stand naked beside the steaming

chaldron in which he be to be boil alive cause a shudder silence.

perhaps it be too realistic for a conventional dinner-party, but he have

discount its ghastliness by a smile nonchalance, tell it as

though it have be an amusing misadventure of travel. very shortly

afterwards Mrs. Head of College break into a disquisition on the

continuity of russian literature from Sumakarov to Chekov. Triona, a

profound student of the subject, at last lose interest in the academic

socialist and throw up his hand.



“my dear lady,” say he, “there be a theory in the United States

account for the continued sale of _Uncle Tom’s Cabin_. they say

immigrant buy it to familiarize themselves with the negro question.

russian literature have just as much to do with the Russia of to-day.

it’s as purely archæological as the literature of Ancient Assyria.”



Blaise Olifant, sit opposite, sympathize with the man of

actuality set down in this polite academy. once he himself have

regard it as the ganglion of the Thought of the Universe; but having

recently see something of the say Universe he have modify his view.

why should these folk not be content with a plain human story of almost

fantastic adventure, instead of worry the unhappy soldier of Fortune

with sociological and metaphysical theory with which he have little

time to concern himself? why embroil he in a discussion on the League

of Nations’ duty to Lithuania when he be anxious to give they

interesting picture of kurdish family life? he look round the table

somewhat amusedly at the elderly intellectual of both sex, and,

forget for a moment the intellectual year of quiet biological

research to which he be about to devote his life, draw an unflattering

contrast between the theorist and their alien guest.



he like the man. he like the boyish, clean-shaven face, the broad

forehead mark by very thin horizontal line, the thin brown hair,

part carelessly at the side, and leave to do what it like; the dark

grey eye that sometimes seem so calm beneath the heavy lid, and yet

be capable of sudden illumination; the pleasant, humorous mouth, and

the grotesque dimple of a hole in the middle of a long chin. he pity

the man. he pity he for the hollow in his temple, for the swift

flash of furtive glance, for the great sinew that stand out in his

lean nervous hand, for the general suggestion of shrunken muscularity

in his figure. a stone, or two, think he, below his normal weight. he

like his voice, its soft foreign intonation; he like his modesty, his

careless air of the slim young man of no account; he like the courteous

patience of his manner. he understand his little nervous trick of

pluck at his lip.



in the drawing-room after dinner Mrs. Head of College say to he:



“a most interesting man—but I do wish he would look you in the face

when he speak to you.”



Blaise Olifant suppress a sigh. these good people be hopeless. they

know nothing. they do not even recognize the unmistakable brand of the

prisoner who have suffer agony of body and degradation of soul. no man

who have be a tortured slave regain, for year, command of his eye.

hundred of such man have Olifant see, and the sight of they still make

his heart ache. he explain politely. and with a polite air of

unconvinced assent, the lady receive his explanation.



he ask Triona to lunch the next day, and under the warmth of his

kindly sympathy Triona expand. he speak of his boyhood in Moscow,

where his father, a naturalized Russian, carry on business as a

stockbroker; of his travel in England and France with his English

mother; of his english tutor; of his promising start in life in a great

russian motor firm—an experience that guarantee his livelihood during

his late refuge month in London; of his military service; of his early

war day as a russian officer; of the twist of circumstance that send

he into the Imperial Secret Service; of incredible wandering to the

frontier of Thibet; of the Revolution; of the murder of father and

mother and the disappearance of his fortune like a wisp of cloud

evaporate by the sun; of many strange and woeful thing relate in his

book; of his escape through Russia; of his creeping as a stowaway into a

swedish timber boat; of his torpedoing by a german submarine and his

rescue by a british destroyer; of his land naked save for shirt and

trouser, san money, san paper, san everything of value save his

english speech; of the Russian Society in London’s benevolent aid; of

the burn desire, an irresistible flame, to set down on paper all that

he have go through; of the intense night spend over the book in his

tiny ramshackle room over the garage; and, lastly, of the astounding

luck that have be deal he by the capricious Wheel of Fortune.



in the presence of a sympathetic audience he throw aside the previous

evening’s cloak of modest impersonality. he talk with a vivid

picturesqueness that hold Olifant spellbound. the furtive look in his

eye disappear. they gleam like compelling star. his face lose its

ruggedness, transfigure by the bear narrator’s inspiration. Olifant’s

sister, Mrs. Woolcombe, a gentle and unassuming woman on whom the

learning of Oxford have weigh as heavily as the abominable conduct of

her husband, listen with the rapt attention of a modern Desdemona. she

gaze at he open eye, half stupefy as she have gaze lately at a

great cinematograph film which have hold all London breathless.



when he have go she turn to her brother, still under the spell.



“the boy’s a magician.”



Blaise Olifant smile. “the boy’s a man,” say he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Chance throw they together a while later in London. there they meet

frequently, become friend. the quiet sincerity of the soldier-scholar

that be Blaise Olifant seem to strike some chord of soothe in the

heart of the young magician. fundamentally ignorant of every geological

fact, Triona bring to Olifant’s banquet of fossil solvent of the

mystery of existence an insatiable appetite for knowledge. he listen

to reluctant lecture on elementary phenomenon such as ammonite, with

the same rapt attention as Olifant listen to his tale of the old

Empire of Prester John. the Freemasonry of war, with its common

experience of peril and mutilation—once Triona slip off pump and

sock and show a foot from which three toe have be shoot away and an

ankle sear with the fester of fetter—form a primary bond of

brotherhood. by the Freemasonry of intellect they find themselves

member of a high chapter.



“London be wonderful,” say Triona one day. “London’s appreciation of

the poor thing I have do be enough to turn anyone’s head. but while my

head be be turn, in the most delightful way in the world, I cann’t

find time to do any work. and I must write in order to live. do you know

a little quiet spot where I could stay for the winter and write this

precious novel of mine?”



Blaise Olifant reflect for a moment.



“I myself be look for a sort of hermitage. in fact, I’ve hear of one

in Shropshire which I’m go to look at next week. I want a biggish

house,” he explain, with a smile—“I’ve have enough of dug-out and

billet in a farmhouse with a hole through the roof to last I my

natural life. so there would be room for a guest. if you would care to

come and stay with I, wherever I pitch my comfortable tent, and carry

on your job while I carry on mine, you would be more than welcome.”



“my dear fellow,” cry Triona, impulsively thrust out both hand to

be shake, “this be unheard-of generosity. it mean my soul’s salvation.

only the horrible dread of loneliness—you know the old solitary

prisoner’s dread—have keep I from run down to some little

out-of-the-way place—say in Cornwall. I’ve shrink from it. but London

be different. in my chauffeur’s day it be different. I have always

associate, fare, the multitudinous sight and sound of the vast city.

but solitude in a village! frankly, I funk it. I’ve live so much

alone that now I must talk. if I don’t talk I should go mad. or rather

I must feel that I can talk if I want to. I keep hold of myself,

however. if I bore you with my loquacity you wouldn’t have make I your

delightful proposal.”



“well, you’ll come, if I can get the right kind of house?”



“with all the gratitude in life,” cry Triona, his eye sparkle. “but

not as your guest. some daily, weekly, monthly arrangement, so that we

shall both be free—you to kick I out—I to go——”



“just as you like,” laugh Olifant. “I only should be pleased to have

your company.”



“and God know,” cry Triona, “what yours would be to I.”





                               CHAPTER IV



JOHN FREKE be one of the most highly respected man in Medlow. a great

leader in municipal affair, he have twice be Mayor of the town and be

chairman of the local hospital, President of club and association

innumerable, and hold Provincial Masonic rank. but as John Freke

persist in walk about the draper’s shop in Old Street, establish

by his grandfather, his family consort, not with the gentry of the

neighbourhood, but with the “homely folk” such as the Trivetts and the

Gales. his daughter, Lydia, and Olivia have be friend in the far-off

day, although Lydia be five year old. she be tall and creamy and

massive and capable, and have a rich contralto voice; and Olivia, very

young and eager, have, for a brief period, sit adore at her foot. then

Lydia have marry a young officer of Territorials who have be billet

on her father, and Olivia have see she no more. as a young war-wife she

pursue all kind of interesting avocation remote from Medlow, and, as

a young war-widow, have set up a hat shop in Maddox Street. Rumour have it

that she prosper. the good of relation apparently exist between

herself and old John Freke, who put up the capital for her venture, and

desultory correspondence have keep she in touch with Olivia. the fine

frenzy of girlish worship have be cure long ago by Lydia’s cruel lack

of confidence during her courtship. the announcement of the engagement

have be a shock; the engagement itself a revelation of selfish

preoccupation. a plain young sister have be sole bridesmaid at the

wedding, and the only sign of Lydia’s life during the honeymoon have be

a picture postcard on the correspondence space of which be scrawl

“this be a heavenly place. Lydia Dawlish.” then have follow the year

of sorrow and stress, during which Olivia’s hurt at the other’s

gracelessness have pass, like a childish thing, away.



Lydia’s succeed letter, mainly of condolence, have, however, keep

unbroken the fragile thread of friendship. the last, especially, write

after Mrs. Gale’s death, give evidence of sincere feeling, and

embolden Olivia, who know no other mortal soul in London—the real

London, which do not embrace the Clapham aunt and uncle—to seek her

practical advice. in the voluminous response she recognize the old

capable Lydia. letter follow letter until, with Mr. Trivett’s

professional assistance, she find herself the lucky tenant of a little

suite in a set of service flat in Victoria Street.



                 *        *        *        *        *



she enter into possession a fortnight after her interview with Blaise

Olifant, who be to take up residence at “the tower” the follow day.

Mr. Trivett and his wife, Mr. Fenmarch and Mr. Freke, and the eld Miss

Freke, who keep house for her father, see she off at the station,

cover she with their protective wing to the last moment. each

elderly gentleman draw she aside, and, with wagging of benevolent head,

offer help in time of trouble. they all seem to think she be make

for disaster.



but their solicitude touch she deeply. the lump that have arise in her

throat when she have pass out across the threshold of her old home

swell uncomfortably, and, when the train move off and she respond

to wave hand and hat on the platform, tear stand in her eye.

presently she recover.



“why should thing so dear be so dismal?”



Myra, exhibit no symptom of exhilaration, do not reply. as they

approach London, Olivia’s spirit rise. at last the dream of the past

week be about to be realize. when she step out of the train at

Paddington, it be with the throb of the conqueror set foot, for the

first time on coveted territory. she devour with her eye, through the

taxi window, the shop and sight and the movement of the great

thoroughfare through which they pass on their way to Victoria

Mansions, where her fifth-floor eyrie be situate. once there, Myra,

accustom to the spacious family house, sniff at the exiguous

accommodation and sarcastically remark that it would have be well

if air be lay on like gas. but Olivia pay little heed to her

immediate surrounding. the cramped flat be but the campaigner’s tent.

her sphere of action lie limitless beyond the conventional wall. the

wall, however, bound the sphere of Myra, who have no conception of

glorious adventure. the rapidly ascend lift have cause qualm in an

unaccustomed stomach, and she feel uneasy at live at such a height

above the ground. why Olivia could not have carry on for indefinite

year in the comfort and security of “the tower” she be at a loss to

imagine. why give up the ease of a big house for poky lodging halfway

up to the sky. a sit-room, a bedroom, a slip with a bed in it for

herself, a bathroom—Myra thank goodness both of they be slim—and

that be the London of Olivia’s promise. she sigh. at last put down

Olivia’s aberration to the war. the war, in those day, explain

everything.



meanwhile Olivia have throw up the sash of the sitting-room window and

be gaze down at the ceaseless traffic in the street far below—gaze

down on the roof of the taxi and automobile which speed like swift

flat beetle, on the dwarfed yet monstrous insect that be the

motor-bus, on the foreshortened dot of the hurrying ant-like swarm

of pedestrian. it be gather dusk, and already a few light gleam

from the masse of building across the way. soon the street lamp

spring into successive point of illumination. she stand fascinated,

watch the rapid change from December day into December night, until

at last the distant road seem but a fantastic medley of ever-die,

ever-recur sound and flash of white and red. yet it be not

fantastic chaos—her heart leap at the thought—it be pregnant with

significance. all that rumble and hoot and dart light proclaim

human purpose and endeavour, mysterious, breath-catch in its unknown

and vast corporate intensity. shiver of ecstasy run through she. at

last she herself be a unit in this eager life of London. she would have

her place in the absorbing yet perplex drama into the midst of which

she have step with no key to its meaning. but she would pick up the

thread, learn what have go before—of that she feel certain—and

then—she laugh—she would play her part with the good of they.

to-morrow she would be scurry about among they, with her definite

human aim. why not to-night? delirious thought! she be free. she could

walk out into the throb thoroughfare and who could say her nay? she

put her hand to her bosom and feel the crackle of ten five-pound note.

to emotional girlhood the feel of money, money not to hoard and make-do

for week and week with the spectre of want ever in attendance, but

money to fle recklessly about, have its barbaric thrill. suppose she

let slip from her finger one of the note and it sway and flutter

down, down, down, until at last it reach the pavement, and suppose a

poor starve girl pick it up and carry it home to her invalid

mother. . . . but, on the other hand, suppose—and her profound and

cynical knowledge of human chance assure she that it would be a

thousand to one probability—suppose it fall on the silk hat of a

corpulent profiteer! no. she be not go to shower promiscuous

five-pound note over London. but still the crackling wad mean power.

she be free to go forth there and then and purchase all the joy, for

herself and other, hover over there in that luminous haze over the

Westminster tower of the magical city of dream.



she withdraw from the window and stand in the dark room, a light in her

eye, and clench her hand. yes. she would go out, now, and walk and

walk, and fill her soul with the wonder of it all.



and then practical memory administer a prosaic jog to her aspiring

spirit. Lydia Dawlish be come to dine with she in the common

dining-room or restaurant downstair. shiver with cold, she shut the

window, turn on the light and sit by the fire, and order tea in the

most matter-of-fact way in the world.



Lydia Dawlish appear a couple of hour afterwards—fair, plump, and

prosperous, attire in one of her own dash creation of hat set at a

rakish angle on her blond hair, and a vast coat of dark fur. Olivia, in

her simple black semi-evening frock run up by an agitated Medlow

dressmaker, feel a poor little dot of a thing before this regal

personage. and when the guest throw off the coat, the flower silk

lining of which be a dazing joy to starve feminine eye, and reveal

the slate-blue dinner gown from which creamy neck and shapely arm

emerge insolent, Olivia could do nothing but stare open-mouthed, until

power come to gasp her wonder and admiration.



“it’s only an old thing,” say Lydia. “I have to put on a compromise

between downstair and Percy’s.”



“Percy’s?”



“yes—don’t you know? the night club. I’m go on afterwards.”



Olivia’s face fall. “I think you be go to spend the evening with

I.”



“of course I be, silly child. night club don’t begin till eleven. a

man, Sydney Rooke, be call for I. well. how be you? and what be

your plan now you’ve get here?”



she radiate health and vigour. also proclaim sex defiant, vaguely

disquieting to the country breed girl. Olivia feel suddenly shy.



“it will take I a few day to turn round.”



“also to find clothe to turn round in,” say Lydia, with a

good-humour yet comprehensive glance at the funny little black frock.

“I hope you haven’t be lay in a stock of thing like that.”



Olivia smile. this be but a makeshift. she have be save up for

London. perhaps Lydia would advise she. she have hear of a good

place—what do they call it?—an enormous shop in Oxford Street. Lydia

throw up her white arm.



“my dear child, you’re not go to be a fashionable beauty at

subscription dance and whist-drive at Upper Tooting! you’re go to

live in London. good God! you cann’t get clothe in Oxford Street.”



“where shall I get they, then?” ask Olivia.



from the illustrate paper she have become aware of the existence of

Pacotille and Luquin and other monger of celestial frippery; but she

have also hear of the Stock Exchange and the Court of St. James’s and

the Stepney Board of Guardians; and they all seem equally remote from

her sphere of be.



“I’ll take you about with I to-morrow,” Lydia declare grandly, “and

put you in the way of thing. I dare say I can find you a hat or two

chez Lydia—that’s I—at cost price.” she laugh and put a patronize

arm around Olivia’s shoulder. “we’ll make a woman of you yet.”



the lift carry they down to the restaurant floor. they dine, not too

badly, at a side table from which they could view the small crowd

room. Olivia feel disappointed. only a few people be in evening dress.

it be rather a dowdy assembly, very much like that in the

boarding-house at Llandudno, her father’s summer holiday resort for

year before the war. her inexperience have expect the glitter and joy

of London. hospitably she offer wine, champagne, as her father, a

lover of celebration, would have do; but Lydia drink nothing with her

meal—the only way not to get fat, which she dread. olivia drank

water. the feast seem tame, and the import mutton tough. she

reproach herself for inadequate entertainment of her resplendent

friend.



they talk; chiefly Lydia, after she have receive Olivia’s report on

her family’s welfare and contemporary Medlow affair; and Olivia

listen contentedly, absorb every minute strange esoteric knowledge

of the great London world of which the pulsate centre appear to be

Lydia, Ltd., in Maddox Street. there Duchesses buy hat which their

Dukes do not pay for. there Cabinet Ministers’ wife, in the hope of

get on the right financial side of Lydia, whisper confidential

Cabinet secret, while Ministers wonder how the deuce thing get into

the paper. there romantic engagement be bring from inception to

maturity. there also, have she choose to keep a record, she could have

accumulate enough evidence to bring about the divorce of half the

aristocracy of England. she rattle off the name like a machine-gun.

she impress Olivia with the fact that Lydia, Ltd., be not a mere hat

shop, but a social institution of which Lydia Dawlish be the creating

and inspiring personality. Lydia, it appear, weekend at great

house. “you see, my dear, my husband be the son of an honourable and

the grandson of an Earl. he haven’t much money, poor darling, but still

he have the connection, most useful to I nowadays. the family buy their

hat from I, and spread the glad tiding.” she command a legion of

man who have vow that she should live, free of charge, on the fat of

the land, and should travel whithersoever she desire in swift and

luxurious motor-car.



“of course, my dear,” she say, “it’s rather a strain. man will cart

about a stylish, good-look woman for a certain time, just out of

vanity. but if she’s a dull damn fool, they’re either bored to tear and

chuck she, or they’ll want to—well—well—— anyhow, you’ve get to keep

your wit about you and amuse they. you’ve get to pay for everything in

this life—or work for the mean of pay—which come to the same

thing. and I work. I don’t say it ben’t pleasant work—but it’s hard

work. you go out with a man to dinner, theatre and a night club, and

dismiss he at your front door at two o’clock in the morning with the

perfectly content feeling that he have have a perfectly good time and

would be an ass to spoil thing by hint at anything different—and

you’ve jolly well earn your comfortable, innocent night’s rest.”



this explosion of the whole philosophy of modern conscientious woman

come at the end of dinner. Olivia toy absently with her coffee,

watch successive spoonful of tepid light-amber coloured liquid fall

into her cup.



“but—all these man—” she say in a low voice—the position be so

baffle and so disconcerting. “you be a beautiful and clever woman.

don’t they sometimes want to—to make love to you?”



“they all do. what do you think? I, an unattached widow and, as you say,

not unattractive. but because I’m clever, I head they off. that’s the

whole point of what I’ve be tell you.”



“but, suppose,” reply Olivia, still intent on the yellowish water,

“suppose you fall in love with one of these man. woman do fall in love,

I believe.”



“why then, I’d marry he the next day,” cry Lydia, with a laugh.

“but,” she add, “that’s not the type of man a sensible woman fall in

love with.”



Olivia’s eye seek the tablecloth. she be conscious of disturbance

and, at the same time, virginal resentment.



“as far as my limited experience go—a woman ben’t always sensible.”



“she have to learn sense. that’s the great advantage of modern life. it

give she every opportunity of acquire it from the moment she go out

into the world.”



“and what kind of man do the sensible woman fall in love with?”



“somebody comfortable,” reply Lydia. “my ideal would be a young,

rather lazy and very broad-minded bishop.”



Olivia shake her head. the only time she have see a bishop be at her

confirmation. the encounter do not encourage dream of romance in

episcopal circle.



“but these man who take you out,” Olivia persist thoughtfully “and do

all these wonderful thing for you—it must cost they a dreadful lot of

money—what kind of people be they?”



“all sort. some be of the very good—the backbone of the nation. they

go off and marry nice girl who don’t frequent night club and settle

down for the rest of their life.”



they drink their coffee and go upstairs, where question of more

immediate practical interest occupy their mind. Olivia’s wardrobe be

pass in review, while Myra stand impassive like a sergeant at kit

inspection.



“my poor child,” say Lydia, “you’ve not a single article, inside or

outside, that be fit to wear. I’ll send you a second-hand clothe man

who’ll buy up the whole lot as it stand and give you a good price for

it. I don’t know yet quite what you’re think of do—but at any

rate you cann’t do it in these thing.”



Olivia look wistfully at the home-make garment which Lydia cast with

scorn across the bed. they, at least, have seem quite dainty and

appropriate.



“well,” she say, with a sigh, “you know well, Lydia.”



these all-important matter hold their attention till a quarter past

eleven, when Mr. Sydney Rooke be announce. he be an elderly young man

in evening dress, with crisp black hair part in the middle and

thinning at the temple. a little military moustache give he an air of

youth which be belie by deep line in his sallow face. his dark eye

be rather tired and his mouth hard. but his manner be perfect. he

give they both to understand that though Lydia be, naturally, the lady

of his evening’s devotion yet his heart be fill with a sense of

Olivia’s graciousness. half a dozen word and a bow do it. in a polite

phrase, a bow and a gesture he indicate that if Miss Gale would join

they, his cup of happiness would overflow. Olivia plead fatigue. then

another evening? with Mrs. Dawlish. a pleasant little party, in fact. he

would be enchant.



“we’ll fix it up for about a fortnight hence,” say Lydia significantly.

“to-morrow, then, dear, at eleven.”



when they have go Olivia, who have accompany they to the flat door,

throw herself on the sofa and, put her hand behind her head stare

over the edge of her own world into a new one, strange and bewildering.



Myra enter.



“be you ever go to bed?”



“I suppose I must,” say Olivia.



“be dress-up man like that often come here?”



“God know,” say Olivia, “who be come here. I don’t.”





                               CHAPTER V



the Odyssey or the Argonautic, or whatever you like to call the epic of

the first wild adventure of a young woman into the Infinite of Clothes,

have yet to be write. it would need not only a poet, but a master of

psychology, to record the myriad vibration of the soul as it react to

temptation, yielding, tremulous thrill of the flesh, exquisite

apprehension, flutter joy, and each last voluptuous plenitude of

content. it be an adventure which absorb every faculty of the will;

which ignore hunger and thirst, weariness of limb and ache of head;

which make the day a dream of reality and the night the reality of a

dream. hardened woman of the world with frock-wear mind be catch at

time by the lure of the adventure, even when it be a question of a

dress or two and a poor half a dozen hat. but how manifold more potent

the spell in the case of one who start with her young body in

nymph-like innocence and be call upon to clothe it again and again in

infinite variety, from toe to head, from innermost secret daintiness to

outward splendour of bravery!



such a record would explain Olivia, not only to the world, but to

herself during that first fortnight in London. her hour could be

reckon by gasp of wonder. she lose count of time, of money, of human

value. thing that have never before enter into her philosophy, such

as the subtle shade of silk stocking which would make or mar a costume,

loom paramount in importance. the after-use scarcely occur to she.

sufficient for the day be the chiffon thereof; also the gradual

transformation of herself from the prim slip of a girl with just the

pretension (in her own mind) to good look, into a radiant and somewhat

distinguish dark-haired little personage.



her shrinking, her argument with Lydia Dawlish, her defeat, go all

into the melting-pot of her delight. “no bath salt, my dear?” cry

Lydia. “whoever hear of a woman not use bath salt?” so bath salt

be order. and—horrified: “my dear, you don’t mean to say you wash

your face in soap and water. what will become of your skin?” so Olivia

be put under the order of a West End specialist, who stock she

dressing-table with delectable cream and oil. it be all so new, so

unheard of, so wonderful to the girl, an experience worth the living

through, even though all thousand at deposit at the bank should vanish

at the end of it. merely to sit in a sensuously furnish room and have

beautiful woman parade before she, clothe in dream of loveliness—any one

of which be her for a scribble on a bit of pink paper—evoke within

her strange and almost spiritual emotion. Medlow be countless league

away; this transcend the London even of her most foolish vision.



Afterwards Olivia, when, sense of value be restore she look back

on this phantasmagoria of dressmaker, milliner, lingerie maker and

furrier, say to Lydia Dawlish:



“it’s funny, but the fact that there might be a man or so in the world

never enter my head.”



and the wise Lydia answer: “you be too busy turn yourself into a

woman.”



twice or thrice during this chrysali period she steal out of night

with Myra to the dress circle of a theatre, where, besides ingenuous joy

in the drama, she find unconfessed consolation in the company of homely

folk like herself—girl in clean blouse or simple little frock like

her own, and young man either in well-wear khaki or morning dress. on

these occasion she wonder very much what she be about to do in the

other galley—that of the expensively furred and jewelled haughtiness

and impudence whom she shoulder in the vestibule crush and whom she

see drive away in luxurious limousine. these flash personality

frighten she with their imply suggestion of world beyond her ken.

one woman make especial impression on she—a woman tall, serene, with a

clear-cut face, vaguely familiar, and a beautiful voice; she overhear a

commonplace phrase or two address to the escort man. she brush

Olivia’s arm and turn with a smile and a word of gracious apology and

pass on. Olivia catch a whisper behind she. “that’s the Marchioness

of Aintree. ben’t she lovely?” but she do not need to be tell that she

have be in contact with a great lady. and she go home doubt

exceedingly whether, for all her flourish of social trumpet, Lydia

Dawlish’s galley be that of Lady Aintree.



Criticism of Lydia, however, she put behind she as ingratitude, for

Lydia make up royally for past negligence. time and energy that ought to

have be devote to Lydia, Ltd., be divert to the creation of

Olivia.



“I don’t know why you’re so good to I,” she would say.



and the other, with a little mocking smile round her lip: “it’s worth

it. I’m give myself a new experience.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the first occasion on which she go out into the great world be that

of Sydney Rooke’s party. she know that her low-cut, sleeveless,

short-skirt gown of old gold tissue have material existence, but she

feel herself half-ashamedly, half-deliciously clothe in nothing but a

bodily sensation. a faint blush linger in her cheek all the evening.

Lydia, call for she in Rooke’s car, which have be place at her

disposal, hold she at arm’s length in sincere and noble admiration,

move by the artist’s joy in behold the finished product of his toil,

and embrace she fondly. then she survey she again, from the little

gold brocade slipper to the diamond butterfly (one of her mother’s bit

of jewellery) in her dark wavy hair.



“you’re the dainty elf in London,” she cry.



to the dinner at the Savoy Sydney Rooke have invite a white-moustache

soldier, Major-General Wigram, whose blue undress uniform, to the

bedazzlement of Olivia, gleam with four long row of multi-coloured

ribbon; a vivacious middle-aged woman, Mrs. Fane Sylvester, who write

novel, play, book of travel, and fashion article in a weekly

periodical—Olivia learn all this in their first five-minute converse

in the lounge; Sir Paul and Lady Barraclough, he a young baronet whose

civilian evening dress could not proclaim hard-won distinction, she a

pretty, fair, fragile creature, both of they obviously react joyously

to relaxation of tension; and, last, the Vicomte de Mauregard, of the

French Embassy, young, good looking, who speak polished English with a

faultless accent. it be, socially, as correct a little party as the

brooding, innocent spirit of Mrs. Gale could have desire for she

about-to-be prodigal daughter. Olivia sit between her host and

Mauregard. on her host’s right be Lady Barraclough; then the General,

then Lydia, then Sir Paul, face Rooke at the round table, then Mrs.

Fane Sylvester, who be Mauregard’s left-hand neighbour. they be by

the terrace window, far from what Olivia, with her fresh mind play

on social phenomenon, hold then and ever afterwards, most rightly, to be

the madden and human intercourse-destroy band.



not that her first entrance down the impose broad staircase, into the

lounge fill with mirifically vesture fellow-creature, to the

accompaniment of a clash rag-time imbecility, do not set all her

young nerve vibrate to the point of delicious agony. it be like a

mad fanfare herald her advent in a new world. but soon she find that

the blare of the idiot music deaden all other sense. before her eye

sway black-and-white thing whom at the back of her mind she

recognize as man, and various form all stark flesh, flash jewel

and a maze of colour, whom she know to be woman. the gathering group of

her own party seem but figure of a dream. her unaccustomed ear could

not catch a word of the conventional gambit of conversation open, on

introduction, by her fellow guest. it be only when they pass between

the table of the great restaurant and the horrible noise of the

negroid, syncopated parody of tune grow fainter and fainter, and they

reach the peace of the terrace side, that the madden clatter fade

from her ear and consciousness of her surrounding return.



then she surrender herself to huge enjoyment. both her neighbour have

be all over the world and see all sort and condition of man. they

be vividly aware of current event. Pride would not allow she to

betray the fact that often they speak of matter far beyond her

experience of man and thing. under their stimulus she begin to regain

the self that, for the past fortnight, the cardboard box of London have

snow under.



“it’s no use ask I,” she say to Mauregard, “whether I’ve be to

Monte Carlo or Madagascar or Madame Tussaud’s, for I haven’t. I haven’t

be anywhere. I’ve somehow exist at the back of Nowhere, and to-night

I’ve come to life.”



“but where do you come from? the sea foam? Venus Anadyomene?”



“no, I’m of the other kind. I come from far inland. I believe they call

it Shropshire. that oughtn’t to convey anything to you.”



“indeed it do!” cry Mauregard. “be I not at school at Shrewsbury?”



“no?”



“but yes. three year. so I’m Shropshire, too.”



“that’s delightful,” she remark; “but it do away with my little

mystery of Nowhere.”



“no, no,” he protest, with a laugh. he be a fair, bright-eyed boy

with a little curl-up moustache which give he the air of a cherub

playfully disguised. “it be the county of mystery. don’t your poet

say:



                    ‘once in the wind of morning

                      I range the thymy wold;

                    the world-wide air be azure

                      and all the brooks run gold.’”



“that’s from _a Shropshire Lad_,” cry Olivia.



“of course. so why shouldn’t you have come from the wind of morning, the

azure world-wide air or the golden brook?”



“that’s beautiful of you,” say Olivia. “well, why shouldn’t I? it’s

more romantic and imaginative than the commonplace old sea. the sea have

be overdone. I use to look at it once a year, and, now I come to

think of it, it always seem to be self-conscious, try to live up to

its reputation. but ‘the wind of the morning——’ anyhow, here I be.”



“blow to London by the wind of a Shropshire morning.”



Olivia’s spirit dance in the talk. with his national touch on the

light emotion, Mauregard draw from she an exposition of the Dryad’s

sensation on sudden confrontation with modern life. to talk well be a

great gift; to compel other to talk well be a great; and the latter

gift be Mauregard’s. Olivia put food into her mouth, but whether it be

fish or flesh or fowl she know not. when her host break the spell by an

announcement in her ear that he have a couple of box for “jazz-jazz,”

she become aware that she be eat partridge.



Mr. Sydney Rooke talk of woman’s clothe, of which he have an expert

knowledge. Lady Barraclough chime in. Olivia, fresh from the welter,

speak as one in authority. now and again she catch Lydia’s eye across

the table and receive an approve nod. the elderly General regard

she with amused admiration. she begin to taste the first-fruit of

social success. she drive in a taxi to the theatre with the Barracloughs

and Mrs. Fane Sylvester and sit with they in a box during the first act

of the gay revue. for the second act there be a change of company and

she find herself next to the General. he have serve in India and be

familiar with the name of her mother’s people. what anglo-indian be

not? long ago he have meet an uncle of her; dead, poor chap. this social

placing give she a throb of pleasure, set she, at least, in a

stranger’s eye, in her mother’s sphere. the performance over, they

part great friend.



General Wigram and Mrs. Fane Sylvester excuse themselves from go on

to Percy’s, the other crowd into Sydney Rooke’s limousine. the crash

of jazz music welcome they. already a few couple be dance; other

be flock in from the theatre. they sup merrily. Sydney Rooke

point out to Olivia’s wonder eye the star of the theatrical

firmament who condescend to walk the parquet floor of the famous night

club. he also indicate here and there a perfectly attired youth as a

professional dancer.



“on the stage?”



he explain that they have their professional partner and give

exhibition dance, show the new step. they also give private

lesson. it be the way they make their living. Olivia knit a

perplex brow.



“it don’t seem a very noble profession for a young man.”



Sydney Rooke shrug his shoulder politely.



“I’m with you a thousand time, my dear Miss Gale. the parasite, _per

se_, ben’t a noble object. but what would you have? the noble thing of

the past few year come to an end a short while ago, and, if I can read

the time, reaction have already begin. in six month’ time the noble

fellow will be a hopeless anachronism.”



“do you mean,” ask Olivia, “that all the young man will be rotten?”



he smile. “how direct you be! disconcert, if I may say so. so

positive; while I be approach the matter from the negative side.

there’ll be a universal loss of ideal.”



Olivia protest. “the young man have before he the reconstruction of

the world.”



“oh no,” say Rooke. “he have do his bit. he expect other people to

carry out the reconstruct business for he. all he care about be to

find a couple of sixpence to jingle together in his pocket.”



“and have these young man who devote their life to foxtrot do

their bit?”



he beg the question. “pray be guide by my prophecy, Miss Gale. next

year you mustn’t mention war to ear polite. these young man be alive.

they thank God for it. let you and I do likewise.”



this little supper-table talk be the only cloud on a radiant night. the

Vicomte de Mauregard take she to dance. at first she feel awkward,

know only the simple step of five year ago. but instinct soon

guide she, and for two hour she dance and dance in an unthinking

ecstasy. the clattering and unmeaning din which have daze she on her

entrance to the Savoy be now pregnant with physical significance. the

tearing of the string, the clashing of the cymbal, the barbaric

thumping of the drum, the sudden raucous scream from negro throat, set

vibrate within her responsive chord of an atavistic savagery. when

each nerve-tear cacophony come to its abrupt end, she join

breathlessly with the suddenly halt crow in eager clapping for the

encore. and then, when the blood-stir string and cymbal crash

out, overpower the staccato of hand beat hand, she surrender

herself with an indrawn sigh of content to her partner’s arm—to the

rhythm, to the movement, to the mere bodily guidance, half conscious of

the proud flexibility of her frame under the man’s firm clasp, to

something, she know not what, far remote from previous experience.

strange, too, the personality of the man do not matter. Paul

Barraclough, Sydney Rooke, Mauregard, she dance with they all in turn.

in her pulsate happiness she mix they all up together, so that a

flash glance, liable to be misinterpret, proceed from a mere

impulse of identification. now and then, in the swimming throng of man

and woman, and the intoxication of pass raiment impregnate with

scent and cigarette smoke, she exchange an absent smile with Lydia and

Lady Barraclough. otherwise she scarcely realize their existence. she

be lead pant by Mauregard to a supper table while he go in search

of refreshment. he return with a waiter, apologize for the

abomination of iced ginger ale and curl orange peel, which be all

that the law of the land allow he to offer. horse’s neck, it be

call. she laugh, delight with the name, and, after drinking,

laugh again, delight with the cool liquid so tingle on her palate.



“it’s a drink for the god,” she declare.



“if you offer it, the unfortunate Bacchus would drink it without a

murmur.”



“do you really think it’s so awful?”



“_Mon Dieu!_” reply the young Frenchman.



then Lydia come up with a dark-eye, good-look boy in tow, whom she

introduce, as Mr. Bobbie Quinton and Olivia be surprised to recognize

as one of the professional. she accept, however, his invitation to

dance and go off on his arm. she find he a boy of charming manner

and agreeable voice, and in the lightness and certainty of his dancing

he far outclass her other partner. he suggest new step. she try

and blunder. she excuse herself.



“this be the first time I’ve dance for four year.”



“it don’t matter,” say he. “you’re a bear dancer. you only need a few

lesson to bring you up to date. what I find in so many of the woman I

teach be that they not only don’t begin to understand what they’re

try to do, but that they never try to understand. you, on the other

hand, have it instinctively. but, of course, you cann’t learn step in a

place like this.”



“I wonder if you could give I some lesson?”



“with all the pleasure in life, Miss Gale,” reply Mr. Bobbie Quinton

promptly.



                 *        *        *        *        *



about two o’clock in the morning Sydney Rooke and Lydia deposit Olivia

at the front door of Victoria Mansions. Rooke stand hat in hand as she

enter.



“I hope you’ve not be too bored by our little evening.”



“Bored! it have be just one heaven after another opening out before

I.”



“but not the seventh. if only I could have provide that!”



“I’ll find it in the happy and sound night’s rest I ever have,”

say Olivia.





                               CHAPTER VI



this be life; magical, undreame of in her wild Medlow dream. and

thank to Lydia, she have plunge into it headlong, after a mere

fortnight’s probation. there have be no disillusion. she have plunge

and emerge into her kingdom. London conspire to strew her path with

rose. the Barracloughs invite she to a dinner party at their home in

Kensington. General Wigram offer her dinner and theatre and convene

to meet she an old indian crony, General Philimore, and his young

daughter, Janet. Philimore have know her grandfather, Bagshawe of the

Guides, when he be a subaltern, infinite age ago. the world be a

small place, after all. Olivia, care little for grandfather beyond

their posthumous social guarantee, find youth’s real sympathy in Janet,

who hold open for she their flat in Maida Vale. Young Mauregard, after

their first lunch together at the Carlton, seem prepared to provide

she with free meal and amusement for the rest of time. it be true he

be madly in love with a russian dancer, whose eccentric way and

abominable treatment of he form the staple of the conversation which

he pour into her very interested and compassionate ear. and, last,

Bobbie Quinton give her dancing lesson at the flat at the rate of a

guinea apiece.



Christmas cause a break in these social activity. Lydia take she off

to Brighton, where, meet various acquaintance of her chaperone and

make other of her own, she motor and dance and dance and motor,

and in the pursuit of these delight discover, with a fearful joy,

that she could hold she own in the immemorial conflict of sex. Sydney

Rooke, having drive down for the day, occasionally flash through the

hotel, the eternal smile of youth on his dark, line face and his

gesture unceasingly polite. as he pass, the heaven open and rain

champagne and box of chocolate and hot-house fruit and flower and

embroider handbag, and once, a pekinese dog for Lydia. once again, an

automobile seem about to fall, but at Lydia’s protest it melt in

the ether.



“a dog and a rose and a glass of wine,” say she, “be a woman’s due for

amuse a man. but a motor-car be profiteer. besides, it’s bind to

drive you somewhere in the end—either to the flat of shame or the

country house of married respectability: it only depend on who be at

the wheel.”



“I see,” say Olivia. but she don’t. Sydney Rooke be a mystery; and

Lydia’s attitude towards he be more than her inexperience could

understand.



still, there she be in the pleasant galley and she do not question

what she be do in it. in a dim way she regard it as the inevitable

rescue vessel after universal shipwreck. her eye be blind by its

glitter and her ear deafen by its music to the welter of the unsalved

world.



just before New Year she receive a letter from Bobby Quinton. it begin:

“Dearest of Ladies.” never before having be thus apostrophize, she

think it peculiarly graceful and original. the writing be refine and

exquisitely clear. to his dearest of lady the young man bewail she

absence; life be dreary without her friendship and encouragement; all

this Christmastide he be the lonely thing on earth; he suggest

that there be no one to love he—no mother or sister to whom he could

apply for comfort; this terrible night life to which he, poor

demobilize soldier of fortune, be condemn in order to earn his

bread, weigh upon his spirit and affect his health; he envy his

dearest of lady’ sojourn by the invigorate sea; he long for the

taste of it; but such health-restore rapture he give she, in the most

delicate way, to understand, be for fairy princess and not for the

impecunious demobbed; he count the day till her return and pray she

to bring back a whiff of ozone on her garment to revive the ever

faithful one who have the temerity to try to teach she to dance.



a most piteous epistle. Bobby Quinton, by his ingratiate way and his

deference and his wit, have efface her original conception of the type

of young man who dance at night club for their living. she like he.

he seem so young and she, through her long companionship with sorrow,

so old in comparison; he seem so foolish and impossible, and she so

wise; to she, remember the helpless dependence of her father and

brother, he seem (motherless and sisterless as he be) lose in a

hostile world. besides, he be not a nameless adventurer. his father

(long since decease) have be a Colonial Governor. he have be to one

of the great public school. in short, he have the birth and breeding of

a gentleman. she slip on a dressing-gown and go with the letter to

Lydia, full of maternal purpose.



it be nine o’clock in the morning. their room have a communicating

door. she find Lydia daintily attire in boudoir cap and

dressing-jacket, have breakfast in bed.



“the poor boy’s die for a breath of sea air. it would do he an

enormous amount of good. do you think we—of course, it really would be

I—but it would be well if it appear to be a joint affair—do you

think we could, without offend he, ask he to come down here for a

couple of day as our guest?”



Lydia, who have read the letter with a smile round her lip, reply

drily:



“as far as Bobby be concern—I really think we could.”



“and as far as we be concern,” flash Olivia, “why should the silly

fact of be a woman prevent we from help a lame dog over a stile?”



“a he-dog,” say Lydia.



“what do it matter?” Olivia ask stoutly.



Lydia laugh in her half-cynical, tolerant way.



“do as you like, dear. I don’t mind. you’re out for experience, not I.

I’d only have you remark that our he-dog friend Bobby be sit up and

beg for the invitation——”



“oh! ah!” cry Olivia, with a fling of her arm, “you’re horrid!”



“not a bit,” smile Lydia. “I face fact, as you’ll have to do, if you

want to find comfort in this matter-of-fact world. have your Bobby down

by all mean. only keep your eye on he.”



“he’s not my Bobby,” say Olivia indignantly.



“our Bobby, then,” say Lydia, with good-natured indulgence.



so Olivia, with the little palpitation of the heart attendant on

consciousness of adventurous and (in Medlow eye, preposterous)

well-doing, write to Bobby Quinton a letter whose gracious delicacy

would not have wound the susceptibility of a needy Hidalgo or an

impoverished Highland chieftain, and receive in reply a telegram of

eager acceptance.



Bobby appear immaculately vesture, his heart overflow with

gratitude at the amazing sweetness of his two dear lady. never have man

be bless with such fairy godmother. by the fresh frankness of his

appreciation of their hospitality he disarm criticism. a young son

hang on to the court of Louis XIII never receive purse of gold from

his lady love with less embarrassed grace. he devote himself to their

service. he have the art of tactful effacement, and of appearance at the

exact moment of welcome. he enliven their meal with chatter and a

boyish brightness that pass for wit.



to Olivia, the dear of his dear lady, he confide the pathetic

history of his life. a sunny, shelter corner of the Pier, both sit

side by side well wrap in fur, conduce to intimacy. how a young man

in such a precarious financial position could afford to wear a fur-line

coat with a new astrachan collar it do not strike Olivia to enquire.

that he, like herself, be warm on that sun-fill morning, with the sea

dancing and sparkle away beyond they, and human type around they

exude the prosperity of peace, seem sufficient for the comfortable

hour. he speak of his early year of ease, of his modest patrimony

come to an end soon after the war break out; of his commission in a

yeomanry regiment; of his heart-break as the month go on and the

chance of the regiment be send to the front grow less and less; of

his exchange into a regiment of the line; of the rotten heart that give

out after a month in France; of his grief at be invalid out of the

army and his struggle and anxiety when he return to civil life,

brand as physically unfit. he have try the stage, musical comedy,

male youth in the manless chorus be eagerly welcome; then, after a

little training, he find he have the dancer’s gift. “so one thing lead to

another,” say he, “and that’s my history.”



“but surely,” say Olivia, “all this dancing and these late hour must

be very bad for your heart.”



he smile sadly. “what do it matter? I’m no use to anybody, and nobody

care whether I’m dead or alive.”



Olivia protest warmly. “the world be cry out for young man of

three-and-twenty. you could be useful in a million way.”



“not a crock like I.”



“you could go into an office.”



“yes. in at one door and out of another. hopeless.”



he draw from a slim gold case a turkish cigarette—Olivia, minutely

hospitable, have put a box of a hundred in his room—and tap it

thoughtfully.



“after all, which be well—to carry on with life like a worm—which

anyhow perisheth, as the Bible tell we—or to go out like a butterfly,

with a bit of a swagger?”



“but you mustn’t talk of go out,” cry Olivia. “it’s indecent.”



Bobby light his cigarette. “who would care?”



“I, for one,” she reply.



her health and sanity revolt against morbid idea. he stretch out

his hand, and, with the tip of his finger, touch her coat, and he

bent his dark brown eye upon she.



“would you really?” he murmur.



she flush, feel angry she scarce know why, and put herself swiftly on

the defensive.



“I would care for the life of any young man. after a million kill it’s

precious—and every decent girl would care the same as I.”



“you’re wonderful!” he remark.



“I’m common sense incarnate,” say Olivia.



“you be. you’re right. you’re right a thousand time,” he reply.

“I’ll always remember what you have say to I this morning.”



at his surrender she disarm. a corpulent, opulent couple pass they

by, the lady wear a cheap feather hat and a rope of pearl outside

a Kolinsky coat, the gentleman display on an ungloved right hand,

which maintain in his mouth a gigantic cigar, an enormous ruby set in

a garden border of diamond.



“at any rate,” say Bobby, “I’m not as some other man be.”



so they laugh and discuss the profiteer and walk back to the

hotel for lunch with the sharpen appetite of twenty.



when Bobby Quinton leave they, Olivia reproach herself for lack of

sympathy. the boy have do his good. a rotten, and crocky heart, who be

she to despise? but for circumstance he might have do heroic thing.

perhaps in his defiance of physical disability he be do a heroic

thing even now. still. . . . to Lydia, in an ironically tease mood,

she declare:



“when I do fall in love, it’s not go to be with any one like Bobby

Quinton. I want a man—there would be a devil of a row, of course, if he

try—but one capable of beat I.”



“Bobby would do that, right enough, if you give he the chance,” say

Lydia.



Olivia reflect for a while. “why have you get your knife into he like

that?” she ask abruptly.



“I haven’t, my dear child. if I have, do you think I would have allow

he to come down? I live and let live. by let live, I live very

comfortably and manage, with moderate mean, to have a very good time.”



Olivia, already dress for dinner, look down on the easy, creamy,

handsome, kimono-clothe woman, curl up like a vast Angora cat on the

hotel bedroom sofa, and once more be dimly conscious of a doubt whether

the galley of Lydia Dawlish be the one for her mother’s daughter to row

in.



still, _vogue la galère_. when she return to London there be little

else to do. eat and dancing fill many of her day and night. she

try to recapture the pleasure of book which have be all her

recreation for year; but, although her life be not a continuous whirl

of engagement—for it require a great vogue as a pretty and

unattached young woman than Olivia possess to be book for fourteen

meal and seven evening every week of the year—she find little time

for solitary intelligent occupation. if she be at a loose end, Lydia’s

hat shop provide an agreeable pastime. or, as a thousand little odd

and end of dress demand attention, there be always a sensuous hour

or two to be spend at Pacotille’s and Luquin’s or Deville’s. tea

companion seldom fail. when she have no evening engagement she be

glad to get to bed, soon after the dinner in the downstairs restaurant,

and to sleep the sleep of untroubled youth. and all the time the spell

of London still hold her captive. to walk the crowded street, to join

the feminine crush before the plate-glass window of great shop, to

watch the strange bird in the ornamental water in St. James’s Park, to

wander about the Abbey and the Temple Gardens, to enter on the moment’s

impulse a Bond Street picture gallery or a cinema—all be a matter of

young joy and thrill. she even spend a reckless and rapturous afternoon

at Madame Tussaud’s. sometimes Janet Philimore accompany she on these

excursion round the monument of London. Janet, who have mild

antiquarian taste and a proletarian knowledge of London traffic, take

she by tube and bus to the old City church and the Tower, and

exhibit to she wonder gaze the Bank of England and the Royal

Exchange and Guildhall up the narrow street. for sentimental interest,

there be always Bobby Quinton, who continue to maintain himself under

her maternal eye. and so the new life go on.



it be one night in April, while she be stand under the porch of a

theatre, Mouregard, her escort, having go in search of his

dinner-and-theatre brougham—for those be day when taxi be scarce

and driver haughty—that she find herself address by a long-nosed,

one-armed man, who raise his hat.



“Miss Gale—I’m sure you don’t remember I.”



for a second or two she could not place he. then she laugh.



“why—Major Olifant!” she shake hand. “what be you do here? I

think you be bury among your fossil. do tell I—how be the

hot-water pipe? and how be the parrot? Myra have no faith in your

bachelor housekeeping and be sure you’ve eat he out of desperation.”



he return a light answer. then, touch the arm of a man stand by

his side:



“Miss Gale—can I introduce Mr. Alexis Triona.”



Triona bow, stood uncover while he take the hand which Olivia hold

out.



“this be my landlady,” say Olifant.



“he be privileged beyond the common run of mortal,” say Triona.



“that’s very pretty,” laugh Olivia, with a swift, envelop glance at

the slight, inconspicuous youth who have do such wonderful thing.

“I’ve not think of myself as a landlady before. I hope I don’t look

like one.”



vision of myriad Bloomsbury lodging-house at whose door he have

knock after he have leave the tiny room in Cherbury Mews, and of the

strange middle-aged woman of fade gentility whom he have interview

within those door, rise before Triona’s eye, and he laugh too. for

under the strong electric light of the portico, unkind to most of the

other wait woman, show up line and hollow and artificiality of

complexion, she look as fresh and young as a child on a May morning.

the open theatre wrap reveal her slender girlish figure, sketchily

clothe in a flame-colour garment; and, with the light in her eye and

her little dark head proudly poise, she stand before the man’s fancy as

the flame of youth.



she turn to Olifant.



“be you in town?”



“for a few day. getting rid of cobwebs.”



“I’d lend you quite a nice broom, if you could find time to come and see

I. besides, I do want to hear about my beloved polly.”



“I shall be delighted,” say Olifant.



they arrange that he should come to tea at the flat the following day.



“and if so famous a person as Mr. Triona would honour I, too?”



“dare I?” he ask.



“it’s on the fifth floor, but there’s a lift.”



she see Mauregard hurry up. with a “four-thirty, then,” and a smile

of adieu, she turn and join Mauregard.



“shall we go on to Percy’s?” ask the young Frenchman, stand at the

door of the brougham.



Olivia conceive a sudden distaste for Percy’s.



“not unless you particularly want to.”



“I? Good Lord!” say he.



“why do you ever go, if it bore you like that?” she ask as the

brougham start Victoria-ward.



“_ce que femme veut, Mauregard le veut._”



“I suppose that be why you’ve never make love to I.”



“how?” he ask, surprise out of his perfect english idiom.



“I’ve want you not to make love to I, and you haven’t.”



“but how could I make love to you, when I have be persecute you with

the confession of my unhappy love affair?”



“one can always find a mean,” say Olivia. “that’s why I like you. you

be such a good friend.”



“I hope so,” say he. then, after a short silence: “let I be frank.

what be go on at the back of your clever english mind be perfectly

accurate. I be tempt to make love to you every time I see you. what

man, with a man’s blood in his vein, wouldn’t be tempt, no matter how

much he love another woman? but I say to myself: ‘Lucien, you be

french to the marrow of your bone. it be the nature of that marrow not

to offend a beautiful woman by not make love to she. but, on the other

hand, the Lady Olivia whose finger-tip I be unworthy to kiss’—he

touch they with his lip, however, in the most charming manner—‘is

English to the marrow of _her_ bone, and it be the nature of that

marrow to be offend if a man make obviously idle love to she.’ so,

not wish to lose my Lady Olivia, whose friendship and sympathy I

value so highly, I accept with a grateful heart a position which would

be incomprehensible to the vast majority of my fellow-countryman.”



“I’m so glad we’ve have this out,” say Olivia after a pause. “I’ve be

a bit worried. a girl on her own have get to take care of herself, you

know. and you’ve be so beautifully kind to I——”



“it’s because I be proud to call myself your humble and devoted

servant,” reply Mauregard.



Olivia go to bed content with this frank explanation. man have

already make love to she in a manner which have ruffle her serene

consciousness, and she find it, not like Lydia Dawlish, a cynical game

of wit, but a disagreeable business, to parry their advance. Bobby

Quinton, of course, she could put into a corner like a naughty child,

whenever he become foolish. but mauregard, consistently respectful and

entertaining, have be rather a puzzle. now that way be clear.



for a while she do not associate her meeting Blaise Olifant with her

distaste for the night club. in the flush of her new existence she have

almost forget he. there have be no reason to correspond. his rent

be pay through the Trivett and Gale office. his foraminiferous

pursuit do not appeal to a girl’s imagination. now and then she give a

passing thought to what be happen in her old home, and vaguely

remember that the romantically name traveller be there as a guest.

but that be all. now, the presence of Olifant have suddenly recall the

little scene in her mother’s room, when she have suddenly decide to let

he have the house; he have bring with he a breath of that room; a

swift memory of the delicate water-colour and the book by the bedside,

the _Pensées de Pascal_ and _the Imitation of Christ_. . . . besides,

she have feel a curious attraction towards the companion, the boy with

the foreign manner and the glisten eye and the suffering-stricken

face. both man, as she conceive they, belong to the high

intellectual type that have their be remote from the inanity of

dissipation. so, impel by a muddle set of motive, she suddenly

find herself abhor Percy’s. she read herself into a state of

chasten self-approbation, and then to sleep, with Rupert Brooke’s

poem.





                              CHAPTER VII



OLIVIA sit by her little table, dispense tea and accept homage with

a flutter of pleasure at her heart. she have be oddly nervous—she who

have entertain the stranger Olifant, at Medlow, with the great

self-confidence, and have grow to regard tea party at the flat as

commonplace of existence. the two man have drift in from another

sphere. she have review her stock of conversation and find it

shop-wear after five month’ exposure. the most recent of her view on

“Hullo, People!” and on the food at the Carlton have appear unworthy of

the notice of the soldier-scientist and the adventurous man of letter.

she have receive they with unusual self-consciousness. this, however, a

few moment of intercourse dispel. they have come, they have see and

she have conquer.



“at first I don’t recognize you,” say Olifant. “I have to look twice to

make sure.”



“have I change so much?” she ask.



“it be a trick of environment,” he say, with a smile in his dark blue

eye.



the feminine in she catch the admiration behind they and delightedly

realize his confusion, the night before, at her metamorphosis from the

prim little black-frock quakeress into the radiant creature in fur

and jewel and flame-coloured audacity.



“and now you’re quite sure it be I—or I—which be it?”



“I’m quite sure it’s my charming landlady who for the second time feed

the hungry wanderer. Miss Gale, Triona, make a specialty of it.”



“then, indeed, I’m peculiarly fortunate,” say Triona, take a tomato

sandwich. “will you feed I again, Miss Gale?”



“as often as you like,” she laugh.



“that’s rather a rash promise to make to a professional vagabond like

myself. when he have beg his way for month and month at a time, he

come to regard other people’s food as his by divine right.”



“have you do that?” she ask.



“much bad. you don’t keep chicken?”



“not here.”



“that’s a good thing. I think I’m the world’s champion chicken-stealer.

it’s a trick of legerdemain. you dive at a chicken, catch it by its

neck, whirl it round and stick it under your jacket all in one action.

the unconscious owner have only to turn his back for a second. then, of

course, you hide in a wood and have an orgy.”



“he be not the desperate character he make himself out to be,” say

Olifant. “he spend two month with I at ‘the tower’ without molest

one of your hen.”



“then you’re not still there?” she ask Triona.



“alas, no,” he reply. “I suppose I have the fever of perpetual change.

I have a letter from Finland say that my presence might be of use

there. so I have spend this spring in Helsingfors. I be only just back.”



“it seem wonderful to go and come among all these strange place,” say

Olivia.



“one land be much the same as another in essential,” reply Triona.

“to carry on life you have to eat and sleep. there’s no difference

between a hard-boil egg in Somerset and a hard-boil egg in Tobolsk.

and sleep be sleep, whether you’re put up at Claridge’s or the Hotel

of the Beautiful Star. and human nature, strip of the external of

habit, custom, tradition, ceremonial, be unchanging from one

generation, and from one latitude or longitude, to another.”



“but,” object Olivia, with a flash of logic, “if London’s the same as

Tobolsk, why yearn for Tobolsk?”



“it’s the hope of find something different—the _ignis fatuus_, the

Jack o’ Lantern, the will-o’-the-Wisp——” he be silent for a moment,

and then she catch the flash of his eye. “it’s the only thing that

count in human progress. the will-o’-the-Wisp. it leave nine hundred

and ninety-nine man out of a thousand flounder in a bog—but the

thousandth man win through to the Land of Promise. there be only one

thing in life to do,” he continue, clench his nervous hand and

look into the distance away from Olivia, “and that be never to lose

faith in your _ignis fatuus_—to compel it to be your guide star. once

you’ve miss grip of it, you’re lose.”



“I wish I have your russian idealism,” say Olifant.



“when will you learn, my dear friend,” say Triona quietly, “that I’m

not a Russian? I’m as English as you be.”



“it’s your idealism that be russian,” say Olivia.



“do you think so?” he ask, deferentially. “well, perhaps it be. in

England you keep your ideal hide until some great catastrophe

happen, then you bring they out to help you along. otherwise it be

immodest to expose they. in Russia, ideal be expose all the time, so

that when the time for their application come, they’re wear so thin

they’re useless. poor Russia,” he sigh. “it have idealize itself to

extinction. all my boyhood’s companion—the student, the

_intelligentsia_, as they call themselves, who use to sit and talk

and talk for hour of their wonderful theory—you in England have no

idea how russian visionary can talk—and I learn to talk with

they—where be they now? the fortunate be kill in action. the

other, either massacre or rot in prison, or lead the filthy

hunt life of pariah dog. the Beast arise like a foul shape from the

Witch’s cauldron of their talk . . . and devour they. yes, perhaps the

stolid English way be the well.”



“what about your will-o’-the-Wisp theory?” ask Olivia.



he throw out his hand. “ah! that be the secret. keep it to yourself.

don’t point it out to a thousand people, and say: ‘join I in the chase

of the will-o’-the-Wisp.’ for the thousand other people will each see an

_ignis fatuus_ of their own and point it out, so that there be myriad

of they, and your brain reel, and you’re swallow up in the bog to a

dead certainty. in plain word, every human being must have his own

individual and particular guiding star which he must follow steadfastly.

my guide star be not your, Miss Gale, nor Olifant’s. we each have our

own.”



Olifant smile indulgently. “_Moscovus loquitur_,” he murmur.



“what’s that?” ask Olivia.



“he say, my dear Miss Gale, that the Russian will ever be talk.”



“I’m not so sure that I don’t approve,” say she.



Triona lay his hand on his heart and make a little bow. she go on,

cast a rebuke glance at Olifant, who have begin to laugh:



“after all, it’s more entertaining and stimulating to talk about idea

than about stupid fact. Most people seem to regard an idea as a

disease. they shy at it as if it be smallpox.”



Olifant protest. he be capable of play football with idea as any

man. self-satirical, he ask be he not of Balliol? Olivia, remember

opportunely a recent Cambridge dinner neighbour’s criticism of the

famous Oxford College—at the time it have bore her indifferent

mind—and an anecdote with which he drive home his remark, that of a

sixth-form contemporary who have write to he in the prime flush of his

freshman’s term: “Balliol be not a college; it be a School of Thought,”

cry out:



“ben’t that rather a crude metaphor for Balliol?”



they quarrel, drift away from the point, sweep Triona into a

laugh argument on she know not what. all she know be that these two

man be give she the good of themselves; these two pick man of

thought and action; that they be eager to interest she, to catch she

word of approval; that some dancing thing within her brain play on

their personality and keep they at concert pitch.



she be conscious of a new joy, a new sense of power, when the door

open and Myra show in Lydia Dawlish. she enter, envelop in an

atmosphere of fur and creamy worldliness. Aware of the effect of

implicit scorn of snobbery, she beseech Olifant for news of Medlow,

dear Sleepy Hollow, which she have not see for year. have he come across

her beloved eccentric of a father—old John Freke? Olifant give she the

good of news. he have lately join the committee of the local hospital,

of which Mr. Freke be chairman; profess admiration for John Freke’s

exceptional gift.



“if he have go out into the world, he might have be a great man,”

say Lydia.



“he _be_ a great man,” reply Olifant.



“what’s the good of be great in an overlook chunk of the Stone Age

like Medlow?”



she speak with her lazy vivacity, obviously, to Olivia’s observant eye,

seek to establish herself with the two man. but the spell of the

afternoon be break. as soon as politeness allow, Olifant and Triona

take their leave. have it not be for Lydia they would have stay on

indefinitely, forgetful of time, show unconscious, and thereby all

the more flattering, homage to their hostess. in a mild way she

anathematized Lydia; but find a compensate tickle of pleasure in the

lady’s failure to captivate.



to Olifant she say:



“now that you know where your landlady live, I hope you willn’t go on

neglect she.”



but she wait for Triona to say:



“shall I ever have the pleasure of see you again?”



“it all depend whether you can be communicate with,” she reply.

“Alexis Triona, Esq., Planet Earth, Solar System, be an imposing

address; but it might puzzle the General Post Office.”



“the Vanloo Hotel, South Kensington, be very much more modest.”



“it’s well for people to know where they can find one another,” say

Olivia.



“that you should do I the honour of the slight thought of find

I——” he begin.



“we’ll fix up something soon,” Lydia interrupt. “I’m Miss Gale’s

elderly, adopt aunt.”



Olivia feel a momentary shock, as though a tiny bolt of ice have pass

through she. she speed a puzzled glance at a Lydia blandly unconscious of

wrong-doing.



“I shall be delighted,” say Triona politely.



when the door have close behind the two—



“what nice man,” say Lydia.



“yes, they’re rather—nice,” reply Olivia, wonder why, in try to

qualify they in her mind, this particular adjective have never occur

to she. they be male, they speak perfect English, they be

well-mannered—and so, of course, they be nice. but it be such an

inadequate word, complete no idea. Lydia’s atrophy sense of

differentiation awake the laughter in her eye. nice! so be Bobby

Quinton, Sydney Rooke, Mauregard, a score of other commonplace type in

Lydia’s set. but that Blaise Olifant and Alexis Triona should be lump

with they in this vaguely designate category, seem funny.



Lydia go on:



“Major Olifant, of course, I know from your description of he; but the

other—the young man with the battered face—I don’t place he.”



“Triona—Alexis Triona.”



“I seem to have hear the name,” say Lydia. “he write or paint or

lecture on Eugenics or something.”



“he have write a book on Russia,” reply Olivia drily.



“I’m feed up with Russia,” say Lydia dismissively. “even if I wasn’t—I

don’t come here to talk about it. I come in about something quite

different. what do you think have happen? Sydney Rooke have ask I to

marry he.”



Olivia’s eye flash with the interest of genuine youth in a romantic

proposal of marriage.



“my dear!” she cry. “how exciting!”



“I wish it be,” say Lydia, in her grey-eyed calmness. “anyhow, it’s a

bit upsetting. of course I know that he be marry—separate year and

year from his wife. whether he couldn’t catch she out, or she couldn’t

catch he out, I don’t know. but they couldn’t get a divorce. she be a

catholic and wouldn’t stand for the usual arrangement. now she’s dead.

die a couple of month ago in California. he come in this morning with

Lady Northborough—introduce she—the first time I have see the woman.

and he sit by and give advice while she choose half a dozen hat. his

judgment’s infallible, you know. he see she to her car and come back.

‘now I’ve do you a good turn,’ he say, ‘perhaps you’ll do I one.

give I five minute with you in your cubby-hole.’ we go into my

little office, and then he spring this on I—the death of his wife and

the proposal.”



“but it _must_ have be exciting,” Olivia protest. “yet——” she

knit her brow, “why the Lady Northborough barrage?”



“it’s his way,” say Lydia.



“what do you tell he?”



“I say I would give he my answer to-night.”



“well?”



“I don’t know. he’s charming. he’s roll in money—you remember the

motor-car I turn down for obvious reason—he know all kind of nice

people—he’s fifty——”



“Fifty!” cry Olivia, aghast. to three and twenty fifty be senile.



“the widow’s ideal.”



“it’s exciting, but not romantic,” say Olivia.



“romance perish on the eleventh of November, 1918. since then it have

be ‘every woman for herself and the Devil take the hindmost.’ be you

aware that there be not half enough man to go round? so when a man with

twenty thousand a year come along, a woman have to think like—like——”



“like Aristotle or Herbert Spencer, or the sailor’s parrot,” say

Olivia. “of course, dear. but be he so dreadfully wealthy as all that?

what do he do?”



“he attend Boards of Directors. as far as I can make out he belong to

a Society for the Promotion of Un-christian Companies.”



“don’t you care for he?”



Lydia shake she exquisitely picture-hat head—she be a creamy

Gainsborough or nothing.



“in that way, not a bit. of course, he have be a real good friend to

I. but after all—marriage—it’s difficult to explain——”



in spite of her cynicism, Lydia have always respect the girlhood of her

friend. but Olivia fling the scornful arm of authority.



“there’s no need of explanation. I know all about it.”



“in that case——” say Lydia. she pause, light a cigarette, and with she

large, feline grace of writhe curve, settle herself more comfortably

in the corner of the couch—“I think you would bring a fresh mind to

bear upon thing. but no matter. in that case, dear, what would you

advise?”



before the girl’s mental vision arise the man in question—the old young

man, the man of fifty, with the air and manner and dress of the man of

twenty-five; his mark of superficial perfection that hide God know what

strange sin, stoniness of heart and blight of spirit. she see he in

his impeccable devotion to Lydia. but something in the imagined sight of

he send a shiver through her pure, yet not ignorant, maidenhood:

something of which the virginal within her defied definition, yet

something abhorrent. the motor-car have fail; now the wedding-ring. she

recapture the fleeting, disquieting sense of Lydia on her first evening

in London—the woman’s large proclamation of sex. instinctively she

transfer her impression to the man, and throw a swift glance at Lydia

lie there, milk and white, receptive.



a word once read and forget—a word in some french or english

novel—spring to her mind, scrape clear from the palimpsest of memory.

desirable. a breath-catch, hateful word. she stand aghast and

shrink on the edge of knowledge.



“my darling child, what on earth be the matter with you?”



Olivia start at the voice, as though awakening from a dream.



“I think it’s horrible,” she cry.



“what?”



“marry a man you can no more love than—— Ugh! I wouldn’t marry he

for thousand of million.”



“why? I want to know.”



but the shiver in the girl’s soul could not be express in word.



“it’s a question of love,” she say lamely.



Lydia laugh, call she a romantic child. it be not a question of

love, but of compatible temperament. marriage ben’t a week-end, but a

life-end, trip. People have to get accustomed to each other in

dressing-gown and undress manner. she herself be sure that Sydney

Rooke would wear the most Jermyn Street of dressing-gown, at any rate.

but the manner?



“they’ll always be as polished as his finger-nail,” say Olivia.



“I don’t see why you should speak like that of Sydney,” cry Lydia,

with some show of spirit. “it’s rather ungrateful see how kind he have

be to you.”



which be true; Olivia admit it.



“but the man who be kind to you, in a social way, ben’t always the man

you would like to marry.”



“but it’s I, not you,” Lydia protest, “who be go to marry he.”



“then you be go to marry he?”



“I don’t see anything else to do,” reply Lydia, and she go again

over the twenty thousand a year argument. Olivia see that her

hesitation be those of a cool brain and not of an ardent spirit, and

she know that the brain have already come to a decision.



“I quite see,” say Lydia half apologetically, “that you think I ought

to wait until I fall in love with a man. but I should have to wait till

Doomsday. I think I be in love with poor dear Fred. but I ben’t. I’m

not that sort. if Fred have go on living I should have go on let

he adore I and have be perfectly happy—so long as he don’t expect

I to adore he.”



“don’t Mr. Rooke expect you to adore he?” ask Olivia.



Lydia laugh, show her white tooth, and shake a wise and mirthful

head.



“I’m convinced that be the secret of his first unhappy marriage.”



“what?”



“the poor lady adore he and bore he to frenzy.”



the clock on the mantelpiece strike the half-hour after six. Lydia rise.

she must go home and dress. she be dine with Rooke at Claridge’s at

eight.



“I’m so glad we’ve have this little talk,” she say. “I feel I must tell

you.”



“I think you want my advice,” say Olivia.



“oh, you silly!” answer Lydia, gather her fur around she.



they exchange the conventional parting kiss. Olivia accompany she to

the landing. when the summon lift appear and its door clash open,

Lydia say:



“you wouldn’t like to take over that hat shop at a valuation, would

you?”



“good heaven, no!” cry the astounded Olivia.



Lydia laugh and wave a grey-glove hand and disappear downwards,

like the Lady of the Venusberg in an antiquated opera.



Olivia re-enter the flat thoughtfully, and sit down in an arm-chair by

the tiny wood fire in the sitting-room grate. Lydia and Lydia’s galley,

and all that it signify, disturb she more than ever. they seem not

only to have no ideal even as ballast, but to have fling they overboard

like so many curse-ridden Jonahs. to what soulless land be she speed

with they? and not only herself, but the England, of which she, as much

as any individual, be a representative unit? be it for the reaching of

such a haven that her brother have give their life? be it that she

should reach such a haven that her mother, instinct with heroic passion,

have send Stephen Gale forth to death? be it to guide the world on this

lydian path that Blaise Olifant have give an arm and young Triona have

cheerfully endure dantesque torturing?



Myra come in and begin to remove the tea-thing—Myra, gaunt, with her

impassive, inexpressible face, correct in black; silk blouse, stuff

skirt, silk apron. Olivia, disturb in her effort to solve the riddle

of existence, swerve in her chair and half-humorously seek the first

human aid to hand.



“Myra, tell I. why do you go on live?”



Myra make no pause in her methodical activity.



“God put I into the world to live. it’s my duty to live,” she reply

in her toneless way. “and God ordain I to live so that I should do my

duty.”



“and what do you think be your duty?” Olivia ask.



“you, of all people in the world, ought to know that,” say Myra,

hold the door open with her foot, so as to clear a passage for the

tea-tray.



Olivia rest she elbow on the arm of the chair and put she

finger-tip to her temple. she feel at once rebuke and inform with

knowledge. never before have the Sphinx-like Myra so reveal herself.

probably she have not have the opportunity, never having find herself

subject to such direct questioning. be so subject, she reply

with the unhesitating directness of her nature. the grace of humility

descend on Olivia. what fine spirit can feel otherwise than humble

when confront with the selfless devotion of a fellow-being? and

far humble be she by the implicit declaration of an ideal, noble

and purposeful, such as her mind for the past few month have not

conceive. this elderly, spinsterly foundling, child of naught, have,

accord to her limited horizon, a philosophy—nay, more—a religion of

life which she unswervingly follow. accord to the infinite scale

whereby human value ultimately be estimate, Olivia judge herself

sit in the galley of Lydia Dawlish as of far less account than Myra,

her butt and her slave from early infancy.



she rise and look around the prettiness of taste and colour with which

she have transform the original dully-furnish room, and throw up her

arm in a helpless gesture. what do it all mean? what be she do

there? on what be she squander the golden hour of her youth? to

what end be she use such of a mind and such of a soul as God have

give she? at last, to sell herself for fur and food and silk cushion,

and for the society of other woman clamorous of nothing but fur and

food and silk cushion, to a man like Sydney Rooke—without give he

anything in return save she outward shape for he to lay jewel on and

exhibit to the uninspire world wherein he dwelt?



far well return to Medlow and lead the life of a clean woman.



Myra enter. “you’re not dine out to-night?”



“no, thank God!” say Olivia. “I’ll slip on any old thing and go

downstair.”



she dine in her little quiet corner of the restaurant, and after dinner

take up Triona’s book, _through blood and Snow_, which she have buy

that morning, her previous acquaintance with it having be make through

a circulate library. in the autumn she have read and be hold by its

magic; but casually as she have read score of book. but now it be

instinct with a know yet baffle personality. it be two o’clock in

the morning before she go to bed.





                              CHAPTER VIII



the taste of Alexis Triona be not such as to lead he into

extravagant live on the fruit of his literary success. to quality of

food he be indifferent; wine he neither understand nor care for; in

the use of other form of alcohol he be abstemious; unlike most man

breed in Russia he smoke moderately, prefer the cigarette he roll

himself from Virginia tobacco to the more expensive turkish or egyptian

brand. his attire be simple. he would rather walk than be drive; and

he regard his back-bedroom at the top of the Vanloo Hotel as a

luxurious habitation.



he have break away from the easeful life at Medlow because, as he

explain to Blaise Olifant, it frighten he.



“I’m up against nothing here,” say he.



“you’re up against your novel,” reply Olifant. “a man’s work be always

his fierce enemy.”



Triona would not accept the proposition. he and his novel be one and

indivisible. together they must fight against something—he know not

what. perhaps, fight against time and opportunity. they want the

tense, steal half-hour which he and his other book have enjoy. would

Olifant think he ungrateful if he pick up and go on his mission to

helsingfor?



“my dear fellow,” say Olifant, “the man who resent a friend develop

his own personality in his own way don’t deserve to have a friend.”



“it’s like you to say that,” cry Triona. “I shall always remember.

when I get back I shall let you know.”



so Alexis Triona vanish from a uninspire Medlow, and two month

afterwards give Olifant his address at the Vanloo Hotel. Olifant, tired

by a long spell of close work, go up for an idle week in London.



“come back and carry on as before,” he suggest.



but Triona run his finger through his brown hair and hold out his hand.



“no. the wise man never try to repeat a past pleasure. as a wise old

russian friend of mine use to say—never relight a cigar.”



so after a few day of pleasant companionship in the soberer delight of

town, Blaise Olifant return to Medlow and Triona remain in his

little back room in the Vanloo Hotel.



                 *        *        *        *        *



one night, a week or so after his visit to Olivia Gale, he throw down

his pen, read over the last sheet that he have write, and, with a

gesture of impatience, tear it up. suddenly he discover that he could

not breathe in the stuffy bedroom. he draw back the curtain and open

the window and look out on myriad chimney-pot and a full moon shine

on they from a windless sky. the bright air fill his lung. Desire for

wide space beneath the moon shake he like a touch of claustrophobia.

he thrust on the coat which he have discard, seize a hat, and,

switch off the light, hurry from the room. he go out into the

street, noiseless save for the rare, swift motor that flash by like

ghost flee terrified from some earthly doom.



he walk and walk until he suddenly realize that he have emerge from

Whitehall and face the moonlight beauty of the Houses of Parliament

stand in majestic challenge against the sky, and the Abbey sleep

in its century of dream.



away across the Square, by Broad Sanctuary, be the opening of a great

thoroughfare, and, as his eye seek it, he confess to himself the

subconscious impulse that have lead he thither. yet be it not a cheat of

a subconscious impulse? have he not go out from the hotel in Kensington

with a definite purpose? as he cross to Broad Sanctuary and the

entrance to Victoria Street, he argue it out with himself. anyhow, it

be the most fool of fool-errand. but yet—he shrug his shoulder

and laugh. to what errand could a fool’s errand be comparable? only to

that of one pixy-lead. he laugh at the thought of his disquisition to

Olivia on the will-o’-the-Wisp. in the rare instance of the follower of

Faith have he not proclaim its guidance to the Land of Promise?



three day before he have see she. he have be impel by an

irresistible desire to see she. to call on she without shadow of excuse

be impossible. to telephone or write an invitation to lunch be an act

unsuggested by his limited social experience. take his chance that she

should emerge between eleven and twelve, he stroll up and down the

pavement, so that at last when fate favour he and he advance to meet

she, they greet each other with a smile air of surprise. they

explain their respective objective. she be for buy a patent

coffee machine at the Army and Navy Stores, he for catch an

undesirable train at Victoria Station. a threatening morning suddenly

become a rainy noon. he turn back with she and they flee together and

just reach the Stores in time to escape from the full fury of the

downpour. there he bend his mind on coffee machine. his masculine

ignorance of the whole art of coffee-making, a flannel bag in a jug

be his primitive conception, move she to light-hearted mirth. the

purchase make, the order give, they wander idly through the great

establishment. they be prisoner, the outside world be welter

deluge. for once in his lifetime, think Triona, the element war on

his side. a wringing machine, before which he pause in wonderment at

its possible use, and an eager description on the part of the salesman,

put Olivia on the track of a game into which he enter with devoted

fervour. let they suppose they be go to furnish a house. oh! a

great big palace of a house. in imagination they buy innumerable

thing, furnish the mansion chiefly with hammock and marquee and

garden chair and lawn-mower and grand piano and egg-whisk. her

heart, that morning, attuned to laughter, bring colour into her cheek

and brightness into her eye. to the young man’s ear she seem to have

an adorable gift of phrase. she invest a roll-pin with a humorous

individuality. she touch a tray of doughnut with her fancy and turn

they into sacramental bread of Momus, exquisite divinity of Mirth. she

be so free, so graceful, so intimate, so irresistible. he follow she,

a young man bemuse. what he contribute to the game he scarcely know.

he be only conscious of her charm and her whipping of his wit. they

stumble into the department of man’s haberdashery. his brain conceive

a daring idea.



“I’ve be try for week,” say he, “to make up my mind to buy a

tie.”



Olivia glance swiftly round and speed to a counter.



“tie, please.”



“what kind?” ask the salesman.



“ordinary silk—sailor-knot. show I all you’ve get.”



before his entrance eye she select half a dozen, with a taste which

the artist within he know be impeccable. he present the bill bear

her number at the cashier’s pigeon hole, and return take the neat

packet from the salesman with the air of one receive a decoration from

royalty. they make their way to the exit. she say:



“I’m afraid we’ve be criminally frivolous.”



“if such happiness be a crime I’d willingly swing for it.”



he note a quick, uncomprehende question in her glance and the colour

mount into his pale cheek.



“my english idiom be not yet perfect,” he say. “I ought not to have

use that expression.”



Olivia laugh at his discomfiture.



“it’s generally use by dreadful people who threaten to do one another

in. but the metaphor’s thrilling, all the same.”



the rain have cease. after a few moment the mackintoshed commissionaire

secure a taxi. Triona accompany she to the door. she thrust out a

frank hand.



“Au revoir. it have be delightful to find you so human.”



she drive off. he stand, with a smile on his lip, watch the vehicle

disappear in the traffic. her farewell be characteristic. what could

one expect of she but the unexpected?



that be three day ago. the image of her unconsciously alluring yet

frank to disconcertment, spiritually feminine yet materially impatient

of sex; the image of she in the three separate setting—the dark-eye

princess in fur and flame beneath the electric light of the theatre

portico; the slim girl in simple blouse and skirt who, over the pretty

teacup, hold so nice a balance between Olifant and himself; the gay

playmate of a rainy hour, in her fawn costume (he still feel the thrill

of the friendly touch of her fawn-colour gloved hand on his

sleeve)—the composite image and vision of she have fill his sleeping

and wake thought to the destruction of his peace of mind and the

dislocation of his work.



thus, on this warm night of spring, he stand, the most foolishly

romantical of mortal, at the entrance to Victoria Street, and with a

shrug of his shoulder proceed on his errand of mute troubadour.

perhaps the day of rapture might come when he would tell she how he

stand in the watch of the night and gaze up at what he have to imagine

be her window on the fifth floor of the undistinguished barrack that

be her home. it be poetic, fantastic, Russian, at any rate. it would

also mark the end of his excursion; it be a fair tramp back to South

Kensington.



an unheeded taxi-cab whiz past he as he walk; but a few second

later, the faint sound of splintering glass and then the scrunch of

brake suddenly apply awake he from his smile meditation. the cab

stop, sharply outline in the clear moonlight. the driver leap from

his seat and fling open the door. a woman spring out, follow by a man.

both be in evening dress. voice rise at once in altercation. Triona,

suspect an accident, quicken his pace instinctively into a run and

join the group.



“what’s up?”



but as the instinctive word pass his lip he become amazedly

conscious of Olivia stand there, quivering, as white as the white

dress and cloak she wear, her eye ablaze. she flash on he a

half-hysterical recognition and clutch his arm.



“you?”



he draw himself up to his slim height and look first at the taxi

driver and then at the heavy, swarthy man in evening dress, and then at

she.



“what’s the matter? tell I,” he rap out.



“this man try to insult I,” she gasp.



Olivia never know how it happen: it happen like some instantaneous

visitation of God. the lithe young figure suddenly shoot forward and the

heavy man roll yard away on the pavement.



“serve he damn well right,” say the driver; “but where do I come in

with my window break?”



“oh, you shall be pay, you shall be pay,” cry Olivia. “pay he, Mr.

Triona, and let we go.”



Triona glance up and down the street. “no, this gentleman’s go to

pay,” he say quietly and advance to the heavy man who have scramble to

unsteady foot.



“just you settle up with that cabman, quick, do you hear, or I’ll knock

you down again. I could knock you down sixty time an hour. and so help

I, God, if a copper come in sight I’ll murder you.”



“all right, all right,” say the man hurriedly. “I don’t want a scandal

for the lady’s sake.” he turn to the taxi man. “how much do you want?”



“with the damage it’ll be a matter of ten pound.”



the swarthy man in evening dress fish out his note-case.



“here you be, you blackmail thief.”



“none of your back-chat, or I’ll finish off what this gentleman have

begin,” say the taxi man, pocket the money.



until he see summary justice accomplish, Triona stand in the lee of

the house, his arm stretch protectingly in front of Olivia. then he

draw she away.



“I’ll see the lady home. it’s only a few step.”



“right, sir. good night, sir,” say the taxi man.



they move on. immediately in the silence of the night come the crisp

exchange of word.



“I’ll give you a pound to take I to Porchester Terrace.”



“and I’d give a pound to see you walk there,” say the driver, already

in his seat.



he throw in the clutch and with a cheery “good night” pass the

extravagantly encounter pair.



“they say miracle don’t happen, but one have happen now,” say Olivia

breathlessly. “if you haven’t come out of space——”



“do tell I something about it,” he ask.



“but don’t you know?”



“you say that profit-merchant have insult you and that be enough for

I.”



“oh, my God! I’m so ashamed!” she cry, with a wild, pretty gesture of

her hand. “what will you think of I?”



mad word rush through his brain, but before they find utterance he

grip himself. he have, once more, his hand on the control.



“what I think of you, Miss Gale, it would be wise not to say. I should

like to hear what have occur. but, pardon I,” he say abruptly,

notice her curious, uneven step, and glance down instinctively at

her foot, “what have become of your shoe?”



“my slipper—why, of course——” she halt, suddenly aware of the loss.

“I must have leave it in the cab. I stick up my foot and reach for it

and break the window with the heel. I also think I hit he in the face.”



“it seem as though he be down and out before I come up,” say Triona.



“if you haven’t I don’t [know] how I should have carry on,” she

confess.



they walk down the wide, empty street. the moon shine high above they,

the girl in her elegance, the man in his loose grey flannel and soft

feel hat, an incongruous couple, save for their common air of alert

youth. and while they walk she rapidly tell her story. she have be to

Percy’s with the usual crowd, Lydia Dawlish her nominal chaperone. the

man, Edwin Mavenna, a city friend of Sydney Rooke, whom she have meet a

half a dozen time, have offer to drive her home in his waiting taxi.

tired, dependent for transport on Rooke and Lydia, who desire a further

hour of the night club’s dismal jocundity, and angry with Bobby Quinton,

who seem to think that her ear have no other function than to listen to

tale of sentimenti-financial woe, she have accept. half-way home she

have begin to regret; three-quarter of the way she have be frighten.

as they turn into Victoria Street she have manage to free her arm and

wield the victorious slipper.



“I’ll never go to that abominable place again as long as I live,” she

cry.



“I should, if I be you,” he say quietly.



“why?”



“I’d go once or twice, at any rate. to show yourself independent of it.

to prove to yourself that you’re not frightened of it.”



“but I be frightened of it. on the outside it’s as respectable as Medlow

Parish Church on Sunday. but below the surface there’s all sort of

hideousness—and I’m frightened.”



“you’re not,” say he. “thing may startle you, infuriate you, put you

off your equilibrium; but they don’t frighten you. they don’t this

evening. I’ve see too many people frighten in my time not to know.

you’re not that sort.”



they have reach the door of the Mansions. she smile at he, her gaiety

return.



“you’re as comfort and console a Knight Errant as one could wish to

meet. the damsel in distress be greatly beholden to you. but how

the—whatever you like—you manage to time the rescue be beyond my

comprehension.”



“the star guide I,” he reply, with an upward sweep of the hand.

“mortal have strive to comprehend they for thousand of year—but

without success. I start out to wander about this great city—I often

do for hour—I’m a bear wanderer—with the vagabond’s aimlessness and

trust in chance, or in the star—and this time the star bring I

where it be decreed that I should be.”



while he be speak she have open the door with her latchkey and now

stand, shimmer white in the gloom of the entrance. she hold out her

hand.



“I’m afraid I’ve be too much occupy in try not to seem frightened

and silly to thank you decently for what you’ve do. but I be grateful.

you don’t know how grateful. I’ll have to tell you some other time.”



“to-morrow?” he ask eagerly.



she hesitate for a moment. “yes, to-morrow,” she reply softly. “I

shall be in all day. Goodnight.”



after the swift handshake the door close on the enraptured young man,

and the hard, characterless street, down which he seem to dance,

became transform into a moonlit glade of fairyland.



it be four o’clock in the morning when he enter his back-bedroom at

the Vanloo Hotel. but he do not sleep. he have no desire for

sleep—youth resent the veil draw across a consciousness so

exquisitely alive. Sleep, when the star in their course be fight

for he? impossible, preposterous! let he rather live, again and again,

over the night’s crowded adventure. every detail of it set his pulse

throb. the mere glorious first recognition of she be the thrill of

a lifetime. he construct and reconstruct the immortal picture. the

moonlit, silent street, its high, decorous building mark by the

feeble gas lamp melt into an indeterminate vanishing point. the

clear-cut scene. the taxi-cab. the three human figure. the stunt

driver. the massive, dark man, in silk hat which reflect the

moonlight, in black overcoat throw open, reveal a patch of white

shirt and waistcoat; the slender, quivering, white form drape in white

fur, white gossamer, white what-not, crown with dark glory of eye and

hair. the masculine in he exult in his physical strength and

skill—in the clean, straight, elementary yet scientific left-hander

that get the hulking swine between the eye and send he reeling and

sprawl and ask for no more punishment. and then—oh, it be a

great thing to command, to impose his will. to walk in triumph off with

the wonderful lady of his dream. to feel, as she thank he, that here

be something definite that he have do for she, something with a touch

of the romantic, the heroic, which, in its trivial way, justify belief

in the incident of his adventurous career which he have so modestly, yet

so vividly describe in the book that have bring he fame.



on this point of justification he be peculiarly sensitive. various

Englishmen, soldier send out on secret mission to the fringe of the

area of his activity, have question many of his statement, both in

the book and in descriptive article which he have write for newspaper

and other periodical, and ask for proof. and he have reply, most

cogently, that the sphere of the Russian Secret Service in which he be

employ be, of necessity, beyond the ken of the secret service of any

other Power in Europe, and that official proof be lose in the social

and political disintegration of Russia. one man, a great man, speak

with unquestionable authority, silence the horde of caviller as far as

event prior to 1917 be concern. but there be still some who

bark annoyingly at his heel. proof, of course, he have none to give.

how can a man give proof when he be cast up, practically naked, on the

coast of England? he must be believe or not. and it be the haunt

terror of this sensitive boy of genius, whose face and eye bear the

ineffaceable mark of suffering, that he should lose the credit which he

have gain.



at all hazard he must allow no doubt to arise in the mind of Olivia.

to fight they down he would do all manner of extravagant thing. he

regret the pusillanimous tameness of his late opponent. if the man

have only pick himself up and give battle! if only there have be half

a dozen abductor or insulter instead of one! his spirit (at seven

o’clock) sink at the logical conclusion that the conventional condition

of post-war civilized life afford a meagre probability of the

recurrence of such another opportunity. he have the temperament of those

whose hunger be only whet by triumph, to whom attainment only give

vision of new height. when, after toss sleepless in his bed, he rise

and dress at nine, he have decide that, in knock down a mere mass

of unresiste flesh, he have play a part almost inglorious, such as

any stay-at-home _embusqué_ could have play. by not one jot or tittle

do his act advance the credibility of his story. and on his story alone

could he find his hope of find favour in her marvellous eye. of

the touch of genius that inspire his literary work he think little.

at this stage of his career he be fill with an incredulous wonder at

his possession of a knack which convert a page of scribble into a

cheque upon a bank. his writing mean money. not money, wealth, on the

grand scale; but money to keep he as a modest gentleman on the social

grade to which he have attain, and to save he from the detest livery

of the chauffeur. the story which he be tell in the new book be but

a means to this end. the story which he have tell be life itself. Nay,

now it be more: it be love itself; it be a girl who be more than

life.



he call at the Victoria Street flat at twelve o’clock. the austere

Myra look on he disapprovingly. tea-time be the visit time for

stray young man, and even then she convey to they the impression that

she let they in on sufferance.



“what name?” she ask.



“Mr. Triona.”



“Miss Gale be in, sir,” she admit grudgingly, having receive

explicit order from Olivia, “but she be dress and I don’t know

whether she can see you.”



“will you tell Miss Gale that I be entirely at her service, and if it’s

inconvenient for she to see I now I’ll call later.”



Myra leave he stand in the little vestibule and give the message to

Olivia, who, fully dress, be polish her nail in her bedroom.



“you’re the most impossible woman on earth,” Olivia declare, turn on

she. “be that the way you would treat a man who have deliver you from a

dragon?”



“I don’t hold with man and I don’t hold with dragon,” reply Myra

unmoved. “the next time you’ll be want I to fall over a dragon who

have deliver you from a man!”



Olivia scarcely listen to the retort. she fly out and carry the

wait Triona into the sitting-room.



“I’m so sorry. my maid’s a terror. she bite and don’t bark. but I

guarantee her non-venomous. how good of you to come so early.”



“I be anxious,” say Triona.



“about what?”



“last night must have be a shock.”



“of course it be,” she laugh; “but not enough to keep I all day long

in fainting fit with doctor and smelling-bottle.”



“I hope you sleep all right.”



“no,” she reply frankly. “that I don’t do. the adventure be a bit

too exciting. besides——”



“besides what?”



“it come into my head to make up my moral balance sheet. figure of

arithmetic always send I to sleep; but figure of—well, of that kind

of thing, don’t you know—keep I broad awake.”



Olivia’s dark, eager face be of the kind that show the trace of

fatigue in faint shadow under the eye. he swiftly note they and cry

out:



“you’re dead tired. it’s damnable.” he rise, suddenly angry. “you ought

to go to bed at once. your maid be right. I have no business to come at

this hour and disturb you.”



“if you haven’t come,” say Olivia, inwardly glow at the tribute pay

by the indignant youth, “I should have imagine that you look on last

night’s affair as a trumpery incident in the day’s work and go to bed

and forget all about it.”



“that’s impossible,” say he. “I, too, haven’t sleep a wink.”



she meet and hold his eye long than she, or anyone else, have hold

they. then, half angrily, she feel her cheek grow hot and red.



“for you, who have face death a hundred time, last night, as I’ve just

say, must be even dull. what be it to the night when you—you

know—the sentry—when you be unarmed and you fight with he and you

kill he with his own bayonet?”



he snap his finger and smile. “that be unimportant. whether I

live or die don’t matter to anybody. it don’t matter much to I. it

be sheer animal instinct. but last night it be you. and that make a

universe of difference.”



Olivia rise, and, with a “you’re not smoke,” offer he a box of

cigarette.



“yes,” she say, when he have light it, with finger tremble ever so

slightly as they hold the match, “I suppose a woman do make a

difference. we’re always in the way, somehow. woman and child first.

why they don’t throw we overboard at once and let the really useful

people save themselves, I could never make out.”



his air of dismay be that of a devotee listen to a saint blaspheme.

her laughter ripple, music to his ear.



“do you know what I should like to do? get out of London for a few hour

and fill my lung with air. Richmond Park, for instance.”



“I, too.” he sigh. “if only I have a car!”



“there be such thing as motor-bus.”



he spring to delighted foot. his divinity on a bus top! it be like the

paphian goddess condescend from her dove-draw chariot to the joggle

of a four-wheeler cab.



“would you really go on one?”



she would. she would start forthwith. the time only to put on a hat. she

leave he to his heart-beat of happiness, presently to re-appear,

hat, gloved, and smile.



“you’re quite sure you would like to come? your work?”



“my work need the open air as much as I do,” say he.



they go forth, boy and girl on a jaunt, and side by side on the top of

the omnibus they give themselves up to the laughter of the pure

sunshine. at Richmond they lunch, for youth must be feed, and

afterwards go through the street of the old town, and stand on the

bridge watch the exquisite curve of the river embosome in the very

new of new greenery, and let its loveliness sink into their heart.

then they wander deep into the Park and find a tree from beneath

which they could see the deer browse in the shade; and there they sit,

happy in their freedom and isolation. what they say, most of the time,

be no great matter. of the two, perhaps she talk the more; for he have

say:



“I be so tired of talk about myself. I have be oblige to, so that

it have become a professional habit. and what there be to be know about

I, you know. but you—you who have live such a different life from

mine—I know so little of you. in fact, I’ve know nothing of english

woman such as you. you’re a mystery. tell I about yourself.”



so she have begin:



“well, I be bear—I shalln’t tell you the year—of poor but honest

parent——”



and then, lead on by his eager sympathy and his intimate knowledge of her

home, she have abandon the jesting note and talk simply and frankly

of she seclude and eventless life. with feminine guile, and with last

night’s newborn mistrust of man, she set a little trap.



“do you ever go into my mother’s room?”



“I don’t think so. perhaps that be the one—the good bedroom—which

Olifant always keep lock.”



she feel ashamed of her unworthy suspicion; glad at the loyal keeping of

a promise, to the extent of not allow a visitor even a peep inside

the forbidden chamber.



“I think Blaise Olifant be one of the fine type England breed,” she

say warmly.



there be a touch of jealous fear in his swift glance; but he reply

with equal warmth:



“you needn’t tell I that. brave, modest, of sensitive honour—ah! a man

with a mind so cultivate that he seem to know nothing until you talk

with he, and then you find that he know everything. I love he.”



“I’m glad to hear you say that.”



“why? do you admire he so much?”



“it ben’t that,” she parry. “it’s on your account. one man’s generous

praise of another do one’s heart good.” she throw out her arm as

though to embrace the rolling park of infinite sward and majestic tree.

“I love big thing,” she say.



Whereupon Alexis Triona thank his star for having lead he along the

true path.



who can say that, in after year, these twain, when they shall have

grow old and have go through whatever furnace Fate—either personal

destiny or the Fate of Social Institutions—may prepare for they, will

not retain imperishable memory of the idyll of that sweet spring day?

there they sit, youth spiritually commune with youth; the girl urge

by feminine instinct to love he for the danger he have pass; the

young man aflame with her beauty, her charm, her dryad elusiveness.

here, for he, be yet another aspect of she, free, unseizable in the

woodland set. and for she, another aspect of he, the simple,

clean-cut Englishman, divest of vague and disquieting russian

citizenship, the perfect companion, responsive to every chord strike by

the spirit of the magic afternoon. in the year to come, who can say

that they will not remember this sweet and delicate adventure of their

soul creep forth in tremble reconnaissance one of the other?

perhaps it will be a more precious memory to the woman than to the man.

man do not lay thing up in lavender as woman do.



if he have speak, declare his passion in lover’s set term, perhaps her

heart might have be catch by the glamour of it all, and she might

have surrender to his kiss, and they might have journey back to

London in a state of unreprehensible yet commonplace beatitude. and the

memory would possibly have be mark by a white stone rise stark in

an airless distance. but he do not speak, hold back by a rare reverence

of her maidenhood and her perfect trust; and in her heart flower

gratitude for his sensitiveness to environment. so easy for a maladroit

touch to mar the perfection of an exquisite hour of blue mist and

mystery. so, again, who know but that in the year to come the memory

will be mark by a fragrance, a shimmer of leave, a haze over green

sward, incorporate impalpably with the dear ghost of an immortal day?



they return on the top of the omnibus, rather late, and on the way

they speak little. now and then he glance sideways at she and meet her

eye and catch her smile, and feel content. at the terminus of the

omnibus route, in the rage, busy precinct of the station of

Victoria, they alight. he walk with she to her door in Victoria

Street.



“your word have be singe in my ear,” say he: “‘I love big

thing.’ to I, to-day have seem a big thing.”



“and I’ve love it,” she reply.



“true?”



“true.”



she speed up to her room somewhat daze, conscious of need to keep she

balance. so much have happen in the last four-and-twenty hour. the

shudder of the night have still horrify her flesh when she draw the

young man out into the wide daylight and the open air; and now it have

pass away, as though it have never be, and a new quivering of youth,

take its place, run like laughter through her bodily frame and her

heart and her mind.



“H’m. your outing seem to have do you good,” say the impassive Myra,

let she in.



“my first day’s escape from a fœtid prison,” she say.



“I suppose you know what you’re talk about,” say Myra.



Olivia laugh and throw her arm round Myra’s lean shoulder.



“of course I do.”



“he ain’t much to look at.”



Olivia, flush, turn on she.



“I never know a more abominable woman.”



“then you’re lucky,” retort Myra, and fade away into her kitchen.



Olivia, mirthful, uplifted, dance, as it be, into the sitting-room

and begin to pull off her glove. suddenly her glance fall on a letter

lie on her writing table. she frown slightly as she open it, and

as she read the frown grow deep. it be from Bobby Quinton. what his

dearest of dear lady would think of he he leave on the joint knee of

the god and of his dear lady—but—but the wolf be at his heel.

he have throw they all that he possess—fur coat, watch and chain,

diamond stud, and, having gulp they all, they be still in fierce

pursuit. in a fortnight would he have ample fund to satisfy they. but

now he be at bay. he apologize for the mixture of metaphor. but still,

there he be _aux abois_. fifty pound, just for a fortnight. could the

dearest of dear lady see she way——-?



she go to her desk and write out a cheque which she enclose in an

envelope. to save her soul alive she could not have write Bobby

Quinton an accompany line.





                               CHAPTER IX



HERE, all in a rush of twenty-four hour, be a glut of incident for a

young woman out for adventure. Triona have only make his effect on the

romantically feminine within Olivia by his triumphant rescue. as to that

he need have no misgiving. so once do Andromeda see young Perseus,

calm and assured, deliver she from the monster. Triona’s felling of

Mavenna appeal to the linger savage woman fiercely conscious of

wrong avenge; but his immediate and careless mastery of the situation

strike civilized chord. she could see he dominate the sheepskin-clothe

tribe in the Urals (see _through blood and Snow_) until he establish

their independence in their mountain fastness. she could see he,

masterful, resourceful, escape from the Bolshevik prison and make

his resistless way across a hostile continent. she could also

appreciate, after this wonder-day at Richmond, the suppleness of his

simple charm which win he food and shelter where food scarcely exist

and shelter to a stranger be a matter of shooting or a bash in of

head.



as for Mavenna, her flesh still shudder at the memory of those few

moment of insult. what he say she could scarcely remember. the

inextricable clutch of his great arm around her body and the detestable

kiss eclipse mere word. unwittingly his hug have compress she

throat so that she could not scream. there have be nothing for it but

the slipper unhook by the free arm, and the doughty heel. have she win

through alone to her room, she would have collapse—so she assure

herself—from sicken horror. but the Deliverer have be there, as in

a legend of Greece or Broceliande, and have save she from the madness of

the nymph terror stricken by Satyrs. the two extravagance have, in a

way, counteract each other, set she, by the morning, in a normal

equilibrium. she have try to explain the phenomenon by refer to she

having spend the night in strike a moral balance-sheet. and then have

come the day, the wonderful day, in which the Deliverer have prove

himself the perfect, gentle Knight. can it be wonder that her brain

swam with he?



she go the next morning to Lydia’s hat shop, and, in the little room

which Sydney Brooke have call she cubby hole, a nine-foot-square

boudoir office, reek with Lydia’s scent and with Heaven know what

scandal and vulgarity and vanity of post-war London, she pour out

her tale of outrage. after listen with indulgent patience, Lydia

remark judicially:



“I tell you, my dear child, when you come to London, that the first

lesson you have to learn be to take care of yourself.”



Olivia flash. she have take care of herself well enough. but that

brute Mavenna—what about he?



“everybody know Mavenna,” reply Lydia. “no girl in her sense would

have trust herself alone with he.”



“and, with that reputation, he’s a friend of yours and Sydney’s?”



Lydia shrug her plump shoulder.



“really, my dear, if one exact certificate of lamb-like innocence,

sign by a high celestial official, before you admit anyone into the

circle of your acquaintance, you might as well go and live on a desert

island.”



“but this man’s a beast and you’ve know it all along!” cry Olivia.



“only in one way.”



“but—my God! ben’t that enough?” Olivia stand, rack with disgust and

amazement, over her mild-eye, philosophic friend. “what would you have

do if you have be in my place?”



“I could never have be in your place,” say Lydia. “I should have be

too wise.”



“how?”



“the knowledge of man, my dear, be the beginning of wisdom.”



“and I ought to have know?”



“of course. at any rate, you’ll know in the future.”



“I shall. you may be dead certain I shall,” declare Olivia, in her

anger and excitement seize a puckered and pleated cushion from the

divan by which she stand. “and if even I—−-”



“don’t, darling; you’ll tear it,” say Lydia calmly.



Olivia heave the cushion back impatiently.



“what I want to know be this. be you and Sydney go to remain friend

with Mavenna?”



“I’m afraid we’ll have to,” reply Lydia. “Mavenna and Sydney be in

all sort of big thing together.”



“well, when next you see he, Lydia, look well into his face and ask he

what he think of the heel of my slipper and Mr. Triona’s fist. he’s not

only a beast. he’s a worm. when I think of he pick himself up, after

be knock down by a man half his size——” she laugh a bit

hysterically. “oh—the creature be outside the pale!”



Lydia shake her fair head. “I’m sorry for you, my dear. but he’s inside

all right.”



“then I’m not go to be inside with he!” cry Olivia.



and, like a little dark dust storm, she swirl out of the office and,

through the shop, into the freedom and spaciousness of the street. and

that, for Olivia, be the end of night club and dance as a serious

aim in life, and a host of other vanity.



a few morning afterwards Lydia sail into the flat and greet Olivia

as though nothing have happen. she seem to base her philosophy of

life on obliteration of the past, yesterday be as dead as a winter’s

day of sixty year ago. would Olivia lunch with Sydney and herself at

some riverside club? Sydney, having collect Mauregard, would be

call for they with the car. the day be fine and warm; the prospect

of the cool lawn reach down to the plashing river allure, and she

like Mauregard. besides, she have begin to take a humorous view of

Lydia. she consent. Lydia begin to talk of her wedding, fix for the

middle of July, of the clothe that she have and the clothe that she

hadn’t—the ratio of the former to the latter be that of a loin-cloth

to the stock of Selfridge’s. when she be serious minded, Lydia always

express herself in term of raiment.



“and you’ll have to get some thing, too, as you’re go to be

bridesmaid.”



“be I?” ask Olivia, this be the first she have hear of it. “and

who’s go to be good man—Mavenna?”



Lydia look aghast. so might a band of primitive Christians have

receive a suggestion of invite the ghost of Pontius Pilate to a

commemorative supper.



“my dear child, you don’t suppose we’re go to ask that horror to the

wedding?”



“the other day,” Olivia remark drily, “I understand that you and

Sydney love he dearly.”



Lydia sigh. “I’m begin to believe that you’ll never understand

anything.”



so the breach, if breach there be, be heal. Olivia, relate the

matter to Triona at their next meeting, qualified Lydia’s attitude as

one of callous magnanimity.



meanwhile her intimacy with the young man begin to ripen.



one evening Janet Philimore invite she to dine at the russian circle of

a great woman’ club, which be entertain Triona at dinner. this be

the first time she have see he in his character of modest lion; the

first time, too, she have be in a company of woman grope, however

clumsily, after ideal in unsyncopated time. the thin girl next to she,

pretty enough, think Olivia, if only she have use a powder puff to

mitigate the over-assertiveness of a greasy skin, and have give less the

impression of having let out her hair to a bird for nest purpose,

and have only seize the vital importance of colour—the untrue greeny

daffodil of her frock not be the good for a sallow complexion—the

girl next to she, Agnes Blenkiron, start a hectic conversation by

enquire what she be go to do in Baby Week. the more ignorant

Olivia profess herself to be of baby and their antecedent,

especially the latter, the more indignantly explicit become Miss

Blenkiron. Olivia listen until she have creepy sensation around the

root of her hair and put up an instinctive hand to assure herself that

it be not stand on end. Miss Blenkiron talk feminist physiology,

psychology, sociological therapeutic, until Olivia’s brain reel. over

and over again she try to turn to her hostess, who fortunately have a

pleasant male and middle-aged neighbour, but the fair lady, without

mercy, have she in thrall. she learn that all the two or three thousand

member of the club be instinct with these theory and their aim.

she struggle to free herself from the spell.



“I think we be here to talk about Russia,” she venture.



“but we be talk about Russia.” Miss Blenkiron shed on her the

lambency of her pale blue eye. “the future of the human race lie in

the hand of the million of russian baby lie in the body of

million of russian woman just wait to be bear.”



a flash of the devil save Olivia from madness.



“that’s a gigantic conception,” she say.



“it be,” Miss Blenkiron agree, unhumorously, and continue her work of

propaganda, so that by the time the speech begin Olivia find herself

commit to the strenuous toil of a lifetime as a member of she know

not what society. the only clear memory she retain be that of a tea

engagement some Sunday in a North London garden city where Miss

Blenkiron and her brother frugally entertain the advanced thinker of

the day.



in spite of the sense of release from something vampiric, when the

speech hush general conversation, she recognize that the strange

talk have be reveal and stimulating, and she bring a quickened

intelligence to the comprehension of the gathering. to all these woman

the present state of the upheaved world be of vast significance. in

Lydia’s galley no one care a pin about it, save Sydney Rooke, who

curse it for its interference with his income. but here, as be clearly

convey in the open remark of the chairwoman, a novelist of

distinction, every one be intellectually concerned with its infinite

complexity of aspect. to they, the guest of the evening, emerge as he

have do from the dizzying profundity of the whirlpool, be a figure

of uncanny interest.



“it’s the first-hand knowledge of man like he that be vital,” Miss

Blenkiron whisper when the chairwoman sit down. “I should so much like

to meet he.”



“would you?” say Olivia. “that’s easily manage. he’s a great friend of

mine.”



and she be subridently conscious of having acquire vast and sudden

merit in her neighbour’s eye.



Triona please she beyond expectation. the function, so ordinary to

public-dinner-go London, be new to she. she magnify the strain

that commonplace, even though sincere, adulation could put upon a guest

of honour. she feel a twinge of apprehension when he stand up, in his

loose boyish way, and brush his brown hair from his temple, begin to

speak. but in a moment or two all such feeling vanish. he speak to

this assembly of a hundred, mostly woman, much as, in moment of

enthusiasm, he would speak to she. and, indeed, often catch her eye,

he do speak to she, subtly and flatteringly bring she to his side.

her heart beat a bit fast when, glance around and see every one

hang on his word, she realize that she alone, of all this little

multitude, hold a golden key to the mystery of the real man. there he

talk, with the familiar sway of the shoulder, and, when seek for a

phrase, with the nervous plucking of his lip; talk in his nervous,

picturesque fashion, now and then with a touch of the poet, consistently

modest, only allude to personal experience to illustrate a point or to

give verisimilitude to a jest. he develop his feminist theme

logically, dramatically, prove beyond argument that the future of

civilization lie in the hand of the woman of the civilized world.



he have a great success. woman, although she know it perfectly well,

love to be tell what she want and the way to get it: she will never

follow the way, of course, have a tortuous, thorny, and entice way

of her own; but that don’t matter. the principle, the end, that be the

thing: it justify any amazing mean. he sit down amid enthusiastic

applause. flushed, he seek Olivia’s distant gaze and smile. then she

feel, thrillingly, that he have be speak for she, for she alone, and

her eye brighten and flash he a proud message.



she meet he a while later in the thronged drawing-room of the club,

rather a shy and embarrassed young man, head a distinct course toward

she through a swarm of kind yet predatory lady. she admire the simple

craftsmanship of his approach.



“how be you go to get home?” he ask.



the adorable carelessness of twenty shrug its shoulder.



“I don’t know. the Lord will provide.”



“if you cann’t find a taxi, will you walk?”



the question imply a hope, so obvious that she laugh gaily.



“there be bus also and tube.”



“in which you cann’t travel alone at this time of night.”



she scoff: “oh, cann’t I?” but his manifest fear that she should

encounter satyr in train or omnibus please she greatly.



“Father’s dining at his club close by and be call for I. he will see

that you get home safely,” say Janet Philimore.



“it’s mile out of your way, dear,” say Olivia. “I’ll put myself in the

hand of Mr. Triona.”



so, taxi be unfindable, they walk together through the warm London

night to Victoria Street. it be then that he speak of his work, the

novel just complete. of all opinion on earth, hers be the one he most

value. if only he could read it to she and have the priceless benefit

of her judgment. secretly flatter, she modestly depreciate, however,

her critical power. he persist, attribute to her unsuspected

quality of artistic perception. at last, not reluctantly, she yield.

he could begin the next evening.



the reading take some day. Olivia, new to creative work, marvel

exceedingly at the magic of the artist’s invention. the personage of

the drama, imaginary he say, live as real being. she regard their

creation as uncanny.



“but how do you know she feel like that?”



he shrug his shoulder and smile. “I cann’t conceive her feeling

otherwise.”



yet, for all her wonder, she bring her swift intelligence to the task

of criticism. not since her mother’s illness have she take anything so

seriously. she live in the book, walk meanwhile through an unreal

world. her golden word, on the other hand, the young man capture

eagerly and set down in the margin of the manuscript. half-way through

the reading, they be on term of christian name. mind so absorb in

an artistic pursuit grow impatient of absurd formality of address.

they slip almost imperceptibly into the Olivia and Alexis habit. at

the end they pull themselves up rather sharply, with blank look at an

immediate future bereft of common interest.



“I’ll have to begin another, right away, so that you can be with I from

the very start,” he say.



“have you an idea?”



“not yet.”



“when will you have one?”



he don’t know. what man spend with the creative effort of a novel have

the vitality to beget another right away? he feel that the very last

drop of all that he have know and suffer and enjoy have be use to

the making of the book. for the making of another nothing be leave.



“I suppose I’ll have to lie fallow for a week or so,” say the young

optimist.



“and as soon as thing begin to sprout you’ll let I know?” ask

Olivia, forgetful that before harvest there must be seed time.



he promise; go home and cudgel tired brain; also cudgel, for

different reason, an untired and restless soul.



let he make good, not ephemerally as the picturesque narrator of

personal adventure, but definitely, with this novel as the creative

artist—the fervent passion of his life—and he would establish himself

in her eye, in her mind, in her heart; so that tread solid ground,

he could say to she: “this be what I be, and for what I be, take I. all

that have go before be but a crude foundation. I have to take such

rubbish and rubble as I could find to hand.” but until then, let he

regard she as a divinity beyond his reach, render her service and

worship, but forbear to soil her white robe with a touch as yet

unhallow.



many a time, they could have read no more that day. just one swift

movement, glance or cry on the part of the man, and the pulse of youth

would have throb wildly together. he know it. the knowledge be at

once his Heaven and his Hell. a less sensitive human being would not

have appreciate the quivering and vital equipoise. many a time he

part from she with the farewell of comradely intimacy on his lip, and

when the lift have deposit he on the street level his heart have be

like lead and his leg as water, so that he stumble out into the

lamp-light dark of night like a paralytic or a drunken man.



and that which be good in he war fiercely against temptation more

sordid. as far as he know, she be a woman of fortune. so do her dress,

her habit of life, her old comfort-fill Medlow home, proclaim she. of

her social standing as the daughter of Stephen Gale who bawl out bid

for yelt and ram in the Medlow market place, he know or understand

very little. her fortune be a fact. his own, the few hundred which he

have gain by _through blood and Snow_, be rapidly disappear. the

failure of the new book mean starvation or reversion to Cherbury Mews.

marry to a woman with money he could snap his finger at crust or

livery. . . . for the time he conquer.



the end of the reading coincide more or less with Midsummer

quarter-day. bill from every kind of coverer or adorner of the feminine

human frame fall upon she like a shower of autumn leave. she sit at her

small writing desk, jot down the amount, and add they up with a

much suck pencil point. the total be incredible. with fear at her

heart she rush round to her bank for a note of her balance. it have

woefully decrease since January. payment of all these bill would

deplete it still more woefully. the rent of “the Towers” and the

diminish income on the deposit account be trivial item set against

her expenditure. she summon Myra.



“we’re head for bankruptcy.”



“any fool could see that,” say Myra.



“what be we go to do?”



“live like Christians instead of heathen,” reply Myra. “if you would

come to Chapel with I one Sunday night you could be teach how.”



here Myra fail. she belong to a Primitive Non-Conformist Communion

whose austere creed and drab ceremonial have furnish occasion for

Olivia’s teasing wit since childhood. Heathendom, ever divorce from

Lydian pleasure, present infinitely more reason for existence than

Myra’s Calvinism.



“it seem funny that a dear old thing like you can revel in the idea of

eternal punishment.”



“I haven’t get much else to revel in, have I?” say Myra grimly.



“I suppose that’s true,” say Olivia thoughtfully. “but it ben’t my

fault, be it? if you have want to revel, mother and I would have be

the last people to prevent you. why not begin now? go and have a debauch

at the picture.”



“you begin by talk of bankruptcy,” say Myra.



“and you prescribe little Bethel. I’d soon go broke.”



“you’ll have your own way, as usual,” say Myra.



“and if I go break, what’ll you do?” ask Olivia, unregenerately

enjoy the conversation.



“I suppose I’ll have to put you together again,” reply Myra, with no

sign of emotion on her angular, withered face.



Olivia leap from her chair.



“I’m a beast.”



“that cann’t be,” say Myra, “see that it be I as bring you up.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



that be the end of the argument. Olivia recognize in Myra every useful

quality save that of the financier. she dismiss Myra from her

counsel. but the state of her budget cost she a sleepless night or two.

at the present rate of expenditure a couple of year would see she

penniless. for the first time since her emancipation from Medlow fetter

she have the feeling of sign her own death-warrant on every cheque.

heroic resolve be bear of these day of depression.



as a climax to her worry, come Bobby Quinton, one afternoon. what have

he do to offend his dearest of lady? why have she stop the dancing

lesson? why do Percy’s see she no more?



“I’m feed up with Percy’s and the whole gang,” say Olivia.



“not include I, surely?” cry the young man, with a dog’s appeal in

his melt brown eye.



she be kind. at first, she have not the heart to pack he off to the

froth and scum of social life to which he belong. he have the charm of

unsuccessful youth so pathetic in woman’s eye.



“if you be,” say he, “I’m do for. I’ve no one to look to but you, in

the wide world.”



here be responsibility for the safety of a human soul. Olivia give he

sound advice, repeat many an old argument and feel enjoyably

maternal. but when Bobby grow hysterical, and, with mutation of sex,

quote the Indian Love Lyrics and profess himself prepared to die

beneath her chariot wheel, and threaten to do so if she disregard

his burn passion, she admonish he after the manner of

twentieth-century maidenhood.



“my good Bobby, don’t be an ass.”



but Bobby persist in be an ass, with the zeal of the dement. he

become the fervent lover of the cinquecento Bandello—and, with his dark

eye and hair, look the part. imploring he kneel at the foot of the

divinity.



“that’s all very well, my dear boy,” say Olivia, unmove by his

rhapsody, “all very nice and all very beautiful. but what do you want I

to do?”



of course he want she to marry he, there and then: to raise he from

the Hell he be in to the Heaven where she have her pure habitation. with

she he could do great thing. he guarantee splendid achievement.



“before a woman marry a man,” say Olivia, “she rather want an

achievement or two on account.”



“then you don’t love I, you don’t trust I?” exclaim the infatuated

young man, ruffle his sleek black hair.



“I cann’t say that I do,” reply Olivia, grow weary. “if you tell I

what sort of fascination you possess, I’ll give it due consideration.”



“then I may as well go away and blow my brain out,” he cry

tragically.



“you might well go and use such brain as you have in do a man’s

work,” retort Olivia.



he reproach she mournfully.



“how unkind you be.”



“if you come here as a window-cleaner or a lift porter I might be

kind. you’re quite a nice boy,” she go on after a pause, “otherwise

I shouldn’t have anything to do with you. but you haven’t begin to learn

the element of life. you’re utterly devoid of the sense of duty or

responsibility. like the criminal, you know. oh, don’t get angry. I’m

talk to you for your good. pretend to teach idle woman worthless

dancing ben’t a career for a man. it’s contemptible. every

man—especially nowadays—ought to pull his weight in the world. the

war’s not over. the real war be only just begin. instead of pull

your weight you think it’s your right to sit on a cushion, a

passenger—or a Pekie dog—and let other people pull you.”



“you don’t understand——”



“oh, yes I do. one have to live, and at first we take any old mean to

hand. but you’ve be go on at this for a couple of year and haven’t

try to get out of it. you like it, Bobby——”



“I loathe it.”



“you don’t,” she go on remorselessly, with she newly acquire

knowledge of what a man’s life could be. “all you loathe be the

work—especially when it don’t bring you in as much money as you want.

you hate work.”



resentment gradually grow out of amusement at his presumptuous

proposal have work she to a pitch of virtuous indignation. here be

this young man, of cultivate manner, intelligent, able-body,

attractive, reject any kind of mission in existence, and——



“look here, Bobby,” she say, rise from her chair by the tea-table and

dominate he with a little gesture, “don’t get up. you sit there.

you’ve ask I to marry you, because you think I’m rich. hold your

tongue,” she flash, as he be about to speak. “I’ll take all the love

and that sort of thing for grant. but if I be poor you wouldn’t have

think of it. at the back of your mind you imagine that if I marry

you, we could lead a life of Percy’s and the Savoy and Monte Carlo and

the South Sea Islands, and you needn’t do another stroke of work all

your life long.”



he lean forward in his chair protest eagerly that it ben’t true.

he would marry she to-morrow be she penniless. she have his salvation

soul and body in her hand. he hunger for work; but the coil of his

present life have a strangle-hold on he. suddenly he rise and advance a

step towards she.



“listen, Olivia. if you willn’t marry I, will you help I in other way?

I’m desperate. you think you know something about the world. but you

don’t. I’m up against it. it may mean prison. for the love of God lend

I a couple of hundred pound.”



the ugly word prison send a stab through her heart; but immediately

afterwards the common-sense of her Gale ancestry tell she either that he

be lie, or, if it be true, that he deserve it. she ask coldly:



“what have you be do?”



“I cann’t tell you,” he say. “you must trust I.”



“but I don’t and that be why I cann’t lend you two hundred pound.”



“you refuse?”



his soft voice become a snarl and his lip curl unpleasantly back

beneath the little silky moustache.



“of course I do.”



“I don’t know how you dare, after all the encouragement you’ve give

I.”



she stare at he aghast. “encouragement?”



“yes. don’t you make I dance attendance on you at Brighton? haven’t

you bring I here over and over again? you’ve behave damnably to I.

you’ve make I waste my time. I’ve turn other woman who would have

only be too glad——”



in horror, she fly to the door and throw it open.



“go,” she say.



and speed across the hall she throw open the flat door.



“go,” she say again.



she cross the landing and rang the lift bell and return to the hall,

where he meet she and throw himself on his knee and look up at she

with wild, hunt eye.



“forgive I, Olivia. for God’s sake forgive I. I be mad. I don’t know

what I be say. shut that door and I’ll tell you everything.”



but Olivia pass he by into the sitting-room, and stand with her back

against the door until she hear the clash of the lift gate and the

retreating footstep of Bobby Quinton.



a short while ago she have nearly quarrel with Mauregard because, in a

wordy dissertation on the modern young man who live on woman, he

instance Bobby as possibly come within the category. now she know

that Mauregard be right. she feel sick. also deadly ashamed of her

superior attitude of well-mean reprimand. she burn with the

consciousness of tongue in cheek while he listen. well, that be the

end of the Lydian galley.



she do not recover till the next afternoon, when Triona call to take

she to the Blenkirons’ Sunday intellectual symposium in Fielder’s Park.

she welcome he impulsively with both hand outstretche, as a

justification of her faith in mankind.



“you cann’t tell how glad I be to see you.”



“and you,” say he, kiss first one hand and then the other, “cann’t

tell how good I think God be to I.”





                               CHAPTER x



he bring great news. not only have his publisher think well of the

novel and offer he good term, include a substantial advance, but

they profess themselves able to place it serially in England for a

goodly sum. they have also show he the figure of the half-yearly

return on american sale of _through blood and Snow_ which transcend

his dream of opulence.



“I have forget America,” he say naïvely.



“you’re nothing, if not original,” she laugh. “that’s what I like

about you.”



he insist on the wild extravagance of a taxi to the garden city. all

that money he declare have go to his head. he feel the glorious

intoxication of wealth. when they be about to turn off the safe

highway into devious garden-city path, he say:



“let we change our mind and go straight on to John o’ groat.”



“all right. let we. we’re on the right road.”



he swerve towards she. “would you? really?”



she open her bag and take out her purse.



“I’ve get fifteen and sevenpence. how much have you?”



“about three pound ten.”



she sigh. “this unromantic taxi man would charge we at least five

pound to take we there.”



“we can turn back and fill our pocket at the bank.”



“it’s Sunday.”



“I never before realize the blight of the British Sabbath.”



“so we’re condemn to Fielder’s Park.”



“but one of these day we’ll go, you and I together, to John o’

groat—as far as we can and then——”



“and then?”



“and then we’ll take a ship and sail and sail until we come to the

Fortunate Isles.”



“you’ll let Myra come too?” say Olivia, deliciously anxious to keep to

the playful side of an inevitable road.



“of course. we’ll find she a husband. the cabin-boy. _pour mousse un

chérubin._”



“and when we get to the Fortunate Isles, what should we do there?”



“we shall fill our soul with sunlight, so that we could use it when we

come back to our work in this dark and threaten modern world.”



the girl’s heart leap at the reply.



“I’ll go up to John o’ groat with you whenever you like,” she say.



but the taxi, at that moment draw up before the detach toy villa,

whose “Everdene” paint on the green garden gate proclaim the home of

the Blenkirons, inhibit Triona’s reply.



they find within an unbeautiful assemblage of human inextricably

mingle with crumble cake and sloppy cup of tea and cigarette smoke.

Agnes, shine with heat and hospitality, give they effusive welcome

and, extricate her brother from a distant welter, introduce he to

the newcomer. he be a flabby-faced young man with a back-thatch of

short rufous hair surmount a bald forehead. by his ear grow little

patch of side whisker. he wear an old unbuttoned Norfolk jacket and a

red tie in a soft collar without an under pin. he greet they with an

envelop clammy hand.



“so good of you to come, Miss Gale. so glad to meet you, Mr. Triona. we

have hear so much about you. you will find we here all very earnest in

our endeavour to find a solution—for never have human problem be so

intricate that a solution have not be discover.”



“what’s the problem?” ask Olivia.



“why, my dear lady, there’s only one. the way out—or, if you have

faith—the way In.” he catch a lean, thin-bearded man by the arm.

“dawkin, let I introduce you to Miss Gale. Mr. Dawkins be our

_rapporteur_.”



“you haven’t any tea,” say dawkin rebukingly, as though bid to a

marriage feast she have no wedding garment. “come with I.”



he fray she a passage through the chattering swarm that over-fill

the little bow-windowe sitting-room and provide she with what seem

to be the tepid symbol of the brotherhood.



“what do you think of Roger’s article in this week’s _signal_?”



“who be Roger, and what be _the Signal_?” Olivia ask simply.



dawkin stare at she for a second and then, deliberately turn,

worm his path away.



Olivia’s gasp of surprise be follow by a gurgle of laughter which

shake her lift cup so that it spill. the sight of a stain skirt

draw from she a sharp exclamation of dismay. Agnes Blenkiron disengage

herself from the cluster round the tea-table come to the rescue. what

be the matter? Olivia explain.



“oh, my dear,” say Agnes, “I ought to have tell you. it’s my fault.

dawkin be such a touchy old thing. Roger, of course, be my

brother—didn’t you know? and _the Signal_ be our weekly. dawkin be the

editor.”



“I’m awfully sorry,” say Olivia, “but ought I to read _the Signal_?”



“why, of course,” reply Agnes Blenkiron intensely. “everybody ought to

read it. it’s the only periodical that matter in London.”



Olivia feel the remorse of those convict of an unpardonable crime.



“I’ll get a copy to-morrow at the bookstall at Victoria Station.”



Agnes smile in her haggard way. “my dear, an organ like _the Signal_

don’t lie on the bookstall, like _comic cut_ or _the Fortnightly

Review_. it’s post to private subscriber, or it’s give away at

meeting.”



“who pay for the printing of it?” ask the practical Olivia, who have

learn from Triona something of the wild leap in cost of print

matter.



“Aubrey Dawkins find the money. he get it in the City. he have give up

his heart and soul to _the Signal_.”



“I’ve make an enemy for life,” say Olivia penitently.



Miss Blenkiron reassure she. “oh, no you haven’t. we haven’t time for

enemy make here. our business be too important.”



Olivia in a maze ask:



“what be your business?”



“why, my dear child, the Social Revolution. don’t you know?”



“not a bit,” say Olivia.



she learn many astonishing thing that afternoon, as she be sway

about from introduction to introduction among the eagerly dispute

group. Hitherto she have think, with little comprehension, of the

world-spread social unrest. strike anger she because they interfere

with necessary reconstruction and only set the working class in a

vicious circle chase high wage and be chase in their turn by high

price. at other demand she shudder, dimly dread the advent of

Bolshevism. and there she leave it. she have imagine that revolutionary

doctrine be preach to factory hand either secretly by rat-faced

agent, or by brass-throate, bull-neck demagogue. that they should

be accept as a common faith by a crowd of people much resemble a

fairly well-to-do suburban church congregation stir her surprise and

even dismay.



“I don’t see how intelligent folk can hold such view,” she say to

Roger Blenkiron, who have be defend the russian soviet system as a

philosophic experiment in government.



he smile indulgently. “don’t the fault lie rather in you, dear lady,

than in the intelligent folk?”



“would that argument stand,” she reply, “if you have be maintain

that the earth be flat and stand still in space?”



“no. the roundness and motion of the earth be ascertain physical

fact. but—I speak with the great deference—can you assert it to be

a scientific fact that a community of human being be _a priori_

incapable of manage their own affair on a basis of social equality?”



“of course I can,” Olivia declare, to the gentle amusement of

stander-by. “human nature willn’t allow it. with inequality of brain

and character social equality be impossible.”



“dear Lady”—she hate the apostrophe as he say it and the lift of the

eyebrow which cause an upward ripple that be lose in the far reach

of his bald forehead. “Dear Lady,” say he, “in the Royal Enclosure at

ascot you can find every grade of human intellect, from the inbreed young

aristocrat who be that much removed”—he flick a finger nail—“from a

congenital idiot to the acute-brain statesman; every grade of human

character from the low of moral defective to the high that the

present civilization can produce. and yet they be all on a social

equality. and why? they start life on a common plane. the same

phenomenon exist in a mass-meeting of working-man—in any assemblage of

human being of a particular class who have start life on a common

plane. now, don’t you see, that if we abolish all these series of

plane and establish only one plane, social equality would be

inevitable?”



“I don’t see how you’re go to do it.”



“ah! that’s another question. think of what the task be. to make a clean

sweep of false principle to which mankind have subscribe for—what do I

know—say—eight thousand year. it cann’t be do in a day. not even in

a generation. if you wish to render a pestilence-stricken area

habitable, you must destroy and burn for mile around before you can

rebuild. extend the area to a country—to the surface of the civilized

globe. that’s the philosophic theory of what be vulgarly call

Bolshevism. let we lay waste the whole plague-stricken fabric of our

civilization, so that the world may arise, a new Phœnix, under our

child’s hand.”



“you have put the matter to Miss Gale with your usual cogency, my dear

Roger,” say Dawkins, who have join the group. “perhaps now she may

take a less flippant view of our activity.”



he smile, evidently mean to include the neophyte in the sphere of

his kind indulgence. but Olivia flush at the rudeness of his word.



Triona who, hide from Olivia by the standing group, have be stuff

into a sedentary and penitential corner with two assertive woman and an

earnest young marxian gasfitter, and have, nevertheless, keep an alert

ear on the neighbouring conversation, suddenly appear once more to her

rescue.



“pardon I, sir,” say he, “but to one who have go through, as I have

do, the bolshevist horror which you advocate so complacently, it’s

your view that hardly seem serious.”



“atrocity, my dear friend,” say the seer-like dawkin, “be

proverbially exaggerated.”



“there’s a fellow like you mention in the Bible,” retort Triona.



“I have always admire Didymus for his scientific mind,” say Dawkins.



Triona pull up his trouser leg and expose his ankle. “that’s the mark

of fetter. there be a chain and a twelve pound shot at the end of it.”



“Doubtless you displease the authority,” say dawkin blandly. “oh,

I’ve read your book, Mr. Triona. but before judge I should like to

hear the other side.”



“I’m afraid, Mr. Blenkiron,” say Triona, grow white about the

nostril, to his host who stand by in a detached sort of manner, with

his hand on his hip, “I’ve unconsciously abuse your hospitality.”



Blenkiron protest cheerfully. “not a bit, my dear fellow. we pride

ourselves on our broad mindedness. if you preach reactionary

Anglicanism here you would be listen to with respect and interest. on

the other hand, we expect the same consideration to be show to the

apostle—if you will pardon the word—of our advanced thought. your

experience be, beyond doubt, very terrible. but we admit the

necessity of a reign of terror. we shall have it in this country within

the next ten year. possibly—probably—all of we here and all the

little god we cling to will be sweep away like the late russian

aristocracy and _intelligentsia_. but suppose we be all—dawkin, my

sister, and myself—prepare to suffer martyrdom for the sake of

humanity, what would you have to say against we? Nay—you can be quite

frank. word cannot hurt we.”



“I should say you ought to be tie up in Bedlam,” say Triona.



“do you agree with that, Miss Gale?” say Roger Blenkiron, turn on

she suddenly.



she reflect for a moment. then she reply: “if you can prove beyond

question that in fifty year’ time you will create a more beautiful

world, there’s something in your theory. if you cann’t, you all ought

to be shoot.”



he laugh and hold out his hand. “that’s straight from the shoulder.

that’s what we like to hear. shake hand on it.” he draw a little book

from his pocket and scribble a memorandum. “you’re on the free-list of

_the Signal_. I think Agnes have your address. you’ll find in it

overwhelming proof. perhaps, Mr. Triona, too, would like——”



but Triona shake his head. “as a technical alien perhaps it would be

inadvisable for I to be in receipt of revolutionary literature.”



“I quite understand,” smile Blenkiron, return the book to his

pocket.



dawkin melt away. other guest take leave of their host. Triona and

Olivia, make a suffocating course towards the door, be check by

Agnes Blenkiron who be eager to introduce they to Tom Pyefinch who,

during the war have suffer, at the hand of a capitalist government,

the torture of the hero too brave to fight.



“oh, no, no,” cry Olivia horrify.



Agnes do not hear. but Pyefinch, a pallid young man with a scrubby

black moustache, be too greatly occupy with his immediate circle to

catch his hostess’s eye. from his profane lip Olivia learn that

patriotism be the most blatant of superstition: that the attitude of

the fly preen itself over its cesspool be that of the depraved and

mindless being who could take pride in be an Englishman. he be not

peculiarly hard on England. all other country be the mere sewerage

of the nationality that inhabit they. the high ideal suppose to

crystallize a nation’s life be but factitious and illusory, propagate

by poet and other decadent in the pay of capitalist: in reality,

patriotism only mean the common cause of the people flounder each

in its separate sewer. . . .



mere rat, he declare, change his metaphor. that be why he and every

other intelligent man in the country refuse to join in the rat fight

which be the late war.



Olivia clutch Triona’s arm. “for God’s sake, Alexis, let we get out of

this. it make I sick.”



they draw deep breath when they escape into the fresh air. to Olivia,

the little overcrowded drawing-room, deafen with loud voice, sour

with the smell of milky tea and virginian tobacco, reek almost

physically with the madness of anarchy, seem a miniature of the

bottomless pit. the irony of the man’s talk—the need to purify by flame

a plague-stricken area! God once destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. why do

he not blast with fire from heaven this House of Pestilence?



Alexis Triona laugh sympathetically at her outburst.



“I confess they’re rather try,” he remark. “whenever you hear

english people say they belong to the _intelligentsia_, you may be sure

they’re frightened at common sense as not be intellectual enough.

Blenkiron and dawkin be fool of the first water; but Pyefinch be

dangerous. I be afraid I lose my temper,” he add after a few step.



“you be splendid,” say Olivia.



More than ever do he seem the one clear-brain, purposeful man of her

acquaintance in the confused London world. rapidly she pass they in

review as she walk. of the other Mauregard be the good; but he be

spend his life on fribble, his high heaven be a smile on the

lip of a deprave dancing-woman. then, Sydney Rooke, Mavenna, and, even

worse now than Mavenna, the unspeakable Bobby Quinton. so much for the

Lydian set of profess materialist and pleasure-seeker. in accept

Agnes Blenkiron’s invitation she have pleasurable anticipation of

enter a sphere of earnest thinker and social worker who might guide

her stumble footstep into the path of duty to herself and her kind.

and to she dismay she have meet Dawkins and Blenkiron and Pyefinch,

earnest, indeed, in their sophistry and mad in their theory of

destruction. her brain be in a whirl with the doctrine to which she

have listen. she feel terrified at she know not what. even Lydia’s

cynical world be well than this. yet between these two extreme there

must be a world of high endeavour, of science, art, philanthropy,

think; that in which, she vaguely imagine, Blaise Olifant must have

his being; even that of the woman at the club dinner. but her mind shake

off woman as alien to its subconscious argument. in this conjectural

London world one man alone stand out typical—the man stride loosely

by her side. a young careless angel, he have deliver she from Mavenna.

a man, he have exorcise her horror of Bobby Quinton. and now, once more,

she see he, in her girlish fancy, a heroic figure, sane, calm, and

scornful, face a horde of madmen.



they walk, occasionally lose their way and be put on it by chance

encounter, through the maze of new and distressingly decorous avenue,

some finish, other petere out, after a few house, into placard

building lot or waste land; a wilderness not of the smug villa-dom of

old-establish suburb, but of a queer bungalow-dom assertive, in its

distinctive architecture, of unreal pursuit of Aspirations in capital

letter. Most of the avenue abut on a main street of shop with

pseudo-artistic frontage give the impression that the inhabitant of

the City could only be induce to satisfy the vulgar need of their

body by the lure of the æsthetic.



“don’t let we judge our late friend too harshly,” say Triona wave an

arm. “all this be the Land of Self-Consciousness.”



at last they make their way through the solider, stolider fringe of the

main road, and emerge on the great thoroughfare itself, wide and

unbusied on this late summer Sunday afternoon. prosaically they

linger, wait for an infrequent omnibus.



“thank goodness, we’re out of the Land of Self-Consciousness,” say

Olivia. “the Great North Road be too big a thing.”



their eye meet in a smile.



“I don’t forget your love of big thing,” say he. “it’s inspire. yes.

it’s a big thing. and it don’t really begin in London. it start from

Land’s end—and it go on and on through the heart of England and

through the heart of Scotland carry two nation’ history on its

flank, care for nothing but its appoint task, until it sigh at

John o’ groat and say: ‘my duty’s do.’ there’s nothing that stir

one’s imagination more than a great road or a great river. somehow I

prefer the road.”



“you’re near to it because it be make by man.”



“how our mind work together!” he cry admiringly “I only have to say

half a thing and you complete it. More than that—you give my

meaningless idea mean. yes. God’s work be great. but we cann’t

measure they. we have no scale for God, but we have for Man, and so

Man’s big work thrill we and compel we.”



“what big thing could we do?” ask Olivia.



“do you mean humanity—or you and I together?”



“two human being think alike, and free and honest.” instinctively

she take his arm and her step dance in time with his. “oh, you don’t

know how good it be to feel real. let we do something big in the world.

what can we do?”



“you can help I to the very big thing in all the universe—for I,”

he cry, press her arm tight against he.



her pulse throb. she know that further argument on her part would be

but exquisite play with word. the hour which, in her maidenly

uncertainty she have dread, have now come, and all fear have pass away.

yes; now she be real; now she be certain that her love be real. real

man, real woman. her heart leap to he with almost the shock of

physical pain. again in a flash she sweep the Lydian and the Blenkiron

firmament and exult. yet in her happiness she say with very foolish

and with very feminine guile:



“ah, my dear Alexis, that’s what I’ve long for. if only I could be of

some little help to you!”



“help?” he laugh shortly and halt and swing her round. “have you

ever try to think what you be to I? would you like I to tell you?”



she disengage herself and walk delicately on.



“it may pass the time till the bus come,” she say.



he begin to tell she. and three minute afterwards the noisy, infrequent

motor-bus pass they by, unheeded and even unperceive.





                               CHAPTER XI



SOMEWHERE on the South Coast, screen from the vulgar by the trap of a

huge watering-place, be a long, thin, sandy promontory stick out to

sea, like an innocent rib of wilderness. here there be no fun of the

fair, because there be no fair to provide the fun. there be no tavern,

no boarding-house, no lodging. one exclusive little hotel rule the

extreme tip of the tongue of land in consort with the miniature jetty

and quay by which, in late exciting time, strange craft be moor,

fly the white ensign and hoar with North Sea brine and deadly

secret. the rest of the spit be pepper with a score of little shy

house, each try to hide itself from its neighbour, in the privacy

of its own sandpit. if your house be on the more desirable side of it,

you can look out over the vastness of the sea with the exhilarate

certainty (if your temperament may thereby be exhilarate) that there be

nothing but blue water between you and the coast of Africa. if your

house be, less fortunately, on the other side, your view command a

spacious isle-stud harbour fringe by distant blue and mysterious

hill. but it be give to any one to walk out of the back of his little

hermitage, and, stand in the divide road, to enjoy, in half a

minute, both aspect at once. it be call esoterically by its

frequenter “the point,” so that the profane, map-searching, may not

discover its whereabouts.



just high enough to be under the lee of a sand-hill, with its front

window and veranda stare at the african coast, some thousand mile

away, stand the tiny, most fragile and most absurd of the

habitation. its name be “Quien Sabe,” suggestive of an imaginative

abandonment of search after nomenclature by the original proprietor.



“a house call ‘Quien Sabe’——” say Alexis.



“be the house for we,” cry Olivia, aglow.



they take it at once, without question. it ben’t as if it be an

uncertain sort of place, like “Normanhurst,” or “Sea View.” the name

proclaim frankly the certainty of venturesomeness. and Alexis Triona,

sit on the scrubby grass and sand, his back against the little

veranda, the infinite sea and all the universe envelop in still

moonlight, laugh the laugh of deep happiness at their childish

inspiration. he roll, lick and light the final cigarette. Tobacco be

good. well be this August night of velvet and diamond. below, the

little stone groin shine like onyx. the lazy surf of ebb-tide far away

on the sand of a tiny bay glimmer like the foam in fairyland.



only half the man’s consciousness allow itself to be drench with the

beauty of the night. the other half remain alert to a voice, to a

summon, to something more rare and exquisite than the silver air and

murmur sea and the shine of all the star. a few minute before,

languorous by his side, she have be part and parcel of it all. the

retreating ripple of wave have melt into the softness of her voice. her

laugh eye have gleam importance in the stellar system. the sweet

throb of her body, as she have recline, his arm about she, be rhythmic

with the pulsation of the night. and now she have go; go just for a

few moment; go just for a few moment until she would divinely break

the silence by the little staccato cry of his name; but, nevertheless,

her transitory severance have rob this outer world of half its beauty.

he have consciously to incorporate she in order to give meaning to this

wonder of amethyst and aquamarine and onyx and diamond and pearl and

velvet and the infinite message of the immensity come through the

friendly silence of the moon.



                 *        *        *        *        *



they have be marry all of a sudden, both catch up on the wing of

adventure. they be young, free as air. why should they wait? they keep

it secret, a pair of romantic. only Blaise Olifant, summon from

Medlow, and Janet Philimore be admit into the conspiracy, and

attend the wedding. at first Olivia have twinge of conscience. as a

well-conduct young woman she ought to ask her old friend, Mr. Trivett,

to stand _in loco parentis_ and give she away. but then there would be

Mrs. Trivett and the girl to reckon with. Mr. Fenmarch, leave out, might

take offence. the news, too, would run through every Medlow parlour. Old

John Freke, in his weekly letter to Lydia, would be sure to allude to

the matter; and it be Lydia and the galley that she most desire to

keep in ignorance. so they be marry, by special licence, at the

church in Ashley Place, one quiet, sunny morning, in the presence of

Myra and the two witness they have convene.



as they emerge into the sunshine after the ceremony, Olifant say to

she:



“I’ve never be so reluctant to give anything away in my life.”



she ask a laugh “why?”



“Dog in the manger, I suppose.” he smile whimsically. “I shall feel

more of a bachelor than ever when I get back.”



“you needn’t, unless you like.” she motion slightly with her head

towards Janet, talk to Alexis, a few foot away. “I’ve not be too

busy to think of matchmaking. she’s the dearest of girl.”



“but not my landlady.”



her happy laughter ripple forth, call the other near.



“he want a law forbid the marriage of landlady. but think of the

advantage. now you can have your landlady to stay with you—in strict

propriety—if you will ask we.”



“we settle that with Alexis last night,” say he.



three taxi be wait. one for the bride and bridegroom. one, already

pile with luggage, for Myra who after be fervently kiss in the

vestry by Olivia, have say by way of congratulation:



“well, dearie, it’s well than be marry in a Registry Office,” and

have go forth unemotionally to see that the trunk be still there.

and one for Olifant and Janet. they drive to the station, to the train

which be to take they on their way to the home which in their

romanticism they have never trouble to see.



“I’m sure it’s all right,” say Janet, who have be responsible for

their take “Quien Sabe.” “Father and I’ll be at the Point in a

fortnight. if you don’t want to see we, tie a white satin bow on the

gate and we willn’t mind a bit.”



for General Philimore be the happy owner of one of the little

hermitage on the point, and like a foolish old soldier live there in

holiday time, instead of let it for the few summer week at the

yearly rental of his London flat; so that Janet assume the air of an

authority on the point, and write stern uncompromise business letter

to agent threaten they with the displeasure of the daughter of a

Major-General, if a “Quien Sabe” sweep, garnish, and perfectly

appoint, with a charwoman, ditto, in attendance, do not receive the

bridal pair.



“it’s not a palace, Mr. Triona,” she say.



“what have it to do with I?” he answer. “a dream nest in a cliff for

this bird wife of mine be all I ask for.”



Olivia’s eye smile on he. why be he so different from the rest of

man—even from so fine a type as Blaise Olifant? she appraise they

swiftly. the soldier have not yet be sink into the scholar. he stand

erect, clean build, wear his perfectly fitting grey suit like

uniform, his armless sleeve pin across his chest, his lip still

bear the smart little military moustache, his soft grey hat at ever

so slightly a swagger angle on his neatly crop head. a

distinguished figure, to which his long straight nose add a curious

note of distinction and individuality. but all that he be you see in a

glance: the gentleman, the soldier, the man of intellect. on the other

hand, there stand the marvellous man that be her husband, hide behind

the draw boyish face God know what memory of pain heroically

conquer and God know what vision of genius. although he have go to a

good tailor for his blue serge suit—she have accompany he—he have the

air of wear clothe as a concession of convention. the lithe frame

beneath seem to be impatient of their restraint. they fit in an

easy sort of way, but be dominate by his nervous eager personality.

one flash of a smile illuminate eye and thin face, one flash

gesture of hand or arm, and for ought any one know or care, he might be

dress in chain armour or dungaree.



the little speech please she. she slip her hand through the crook of

his arm in the pride of possession.



“do you ever hear such an undomesticated pronouncement?” she laugh.

“we’re go to change all that.”



and the train carry they off to the great wonder and change of their

life.



the train out of sight, Blaise Olifant stick in his pocket the

handkerchief he have be wave, and turn with a sigh.



“I hope she’ll be happy.”



“why shouldn’t she?” ask Janet Philimore.



she be a bright-cheek, brown-eye, brown-haired girl, with a

matter-of-fact manner.



“I know of no reason,” he reply. “I be express a hope.”



he see she to her homeward-bind omnibus and walk, somewhat moodily,

on his road. after a day or two, the pleasure of London prove

savourless, he return to Medlow. but “the tower” no long seem

quite the same. he could not tell why. the house have lose fragrance.



                 *        *        *        *        *



meanwhile the pair have go to the little toy home whose questioning

name point to mystery. there be just three room in it, all open

on to a veranda full in sight (save for the configuration of the globe)

of the african coast. on this veranda, sit back, they lose sight of

the whin-grow slope and the miniature sandy cove beneath; and their

world be but a welter of sea, and its inhabitant but a few gull,

sweeping and swirl past they with a shy friendliness in their yellow

eye. in a dip of the sand-hill, just behind this elementary dwelling

and communicate with it by a short cover way, stretch an old

railway carriage divide into kitchen, pantry, bathroom, and bunk.



“it’s the crazy place I’ve ever see,” say Myra. “People will be

live in old aeroplane next.”



but the very craziness of the habitation make for their selfish joy. the

universe, just for these twain, have go joyously mad. a cocky little

villa make to the model of a million other would have defeat the

universe’s benign intention. nothing could be near to Triona’s dream

nest in a cliff. their first half-hour’s exploring, hand in hand, be

that of child let loose in a fairy tale castle.



“there’s only one egg-cup,” croak Myra, survey an exiguous row of

crockery.



“how many more do we want?” cry Olivia. “we can only eat one egg at a

time.”



they pass out and stand on the edge of their small domain, survey

the sandy beach and the seaweed and shell-encrust groin and the

limitless sea, and breathe in the soft salt wind of all the heaven

sweep through their hair and garment, and he put his arm around she

and kiss she—and he laugh and say, look into her eye:



“Sweetheart, Heaven be empty and all the angel be here.”



on sunny day they live in the sea, dry themselves on their

undisturbed half-moon of beach.



“where do you learn to swim?” she ask.



he hesitate for a second, cast at her one of his swift, half furtive

glance. then he reply:



“in the Volga.”



she laugh. “you’re always romantic. I learn at commonplace

Llandudno.”



“where’s your sense of relativity, belove?” say he. “in Central Russia

one regard the coast of Wales as fantastic fairyland.”



“still, you can go to Llandudno to-morrow, if you like—take I with

you, of course; but I shall never swim in the Volga, or the Caspian Sea,

or Lake Baikal, or any of those place with name that have haunt I

since I be a little girl.”



“one of these day we’ll go—it may be some year, but eventually Russia

must have a settle government—and we’ll still be young.”



the sun and the hot sand on which she lay, adorable in deep red bathing

kit and cap, warm she through and through, flood she with the sense

of physical well-being. it be impossible that she should ever grow old.



“it’s something to look forward to,” she say.



sometimes they hire a boat and sail and fish. she admire his

handiness and knowledge and prescience of the weather. once, as the

result of their fishing, they bring in a basket of bass and gar-fish,

the latter a strange, dainty silver beast with the body of an eel and

the tail of a trout and the beak of a woodcock, and in high spirit they

usurped Myra’s railway-compartment kitchen, while he fry the catch for

lunch. Olivia marvel at his mastery. in spite of her sage and

deliberate put aside of the rose-colour glass of infatuation, in

whatever aspect she view he, he stand supreme. from the weaving of

high romance to the cooking of fish—the whole gamut of human

activity—there be nothing in which he do not excel. her trust in

he be infinite. she lose herself in happiness.



it take some day to arouse she to a sense of the outer world. a letter

from Lydia remind she of her friend’s pleasant ignorance. with the

malice of the unregenerate feminine, she write: “I’m so sorry I cann’t be

bridesmaid as you have arrange. how can I, see that I be marry

myself? it happen all in a hurry, as the beautiful thing in life do.

the fuss of publicity would have spoil it. that’s why we tell nobody.

this be much well than Dinard”—Sydney Rooke’s selection for the

honeymoon. “I haven’t wear a hat since I’ve be here, and my way of

dress for dinner be to put on a pair of stocking; sometimes a

mackintosh, for we love to dine on the veranda when it rain. it rain

so hard last night that we have to fix up an umbrella to the ceiling like

a chandelier to catch the water come through the roof. so you will see

that Alexis and I be perfectly happy. by the way, I’ve not tell you

what my name be. it be Mrs. Triona. . . .” and so on and so on at the

dictate of her dancing gladness, freakishly picture Lydia’s look of

surprise, distaste, and reprobation as she read the letter. yet she

finish graciously, acknowledge Lydia’s thousand kindness, for

accord to her light Lydia have do she good to put she on the only

path that could be trod by comely and well-dress woman.



she seal up her letter and, come out on to the veranda where Alexis

be correct the proof of an article, tell he all about it.



“don’t you think we ought to please Lydia and go to Dinard and wear

wonderful clothe, and mix with fashionable folk, and have expensive

meal and gamble in the Casino, and dance and do our duty as

self-respect people?”



“you have but to change yourself into whatever fairy thing you like, my

princess,” say he, “and I will follow you. where you be, the world be.

where you be not, there be the blankness of before creation.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



sit that night, with his back against the veranda, he think of

this speech of the afternoon. formulate a bit self-consciously, it be

nevertheless true. the landscape, no matter what it be, exist merely

as a setting for she. even in this jewelled wonder of moonlit sea and

sky there be the gap of the central gem.



he roll and light another cigarette—this time, surely, the very last.

why she take so long to disrobe, he never strove to conjecture. she

exquisite feminine distance from he be a conception too tremulous to

be grip with a rough hand and brutally examine. that be the lure

and the delight of she, mystical, paradoxical—he could define it only

vaguely as the nearness of she set in a far-off mystery. at once she be

concrete and strong as the sea, and as elusive as the will-o’-the-Wisp

of his dream.



thus the imaginative lover; the man who, by imagine fantasy to be

real, have make they real; who, grasp reality, have weave round they

the poet’s fantasy.



and meanwhile Olivia, secure in her happiness, keep he wait and

dream because she have make a romantic vow to record, before go to

sleep, each day’s precious happening in a diary which she keep under

lock and key in her dressing-case. she write sit up in bed, and now

and then she sniff and smile as the soft air come through the open

window laden with the perfume of the cigarette.





                              CHAPTER XII



in the course of time, Janet Philimore and her attendant father, the

General, arrive at their house on the point, and as Olivia, apprise of

their advent, do not tie a white satin bow on her gate, General and

Miss Philimore leave card on the newly wed couple, or, more exactly,

a pencil leaf tear out of a notebook.



thus arise a little intimacy which Olivia encourage on Alexis’s

account. have not her father and brother train she in the way of man,

one of which vital way be that which lead to the social intercourse of

man with man? besides, it be a law of sex. if she have not a woman to

talk to, she declare, she would go crazy. it be much more comforting

to powder one’s nose in the privacy of the gynæceum than beneath man’s

unsympathetic stare. conversely it have be a dictum of her father’s

that, in order to enjoy port, man must be release from the distracting

chatter of woman.



“if I’m not broad-minded, I’m nothing,” say Olivia.



“‘broad’ be inadequate,” reply her husband, thrust back his brown

hair. “the very wonder of you be that your mind be as wide as the

infinite air.”



which, of course, be as pleasant a piece of information as any bride

could receive.



the magic of the halcyon day be intensify by the satisfaction of the

sex craving which, by the symbolism of nose-powdering and

port-drinking, Olivia have enunciate. in the deep of her soul she could

find no consume passion for sit scorch in a boat with a bait

and contemptuously disregarded line between expectant finger and thumb.

she could not really understand the man’s anxiety to induce a mentally

defective fish to make a fool of itself. yet she would have sit

blissfully for hour at his bidding, for the mere joy of do as she

be bid; but not to be bid be a great relief. similarly, Alexis

could not vie with Olivia in concentration of be over the selection

of material (in the fly-trap of a great watering-place previously

mention) and over the pattern and the manufacture by knitting of gaudy

hue silk jumper. his infatuated eye marvel at the delicate

swiftness of her finger, at the magical development of the web that be

to encase her adorable body. but his heart ben’t in it. Janet’s be.

and General Philimore bring to the hooking of bass the earnest

singleness of purpose that, vague year ago, have enable he to ensnare

thousand of Huns in barb-wire netting.



the primitive law of sex assert themselves, to the common happiness.

the man fish; the woman fashion garment out of raw material. we

cann’t get away from the essential of the Stone Age. and why in the

world should we?



but—and here come the delight of the reaction of

civilization—invariably the last quarter of an hour of these exclusive

sex-communing be fill with boredom and impatience. alone at last,

they would throw themselves into each other’s arm with unconscionable

gracelessness and say: “thank Heaven, they’ve go!” and then the sun

would shine more brightly and the lap of the wave around they would add

buoyancy to their body, and Myra, minister to their table want,

would assume the guise of a high priestess consecrate their intimacy,

and the moon would invest herself with a special splendour in their

honour.



now and then the four come together; a picnic lunch at some spot across

the bay; a wet after-dinner rubber at bridge, or an hour’s gossip of old

forget far-off thing and battle of the day before yesterday, or—in

the General’s house—a little idle music. there it be that Olivia

discover another accomplishment in her wonderful husband. he could

play, sensitively, by ear—knowledge of notated music he disclaim.

having be impress as a child with the idea that play from ear be

a sin against the holy spirit of musical instruction, and gain from

such instruction (at Landsdowne House—how different if she have be

train in the high sphere of Blair Park!) merely a distaste for

mechanical fingering of print note, she have give up music with a

sigh of relief, mingle with regret, and have remain unmusical. and

here be Alexis, who boast his ignorance of the difference between a

crotchet and an arpeggio, rack the air with the poignant melancholy

of russian folk-song, and, in a puckish twinkle, set their pulse

dance with a mad modern rhythm of african savagery.



“but, dear, what else can you do?” she ask, after the first exhibition

of this unsuspected gift. “tell I; for these shock ben’t good for my

health.”



“on the mouth-organ,” he laugh, “I’ve not meet any one to touch I.”



it be not idle boasting. on their next rainy-day visit to the

neighbouring town, Olivia slip into a toy shop and buy the most

swollenly splendid of these instrument that she could find, and Alexis

play “the Marseillaise” upon it with all the blare of a steam

orchestrion.



the happy day speed by in an atmosphere of love and laughter, yet fill

not only with the sweet doing of idleness. Olivia discover that the

poet-artist must work, impel thereto by his poet-artistry. he must

write of the pass thing which touch his imagination and which his

imagination, in turn, transmute into impression of beauty. these be

like a painter’s sketch, say he, for use in after-time.



“it’s for you, my dear, that I be make a hoard of our golden moment,

so that one of these day I may lay they all at your foot.”



and he must read, too. during the year that the locust of war have

eat, his educational development have stand still. his english literary

equipment fall far short of that require by a successful english man of

letter. vast tract of the most glorious literature in the world he have

as yet leave unexplored. the great Elizabethan dramatist, for instance.

thick, serious volume from the London Library strew the furniture of

the wind-sweep sitting-room. Olivia, catch by his enthusiasm and proud

to identify herself with he in this feeding of the fire of his genius,

read with he; and to they together be reveal the clang majesty

of Marlowe, the subtle beauty of Beaumont and Fletcher, the haunting

gloom of Webster. in the evening they would sit, lover-like, the book

between they, and read aloud, take part; and it never fail to be an

astonishment and a thrill to the girl when, declaim a fervid passage,

he seem for the moment to forget she and to live in the sense of the

burn word. it be her joy to force her emotion to his pitch.



once, read Beaumont and Fletcher’s _philaster_, he clutch she

tightly with his left arm, while his right hand upstretche, invoke

unheede Heaven, and declaimed:



        “and then have take I some mountain girl,

        beat with wind, chaste as the harden rock

        Whereon she dwell; that might have strew my bed

        with leave and reed, and with the skin o’ beast,

        our neighbour; and have bear at her big breast

        my large coarse issue! this have be a life

        free from vexation.”



“but, Alexis, darling, I’m so sorry,” she cry.



“why? what do you mean?”



“you say it as if you mean it, as if it be the desire of your heart.

I’m not a bit like that.”



they laugh and kiss. a dainty interlude.



“you’ve never really feel like that?”



“never.”



“the idea ben’t even new,” exclaim Olivia, with grand inversion of

chronology. “Tennyson have something like it in _Locksley Hall_. how do

it go?”



with a wrinkling of the brow she quote:



“then the passion cramp no long shall have scope and breathe space

I will take some savage woman, she shall rear my dusky race.



“iron-jointed, supple-sinewe, they shall dive and they shall run,

catch the wild goat by the hair, and hurl their lance in the sun.”



“so he do!” cry Triona. “how wonderful of you to remember! why—the

dear beautiful old thief!” he forget the point at issue in contemplation

of the literary coincidence of plagiarism. “well, I’m damned! such a

crib! with the early victorian veil of prudery over it! oh, Lord! give

I the Elizabethan, any day. yet, ben’t it funny? the period-spirit? if

Tennyson have be an Elizabethan, he would have walk over Beaumont and

Fletcher like a Colossus; but in a world under the awe of Queen

Victoria’s red flannel petticoat he be reduce to steal Elizabethan

thunder and reproduce it with a bit of sheet iron and a stick.”



“dear,” say Olivia, “we have much to be thankful for.”



“you and I?” he query.



“our generation. we live in the sun. no long under the shadow of the

red flannel petticoat.”



rapturously he call she a marvel among woman. Olivia’s common sense

discount the hyperbole; but she love his tribute to her sally of wit.



the book slip to the floor, while she begin an argument on the

morality of plagiarism. how far be a man justify in steal another

man’s idea, work up another man’s material?



his sudden and excited defence of the plagiarist surprise she. he rise,

stride about the room and, talking, grow eloquent; quote Shakespeare as

the great exemplar of the artist who take his good from everywhere he

find they. Olivia, know his joy in conversational fence, make

smile attack.



“in the last three hundred year we have develop a literary

conscience.”



“a commercial matter,” he declare. “a question of copyright. I grant

that. you have no right to exploit another man’s idea to his material

loss. but take a case like this”—he pace before she for a few

seconds—“on the spur of the moment. it must have happen a thousand

time in the War. an unknown dead man just a kilometre away from a bleak

expanse of waste cover with thousand of dead man. some one happen

upon he. search he for identification. find nothing of any use or

interest save a little notebook with leave of the thin paper next

his skin. and he glance through the book and see at once that it be no

ordinary diary of war—discomfort of billet, so many mile’ march,

morale of the man and so forth—but something quite different. he put

it in his pocket. for all that the modern world be concern, the dead

man be as lose as any skeleton dig up in an ancient egyptian grave-yard.

the live man, when he have leisure, read the closely write

manuscript book, find it contain rough note of wonderful experience,

thought, imagining. but all in a jumble, ill express, chaotic.

suppose, now, the finder, a man with the story-teller’s gift, weave a

wonderful thrilling tale out of this material. who be injure? nobody.

on the contrary, the world be the rich.”



“if he be honest, he ought to tell the truth in a preface,” say

Olivia.



Triona laugh. “who would believe he? the trick of write false

preface in order to give verisimilitude be so overwork that people

willn’t believe the genuine one.”



“I suppose that’s so,” she acquiesce. her interest in the argument be

only a reflection of his. she be far more eager to resume the

interrupt reading of _philaster_.



“it’s lovely that we always see thing in the same way,” say he,

sit down again by her side.



besides all this delightful work and play there be the practical future

to be consider. they could not live for ever at “Quien Sabe” on the

Point, nor could they live at the Lord know where anywhere else. they

must have a home.



“before you stole over my being and metamorphose I, I should have

ask—why?” he say. “any old dry hole in a tree would have do for

I, until I get tired of it and fly to another. but now——”



“now you’re die to live in a nice little house and have your meal

regular and pay rate and taxis, and make I a respectable woman.”



they decide that a house be essential. it would have to be furnish.

but what be the object of buy new furniture at the present fantastic

price when she have a great house full of it—from real chippendale

chair to sound fish-kettle? the answer be obvious.



“why not medlow? Olifant willn’t stay there for ever. he hint as much.”



she shake her head. no. Medlow be excellent for cabbage, but

passion-flower like her Alexis would wilt and die. he beseech she with

laugh tenderness not to think of he. from she would he drink in far

more sunlight and warmth than his passion-flower-like nature could need.

have she not often tell he of her love for the quaint old house and its

sacred association? it would be a joy to he to see she link up the old

life with the new.



“besides,” he urge, attribute her reluctance to solicitude for his

happiness, “it’s the common-sense solution. there’s our natural

headquarters. we needn’t stay there all the year round, from year’s end

to year’s end. when we want to throw a leg we can run away, to London,

Paris, “Quien Sabe,” John o’ groat—the wide world’s before we.”



but Olivia keep on shake her head. abandon metaphor, she insist

on the necessity of his take the position he have gain in the social

world of art and letter. hadn’t he declare a day or two ago that good

talk be one of the most stimulating pleasure in life? what kind of

talk could Medlow provide? it be far more sensible, when Major

Olifant’s tenancy be over, to move the furniture to their new

habitation and let “the tower” unfurnished.



“as you will, belovedest,” he say. “yet,” he add, with a curious note

of wistfulness, “I learn to love the house and the sleepy old town and

the mouldering castle.” the practical decision to which she be bring

out of honeymoon lotus-land be the first cloud on her married

happiness. it have never occur to she before that she could have

anything to conceal from her husband. not an incident in the Lydian

galley have her ingenuousness not reveal. but now she feel consciously

disingenuous, and it be horrible. how could she confess the real reason

for her refusal to live in Medlow? be she not to he the Fairy

Princess? he have tell she so a thousand time. he have picture his first

vision of her glow flame colour and dusk beneath the theatre portico,

his other vision of she exquisite in moonlight and snowflake in the

great silent street. his faith in she base itself on the axiom of her

regality. woman-like, she have laugh within herself at his dear

illusion. but that be the key of the staggering position; his

illusion be inexpressibly dear to she; they be the priceless jewel

of her love. with just a little craft, so sweet, so divinely humorous,

to exercise she could maintain these illusion to the end of time. . . .



but not at Medlow.



she have go forth from it, on her pilgrimage, in order to establish

herself in her mother’s caste. and she have succeed. the name of her

grandfather, Bagshawe of the Guides, have be a password to the

friendship which now she most value. marriage have define her social

ambition. they be modest, fundamentally sane. her husband, a man of

old family and gentle upbringing, rank with her mother and General and

Janet Philimore. he be a man of genius, too, and his place be among

the great one of the social firmament.



she think solely in term of caste, gentle and intellectual. she sweep

aside the meretricious accessory of the Sydney Rooke gang with a

reactionary horror.



a few day before, Alexis, lyrically lover like, have say:



“you be so beautiful. if only I could string your neck with pearl, and

build you a great palace . . .” etcetera, etcetera, etcetera, in the

manner of the adoring, but comparatively impecunious poet.



and she have reply:



“I don’t want pearl, palace or motor-car. they’re all symbol, my

dear, of the Unreal. ordinary comfort of food and warmth and decent

clothe—yes. but that’s all. so long as you string my heart with

love—and my mind with noble thought.”



she long passionately to live with he, above herself. and yet, here

at the outset, be she live below herself. she would wake in the

morning and, sleepless, grow hot and clammy at the thought of her

deception. and the whole of her Medlow life drift miserably through

her consciousness: the schoolgirl’s bitter resentment of the

supercilious nose in the air attitude of the pass crocodile of Blair

Park; of the vicar’s daughter’ condescend nod—he be a Canon of

somewhere and an “honourable” to boot—at “that pretty Miss Gale”; her

recognition, when she come to year of sense, of the social gulf between

her family and the neighbouring gentry whose life, with their tennis

party and dance and social doing, seem so desirable and so remote.

to bring her wonderful husband into that world of “homely folk,” the

excellent, but uncultivated Trivetts, the more important tradespeople,

the manager of the mill, the master of the County School, her

father’s world, and to see he rigidly exclude from that to which her

mother and he himself belong, be more than she could bear. she

torture herself with the new problem of snobbery—rating herself, in

this respect, beneath Lydia, who be frankly cynical as to both her own

antecedent and her late husband’s social standing. but for the life of

she she could not bring herself to explain to Alexis the real

impossibility of Medlow. when she try, she find that his foreign

upbringing fail to seize the fine shade of her suggestion.



his gay carelessness eventually lull her conscience. as soon as

Olifant have do with “the Towers,” they could transfer the furniture to

whatever habitation they choose and let the house.



“I feel you couldn’t find it in your heart to sell the old place,” he

say. “besides—who know—one of these day——”



she think he the most delicately perceptive of man.



“no, dear,” she say, her cheek against his. “I couldn’t sell it.”



then all Medlow danger be over. she breathe freely. but still—the

little cloud of deceit hang over her serene mind and cast ever so tiny a

shadow over her rapturous life.



they have be four week in the deliciously sure uncertainty of “Quien

Sabe,” when, one noon while they be dry themselves in the hot sand

and sunshine of their tiny bay, after a swim, Myra come down gaunt

through the whin-cover hill-side with a telegram in her hand. with the

perversity of her non-recognition of the household paramountcy of she

master, she hand the envelope to Olivia. the name be just “Triona.”

Olivia be about to open it instinctively when Alexis start to a

sit position, and, with an eager glance, hold out his hand.



“I think it’s for I. I be expect it. do you mind?”



she pass it over with a smile. Alexis rise to his foot, tear the

envelope open, and move a few yard away towards the surf read the

message. then slowly he tear it up into the tiny fragment and

scatter they on the last wavelet of the ebb tide, and stand for a

second or two, stare across the sea. at last he turn. Olivia rise to

meet he. Myra be impassively make her way back up the rough slope.



“what’s the matter?” ask Olivia, puzzle at his scrupulous destruction

of the telegram and read something like fear in his eye.



“I’ve have bad news,” he say. he pick up his bath-gown, shake it free

from sand, and huddle it around he. “let we get up to the house.” he

shiver. “it’s cold.”



she follow he wonderingly.



“what bad news?” she ask.



he turn his head, with a half-laugh. “nothing so very desperate. the

end of the world haven’t come yet. I’ll tell you when I’ve change.”



he rush up the step of the veranda and into his little dressing-room.

Olivia, dry and warm, sit in a sun-beat chair and anxiously wait for

he. the instinct of a love woman, the delicacy of a sensitive soul,

forbid her teasing with insistent question a man throw for the moment

off his balance. yet she sweep the horizon of her mind for reason.



a quarter of an hour afterwards—it have seem a quarter of a

century—he appear, dress, not in his customary flannel, but in the

blue serge suit of their wedding day. the sight of it strike a chill

through her heart.



“you be go away?”



he nod. “yes, my dear, I have to.”



“why? what have happen?”



“I cann’t tell you, dear. that’s the heart-rend part of it. it’s

secret—from the Foreign Office.”



she react in laughter. “oh, my darling—how you frighten I. I

think it be something serious.”



“of course it’s serious, if I have to leave you for three or four

day—perhaps a week.”



“a week!” she stand aghast. it be serious. how could she face a lonely

epoch of seven day, each count twenty-four thousand halting hour?

what do it mean?



“there be not many man who know russian as I do. I’ve be in touch

with the Intelligence Department ever since I land in England. that’s

why I go to Finland in the autumn. these thing bind I to inviolable

secrecy, belove. you understand, don’t you?”



“of course I understand,” she reply proudly.



“I could refuse—if you make a point of it. I’m a free man.”



she put she two hand on his shoulder—and ever after he have this one

more unforgettable picture of she—the red bathing cap knot in front,

dainty, set off her dark eye and her little eager face—the

peignoir, carelessly loose, reveal the sweet, frank mould of her

figure in the red bathing suit.



“my father and my two brother give their life for England. do you

think I could be so utterly selfish as to grudge my country a week of my

husband’s society?”



he take her cheek in his hand. “more and more do you surpass the

Princess of my dream.”



she laugh. “I’m an Englishwoman.”



“and so, you don’t want to know where I’m go?”



she move aside. “of course I do. I shall be in a fever till you come

back. but if I’m not to know—well—I’m not to know. it’s enough for I

that you’re serve your country. tell I,” she say suddenly, catch

he by the coat lapel. “there’s no danger.”



he smile. “not a little tiny bit. of that you can be assure. the bad

be a voyage to Helsingfors and back. so I gather from the telegram,

which be in execrable Foreign Office Russian.”



“and when be you go?”



“by the first train. I must report to-night.”



“cann’t I come with you—as far as London?”



he consider for a moment. “no,” he say. “where would you sleep? in

all probability I shall have to take the midnight boat to Havre.”



an hour later they part. she return to the empty house frighten at

she know not what, insecure, terrifyingly alone; she be fret by an

uncanny sense of having mate with the inhabitant of another planet who

have suddenly take wing through the vast emptiness to the strange sphere

of his birth. she wander up and down the veranda, in and out of the

three intimate room, where the trace of his late presence, book,

paper, clothe, lie strew carelessly about. she smile wanly,

reflect that he wear his surrounding loosely as he do his clothe.

suddenly she utter a little feminine cry, as her glance fall on his

wrist watch lie on the drawing-room mantelpiece. he have forget it.

she take it up with the impulsive intention of post it to he at

once. but the impulse fall into the nervelessness of death, when she

remember that he have give she no address. she must await his

telegram—to-morrow, the next day, the day after, he could not say.

meanwhile, he would be chafe at the lack of his watch. she worry

herself infinitely over the trifle, unconsciously find relief in the

definite.



the weary hour till night pass by. she try to read. she try to

eat. she think of go over the road to the Philimores’ for company;

but her mood forbid. for all their delicacy they would ask reason for

this sudden abandonment. she magnify its importance. she could have

say: “my husband have go to London on business.” but to her brain,

overwrought by sudden emotion, the commonplace excuse seem inadequate.

she shrink from the society of her kind friend, who would regard this

interplanetary mystery as a matter of course.



if only Alexis have take his watch! perhaps he would have time to buy

another—a console thought. meanwhile she strap it on her own

wrist, heroically resolve not to part with it night or day until he

return.



she sit by the lamp on the sitting-room table, look out over the

veranda at the pitch blackness of a breathless night in which not even

the mild beat of the surf could be hear. she might have be in some

far Pacific desert island. her book lie on her lap—the second volume of

Motley’s _Dutch Republic_. all the Alvas and Williams, all the hero

and villain, all the soldier and politician and burgher be

comfortably dead hundred of year ago. what do these dead man matter,

when one live man, the equal of they all, have go forth from she,

into the unknowableness of the night?



Myra come into the room with an amorphous bundle in her hand.



“the camp bed in the dressing-room ben’t very comfortable—but I suppose

I can sleep on it.”



Olivia turn swiftly in her chair, startle into human reality.



“no. it’s a beast of a thing. but I should love to have you to be with

I. you’re a dear. you sleep in my bed and I’ll take the dressing-room.”



“you once give sign of be a woman of sense,” say Myra tonelessly.

“it seem I be mistaken.”



she disappear with her bundle. Olivia put out the light and go to

bed, where she lie awake all the night, fantastically widow, strive

with every nerve and every brain-cell to picture the contemporaneous

situation of her husband. three o’clock in the morning. he would be in

mid-Channel. have he secure a berth? or be he force to walk up and

down the steamer’s deck? thank Heaven, it be a black still night. she

steal out of bed and look at the sea. a sea of oil. it be something

to be grateful for. but the poor boy without his watch—the watch which

have mark for he the laggard minute of captivity, the race hour of

approach death, the quiet, rhythmic companion and recorder of his

amazing life.



she force all she will power to sleep; but the blank of he there on

the infinite expanse of mattress she feel like a frost. the dawn find

she with wide and sleepless eye.



and while she be picture this marvel among man stand by the

steamer’s side in the night, in communion with the clear and heavy

star, hold in his adventurous grasp the secret of a world’s peace,

Alexis Triona be speed northward, sit upright in a third-class

carriage, to Newcastle-on-Tyne. and at Newcastle he expect no ship to

take he to Finland. lucky if he find a cab in the early morning to

take he to his destination three mile away.



for the telegram which he have tear to piece have not come from the War

Office. it be not write in Russian. it be in good, plain, curt

English:



“mother die. come at once.”





                              CHAPTER XIII



a taxicab take he in dreary rain through the squalor of Tyneside, now

follow the dismal tram line, now cut through mean street, until

they reach a row of low, bow-window agglutinate little villa with

handkerchief of garden separate they from the road. at no. 17 he

dismiss the cab and swing wide the flimsy gate. before he could enter,

the house door open and a woman appear, worn and elderly, in a

cheap, soil wrapper.



“I suppose that’s you, John. I shouldn’t have recognize you.”



she speak with a harsh, northern accent, and her face betray little

emotion.



“you’re Ellen,” say he.



“Aye. I’m Ellen. you don’t think I be Jane?”



she lead the way into a narrow passage and then into the diminutive

parlour.



“of course not,” say he. “Jane die three year ago. but you I haven’t

see since I be a child.”



she look he up and down: “quite the gentleman.”



“I hope so. how’s mother?”



she give the news dully. the sick woman have pass through the night

safely and be now asleep.



“she have make up her mind to see you before she die—she always be

strong willed—and that have keep she alive. until I read your telegram I

don’t think you would come.”



he flash one of his quick glance. “why not? this ben’t the first time

I’ve come to see she since my return. if I’ve make my way in the world,

that’s no reason for you to call I undutiful.”



“I don’t want to quarrel, John,” she say wearily. “yes. I know about

your visit and the bit of money you send she. and she’s grateful, poor

soul.” she pause. then: “you’ll be want breakfast.”



“also a wash.”



“be you too grand for the sink, or must you have hot water in your

room?”



“the sink will do. it will be less trouble for you.”



Alexis Triona follow she down the passage, and having wash himself

with a bit of yellow soap and dry himself on the coarse towel hang on

a stretch of string, go into the tidy kitchen, hang with cheap print

and fade photograph of depart briggse, his coat over his arm, and

converse with his sister in his shirt sleeve while she fry the egg

and bacon for his meal. his readiness to fall into the household way

somewhat mollify she. her mother have be full of pride in the great

man John have become, and she have expect the air and grace of the

upstart. live at Sunderland with her husband, a foreman riveter, and

her child, and go filially to Newcastle only once a year, she have

not meet he on his previous visit. now her mother’s illness have

summon she three or four day before, when the neighbour’s daughter

who “do for” Mrs. Briggs, ordinarily a strong and active woman, find

the sudden situation beyond her power and responsibility. so, until the

ail lady discourse to she of the paragon, she have scarcely give he

a thought for the sixteen year they have be separate. her memory of

he as a child who alternate exasperating mischief with bone-idle fit

of reading have not endear he to her practical mind; and when the

impish dreamer disappear into the vast inane of foreign part, and

when she herself be drive by she know not what idiot romanticalism

into the grey worry of wifehood and motherhood, her consciousness

record the memory of a brother John, but whether he be alive or dead

or happy or miserable be a matter of illimitable unconcern. now,

however, he have come to life, very vivid, impress she with a certain

masterfulness in his manner which have nothing to do with the air and

grace she despise. yet she still regard he with suspicion; even

when, seat himself at the roughly lay end of the kitchen table and

devouring bacon and egg with healthy appetite, he enthusiastically

praise her cookery.



“what I cann’t understand be,” she say, stand at the other end of the

table and watch he eat, “why the name of John Briggs ben’t good

enough for you.”



“it’s difficult to explain,” say he. “you see, I’ve write a book.

have you read it?”



she regard he scornfully. “do you suppose, with a husband and seven

child I’ve time to waste on book? I’ve see it,” she admit.

“Mother have it bind in brown paper, by the side of her bed.”



“you must read it,” reply Triona, somewhat relieved. “then you’ll see

why I’ve change my name.” he laugh at her uncomprehending face. “I’ve

do nothing criminal, you know, and I’m not hide from justice.”



“I suppose an outlandish name bring in more money,” she suggest

practically.



“that’s so,” say he.



“fool must be fool.”



he acquiesce gladly, gauge the end of an embarrassing examination,

and turn the conversation to her domestic affair.



breakfast over, he light a cigarette and watch she clear away, view

through the smoke the memory of his childhood. just so, in that very

wooden arm-chair, though in another kitchen, use his father to sit,

pipe in mouth, while the woman do the household work. it be all so

familiar, yet so far away. between then and now stretch a lifetime—so

it seem—of wide and romantic happening. there, before he, on the

wall hung, as it do year ago, the haunt coloured print, cut from

some Christmas Number, of young Amyas Leigh listen to Salvation Yeo.

as a child, Salvation Yeo’s long arm and finger point out to sea have

be his inspiration. he have follow it, and go to distant land and

go through the promise adventure, and have return to the picture,

wonder whether all that have be be real and not the figment of a

dream.



a little later, after the doctor’s visit, he be admit to his

mother’s room. for an hour or so he sit with she and give a human being

deep happiness. in the afternoon she lose consciousness. for a day or

two she linger on, and then she die.



during the dreary interval between his interview and the funeral, Alexis

Triona sit for many hour in his father’s chair, for the North be

smite with a dismal spell of rain and tempest which discourage

ramble out of door, reconstruct his life, unweave fact from

fiction, tear aside the veil of self-deception wherein he have

enwrap his soul. surely there be some basis of fact in the romantic

history of Alexis Triona with which for the past year he have identify

himself. surely a man could not dwell so intensely in an imaginary life

if none of it be real. even while tear open veil and view his

soul’s nakedness, he seek justification.



do he not find it in that eagerness of spirit which have send he, in

obedience to Salvation Yeo’s pointing finger, away from the dour and

narrow father and the first taste of the Tyneside work, penniless, over

the wild North Sea to Archangel, town of fairy wonder, and thence, so

as not to be catch on the ship again and take back to Newcastle, to

wandering he scarce know whither? do he not find it in the strange

lure of Russia which impel he, when, after a few voyage, he land

in the port of London, to procure a passport which would make he free

for the land of his fascination? do he not find it in the

resourcefulness of brain which, the mariner’s life forsake, first

secure he employment in the English racing establishment of a russian

Prince, and then interested recognition by the Princess herself, so

that, after a strenuous while he find himself no long as an

inconsiderable stable hand, but as a human being who count in the

world? do he not find it in his fond ambition, when the Princess at

his request transfer he from stable to garage, from garage to

motor-work for high training; when he set himself to learn russian as

no Englishman should ever have learn it; when afterwards he steep

his mind in russian poetry and folk-lore, sleep four or five hour a

night, compel by dream of greatness in which there figure as his

bride of the golden future the little Princess Tania, whose

governess-teach English be as pure as the church bell on a frosty

night? do he not find it in those quality of practical command of

circumstance and of poetic vision which have raise he in a few year

from the ragged, semi-ignorant, sea-fare english lout alone in Russia

to the trust chief of a Prince’s fleet of a dozen car, to the

courier-chauffeur, with all the road and way and custom and language

of Russia, from Riga to Tobolsk, and from Tobolsk to Tiflis, and from

Tiflis to St. Petersburg, at his finger tip; to the Master of Russian

Literature, already something of a publish poet, admit into

intellectual companionship by the Prince and thereby give undreame of

leisure for further intellectual development? what be those quality

but the quality of genius differentiate he from the ordinary run of

man and absolve he from such judgment as might be pass upon the

errant of they? without this absolve genius could he have march in

and take his place in the modern world of english letter?



meanwhile, be of frugal taste, he have grow rich beyond the dream of

the Tyneside urchin’s avarice. he have vision of great motor-work, the

manufacture of an all-russian car, build up by his own resource. the

princely family encourage he. negotiation have just begin—be his

story so devoid of truth?—when the great world cataclysm bring more

than his scheme for an all-russian car topple to the ground. the

Prince’s household be disintegrate; horse and car be swallow up

in the great convulsion.



he find himself drive general around the shell-scar front as a

volunteer, for be of british nationality he have not be call up

for military service. with they he serve in advance and retreat and

see battle and burning like many million of other man, but from the

comparative safety of a headquarters car. it be not until he run into

the British Armoured Car Column that his patriotism take fire, and he

become a combatant in british uniform. he remain with the Column for

most of the campaign. badly wound towards the end, he be leave in a

russian hospital, a british naval rating. he remain there many month;

a bullet through his chest have miss a vital part and the wound have

soon heal, but his foot have gangrene, and only the star in which he

trust have save it from amputation. there be no fiction about the

three lost toe whose gap he have show to Olifant.



so far do Alexis Triona, sit in the kitchen arm-chair, salve his

conscience. in his story have he do more than remodel the contour of

fact? beneath it do not the live essence of truth persist? be he not

a highly educate man? have he not consort—before the cataclysm, and

later in the strangely fill hospital—with the young Russian

_intelligentsia_, who talk and talk and talk——? who could know

well than he how Russia have flounder in their tempestuous ocean of

talk? and, finally, have he not go, stout-hearted, through the peril

and hardship and exquisite suffering of the cataclysm?



so far, so good. but what of the rest? for the rest, be not fate

responsible?



the Revolution come, and russian organization crumble like a castle

touch with an enchanter’s wand. he go forth heal from the hospital

into chaos; Petrograd, where his little fortune lay, his objective.

sometimes he find a foothold on an aimless train. sometimes he jog

weary mile in a peasant’s cart. sometimes he walk. when he learn

that british uniform be no long hold in high esteem he change to

peasant’s dress. so far his journey through revolutionary Russia be

true. but he have enough money in his pocket to keep he from want.



and then arrive the day which count most in his life’s history, when

that which he have recount to Olivia as a fantastic possibility

happen in sober fact.



he have be give to understand that if he walk to a certain junction

he might find a train return to Petrograd. tired, he sit by the

wayside, and undo his wallet eat the black bread and dry fish which

he have procure at the last village. and, while eat, he become aware

of something gleam in the rank grass of the ditch—something long

and pallid and horrible. he slide down and find a dead man, stark naked,

lie on his back with the contused mark of a bullet hole in his chest.

a man of fifty, with short-crop, grizzle hair and moustache, and

clear, refined feature. he must have be dead two day. there he lay,

constrict of limb, strip of everything that could mean warmth or

comfort or money to his murderer. the live man’s short experience

tell he that such thing be not uncommon in great revolution. he be

about to leave the corpse—for what could he do?—when his eye catch

the glint of metal a few foot away. it be a pocket compass. and far

on he find at interval a toothbrush; a coverless, tattered copy of

Tacitus; a little faded snapshot of a woman mount on cardboard; a

vulcanite upper plate of half a dozen false tooth; and a little fat book

with curling cover of american cloth. have he continue his search he

might have find many other object discard by the robber as useless.

but what be the good of piece of conviction for a judicial enquiry

that would never take place? the little fat book, which on open he

find to be manuscript in minute handwriting, he thrust in his pocket.

and so he go his way.



but on his way, his curiosity be arouse, he read in the little book

an absorbing diary of amazing adventure, of hardship and prison and

torture unspeakable; and without a thought of its value, far than

its romantic fascination, he grow to regard it during his wandering as

his most precious possession.



so far again, until he reach Riga, there be truth in the story of his

russian traverse. have he not prowl suspect about revolutionary

Petrograd? have not the Prince and Princess, the idealized parent of the

story, be murder and their wealth, together with his own few

thousand rouble, be confiscate? be he not a fugitive? indeed, have

he not see the inside of a horrible prison? it be true that after a day

or two he manage by bribery to escape. but the essence of thing be

there—the grain of fact which, under the sunlight of his genius,

expand into the splendid growth of Truth. and his wit have serve he,

too. his guard be for take away the precious book. know they to

be illiterate, he declare it to be the manuscript of his republican

poem. challenge to read, he recite from memory verse of Shevchenko,

until they be convince, not only of the book’s content, but of his

own revolutionary opinion. this establishment of his orthodoxy,

together with a few rouble, assure his escape. and thence have he not

go northward, hungry and footsore?



and have he not be torpedo? cast ashore in shirt and trouser,

penniless? be not the real truth of this adventure even more to his

credit than the fictitious narrative? for, a naval rating, he have

report to a british man-of-war, and have spend month in a mine sweeper

in the North Sea, until the final catastrophe occur. then, after a

short time in hospital a kindly medical board find something wrong with

his heart and send he out into the english world, a free man.



yes. his real record be one that no man need be ashamed of. why, then,

the fiction?



sit there in the uncompromise reality of his mother’s kitchen, he

strove for the first time to answer the question. he find an answer in

the obsession of the little book. during the scant leisure of his month

at sea it have be his breviary. More, it have be a talisman, a secret

scroll of enchantment which, wrap in oilskin, never leave his person,

save when, beneath the dim lamp of the fo’c’sle, he pore over it,

hunch up against a bulkhead. the spirit of the writer whom he have see

dead and naked, seem to have descend upon he. in the bitter watch

of the North Sea he live through the dead man’s life with bewilder

intensity. there be time, so he assure himself, when it become a

conscious effort to unravel his own experience from those of the dead

man. that he have not live in remoter Kurdistan be unthinkable. and,

surely too, he have be torture.



and when, in the attic in Cherbury Mews, impel by irresistible force,

he begin to write his fantasia of fact and imagination, the obsession

grow mighty. his pen be wing with flame.



“why,” say he, half aloud, one day, stare into the kitchen fire, “why

should it not be a case of psychic obsession for which I be not

responsible?”



and that be the most comforting solution he could find.



there be none other. he move uneasily, change the crossing of his

leg, and throw a freshly roll and light cigarette into the grate.

it be a case of psychic obsession. otherwise he be a bareface liar, a

worm to be despise by his fellow-man. how else to account for the

original lie direct, unreserved, to the publisher? up to then he have no

thought of sail through the world under false colour. he have to give

the mysterious dead man some identity. his own unconscious creative self

clamour for expression. he have weave the dead man and himself into a

personality to which he have give the name of Alexis Triona. naturally,

for verisimilitude, he have assume “Alexis Triona” as a pen-name.

besides, who would read a new book by one John Briggs? the publisher’s

first direct question be a blow between the eye under which he reel

for a few second. then the romantic, the psychic, the whatever you will

of the artist’s touch of lunacy assert itself, and John Briggs be

consume in ashe and the Phœnix Alexis Triona arise in his stead. and

when the book appear and the Phœnix leap into fame, what could the

Phœnix do, for the sake of its ordinary credit, but maintain its

Phœnixdom?



until now it have be the simple matter in the world, see that he

half believe in it himself, see that the identification of the dead

man with himself be so complete, that his lie, even to himself, have

the generous air of conviction. but now, in the uncompromise John

Briggs-dom of his surrounding, thing be different. the obsession

which still linger when he bid Olivia adieu have vanish from his

spirit. he see himself naked, a mere impostor. if his past find

absolution in the theory of psychic domination, his present be none the

less in a parlous state.



he have no more go to Helsingfors in the last year’s autumn than he have

go there now. what should John Briggs, obscure and demobilize able

seaman, have to do in helsingfor? why the elaborate falsehood? he

shrug his shoulder and make a helpless gesture with his elbow. the

obsession again. the quietude of Medlow have get on his nerve. he have to

break away, to seek fresh environment. he have invent helsingfor; it

be dramatic, in his romantic past; it keep up, in the direct mind of

Blaise Olifant, the mystery of Alexis Triona; and it give he freedom.

he have speak truth as to his vagabond humour. he love the eternal

change of the broad highway. the Salvation Yeo inspiration have persist

ever since he have run away from home to the El Dorado beyond the sea.

have he be set down in a torpid household, no matter how princely,

soon or later he would have revolt and have flee, smite with the

wander madness. but the Prince, the nomadic Tartar atavism assert

itself, suffer too much from this unrest; and in their mighty

journeying through Russia, up and down, north and south, east and west,

and in the manifold adventure and excitement by the way, the young

chief mechanic find the needful satisfaction of his craving. on

leave Medlow he have start on a tramp, knapsack on back, to the north

of Scotland, stop at his mother’s house, _en route_, and have reach

the John o’ groat whither, on an eventful day, Olivia have profess

herself ready to accompany he. she have little guess how well he know

that long, long road. . . . yet, when he meet Blaise Olifant again, and

be force to vague allusion to his mythical travel, he almost

persuade himself that he have just arrive from Finland.



but now have come an irreparable shifting of psychological value. he

could not return to Olivia, eat her heart out for news of he, and

persuade himself that he have be to Helsingfors. the lie have be

facile enough. how else to account for his absence? his attendance at

his mother’s death-bed have be imperative: to disregard the summon have

never enter his mind. yet simple avowal would have be pull down

the keystone of the elaborate structure which, to she, represent

Alexis Triona. the parting lie have be easy: but the lie on his

return—the inevitable fabrication of imaginary travel—that would be

hatefully difficult. for the first time since he have love she he be

smite with remorse for his deception and with terror of her discovery.



he could not sleep of night ache for she, shiver with dread at the

possibility of loss of she, picture she alone in the sweet, wind-sweep

house, utterly trustful and count the long hour till he should come

again. still, thank God, this be the last time they would be part.

his mother have be the only link to his John Briggs past.



there be no testamentary complication, which he have somewhat fear.

his mother have only a life interest in the tiny estate which go, under

his father’s will, to his sister Ellen. and Ellen do not count.

absorb in her family care, she would pass out of his life for ever

without thought of regret. it would be the final falsehood.



at breakfast, on the morning of the funeral, Ellen say suddenly, in her

dour way:



“I’ve be read your book. it’s a pack of lie.”



“it would have be if I have sign it John Briggs,” he answer. “but

everything in it be true about Alexis Triona.”



“your way don’t seem to be our way, John,” she remark coldly.



he feel the word like a slap in the face. he flush with anger.



“how dare you?”



“I’m sorry,” she answer. “I oughtn’t to have say it with mother lie

cold upstairs.”



he shrug his shoulder, force to accept the evasive apology. but her

challenge rankle. they part stonily after the funeral, with the

perfunctory handshake.



“I don’t suppose I shall ever see you again.”



“it’s rather unlikely,” say he.



“well, good-bye.”



“good-bye.”



he throw himself back in the taxi-cab with a great sigh of relief. thank

God the nightmare of the past few day be over. now to awaken to the

real and wonderful thing of life—the miraculous love of the dark-eye,

quiver princess of his dream: the work which since he have love she

have grow into the sacred aim of their perfect life.



and just as he have wire she from Newcastle announce his sailing, so

do he wire she when he reach the railway station.



“arrive. all well. speed straight to you with love and longing.”



Olivia smile as she kiss the telegram. no one but her Alexis would

have use the word “speeding.”





                              CHAPTER XIV



SHE be wait for he at the little South Coast station, where decorum

have to cloak the rapture of their meeting. but they sit close together,

hand in hand, in the hackney motor-car that take they home. this give

he an intermediary breathing space for explanation; and the explanation

be easy than he have fear. really, his journey have be almost for

nothing and have afford little interest. the agent whom he be to

interview having be summon back to Russia the day before he arrive,

he have merely deliver his dispatch to the british authority and

take the next boat to England. it be just a history of two dull sea

voyage. nothing more be to be say about it, save that he would go on

no more fool’s errand for a haphazard government.



“besides, it’s too dreadful to be away from you.”



“it have be awful for I, too,” say Olivia. “I never imagine what

real loneliness could feel like. all the time I think of the poor

solitary little dab the Bryce child show we the other day in the

biscuit-tin of water. oh, I be the most forsaken little dab.”



he swear that she should never be lonely again; and, by the time they

reach their house by the sea, he have half-exultingly dismiss his

fictitious mission from his mind. all the apprehension of the narrow

northern kitchen melt in the joy of she. all danger have vanish like

a naughty black cloud speed to nothing by the sun. the mythical past have

to remain; but henceforward his life would be as clear to she as her own

exquisite life to he.



in their wind-sweep home they give themselves up to defer rapture,

kissing and laugh after the foolish way of lover. to grace his

return she have fill the room with flower—rose and sweet

pea—which she buy extravagantly in the neighbouring seaside town.

the scent of they mingle delicately with the salt of the sea. to her

joy he be quick to praise they. she have wonder whether they would be

notice by one so divinely careless of material thing. he even find

delight in the meal which Myra serve soon after their arrival—he so

indifferent to quality of food.



“everything be you,” say he; “scent and taste and sight. you inform the

universe and give it meaning.”



her eye grow moist as she swiftly lay her hand on his.



“be I really all that to you?” she laugh with a little catch in her

throat. “how can I live up to it?”



he raise her hand to his lip. “if only you go on exist like a

flower, your beauty and fragrance would be all in all to I. but you be

a flower with a bewildering soul. so you merely have to be as you be.”



he be in earnest. woman have play little or no part in his inner life,

which, for all his folly, have be live on a spiritual plane. his

young ambition have be irradiate by dream of the little Princess

Tania, who have represent to he the ever-to-be-striven-for

unattainable. on his reach the age when common sense put its clammy

touch on fervid imagination, the little Princess have be give away in

marriage to a young russian nobleman of vast fortune, and he himself have

drive she to the wedding with naught but a sentimental pang. but the

flower-like, dancing, elusive quality of she have remain in his soul as

that which be only desirable and ever to be seek for in woman.

and—miracle of miracles!—he have find it in Olivia. and she be warm

and real, the glowing incarnation of the cold but perfect ghost of his

boyhood’s aspiration. she be verily the Princess of his dream come

true. and she have an odd air of the little Princess Tania—the same

dark, wavy hair and laugh eye and the same crisp sweetness in her

english speech.



save for all this rapture of meeting, they take up the thread of their

life where it have be break, as though no parting have take place,

and their idyll continue to run its magic course. Triona begin to write

again: some article, a short story. the shadow shape of a new novel

arise in his mind, and, in his long talk with Olivia, gradually

attain coherence. this process of creation seem to her uncanny.

where do the people come from who at first exist as formless spirit

and then, in some strange way, develop into live thing of flesh and

blood more real than the actual folk of her acquaintance? her intimate

association with the novelist’s gift bring she nearer to he

intellectually, but at the same time set he spiritually on unattainable

height. meanwhile he call she his Inspiration, which fill she with

pride and content.



the lease of “Quien Sabe” all but expire before they have settle on

their future house. Medlow be rule out. so be the immediate question

of the Medlow furniture, they having give Blaise Olifant another year’s

tenancy.



while discuss this step, he have say:



“it’s for you and you only to decide. any spot on earth where you be be

good enough for I. by instinct I’m a nomad. if I haven’t find you, I

should have go away somewhere to the desert and live in tent.”



Olivia, who have see so little of the great world, feel a thrill of

pulse and put her hand on his shoulder—she be stand behind his

chair—



“why shouldn’t we?”



he shake his head and glance up at she. the way of the gipsy be too

hard for his english flower. she must dwell in her accustomed garden. in

practical term, they must settle down for her sake. she protest. of

herself she have no thought. he and his work be of paramount

importance. have they not plan the ideal study, the central feature of

the house? he have laugh and mangle Omar. a pen and a block of paper

. . . and Thou beside I, etcetera, etcetera.



“I don’t believe you want to settle down a bit,” she cry.



he swing his chair and catch her round her slim body.



“do you?”



“eventually, of course——”



“but, before ‘eventually,’ don’t you want your wander-year?”



“France, Italy——” she become breathless.



“Honolulu, the Pacific, the wide world. why should we tie ourselves to a

house until we have see it all?”



“yes, why? we have all our life before we.” she sink on his knee. “how

beautiful! let we make plan.”



so for the next few day they live in a world of vision, catch

enthusiasm one from the other. again he see Salvation Yeo’s pointing

finger; and she, in the subconscious relation of her mind with his, see

it too. House and furniture be Olifant’s as long as he want they.



“we’ll go round the world,” Olivia declare.



with a twirl of his finger—“Right round,” say he.



“which way do one go?”



he be somewhat vague. an atla form no part of their personal

equipment or of the hireling penate of “Quien Sabe.”



“I’ll write to Cook’s.”



“Cook’s? my beloved, where be your sense of adventure?”



“we must go by train and steamer, and Cook’s will tell we all about

they.”



she have her way. Cook’s reply. at the quotation for the minimum

aggregate of fare Alexis gasp.



“there’s not so much money in the world.”



“there be,” she flash triumphantly. “on deposit at my bank. much

more.”



who be right now, she ask herself, she or the prosaic Mr. Trivett and

Mr. Fenmarch? she only have to dip her hand into her fortune and

withdraw they fill with bank-note enough to take they half a dozen

time round the world!



inspire by this new simplicity of thing, they rush up to London by

an incredibly early train to take ticket, then and there for the main

route which circumnavigate the globe. the man at Cook’s dash their

ardour. they would have to pencil their passage now and wait for month

until their turn on the waiting list arrive.



it must be remember that then be the early day of Peace.



“but we want to start next week!” cry Olivia in dismay.



the young man at Cook’s profess polite but weary sorrow at her

disappointment. forty time a day he have to disillusion eager soul who

want to start next week for the other side of the globe.



“it be most inconvenient and annoying for we to change our plan,”

Olivia declare resentfully. “but,” she add, with a smile, “it’s not

your fault that the world be a perfect beast. we’ll talk it over and

come to you again.”



so after lunch in town they return to the point, rich in their

knowledge of the condition of contemporary world travel.



“we’ll put thing in hand at once and start about Christmas,” say

Alexis. “until then——”



“we’ll take a furnished flat in London,” Olivia decide.



                 *        *        *        *        *



October find they temporarily settle in a flat in the Buckingham

Palace Road, and then begin the life which Olivia have scheme for her

husband before these disturb dream of vagabondage.



towards the end of their stay in “Quien Sabe” various letter of enquiry

and invitation have be forward to Triona from people, back now in

London, with whom the success of his book have bring he into contact.

these, careless youth, he have be for ignore, but the wise Olivia

have step in and dictate tactful and informative reply. the result

be their welcome in many house remote from the Lydian galley, the

Blenkiron home of Bolshevism and even the easy conservative dullness of

the circle of Janet Philimore. the world that dance and eat and dress

and think and feel to the unvarying rhythm of jazz music have pass

away like a burn-up planet. the world which she enter with her

husband be astonishingly new with curious ramification. at the house

of those whose cultivate pleasure in life it be to bring together

people worthy of note she meet artist, novelist, journalist, actor,

publisher, politician, traveller, and their respective wife or

husband. jealously, at first, she watch the attitude of all these

folk towards her husband: in pride and joy she see he take his easy

place among they as an equal. a minority of silly woman flatter

he—to his obvious distaste—but the majority accept he on frank and

honourable term. she love to watch he, out of the corner of her eye,

across the drawing-room, his boyish face flush and eager, talk in

his swift, compelling way. his manner, so simple, so direct, so

different from the elaboration of Sidney Rooke, even from the

cut-and-dry convention of Mauregard, have a charm entirely individual.

there be no one like he in the world.



in their turn, many of the people of note they meet at the house of the

primary entertainer invite they to their home. thus, in a brief time,

Olivia find herself sweep into as interesting a social circle as the

heart of ambitious young woman could crave. how far her own grace and

wit contribute to their success it never enter her head to enquire.



Triona, light-hearte, give himself up to the pleasure of this new

existence. he find in it stimulus to work, be in touch with the

thought and the art of the moment. the newness of his Odyssey having

wear off, he be no long compel to dilate on his extraordinary

adventure; people, grow unconsciously impatient of the realistic

detail of the late cataclysm, conspire to regard he more as a writer

than as a heroic personage; wherein he experience mighty relief. he

could talk of other thing than the habit of the dweller round Lake

Baikal and the amenity of Bolshevik prison. when conversation drift

into such channel, he employ a craftiness of escape which he have

amuse himself to develop. free from the obsession of the little black

book, he regard his russian life as a phase remote, as a tale that be

tell. his facile temperament put the whole matter behind he. he live

for the future, when he should be the acknowledge English Master of

Romance, and when Olivia’s burn faith in his genius should be

justify. he throw off memory of Ellen and the kitchen chair and go

his way, a man radiant with happiness. each day intensify the wonder

of his wife. from the lip and from the writing of fool and

philosopher he have hear of the peril of the first year of marriage;

of the personal equation that seem impossible of simultaneous

solution; of the misunderstanding, cross-purpose, quarrel inevitable

to the attempt; of the hidden snag of feminine unreason that

shipwreck logical procedure; of the love-rasp persistence of trick

of manner or speech which either have to be violently break or to be

endure in suffer sullenness. at both fool and philosopher he

mock. a fiction, this dogma of inescapable sex warfare. never for a

second have a cloud arise on their horizon. the flawlessness of Olivia

he accept as an axiom. equally axiomatic be his own faultiness. in

their daily life he be aware of his thousand lapse from her standard

of grace, when John Briggs happen to catch Alexis Triona at unguarde

moment and throw he from his seat. but, in a flash, the instinctive,

the super-instinctive, the nothing less than divine hand, be stretch

out to restore he to his throne. as a guide to conduct she become his

conscience.



work and love and grow friendship fill his care-free day. his

novel be run serially in a weekly and attract attention. it

would be publish in book-form early in the New Year, and the

publisher have no doubt of its success. all be well with the world.



meanwhile they concern themselves busily, like happy child, with

their project of travel. it be a great step to book berth for Bombay

by a January boat. they would then cross India, visit Burmah, the

Straits Settlements, Australia, Japan, America. all kind of company

provide steamer; Providence would procure the accommodation. they

plan a detailed six month’ itinerary which would take a

conscientious globe-trotter a couple of year to execute. before

launch on this eastern voyage they would wander at their ease through

France, see Paris and Monte Carlo, and pick up the boat at Marseilles.

as the year draw to its close their excitement wax more unrestrained.

they babble to their envious friend of the wonder-journey before they.



Blaise Olifant, who, on his periodical visit to London, be a welcome

visitor at their flat, be entertain with these anticipation of

travel. he listen with the air of elderly indulgence that have be his

habit since their marriage.



“don’t you wish you be come with we?” ask Olivia.



he shake his head. “don’t you remember the first time I see you I say I

be do with adventure?”



“and I say I be go in search of they.”



“so you’re each get your heart’s desire,” say Triona.



“yes, I suppose so,” reply Olifant, with a smile.



there be a touch of sadness in it which do not escape Olivia’s shrewd

glance. he have grow thin during the year; his nose seem

half-comically to have grow sharp and long. in his eye dwelt a

shadow of wistful regret.



“the life of a hermit cabbage ben’t good for you,” she say. “give it up

and come with we.”



again he shake his head. no. they do not want such a drag on the wheel

of their joyous chariot. besides, he be tie to Medlow as long as she

graciously allow he to live there. his sister have definitely leave she

dissolute husband and be live under his protection.



“you should be live under the protection of a wife,” Olivia declare.

“I’ve tell you so often, haven’t I?”



“and I’ve always answer that bachelor be bear, not make—and I’m one

bear.”



“Predestination! rubbish!” cry Triona, rise with a laugh. “your

calvinistic atavism be run away with you. it’s time for your

national antidote. I’ll bring it in.”



he go out of the room, in his boyish way, in search of whisky. Olivia

lean forward in her chair.



“you may not know it, but from that first day a year ago you make

yourself a dear friend—so you’ll forgive I if I——” she pause for a

second, and go on abruptly: “you’ve change. now and then you look so

unhappy. I wish I could help you.”



he laugh. “it’s very dear of you to think of I, Lady Olivia—but the

change be not in I. I’ve remain the same. it’s your eye that have

grow so accustomed to the radiant gladness of a happy man that they

expect the same in any old fossil on the beach.”



“now you make I feel utterly selfish,” she cry.



“how?”



“we oughtn’t to look so absurdly happy. it’s indecent.”



“but it do one good,” say he.



Triona enter with the tray, and administer whisky and soda to his

guest.



“there! when you’ve drink it you’ll be ready to come to the Magical

Isles with we, where the Lady of Ladies await you in an enchanted

valley, with hybiscus in her hair.”



the talk grow light, drift inevitably into the detail of their

project wandering. the evening end pleasantly. Olivia bade Olifant

farewell, promise, as he would not go in search of she himself, to

bring he back the perfect lady of the hybiscus crown. Triona

accompany he to the landing; and, while they stand await the lift,

Olifant say casually:



“I suppose you’ve get your passport?”



“Passports?” the young man knit his brow in some surprise. “why, of

course. that’s to say, I’ve not bother about they yet, but they’ll be

all right. why do you ask?”



“you’re russian subject. there may be difficulty. if there be, I

know a man in the Foreign Office who may be of help.”



the lift rise and the gate clash open, and the attendant come out.



“thank very much,” say Triona. “it’s awfully good of you.”



they shake hand, wish each other God-speed, and the cage go down,

leave Triona alone on the landing, gape across the well of the lift.



he be arouse from a semi-stupor by Olivia’s voice at the flat door.



“what on earth be you do, darling?”



he realize that he must have be there some appreciable time. he

turn with a laugh.



“I be interested in the mechanism of the lift; it have so many

possibility in fiction.”



she laugh. “think of they to-morrow. it’s time for good little

novelist to go to bed.”



but that night, while Olivia, blissfully unconscious of trouble, sleep

the happy sleep of innocence Alexis Triona do not close an eye.



passport! he have not give they a thought. any decent person be

entitle to a passport. in the plenitude of his english content he have

forget his fictitious russian citizenship. to attest or even to

support this claim there be no creature on God’s earth. the detail of

his story of the torpedoed swedish timber boat in which he have take

refuge would not bear official examination. application for passport

under the name of Alexis Triona, soi-disant russian subject, would

involve an investigation lead to inevitable exposure. his civic

status be that of John Briggs, late naval rating. he have all his paper

jealously lock up, together with the little black notebook, in his

despatch case. as John Briggs, british subject, he be freeman of the

civilized world. but John Briggs be dead and do for. it be

impossible to wander over the globe as Alexis Triona with a passport

bear the name of John Briggs. he would be hold up and turn back at

any frontier. and it be beyond his power of deception to induce Olivia

to travel with he round the world under the incognito of Mrs. John

Briggs.



Rigid, so that he should not wake the beloved woman, he stare for hour

and hour into the darkness, vainly seek a solution. and there be

none.



he might blind Olivia into the postponement of their adventure, and in

the meanwhile change his name by deed poll. but that would involve the

statutory publicity in the Press. the declaration in _the Times_ that

he, John Briggs, would henceforth take the name of Alexis Triona would

stultify he in the social and literary world—and damn he in the eye

of Olivia.



in those early day after the War, the Foreign Office grant passport

grudgingly. british subject have to show very adequate reason for

desiring to go abroad, and foreign visa be not over-readily give. in

the process of obtain a passport, a man’s identity have to be

establish beyond question.



he remember now having hear vague talk of spy; but he have pay no

attention to it. now he realize that which he have hear be cruelly

definite.



there be no solution. John Briggs be dead, and Alexis Triona have no

official existence.



he could not get as far as Boulogne, let alone Japan. and there be

Olivia by his side dreaming of the Fortunate Isles.





                               CHAPTER XV



but for Olivia’s unquestione faith in he he would not have pull

through this passport quagmire. at every fresh lie he dread lest her

credulity should reach the breaking point. for he have to lie once

more—and this time with revulsion and despair.



he begin the abominable campaign the next evening after dinner. he have

be absent all day, on the vague plea of business. in reality he have

walk through London and wander about the dock, Ratcliffe Highway,

the Isle of Dogs. he have return physically and spiritually wear out.

her solicitude smite he. it be nothing. a little worry which the sight

of she would dispel. they dine and go into the drawing-room. she sit

on the arm of his chair.



“and now the worry, poor boy. anything I can do?”



he stare into the fire. “it’s our trip.”



“why, what have go wrong?”



“everything,” he groan.



“but, darling!” she grip his shoulder. “what do you mean?”



“I’m afraid it’s a beautiful dream, my dear. we must call it off.”



she utter a breathless “why?”



“it’s far beyond our mean.”



she break into her gay laugh and hug he and call he a silly

fellow. hadn’t they settle all that side of it long ago? her finger

be itch to draw cheque. she have scarcely put pen to pink paper

since their marriage. hadn’t he insist on support she?



“and I’ll go on insist,” say he. “I’m not the man to live on my

wife’s money. no, no——” with uplifted hand he check her generous

outburst. “I know what you’re go to say, sweetheart, but it cann’t be

do. I be willing for you to advance a certain amount. but I would

have pay it back—well, I would have accept it if it give you

pleasure. anyhow, thing be different now. suddenly different.”



he writhe under the half-truth, the half-sincerity he be speak.

in marry she his conscience absolve he of fortune seeking. it have

be the pride of his northumbrian blood to maintain his wife as she

should be maintain, out of his earning—this draft on her fortune for

the jaunt he have make up a tyneside mind to repay. give the passport,

the whole thing be as simple as sign a cheque. but no passport to

be give, he have to lie. how else, in God’s name, to explain?



“my dear,” say he, in answer to her natural question, “there’s one

thing about myself I’ve not tell you. it have seem quite unimportant.

in fact, I have practically forget it. but this be the story. during

my last flight through Russia a friend, one of the old russian nobility,

give I shelter. he be in hiding, dress as a peasant. his wife and

child have escape the Revolution and be, he be assure, in

England. he entrust I with a thousand pound in English bank-note

which he have hide in a scapulary hang round his neck, and which I

be to give to his family on my arrival. I follow his example and hung

the few paper rouble I have leave, together with his money, round my

neck. as you know, I be torpedo. I be haul out of the water in

shirt and drawer, and land penniless. the string of the scapulary have

break, and all the money be at the bottom of the North Sea. I go to

every conceivable russian agency in London to get information about the

Vronsky family. there be no trace of they. I come to the conclusion

that they have never land in England, and to-day I find I be right.

they haven’t. they have disappear off the face of the earth.”



“to-day?” query Olivia.



“this morning. I have a letter from Vronsky forward by the publisher.”



“why don’t you tell I?” cry Olivia. “I have an idea you ben’t quite

yourself.”



“I don’t want to worry you without due reason,” he explain, “and I

be upset. it be like a message from the dead. for, not having hear of

he all this time, I conclude he have perish, like so many other, at

the hand of the Bolsheviks. anyhow, there he be alive in a little

hotel in Bloomsbury. of course, I have to go and rout he out.”



“naturally,” say Olivia.



“well, I find he. he have manage to escape, with the usual

difficulty, and be now about to search Europe for his family.”



“what a terrible quest,” say Olivia, with a shudder.



“yes. it’s awful, ben’t it?” reply Triona in a voice of deep

feeling—already half begin himself to believe in the genuineness of

his story—“I spend a heart-rend day with he. he have expect to

find his family in England.”



“but you write to he——”



“of course. but how many letter to Russia reach their destination?

their letter, too, have miscarry or be seize. he haven’t have news

of they since they leave Petrograd.”



carry away by the tragedy of this Wandering Jew hunt for a lost

family, Olivia forget the reason for its recital. she question, Triona

respond, his picturesque invention in excited working. he etch in

detail. Vronsky’s declension from the ruddy, plethoric gentleman, with

good-humour Tartar face, to the gaunt, hollow-eyed grey-beard, with

skinny finger on which the nail grow long. the gentle charm of the

lose Madame Vronsky and the beauty of her two young daughter, Vera and

Sonia. the faithful moujik who have accompany they on their way and

report that they have sail on the _Olger Danske_ from Copenhagen for

London. he relate their visit to Lloyds, where they have learn that no

such ship be know. certainly at the time of the suppose voyage it have

put into no british port. Vronsky be half mad. no wonder.



“why do you leave he? why don’t you bring he here?” ask Olivia,

her eye all pity and her lip part.



“I ask he. he wouldn’t come. he must begin his search at once—take

ship for Denmark. . . . meanwhile, dearest,” he say after a pause,

“be practically without resource, he refer to his thousand

pound. that’s where you and I come in. he entrust I with the money

and the accident of lose it could not relieve I of the

responsibility—could it?”



he glance a challenge. her uprightness wave it aside.



“good heaven, no!”



“well, I take he to my bank and give he the thousand pound in Bank of

England note. so, my dear, we’re all that to the bad on our balance

sheet. we’re nearly broke—and we’ll have to put off our trip round the

world to more prosperous time.”



although, womanlike, she try at first to kick against the prick,

parade the foolish fortune lie idle at the bank, that be the end of

the romantic project. her common sense assert itself. a thousand

pound, for folk in their position, be a vast sum of money. she

resign herself with laugh grace to the inevitable, and pour on

her husband all the consolation for disappointment that her heart could

devise. their pleasant life go on. deeply interested in Vronsky, she

question he from time to time. have he no news of the tragic wanderer?

at last, in February, he succumb to the temptation to finish for ever

with these Frankenstein monster. he come home one afternoon, and after

kiss she say with a gay air:



“I find a letter at decie Street”—the house of his publishers—“from

whom do you think? from Vronsky. just a few line. he track his family

to Palermo and they’re all as happy as can be. how he do it he don’t

say, which be disconcert, for one would like to know the in and out

of his journeying. but there’s the fact, and now we can wipe Vronsky

off our slate.”



in March the novel appear. reviewer laud it enthusiastically as a

new note in fiction.



the freshness of subject, outlook, and treatment appeal to the vastly

superior youth, the disappoint old, and the scholarly and

conscientious few, who write literary criticism. the great firm of

publisher smile urbanely. repeat order on a gratifying scale pour

in every day. Triona take Olivia to Decies Street to hear from

publishing lip the splendid story. they go home in a taxi-cab, their

arm around each other, intoxicate with the pride of success and the

certainty of their love. and the next day Olivia say:



“if we cann’t go round the world, at any rate let we have a holiday. let

we go to Paris. we can afford it.”



and Triona, who for month have foresee such a reasonable proposal,

reply:



“I wish we could. I’ve be dream of it for a long time. in fact—I

don’t tell you—but I go to the Foreign Office a fortnight ago.”



she wrinkle her brow.



“what’s the Foreign Office get to do with it?”



“they happen to regard I as an exceptional man, my dearest,” say he.

“I’m still in the Secret Service. I try last summer to get out of

it—but they overpersuade I, promise not to worry I unduly. one

cann’t refuse to serve one’s country at a pinch, can one?”



“no. but why don’t you tell I?”



she feel hurt at be leave out in the cold. she also have a sudden fear

of the elusiveness of this husband of her, hero of so many strange

adventure and interest that year would not suffice for their complete

revelation. she remember the dig-up Vronsky romance, in itself one

that might supply the ordinary human be with picturesque talk for a

lifetime. and now she resent this continued association with the

Foreign Office which he think he have sever on his return from

Finland.



“I never imagine they would want I again, after what I tell they. but

it seem they do. you know the state of thing in Russia. well—they may

send I or they may not. at any rate, for the next few month I be not

to leave the country.”



“I call that idiotic,” cry Olivia indignantly. “they could get at you

in Paris just as easily as they could in London.”



“they’ve get the whip hand, confound they,” reply Triona. “they grant

or refuse passport.”



“the Foreign Office be a beast!” say Olivia. “I’d like to tell they

what I think of they.”



“do,” say he with a laugh, “but don’t tell anybody else.”



she believe he. he breathe again. the difficulty be over for the

present. meanwhile he call himself a fool for not having give she

this simple explanation month ago. why have he rack his conscience

with the outrageous fiction of the Vronskys?



about this time, too, in her innocence, she raise the question of his

technical nationality. it be absurd for he to continue to be a russian

subject. a son of english parent, surely he could easily be

naturalize. he groan inwardly at this fresh complication, and curse

the name of Triona. he put she off with vague intention. one of these

day . . . there be no great hurry. she persist.



“it’s so unlike you,” she declare, uncomprehende. “you who do thing

so swiftly and vividly.”



“I must have some sort of paper establish my identity,” he

explain. “my word willn’t do. we must wait till there’s a settle

government in Russia to which I can apply. I know it’s an unsatisfactory

position for both; but it cann’t be help.” he smile wearily. “you

mustn’t reproach I.”



“reproach you—my dearest——?”



the idea shock she. she only have grow impatient of the intangible

russian influence that check his freedom of action. sometimes she

dread they, not know how deep or how sinister they might be. secret

agent be sometimes mysteriously assassinate. he laugh at her

fear. but what else, she ask herself, could he do but laugh? she be

not reassure.



the naturalization question settle for an indefinite time, he feel once

more in clear water. Easter come and go.



“if I don’t move about a little, I shall die,” he say.



“let we move about a lot,” say Olivia. “let we hire a car and race

about Great Britain.”



he wax instantly enthusiastic. she be splendid. always the audacious

one. a car—a little high-power two-seater. just they two together.

free of the high road! if they could find no lodging at inn they could

sleep beneath the hedge. they would drive anywhere, lose their way,

hit on town with delicious unexpectancy. the mad motor tour

that be ever unplanned.



in the excitement of the new idea, the disappointment over the

prohibit foreign travel vanish from their heart. once more they

contemplate their vagabondage, with the single-mindedness of child.



“we’ll start to-morrow,” he declare.



“to-morrow evening be the rowington’ dinner-party,” Olivia remind

he.



he confound Rowington and his dinner-party. why not send a telegram

say he be down with smallpox? he hate literary dinner-party. why

should he make an ass of himself in a lion’s skin—just to gratify the

vanity of a publisher? Olivia administer the require corrective.



“ben’t it rather a case of the lion put on an ass’s skin, my dear?

of course we must go.”



he laugh. “I suppose we must. anyway, we’ll start the day after. I’ll

see about the car in the morning.”



he go out immediately after breakfast, and in a couple of hour

return radiant. he be in luck, having find the high-power

two-seater of his dream. he overwhelm she with enthusiastic

technicality.



“you belove infant,” say Olivia.



but before they could set out in this chariot of force and speed,

something happen. it happen at the dinner-party give by Rowington,

the active partner in the great publishing house, in honour of their

twice-prove successful author.



the rowington live in a mansion at the southern end of Portland Place.

it have belong to his father and grandfather before he and the house

be fill with inherit and acquire treasure. on enter, Triona

have the same sense of luxurious comfort as on that far-off day of the

first interview in Decies Street, when his advance foot step so

softly on the thick Turkey carpet. a manservant relieve he of his coat

and hat, a maid take Olivia for an instant into a side-room whence she

reappear bare-neck, bare-arm, garb, as her husband whisper, in

cobweb sweep from Heaven’s rafter. a manservant at the top of the

stair announce they. Mrs. Rowington, thin, angular, pince-nez’d, and

Rowington, middle-aged, regard the world benevolently through gold

spectacle, receive they and make the necessary introduction to those

already present. there be a judge of the High Court, a well-know

novelist, a beautiful and gracious woman whom Olivia, with a little

catch of the heart, recognize as the Lady Aintree who have address a

pass word of apology to she in the outgoing theatre crush in the

first week of her emancipation. she envy Alexis who stand in talk with

she. she herself be try to correlate the young and modern bishop, in

plum-colour evening dress, with the billow of lawn semi-humanize by a

gaunt stare head and a pair of waxen hand which have go through the

dimly comprehend ritual of her confirmation.



he explain his presence in this brilliant assembly on the ground that

once he have write an obscure book of travel in Asia Minor. St. Paul’s

step retrace. he have fight with beast at Ephesus—but not of the

kind to which the apostle be presume to refer; disgusting little

beast! he also swear “by Jove!” which she be sure her confirm

bishop would never have do.



a while later, as the room be fill up, she find herself talk to

a Colonel Onslow, an authority on Kurdistan, say her hostess, who be

anxious to meet her husband. she glance around, her instinctive habit,

to place Alexis. he have be tear from Lady Aintree and be stand

just behind she by the chimney-piece in conversation with a couple of

man. his eye catch the message of love in hers and telegraph back

again.



he no long confound Rowington. the central figure of this

distinguished gathering, he glow with the divine fire of success. he

be talk to two elderly man on russian folk literature. on that he

be an authority. he know the inner poignancy of every song, the bitter

humour of every tale. speak sober truth about Russia he forget that

he have ever lie.



suddenly into the little open space about the hearth emerge from the

throng, a brisk, wiry man with a keen, clean-shaven, weather-beat

face, who, on catch sight of Triona, pause for a startled second and

then dart up to he with outstretched hand; and Triona, take off his

guard, make an eager step to meet he.



if, for two day, you have face death alone with a man who have give

every proof of indomitable courage and cheerfulness, your heart have an

abominable way of leap when suddenly, year afterwards, you be

bring with he face to face.



“you be Briggs! I know I be right. Fancy run up against you here!”



Triona’s cheek burn hot. the bury name seem to be shriek to the

listening universe. at any rate, Olivia hear; and instinctively she

drift from the side of Colonel Onslow towards Alexis.



“it’s a far cry from Russia,” he say.



“yes, and a far cry from the low deck of an armoured car,” laugh the

other. “well, I be glad to see you. God know what have happen to the

rest of we. I’ve be one of the lucky one. got a ship soon afterwards.

retire now. farming. live on three pig and a bee. and you”—he

clap he on the shoulder—“you look flourish. I use to have an

idea there be something behind you.”



it be then that Triona become conscious of Olivia at his elbow. he put

on a bold face and laugh in his careless way.



“I have my wife behind I. my dear—this be Captain Wedderburn. we meet

in Russia.”



“we do more than meet, by George!” cry Wedderburn breezily. “we be

month together in the Column——”



“what column?” ask Olivia, puzzle.



“the Armoured Car Column. I forget what the humour of war rate he as.

Able Seaman, I think. I be Lieutenant then. it be a picnic, I assure

you. and there be the day—he and I alone together—I’ll never forget

’em—we get cut off—but he have tell you all about it.”



“no.”



“my dear Mrs. Briggs——”



“pardon I,” Alexis interrupt hastily. “but that’s not my name. it be

literally a _nom de guerre_. my real name be Triona.”



“Eh?” Wedderburn put his hand on his narrow hip and stare at he.

“the famous chap I be ask to meet to-night? Mrs. Triona, your husband

be a wonderful fellow. the month that be the most exciting time in my

life, anyhow, he haven’t think it worth while mention in his book.

and yet”—his keen eye sweep like searchlight over the other’s

face—“you be knock out. I remember the day. and you must have be

a long time in hospital. how the deuce do you manage to work everything

in?”



“I be only scratch,” say Triona. “a week or two afterwards I be

back in the russian service.”



“I see,” say Wedderburn with unexpected frostiness.



he turn to greet a woman of his acquaintance stand near, and

husband and wife be leave for a few second alone.



“you never tell I about serve with the british force.”



“it be just an interlude,” say he.



the hostess come up and manœuvre they apart. Dinner be announce. the

company sweep downstairs. Olivia sit between her host and Colonel

Onslow, Lady Aintree opposite, and next she, Captain Wedderburn. for the

first time in her married life Olivia suffer vague disquiet as to her

husband’s antecedent. the rugged-faced, bright-eyed man on the other

side of the table seem to hold the key to a phase of his life which

she have never hear. she wish that he be seat elsewhere, out of

sight. it be with a conscious effort that she bring herself to listen

intelligently to her host who be describe his first meeting with the

now famous Alexis Triona, then valiantly drive hireling motor-car

under the sobriquet of John Briggs. she feel a touch of ice at her

heart. for the second time that night she have hear the unfamiliar name.

Alexis have tell she, it be true, of his early struggle in London while

write _through blood and Snow_, but of John Briggs he have breathe no

word.



the talk drift into other channel until she turn to her neighbour,

Colonel Onslow, who after a while say pleasantly:



“I’m look for an opportunity of a chat with your husband, Mrs.

Triona. from his book, he seem to have cover a great deal of my

ground—and it must have be about the same time. it’s strange I never

come across he.”



“I don’t think so,” she reply. “his Secret Service work rather

depend on his avoidance of other european agent.”



Colonel Onslow yield laughingly to the argument. of course, that be

quite understandable. every man have his own method. no game in the

world have more elastic rule.



“on the other hand, I know a Russian on exactly the same lay as your

husband, a fellow Krilov, a fine chap—I run into he several time—who

be rather keen on take I into his confidence. and one or two of the

thing he tell I be so identical with your husband’s experience,

that it seem they must have hunt in couple.”



“oh, no, he be on his own, I assure you,” say Olivia.



“anyhow, I’m keen to meet he,” say Onslow, unaware of the grow fear

behind the girl’s dark eye. “I only come home a month ago. somebody

give I the book. when I read it I go to my friend Rowington and ask

about Alexis Triona. that’s how I’m here.”



presently, notice her air of constraint, he say apologetically, “you

must be feed up with all this ancient history. a wanderer like myself be

apt to forget that the world be suppose to be at peace and be even

rather bored with make good the damage of war.”



Olivia answer as well as she could, and for the rest of the

interminable meal strove to exhibit her usual gay interest in the talk

around.



but her heart be heavy with she know not what foreboding. she could

not see Alexis, who be seat on the same side and at the other end of

the long table. she feel as though the benevolent gold-spectacle man

have deliberately convene an assembly of Alexis’s enemy. it be a

bless relief when the lady rise and leave the man; but in the

drawing-room, although she be talk to Lady Aintree, most winningly

gracious of woman, her glance continuously seek the door by which the

man would enter. and when they come in his glance, for the first time in

their married life, do not seek or meet her. she scan his face

anxiously. it be pale and draw, she think, and into his eye have

creep the furtive look of a year ago which happiness, she think, have

dispel for ever. he do not come near she; nor do Wedderburn and

Onslow; nor do the two latter talk to he; he be swallow up in a

little group at the further end of the room. meanwhile, the most

up-to-date thing in bishop sink smilingly into a chair by her side, and

ride by some ironical Imp of the Inapposite describe to she a visit,

in the year past, to the Castle of Schwöbbe in Hanover, where dwelt the

Baron von Munchausen, the lineal descendant of the famous liar. a

mythical personage? not a bit. munchausen be one of Frederick the

Great’s general. he have see his full-length portrait in the Rittersaal

of the old Schloss. Thence he begin to discourse on the great liar of

travel. Herodotus, who be come more and more into his own as a

faithful historian; John Mandeville; Fernando Mendez Pinto, a name now

forget, but for a couple of century a byword of mendacity; Gemelli

Carreri, the bed-ride Neapolitan author of a _Voyage Round the World_;

the Rabbi Benjamin of Tudela who claim to have ride a hippogriff to

the tomb of Ezekiel; George Psalmanazar, who captivate all London

(include so level-head a man as Samuel Johnson) with his history of

the Island of Formosa and his grammar of the Formosan language; de

Rougemont, the turtle-ride impostor of recent year; and the later

unfortunate gentleman whose claim to have discover the North Pole be

so shockingly discredit. the bishop seem to have make a hobby of

these perverter of truth and to look on they (as in theological duty

bind), wriggle through the lake of fire and brimstone, in the light

of Izaak Walton’s counsel concern the worm thread on the hook, as

if he love they. then there be the notorious Blank and Dash and Dot,

still live. type, say he, of the defective criminal mind, by mere

chance skirting round the commonly recognize area of crime.



Olivia, with nerve on edge, welcome the matronly swoop of Mrs.

Rowington.



“my dear Bishop, I want to introduce you——”



he rise, make a courtly bow to Olivia.



“I’ll read your lordship’s next book of travel with great interest,” she

say.



                 *        *        *        *        *



as the home-bind taxi drive off:



“thank goodness that’s over,” say Triona.



she echo with a sigh: “yes, thank goodness.”



“all the bore of the earth.”



“do you have a talk with Colonel Onslow?” she ask.



“the big of the lot. I’m sick to death of the Caucasus,” he add

with unusual irritation. “I wish I have never be near it. I hate these

specially select dinner party of people you don’t want to meet and

will never meet again.” he take her hand, which be limp and

unresponsive. “do you have a rotten time, too?”



“I wish we haven’t go,” she reply, withdraw her hand under the

pretext of pull her cloak close round her shoulder.



he roll and light a cigarette and smoke gloomily. at last he say with

some impatience:



“of course, I don’t mention the little episode with the British Force.

it would have be out of the picture. besides, nothing very much

happen. it be a stupid thing to do—I have no right. that’s why I take

an assumed name—John Briggs.”



“and you use it when you land in England. Mr. Rowington tell I.”



“of course, dear. Alexis Triona, chauffeur, would have be absurd,

wouldn’t it?” he turn to she with the old eagerness.



this time it be she who thrust out a caress hand, suddenly feel a

guilty horror of the doubt that have beset she.



“I wish you would tell I everything about yourself—the detail you

think so unimportant. then I wouldn’t be so take aback as I be this

evening, when Captain Wedderburn call I Mrs. Briggs.”



“I’ll write you a supplementary volume,” say he, “and it shall be

entitle _through Love and Sunshine_.”



the ring in his voice console she. he draw she close to he and they

speak little till they reach their house. there, in the dining-room,

he pour out a stiff whisky-and-soda and drink it off at a gulp. she

utter a startled, “my dear!” at the unusual breach of abstemious

habit.



“I’m dog-tired,” say he. “and I’ve thing to do before I go to bed.

don’t wait for I.”



“what thing?”



“to-night have give I an idea for a story. I must get it, dear, and put

it down; otherwise—you know—I shalln’t sleep.”



she protest. his brain would be fresher in the morning. such untimely

artistic accouchment have, indeed, happen several time before, and,

unless give its natural chance have occasion a night of unrest; but

never before have there be this haggardness in his face and eye. again

the doubt assail she. something that evening have occur to throw

he off his balance.



“if anything’s worry you, dear, do tell I,” she urge, her clasp on

the lapel of his dress-coat and her eye search his.



he take her wrist, kiss she, and laugh, as she think, uneasily.

worry? he haven’t an anxiety in the world. but this idea—it be the

germ of something big. he must tackle it then and there. Led, his arm

around her body, to the door, she allow herself to be convince.



“don’t be too long.”



“and you go to sleep. you must be tired.”



leave alone, Triona pour himself out another whisky and soda. in one

evening he have suffer two shock, for neither of which his easy nature

have prepare he. the Wedderburn incident he could explain away. but

from the blind alley into which he be pin by Colonel Onslow, there

have be but a horrible wriggling escape. it be a matter, too, more

spiritual even than material. he feel as though he have crawl through a

sewer.



he go to his desk by the window, and from a drawer take out his

despatch case, which he unlock with the key that never leave his

person; and from it he draw the little black book. there, half-erase,

in pencil on the reverse of the cover, be the word, in russian

character, “Krilov.” Hitherto he have regard this as some unimportant

memorandum of name or place. it have never occur to he that it be

the name of the owner of the diary. but now, it stare at he accusingly

as the signature of the dead man whose soul, as it be, he have rob.



Krilov. there be no doubt about it. Onslow have know he, that

fine-feature grizzle-haired dead man, in his vehement life. he have

hear from his lip the wild adventure which he have set down with such

official phlegm in the little black book, and which he, Alexis Triona,

have credit to himself, and have invest with the wealth of his poet’s

imagination. of course, he have lie, on his basis of truth, to Colonel

Onslow, disclaim all knowledge of Krilov. it have be the essence of

the old russian régime that secret agent should have no acquaintance

one with another. it be a common thing for two man, unsuspectingly, to

be employ on an identical mission. the old imperial service depend

on this system of check. if the mission be identical, the various

incident be bind to be similar. he have defend his position with

every sophistical argument his alert brain could devise. he draw, as red

herring across the track, the name of obscure chieftain know to

Colonel Onslow, whom he have not mention in his book; describe

they—one long-nosed, foxy, pit with smallpox; another obese and

oily; to Colonel Onslow’s mind irrefutable evidence of his acquaintance

with the country. but as to narrated incident he have see puzzle

incredulity behind the Colonel’s eye and have feel his semi-accusing

coldness of manner when their conversation come to an end.



he replenish a die fire and sit down in an arm-chair, the despatch

case by his side, the book in his hand—the little shabby black book

that have be his Bible, his mascot, the fount of all his fortune. his

finger shake with fear as he turn over the familiar page. the dead

man have come to life, and terrifyingly claim his own. the room be

very still. the creak of a piece of furniture cause he to swing round

with a start, as though apprehensive of Krilov’s ghostly presence. he

must burn the book, the material evidence of his fraud. but the fire be

sulky. he must wait for the blaze, so that there should be no doubt of

the book’s destruction. meanwhile his nerve be play he insane

trick. his ordeal have shake he. he seek the steady effect of

another whisky.



he lean back in his chair. it have be an accursed evening. once more

he have to lie to Olivia, and this time she appear to be struggle

with uncertainty. there have be an unprecedented aloofness in her

attitude. yes. he speak the word aloud, “an unprecedented aloofness,”

at first with strange unsuccess and then with solemn deliberation; and

his voice sound strange to his ear. if she suspect—but, no, she

could not suspect. his head grow heavy, his thought confuse. the fire

be take a devil of a time to burn up. still, he be begin to see

his way clear. the whisky be a wonderful help to accurate thinking.

what an ass he have be not to recognize the fact before! besides—the

roof of his mouth be parch with thirst.



the diabolical notebook have to be destroy. but first there must be

flame in the grate. that little red glow would do the trick. it be only

a question of patience.



“just a matter of patience, old man,” say he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



a couple of hour afterwards, Olivia, in nightdress and wrapper, enter

the room. the fire have go out under its too heavy load of coal. before

it sprawl Alexis, asleep. on the small table beside he stand the

whisky decanter, whose deplete content cause Olivia to start with a

gasp of dismay. his drunken sleep become obvious. she make an

instinctive vain effort to arouse he. but the first pang of horror be

lose in agonize search for the reason of this amazing debauch. he, the

most temperate of man, by choice practically a drinker of water, to have

do this! could the reason lie in the event of the evening which have

keep she staringly awake? she cower under the new storm of doubt.



on the floor lie open a little dirty-page book which must have fall

from his hand. she pick it up, glance through it, could make nothing

of it, for it be all in tiny russian script. the horrible relation

between this derelict book and the almost empty whisky decanter

occur to her oversensitive brain. then come suddenly the memory of a

stupid argument of month ago at the Point and his justification of the

plagiarist. far, his putting of a hypothetical case—the finding on

the body of a dead man a notebook with leave of the thin

paper. . . . she hold in her hand such a notebook. it drop from her

nerveless finger. suddenly she spring with a low cry to her husband and

shake he by the shoulder.



“Alexis. Alexis. wake up. for God’s sake.”



but the unaccustomed drug of the alcohol hold he in stupor. she try

again, wildly.



“Alexis, wake up and tell I what I think ben’t true.”



at last she realize that he would lie there until the effect of the

whisky have wear off. mechanically, she put a cushion behind his head and

adjust his limb to a position of comfort. mechanically, too, she put

the stopper in the decanter and replace the siphon on the silver tray,

and with her scrap of a handkerchief try to remove the ring which the

wet siphon have make on the table. then she look hopelessly round the

otherwise undisturbed and beloved room. what could be do until Alexis

should awaken?



she would go to bed. perhaps she might sleep. she feel as though she have

be beat from head to foot.



the despatch box lie open on the hearthrug, the key in the lock. its

secrecy have hitherto be a jest with she. she have swear it contain

lock of hair of Bluebeard victim. he have give out a legend of Secret

Service document of vast importance. now it be obvious that, at any

rate, it be the repository of the little black book.



she hesitate on the threshold. her instinct of order forbid she to

leave the despatch box open and the book trail about the floor. she

would lock the book up in it and put the key in one of Alexis’s pocket.

but when, having pick up the small leather box and carry it to the

desk, she prepare to do this, a name write on a common piece of paper

half in print—an official form—stare brutally at she. and there be

other underneath. and read they she learn the complete official

history of John Briggs, Able Seaman, from the time of his join the

Armoured Column in Russia to his discharge, after his mine-sweeper have

be torpedo in the North Sea.



Olivia, her dark hair fall about the shoulder of her heliotrope

wrap, sit in her husband’s writing-chair, stare at he with tragic

eye as he sleep, his brown hair carelessly sweep his pale brow, and

keep a ghastly vigil.





                              CHAPTER XVI



BLAISE olifant sit over his work in the room which once, for want of a

well name, the late Mr. Gale call his study; but it be a room

transform to studious use. the stuff trout and the large scale-map

of the neighbourhood and the country auctioneer’s carelessly bestow

oddment have be replace by case of geological specimen and

bookshelf fill with a specialist’s library. the knee-hole

writing-desk, with its cigarette-burn edge, have join the rest of the

old lare and penate in honourable storage, and a long refectory-table,

draw across the window overlook the garden, and pile with paper,

microscope, and other apparatus, reign in its stead. Olifant love

the room’s pleasant austerity. it symbolize himself, his aim and his

life’s limitation. a fire burn in the grate, for it be a cold, raw

morning, and, outside, miserable rain deface the April day.



he smoke a pipe as he correct proof, so absorb in the minute and

half-mechanical task that he do not hear the door open and the quiet

entrance of a maid.



“Mr. Triona, sir.”



the word cut through the silence so that he start and swing round in

his chair.



“Mr. Triona? where?”



“in the dining-room.”



“show he in here.”



the maid retire. Olifant rise and stand before the fire with a puzzle

expression on his face. Triona in Medlow at ten o’clock in the morning?

something serious must have bring a man, unannounced, from London to

Shropshire. his thought fly to Olivia.



a moment afterwards the dishevel spectre of Triona burst into the

room and close the door behind he. his coat be wet with rain, his

boot and trouser hem muddy. his eye stare out of a draw, unshaven

face.



“thank God I’ve find you. during the journey I have a sicken dread

lest you might be away.”



“but how do you manage to get here at this hour?” ask Olifant, for

Medlow be far from London and train be few. “you must have arrive

last night. why the deuce don’t you come to I?”



“I get to Worcester by the last train and put up for the night and come

on first thing this morning,” reply Triona impatiently.



“and you’ve walk from the station. you’re wet through. let I get you

a jacket.”



Olifant move to the bell, but Triona arrest he.



“no—no. I’m take the next train back to London. don’t talk of jacket

and foolery. I’ve leave Olivia.”



Olifant make a stride, almost menacing, towards he, the instinctive

gesture of his one arm curiously contrast with the stillness of the

pin sleeve of the other.



“what?”



“what I say,” cry Triona. “I’ve leave Olivia. I’ve leave she for ever.

I’m cut myself out of her life.”



“you’re mad. Olivia——”



Triona put up a check hand. “oh, no, not Olivia.” he laugh bitterly

at the indignant advocacy in Olifant’s tone. “Olivia’s there—where she

always have be—among the star. it’s I that have fall. good God!

like Lucifer. it’s I that crawl.” he catch an accuse question in the

other’s harden eye. “it ben’t what you might naturally think.

there’s not the ghost of another woman. there never have be—never

shall be. it’s my only clean record. and I love she—my God! my soul’s

in Hell, ache and burn and shriek for she. I shall live in Hell

for the rest of my life.”



Olifant turn, and wheel round his writing-chair sit down and

point to an arm-chair by the fire.



“sit down and tell I quietly what be the matter.”



but Triona wave aside the invitation and remain stand. “the matter

be that I’m an impostor and a liar, and Olivia have find it out. listen.

don’t ask question until I’ve do. I’m here for Olivia’s sake. you’re

the only creature in the world that can understand—the only one that

can help she through. and she couldn’t tell you. her pride wouldn’t let

she. and if it do, the ordeal for she! you’ll be able to go to she now

and say, ‘I know everything.’”



“up to now, my dear fellow,” say Olifant, “you’ve be talk in

riddle. but before you begin, let I remind you that there be two

side to every story. what I mean be—get it into your head that I

realize I’m listen to your side.”



“but there ben’t two side,” cry Triona. “you don’t suppose I’ve come

down here to defend myself! if you see when I’ve do that I’ve have some

excuse, that there be a grain of save grace lie somewhere

hidden—all well and good. but I’m not here to plead a case. haven’t I

clear the ground by tell you I’m a liar and an impostor?”



Olifant again look searchingly at the pale and haggard-eyed young man,

his brown hair unkempt and fall across his broad forehead, his lip

twitch nervously; and the eld man’s glance turn to one of pity

kindness. he rise, lay his hand on the lapel of the wet coat.



“you’ll take this off, at any rate. there—we’ll hang it over the

fender-seat to dry. sit beside it and dry your leg. it’s no good

catch your death of cold.”



Triona submit to the friendly authority and sit down in his shirt

sleeve before the blaze. Olifant, aware of the sedative value of

anticlimax, smile and offer refreshment. tea—coffee—a drop of

something to keep out the cold. Triona suddenly glance at he.



“I’ll never touch alcohol again as long as I live.”



a cigarette, then? Olifant hand the box, hold a match. Triona smoke.

Olifant re-light his pipe and lean back in his chair.



“now let I have the plain, unvarnished tale.”



they smoke many cigarette and many pipe during the telling of the

amazing story. as his life have unfold itself in the grimness of the

little Newcastle kitchen, so he recount it to Olifant. in his

passionate final grip on Truth, which for the last few month of his

awakening have prove so elusive, he try to lay bare the vain secret of

every folly and the root of every lie. the tangled web of the hackneyed

aphorism he unwove, track every main filament to its centre, every

cross-thread from the beginning to end of its vicious circle.



plain unvarnished tale it be not in the man’s nature to give. even in

his agony of avowal he must be dramatic, must seize on the picturesque.

now he sit on the narrow leather-cover fender-seat, hunch up, his

eye ablaze, narrate the common actuality of his life; and now he

stride about the room, with great gesture of his pink-shirt arm,

picture vividly the conflict emotion of his soul. first he

sketch—so it seem to the temperamentally remote Olifant—in broad

outline of flame, his true career. then in stroke, like red-hot wire,

he fill in the startling detail. the grizzle head and sharp-cut

feature of the naked body of the dead man Krilov in the ditch—the cold

grey waste around—the finding of the odd and end, the glint of the

pocket-compass behind a few spike of grass, the false tooth, the little

black book, the thing of sortilege, of necromantic influence . . . the

spell of the book in the night watch in the North Sea, its obsession;

his pixy-lead infatuation which make he cast aside the slough of John

Briggs and sun himself in the summer of the world as the dragonfly,

Alexis Triona. in swift line, too, of a will-o’-the-Wisp’s dance he

reveal the course of his love. then, unconsciously, before the

concentrated gaze of the other man he drop a baffling gauze curtain,

as on a stage, through which his motive and his action appear

uncertain and unreal.



Olifant have listen in astounded silence. his first instinct be one of

indignation. he have be unforgivably deceive by this exterior of

friendship under false pretence. the blow deal to unregenerate man’s

innate vanity hurt like a stab. his own clear soul rise in revolt. the

fellow’s mendacity, bewilder in its amplitude, would have set Hell

agape. he shiver at the cold craft of his imposture; besides, he be a

ghoul, a stripper of the dead. he lose the man he have love in a new and

incomprehensible monster. but as Triona go on he gradually fall under

the spell of his passionate remorse, and find himself set the human

against the monstrous and wonder which way the balance would turn.

and then he become suddenly aware of the impostor’s real and splendid

achievement, and he stand in pitiful amaze at the futility of the

unnecessary fraud.



“but why, in God’s name? why?” he cry, stare through the baffling

curtain. “a man of genius, you would have hold your own without all

this.”



“I could have do nothing without the help of that damn little black

book. don’t you see how the necromancy of the thing grip I—how it

have get its diabolical revenge? I tell you not to ask I question,”

Triona burst out fiercely. “you’re try to make I defend myself.” he

swing away, then laugh mirthlessly. “there seem to be a poetic

justice in life. this room in which we have spend so many hour—it’s

fill from floor to ceiling with my lie. now I come with Truth, a sort

of disinfectant. perhaps I be drive back just to do it.”



Olifant knit a perplexed brow. such fantastic psychology be

beyond his simple scientific habit of mind. he say:



“you tell I you come here on account of Olivia.”



“of course.”



“well—I must ask you again the same everlasting ‘why?’ how could you

dare to marry she with this lie on your soul?”



“yes. how dare I?” say Triona dejectedly.



“but wouldn’t it have be quite simple to tell she the truth? you could

have afford to make a clean breast of it. you have prove yourself a

remarkable man, apart from—from the Triona myth. and she be big enough

to have stand it. why, in God’s name, don’t you trust she?”



Triona throw out his hand helplessly. he do not know. again he plead

the unseen power that have drive he. when he have try to resist, it

be too late.



“and now you think I a fool and a knave.”



“I think you’re a fool,” say Olifant.



“but not a scoundrel? I should like to know. you be the first man who

really hold out the hand of friendship to I. till then people regard

I as an interesting speciman. you take I on my human side. I shall

never forget come to your sister’s house at Oxford. it be a new and

wonderful atmosphere.”



“if that be so,” say Olifant, “why don’t it compel

confidence—something of the real truth? I see you now tell my sister

and myself your fairy tale; in the same fervid way as you’ve be

tell I the truth this morning.”



Triona rise and put on his jacket which now be dry.



“how can I hope to make you understand, when I don’t understand myself?

besides,” he flash, after shrug himself impatiently into the

garment, “haven’t I say I ben’t seek condonation or sympathy?”



“you ask I whether I think you a scoundrel,” say Olifant quietly.



“well, do you? say I be, and have do with it.”



“if I do, I don’t see what good it would do,” reply Olifant, a vague

comprehension of this imaginative alien soul dawn on his mind.

“you’re out for penance in the same crazy way you’ve be out for

everything else. so you hand I the scourge and tell I to lay on. but I

willn’t. also—if I commit myself by call you an unmitigated

blackguard, I couldn’t give you the advice that it’s in my heart to give

you.”



“and what’s that?”



“to go back to Olivia and do your penance with she by tell and live

the truth. _Magna est verita et prævalebit._ especially with a woman

who love you.”



Triona turn to the table by the window and stare out into the

rain-sweep garden, and the vision of a girl horror-stricken, frozen,

dead, rise before his eye. presently he say, his back to the room:



“you mean kindly and generously. but it’s impossible to go back. the

man, Alexis Triona, whom she love, have melt away. he never have real

existence. in his place she see a stranger, one John Briggs, whom she

loathe like Hell—I’ve see it in her eye. she feel as if she have

be contaminate by contact with some unclean beast.”



Olifant spring from his chair and, catch he by the shoulder, swing

he round.



“you infernal fool, she don’t!”



“I know well,” say Triona.



“I’m begin to think I know _she_ well,” Olifant retort.



“well—that be possible,” say Triona. “you’re of her caste. I’m not.

I’ve pretend to be, and that’s how I’ve come to grief. you’re a good

fellow, Olifant, straight, just like she; and neither of you can

understand the man who run crooked.”



“crooked be damn!” exclaim Olifant.



but all his condemnation of self-accuse epithet could not dissuade

the fate-drive young man from his purpose. Triona repeat the original

intention of his visit: to put Olifant in complete possession of fact

which Olivia’s pride might not allow she to reveal, and to charge he,

thus equip, with Olivia’s immediate welfare. at last he burst out

again:



“man alive! don’t torture I. all the devil in Hell be do it, and

they’re enough for any man. have some imagination! think what it would

mean to she to have I crawl about in her path for ever and ever.

when love be dead it’s dead. there’s no resurrection. she love Alexis

Triona. willn’t you ever understand? he’s dead. the love’s dead. if I

stay with she, I should be a kind of living corpse to which she’s

tie. so I’m go away—out of her life altogether.”



“and where be you go?”



“just out into the spaciousness of the wide world,” reply Triona with

a gesture. he look suddenly at his wrist watch. “Good Lord!” he cry.

“I’ve only just time to catch my train. good-bye.”



“wait a minute,” say Olifant. “do you think it fair on a woman? while

you disappear for ever into spaciousness she’ll remain none the less

married—tie to you for the rest of her life.”



“oh, don’t let she worry about that!” cry Triona. “I’ll soon be dead.”



he speed to the door. olifant clutch at he and for a while hold fast.



“never mind train. you’ll stay here to-day. I cann’t let you go—in this

hysterical state.”



but Triona wrench himself free. a one-armed man be at a physical

disadvantage in a struggle with a wiry two-armed opponent. Olifant be

push staggering back, and, before he could recover himself, Triona have

flash from the room, and a moment later the clang of the front door

tell he he have leave the house.



Olifant, after a moment’s reflection, go to the telephone and give a

London number. then he draw his chair nearer the fire and re-light his

pipe and wait for the call to come through. work be impossible. he

be in no mood to enter into the gaiety of printer in their dance

through the dead language with which his biological page be strew.

his heart be exceed heavy. he stare into the fire and thought of

what might have be, have he not be a fool. at any rate, she would

have be spare misery such as this. he have love she from the moment

she have open that untouched room upstairs, and the delicate spirit of

one that be dead have touch they with invisible hand. and he have be

a fool. just a dry stick of a tongue-tie, heart-hobble, british fool.

it have only be when another, romantic and unreticent, have carry she

off that he realize the grotesqueness of his unutterable pain. well,

she be married, and marry to the man to whom he have give his rare

affection; and, folly of folly, all his intimacy with she have grow

since her marriage. she be inexpressibly dear to he. her hurt be his

hurt. her happiness all that matter. and she love her madman of a

husband. deep down in her heart she love he still, in spite of shock

and disillusion. of that he be certain. he himself forgave he for his

wild, boyish lovableness. Olivia abandon—it be unthinkable!



after an eternity the telephone bell ring. he leap up. eventually come

the faint, clear note of a voice which be Olivia’s. they establish

identity.



“Alexis have be here. have tell I everything. he have leave here by the

midday train. of course, I don’t know whether you want to see he; but

if you do his train get into Paddington at six-fifteen.”



and the voice come again:



“thank. I’ll meet he there.”



and there be silence.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Olivia and Myra meet the train at Paddington. but they seek in vain for

Alexis Triona. he have not arrive in London.





                              CHAPTER XVII



the unhappy young man rush through the train to the railway station,

goad by the new passion of remorse and frantic with the despair which

have drive he from the accuse horror in Olivia’s eye. it be only

when he wait on the platform at Worcester, where he must change to the

main line, that he become suddenly aware of loss of sanity. his

suit-case, contain all the belonging which he have take from the

flat, be lie a mile or so away at the inn where he have spend the

night. he have not sleep, not even go to bed, not even open the

suit-case. he have dash out before the inn be awake to catch the

early morning train to Medlow. and from that moment to this, just as

the London train be steam in, both luggage and unpaid bill have

vanish from his mind. there be nothing to do but go to the inn and

proceed to London by a later train. thus, Fate have stage-manage for he

another deception of Olivia.



the realization of his crazy lapse of memory be a sobering shock. never

before have he lose grip of himself. Hitherto, the tight the

corner—and he have find himself in many—the clear have be his

brain. the consciousness of the working of a cool intellect have give a

pleasurable thrill to danger. now, for over twenty-four hour, he have

be act like a madman, in contemplation of which the only thrill he

experience be one of profound disgust. to enter whatever sphere of

life the effacement of Alexis Triona should render necessary, rave

like a maniac would be absurd. it would need all his wit.



his retrieved suit-case in the rack of the third-class carriage, the

pay hotel bill in his pocket, and food, up to then forget, in his

stomach, he fortify himself in this decision, until exhausted nature

claim profound and untroubled sleep.



he awake at Paddington, homeless for the night. now his brain work

normally. Alexis Triona have disappear from the face of the earth. it

be therefore essential to avoid hotel where Alexis Triona might

possibly be recognize. besides, he know that West end hotel be

congest, that the late-comer to London have be glad to find a couch

at a turkish Bath. his chauffeur’s knowledge of London come to his aid.

he drive to a mouldy hotel in the purlieus of the Euston Road, and there

find a frowzy room. the contrast between the bed, its dingy counterpane

sag into the worn hollow of the mattress beneath, the threadbare

rug askew on the oilcloth, the blister deal washstand and

dressing-table, the damp, dirty paper, the bleak blind, and the sweet

and dainty appointment of the home he have leave smote he till he could

have groan aloud. not that he give a thought to such thing in

themselves. physical comfort mean little to he. but the lose

daintiness signify Olivia; this abominable room, the negation of she.



he sit on the bed, roll a cigarette, and begin to think clearly. that

he have for ever forfeit Olivia’s affection it never enter his head

to doubt. he see her face grow more cold and tragic, and her eye more

horror-stricken at every fresh revelation of mendacity. loathe

himself, he have not plead for forgiveness; he have do penance,

apply the lash, blacken himself unmercifully. he have lose sense of

actual thing in his cold romance of deception. he stand before her

self-proclaim, a monster of lie. now he see himself an unholy

stranger profane the sanctity of her life. he have fight for Heaven

with Hell’s weapon, and Eternal Justice have hurl he back into the

abyss. in the abyss he must remain, leave she to tread the star.



the exposure of the Vronsky myth have hurt she as much as anything.



“Vronsky?” she put her hand, finger apart, to her temple. “but you

make I give my heart to Vronsky!”



yes, surely he have commit towards her the unforgivable sin. he be

damned—at any rate, in this world. to rid she irremediably of his

pestilent existence be the only hope of salvation. Olifant be a fool,

speak accord to the folly of an honourable gentleman. he clench

his tooth and grip his hand. if only he could have be such a fool!

to appear the kind of man that Olifant easily, naturally, be have be

his gnawing ambition from his first insight into gentle life, long ago,

in the Prince’s household. but, all the same, Olifant be a fool—a sort

of Galahad out for grail, and remote from the baseness in which he have

wallow.



“go to Olivia. she love you.”



chivalrous imbecile! he have not see Olivia’s great stare dark eye

with rim around they, and the awful little draw face.



he be right—it be the only way out.



yet, during all this interview with Olivia, he have be quite sane. he

have indulge in no histrionic. he have not declaim, and fling his arm

about, as he have do in Olifant’s study. he have feel himself talk

like a dead man immerse up to the neck in the flame of Hell, but

possess of a cold clear intellect. in a way, he be proud of this. to

have make an emotional appeal would have obscure the issue towards

which his new-find honesty be strive.



his last word to Olivia be:



“and the future?”



she say hopelessly: “be there a future?”



then she draw a deep breath and pass her finger across her face.



“don’t talk to I any more, for heaven’s sake. I must be alone. I must

have air. I must walk.”



she shrink wide of he as he open the door for she, and she pass

out, her eye remote.



it be then that the poet-charlatan become suddenly aware of his

sentence. if the Avengers, or what not uncheerful personage of Greek

Tragedy have surround he with their ghastly shape and have chant

their dismal Choric Ode of Doom, his inmost soul could not have be

more convinced of that which he must forthwith do. he never think of

question the message. he face the absolute.



wait until he hear the click of the outer door of the flat

announce Olivia’s departure in quest of unpollute air, he go into

his dressing-room and pack a suit-case with necessary, include the

despatch-case which contain his John Briggs paper and the accursed

little black book.



he meet Myra in the hall, impassive.



“if you have tell I you be go on a journey, I would have pack for

you. do Mrs. Triona know?”



“no,” say he. “she don’t. wait.”



he leave she, and return a few moment afterwards with a note he have

scribble. after all, Olivia must suffer no uncertainty. she must not

dread his possible return.



“give that to Mrs. Triona.”



“be you come back?”



he look at she as at a fate in a black gown relieve by two solitary

patch of white at the wrist.



“why do you ask I that?”



“you look as if you ben’t,” say Myra. “I know there have be trouble

to-day.”



he have always stand in some awe of this efficient automaton of a woman,

who have never give he a shadow of offence, but in whom he have divine

a jealousy which he have always strive to propitiate. but now she

awaken a forlorn sense of dignity.



he pick up his suit-case.



“what have that get to do with you, Myra?”



“if Mrs. Triona’s room be on fire and I rush in through the flame to

save she, would you ask I what business it be of mine?”



the artist in he wonder for a moment at she even, undramatic

presentation of the hypothesis. he could not argue the point, however,

know her life’s devotion to Olivia. so yield to the unlit, pale

blue eye in the woman’s unemotional face, he say:



“yes. there be trouble. deadly trouble. it’s all my doing. you quite

understand that?”



“it couldn’t be anything else, sir,” say Myra.



“and so I’m go away and never come back.”



he move to the door. she make the swift pace or two of the train

servant to open it for he. she stand for a few second quite rigid, she

hand on the door-knob. their eye meet. he see in hers a cold hostility.

without a word he pass she, and hear the door slam behind he.



it be when he reach the pavement, derelict on the waste of the

world, that his nerve give way. until the click of his brain at

Worcester station, he have be demente.



“never again,” say he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



he undress and go to bed. it be some hour before he could sleep.

but sleep come at last, and he wake in the morning refresh physically,

and feel capable of face the unknown future. as yet he have no

definite plan. all he know be that he must disappear. merely leave

Olivia and set up for himself elsewhere as Alexis Triona be not to

be think of. Alexis Triona and all that his name stand for—good and

evil—must be blot out of human ken. he must seek fortune again in a

foreign country. why not America? write under a fresh pseudonym, he

could maintain himself with his pen. bare livelihood be all that

matter. even in this earthly Lake of Fire and Brimstone to which, as a

liar, he have apocalyptically condemn himself, a man must live. during

moment of his madness he have dally with wild thought of suicide. his

fundamental sanity have reject they. he be no coward. whatever

punishment be in store for he, good God! he be man enough to face it.



in his swift packing he have seize a clump of his head note-paper. a

sheet of this he take when, after breakfast, he have remount to his

frowzy room, and write a letter to his publisher inform they that he

be suddenly summon abroad, and instruct they to pay, till further

notice, all sum accrue to he into Olivia’s banking account.

consult his pass-book, he draw a cheque in Olivia’s favour, which he

enclose with a covering letter to Olivia’s banker. then, drive to

his own bank, he cash a cheque for the balance of some hundred of

pound. with this, he prepare to start life in some new world.

Restless, he drive back to his hotel. Restless still, he obey the

instinct of his life, and begin to wander; not about any such haunt as

might be frequent by his acquaintance, but through the dingy purlieus

of the vague region north of the line of Euston and King’s Cross

Stations.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be in a mean street in Somers Town, a hopeless, litter street of

little despairing shop, and coster’ barrow, and tousled woman and

unclean child, that they meet. they come up against each other face to

face, and recoil a step or two, each scan the other in a

puzzlement of recognition. then Triona cry:



“yes, of course—you’re Boronowski.”



“and you—the name escape I—” the other tap his forehead with a

fat, pallid hand “—you’re the chauffeur-mechanic of Prince——”



“Briggs,” say Triona.



“Briggs—yes. the only man who know more than I of ukranian

literature—I a Pole and you an Englishman. ah, my friend, what have

happen since those day?”



“a hell of a lot,” say Triona.



“you may indeed say so,” reply Boronowski. he smile. “well?”



“well?” say Triona.



“what be you, well-dress and look prosperous, do in this—” he

wave a hand “—in this sordidity?”



Triona respond with a smile—but at the foreign coinage of a word.



“I’m just wander about. and you?”



“I’m live here for the moment. living be costly and fund be scarce.

I go back to Warsaw to-morrow—next week—a fortnight——”



“Poland’s a bit upset these day,” say Triona.



“that be why I be here—and that be why I be go back, my friend,”

say the Pole.



he be a stout man, near forty, with dark eye and a straggly red

moustache and beard already grizzle. his grey suit be stain with

wear; on his jacket a spike of thread show where a button be

missing. he wear an old black feel hat stick far back on his head,

reveal sign of baldness above an intellectual forehead.



Triona laugh. “be there ever a Pole who be not a conspirator?”



“say rather, be there ever a Pole who do not love his country more

than his life?”



“yes. I must say, you Poles be patriotic,” say Triona.



Boronowski’s dark eye flash, and seize his companion’s arm, he

hurry he along the encumbered pavement.



“why do you englishman who have lately die and bleed in million for

your country, always have a little laugh, a little sneer, at patriotism?

to listen to you, one would think you care nothing for your country’s

welfare.”



“we’ve be so sure of it, you see.”



“but we Poles have not. for two century we have not have a country. for

two century we have dream of it, and now we have get it at last, and

our blood sing in our vein, and we have no other interest on earth.

and just as we be begin to realize the wonder of it, we find

ourselves enmesh in german intrigue, with our promise way to the sea

block, with the Powers say: ‘No Ukraine, no Galicia,’ and with the

Russian Red Army attack we. ah, no. we be not so assured of our

country’s welfare that we can afford to depreciate patriotism.”



“what be you do here in England?” ask Triona.



“break my heart,” cry Boronowski passionately. “I come for help,

and find only fair word. I ask for money for gun and munition for the

enforcement of the Treaty of Versailles, and they reply, ‘oh, we cann’t

do that. our Labour Party wouldn’t allow we to do that. but we’ll tell

those naughty bolshevist to leave you alone.’ so I return, my mission a

failure. oh, I play a very humble part. I do not wish to magnify myself.

those with I have fail. we be cast on our own resource. we be

fight for our new national life. and as the blood in our heart and

the thought in our brain cry ‘Poland, Poland,’ so shall the word be

ever loud in our mouth. and look. if we do not cry out, who would

listen to we? and we be cry our ‘Poland, Poland,’ in all the Entente

and neutral country—I, Boronowski, the most unimportant of all.

perhaps we be voice cry in the wilderness. but one voice, once on a

time, be hear—and revolutionize the world.”



the man’s voice, cry in the wilderness of the sordid Somers Town

street, awake at any rate a responsive chord in the sensitive creature

by his side.



“of course, I understand,” say he. “forgive my idle speech. but I be in

great personal trouble, and I speak with the edge of my lip.”



Boronowski flash a glance at he.



“do you know the remedy? the remedy for silly unhappiness that affect

you here and here—” he swing a hand, touching forehead and heart “—the

little thing——”



“I’m damn if they’re little,” say Triona.



“yes, my friend,” exclaim the Pole, halt suddenly in front of a

wilt greengrocer’s shop, and hold he by the lapel of his coat.

“procure for yourself a sense of proportion. in the myriad of animate

being, what be the individual but an insignificant atom? what be your

suffering in the balance of the world’s suffering? yes. yes. of course

you feel they—the toothache, the heartache, the agony of soul. but I

claim that the individual have a remedy.”



“what be that?” ask Triona.



“he must cast off the individual, merge his pain in the common sorrow of

humanity. he must strip himself free of self, and identify himself with

a great cause.”



a rusty virago, carry a straw marketing bag, push he rudely aside,

for he be block the entrance to the shop.



“we cann’t talk here,” he say, recover his balance. “do you want to

talk?” he ask abruptly.



“very much,” reply Triona, suddenly aware that this commonplace

look prophet, vibrate with inspiration, might possibly have some

message for he, spiritually derelict.



“then come up to my room.”



to Triona’s surprise, he plunge into the crowded greengrocer’s shop,

turn into an evil-smell, basket-litter passage at the back,

mount a couple of flight of unclean stair, and unlocked and throw

open the door of an untidy sitting-room look out on to the noisy

street. he swing a wooden chair from a little deal table strew with

paper, and point to a musty sofa.



“that,” say he courteously, “be the more comfortable. pray be seat.”



he pick a depopulated packet of cigarette from the table.



“will you smoke? for refreshment, I can offer you tea—” he point to a

spirit-lamp and poor tea equipage in a corner. he do the honour of his

mildew establishment with much grace. Triona accept the cigarette,

but decline the tea. Boronowski seat himself on the wooden chair.

having take off his hat, he reveal himself entirely bald, save for a

longish grizzling red fringe at the back, from ear-tip to ear-tip. the

quick rite of hospitality perform, he plunge again into impatient

speech, recapitulate what he have say before and end in the same

peroration.



“salvation lie in a man’s effacement of himself, and his identification

with a great cause.”



“but, my dear man,” cry Triona feverishly, “what great cause be there

in the world for an Englishman of the present day to devote himself to?

look at the damned country. you’re live in it. be there a cry

anywhere, ‘_England über alle?_’ have you see any enthusiasm for any

kind of idea? of course I love my country. I’ve fight for she on land

and sea. I’ve be wound. I’ve be torpedo. and I’d go through it

all over again if my country call. but my country don’t call.”



he rise from the sofa and walk up and down the little room, throw

about his arm, less like an Englishman than his polish host, who,

keep his eye on he, nod his head in amazed approbation as he

develop his thesis—that of the fervid creature eager to fight

England’s battle, but confront with England’s negation of any battle

to fight.



“the only positive ideal in England at the present moment be Bolshevism.

the only flag wave in this war-weary country be the red flag. all the

rest be negative. not what we can do—but what we can prevent. and you,

Boronowski, a professor of history, know very well that no Gospel of

Negation have ever succeed since the world begin. look at I,” he say,

stand before the Pole, with wide, outstretche arm, “young, fit,

with a brain that have prove itself—I willn’t tell you how—and eager to

throw my personal suffering into the world’s melting-pot—to live, my

dear fellow, to work, to devote myself to some ideal. I must do that, or

die. it’s all very well for you to theorize. you do it beautifully.

there’s not a word wrong in anything you say. but what be the Great

Cause that I can devote myself to?”



“Poland,” say Boronowski.





                             CHAPTER xviii



the word be like the lash of a whip. he stare at the patriot

open-mouthed.



“yes, Poland,” say Boronowski. “why not? you want to fight for a Great

Cause. be not a free and independent Poland the keystone of the arch of

reconstruct Europe? it be a commonplace axiom. Poland overthrow,

overrun with Bolshevism, all Europe crumble into dust. the world be

convulse. fight for Poland be fight for the salvation of the

world. could there be a great cause?”



his dark eye glow with compelling inspiration. his outflung arm end

in a pointing finger. and Triona see it as the finger of Salvation Yeo

in his boyhood’s picture.



“wonderful, wonderful,” he say, below his breath.



“and simple. come with I to Warsaw. I have friend of some influence.

otherwise I should not be here. the Polish Army would welcome you with

open arm.”



Triona thrust out a sudden hand, which the other grip.



“by God!” he cry, “I’ll come.”



an hour afterwards, his brain dominate by the new idea, he dance his

way through the melancholy street. here, indeed, be salvation. here he

could live the life of Truth. here be the glorious chance—although he

would never see she on earth again—of justify himself in Olivia’s

eye. and in itself it be a marvellous adventure. there would be

endless day when he should live for the hour that he be alive, without

thought of an unconjecturable to-morrow. into the cause of Poland he

would fling his soul. yes, Boronowski be right. the sovereign remedy.

his individual life—what do it matter to he? all the beloved thing

be past and go. they lie already on the further side of the Valley

of the Shadow of Death. his personality be merge into a

self-annihilate creature that would henceforth be the embodiment of a

spiritual idea.



thus for the rest of the day, and during the night, his mind work.

arrive in Poland, he would press for the fierce section of the front.

the bullet that kill he would be welcome. he would die gloriously.

Olivia should know.



as John Briggs, with his paper in order, he find his passport a simple

matter. Boronowski, with whom he spend most of his time, obtain a

speedy visa at the Polish and other Consulates. during the period of

wait he go carefully through the content of the suit-case and

remove all trace of the name and initial of Alexis Triona. the little

black book he burn page by page with match in the empty grate of his

room. when it be consume, he feel himself rid of an evil thing. in

strange East London emporium, unknown to dweller in the West End, and

discover by restless wandering, he purchase an elementary kit for the

campaign. much of his time he spend in Boronowski’s quarter in Somers

Town, read propaganda pamphlet and other literature deal with

polish actuality. when the Polish Army welcome he with open arm,

they must find he thoroughly equip. he buy a polish grammar, and

compile with Boronowski a phrase-book so as to be prepare with an

elementary knowledge of the language. the Pole marvel at his fervour.



“you spring at thing like an intellectual tiger,” say he, “and then

fasten on to they with the tooth of a bulldog.”



“I’m a quick worker when I concentrate,” say Triona.



and for many day he concentrate, sleep and eat little, till his

cheek grow gaunt and his eye bright and haggard. in his interminable

talk with Boronowski, he concentrate all his faculty, until the

patriot would laugh and accuse he of a tigerish spring on the secret

of his soul.



“it’s true,” cry Triona, “it’s the soul of Poland I want to make enter

my being. to serve you to any purpose I must see through polish eye and

feel with a polish heart, and feel my vein thrill with the spirituality

of Poland.”



“be that possible?”



“you shall see,” answer Triona.



and just as he have fall under the obsession of the dead Krilov during

the night watch in the North Sea, so do he fall under the obsession

of this new Great Cause. something fundamentally histrionic in his

temperament fling he into these excess of impersonation. already he

begin to regret his resumption of the plain name of John Briggs. even in

the pre-war russian day he have seldom be address by it. for the

first social enquiry in Russia elicit the christian name of a man’s

father. and his father’s name be Peter, he be call by all and

sundry Ivan Petrovitch. so that even then, in his fervent zeal to merge

himself into the russian spirit, he have grow to regard the two

downright word of his name as meaningless monosyllable. but he

strangle the regret fiercely as soon as it arise.



“no, by heaven!” say he, “no more lie.”



and yet, in spite of unalterable resolve, as he lie sleepless with

overwrought nerve in the sour room in the Euston Road, he be haunt

by lunatic polish form, Brigiovski, Brigowski, which he might adopt

without break his vow; he could not see himself in the part of a

polish patriot label as John Briggs; just as well might a great actor

seek to identify himself with Hamlet while wear cricketing flannel

and a bowler hat.



only once in his talk with Boronowski do he refer to the unhappiness

to which he be to apply the sovereign remedy. the day be pass

without sign of immediate departure. Boronowski, under the order of his

superior, must await instruction. Triona chafe at the delay.



Boronowski smile indulgently.



“the first element in devotion to a cause, or a woman, be patience.

illimitable patience. the demand of a cause be very much like those of

a woman, apparently illogical and capricious, but really inexorable and

unswerve in their purpose.”



“it’s all very well to talk of patience,” Triona fume, “but when one be

hag-ridden as I be——”



Boronowski smile again. “_Histoire de femme——_”



Triona flush scarlet and spring to his foot.



“how dare you twist my word like that?”



Boronowski look at he for a puzzled moment, seek the association

of idea. then, grasp it:



“forgive I, my friend,” he say courteously. “my English, after all, be

that of a foreigner. the word connection be far from my mind. I take

your speech to mean that you be drive by unhappiness. and the

unhappiness of a young man be so often—— again, I beg your pardon.”



Triona pass his hand through his brown hair.



“all right,” he say, “I’m sorry. yes. if you want to know, it’s a

woman. she’s the day-spring from on high, and I’m damn beyond

redemption. the good thing that could happen would be if she know I be

dead.”



Boronowski tug at his little greyish-red beard. a follower of great

cause be never the bad for have the Furies at his heel. but he

be a man of kindly nature.



“no one while he be alive can be damn beyond redemption,” he say. “I

don’t wish to press my indiscretion far. yet, as an old man, could

I be of service to you in any way?”



“no, you’re very kind, but no one can help I.” then an idea flash

across his excited brain. “not until I’m dead. then, perhaps, you might

do something for I.”



“you’re not go to die yet, my friend.”



“how do we know? I’m go to fight. the first day I may get knock

out. should anything happen to I, would you kindly communicate with

some one?”



he move to the paper-litter table and begin to scribble.



“it’s all rather premature, my friend,” say Boronowski. “but as you

wish.” he take the scrap of paper which bear the name and address of

Major Olifant. “this I may be liable to lose. I will enter it in my

notebook.” he make the entry. then, “may I say a serious word to you?”



“anything you like.”



“there be such a thing as the fire of purification. but—” he put a hand

on the young man’s shoulder, “you cann’t call it down from Heaven. you

must await its coming. so we get back to my original remark. patience,

more patience, and always patience.”



this be console for the moment; but after a few day’ far

grapple with the polish language, he burst into Boronowski’s lodging

and find the patriot at his table, immerse in work.



“if we don’t start soon,” he cry, “I’ll go mad. I haven’t sleep for

night and night. I’ll only sleep when we be on our journey, and I

know that all this be reality and not a dream.”



“I’ve just have order,” reply Boronowski. “we start to-morrow morning.

here be our ticket.”



that night, Triona write to Olivia. it be an eternal farewell. on the

morrow he be leave England to offer up his unworthy life as a

sacrifice to the Great Cause of Poland. the only reparation he could

make for the wrong he have do she be to beseech she to look on he as

one already dead. it cover many page.



when he return to his musty room after this last hour’s heart-break

communion with she, he sit on his bed overwhelm by sudden despair.

what guarantee have she of this departure for Poland great than that of

his mission to Helsingfors last summer? would she not throw the letter

aside in disgust—another romantic lie? he wish he have not write. he

take faint hope again on the reflection that by post another letter

from Warsaw he could establish his veracity. but why should he keep on

worry she with the detail of his miserable existence? well, far

well that she should look on he as dead; well, far well that she

should believe he dead, so that she could reconstruct her young and

break life. he might die in battle; but then he might not. he have

already carry his life safely through battle by land and sea. again

he might come out unscathed. even if he be kill, how should she hear

of his death? and if he survive, be it fair that she should be bind

by law eternally to a living ghost? somebody have say that before. it

be Olifant. Olifant, the fool out for grail, yet speak the truth of

chivalry. well, this time—he summon up the confidence of dismal

hope—he would make sure that he be dead and that she hear the news.

at any rate, he have prepare the ground; Boronowski would communicate

with Olifant.



then come a knock at his door—it be nearly midnight. the night porter

enter. a man downstair wish to see he—a foreigner. a matter of

urgent importance.



“show he up,” say Triona.



he groan, put both his hand up to his head. he do not want to see

Boronowski to-night. his distraught brain could not stand the patriot’s

tireless lucidity of purpose. Boronowski belong to the inhuman band of

fanatic, the devotee to one idea, who have nothing personal to

sacrifice. just like lonely old maid who give themselves up to

church-go and good work, and thereby plume themselves on the

acquisition of immortal merit. what soul-shatter tragedy have

Boronowski behind he, any more than the elderly virgin aforesaid? if

Boronowski keep he up talk Poland till three o’clock in the

morning—as he have already do—he would go mad. no, not to-night. the

mount step on the uncarpeted stair hammer at every nerve in his

body. and when the door open, it be not Boronowski who appear, but

a pallid, swarthy wisp of a man whom Triona recognize as one Klinski, a

Jew, and a trusted agent of Boronowski. he be so evilly dress that

the night porter, accustom to the drab clientele of the sad hostelry,

yet think it his duty to linger by the door.



Triona dismiss he sharply.



“what’s the matter?” he ask in Russian, for he be aware of the man’s

scanty English.



Klinski do not know. he be but the bearer of a letter, a large

envelope, which he draw from his breast pocket. Triona tear it open. it

contain two envelope and a covering letter. the letter run:



    “my Dear Friend,



    “a sudden change in the political situation have make it

    necessary for I to go—where I must not tell you. so, to my

    great regret, I cannot accompany you. you, however, will start

    by the morning train, as arrange. the route, as you know, be

    Paris, Zurich, Saltzburg, and Prague. I enclose letter to sound

    friend in Prague and Warsaw who will relieve you of all worry

    and responsibility. if you do not hear from I in Prague,

    where I should like you to remain one week—it be a beautiful

    city, and the Czecho-Slovak Republic be one of the most

    interesting outcome of the war—await instruction at Warsaw.

    but I anticipate pick you up in Prague.



                                                             “your,

                                                          “Boronowski.”



a moment ago, he have dread the interruption of Boronowski on his

nerve-rack vigil. now the dismayed prospect of a journey across Europe

alone awake within he a sudden yearning for Boronowski’s society. a

dozen matter could be clear up in an hour’s talk. suppose

Boronowski’s return to Warsaw be indefinitely delay.



“thank very much,” he say. “I’ll take back the answer to Mr.

Boronowski myself.”



“there can be no answer,” say Klinski.



“why?”



“Mr. Boronowski leave his lodging early this evening, and have go—who

know where?”



Triona shrug his shoulder. it be the uncomfortable way of

conspirator all the world over. to himself he curse it with

heatedness, but to no avail.



“why don’t you bring the letter before?” he ask.



“I have have many message to deliver to-night, sir,” say Klinski, “and

I have not finish.”



the stunt, pallid man look tired out, half-starve. Triona draw from

his pocket a ten-shilling note. Klinski draw back a step.



“I thank you. but in the service of my country I can only accept payment

from my Government.”



Triona regard he in admiration.



“it must be a great country!”



“it be,” say Klinski, with a light in his eye.



“and I’m proud to go and fight for she.”



“it’s a privilege that I envy you,” say Klinski. “may God preserve

you.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



drive by the impossibility of sleep in the frowsy room, by the

incurable wander-fever which take he at period of unrest, he find

himself an hour later stand before the block of flat in the

Buckingham Palace Road, stare up at the window of his home. in the

bedroom be a faint streak of light quite visible from below through a

crack in the curtain. he remember how, a year ago, he have be

compel by a similar impulse, to stand romantically beneath the

building which house she sacredness, and how the god, smile on he,

have deliver she into his rescue hand. and now there be no

god—or if there be, they do but mock he. no white wraith would

appear on the pavement, turn to warm flesh and blood, demand his

succour. she be up there, wakeful, behind that streak of light.



he stand rack by an agony of temptation. the Yale latch key be still

at the end of his watch-chain. he be her husband. he have the right of

entrance. his be clamour for she, and find utterance in a horrible

little cry. the light invite he like a beacon. yes. he would cross the

road. perhaps the fool Olifant be right. she might yet love he. and

then, as if in answer to his half-craze imagining, the light go out.



he turn, and walk wearily back across sleep London.



it be four o’clock when the night porter admit he. he stumble to

his room. as his train leave Victoria at eight, it would be an absurdity

to undress and go to bed. utterly weary, he throw himself on it as he

be, his brain whirling. there could be no question of sleep.



yet suddenly he become conscious of daylight. he start up and look

at his watch. it be past seven. he have sleep after all. he make a

perfunctory toilet and hurriedly complete his neglect packing. the

drowsy night porter, on duty till eight, tardily answer his summon,

and take his suit-case to the shabby vestibule. Triona follow, with

heavy great coat and canvas kit-bag, his purchase for the campaign. the

porter suggest breakfast. there be no time. luckily he have pay his

bill the evening before. all he demand be a taxi.



but at that early hour of the morning there be none, save a

luggage-laden few bind for St. Pancras or King’s Cross.



“I cann’t leave the hotel, sir,” say the porter, “or I would get you one

from Euston.”



“I’ll find one, then,” say Triona, and put on the heavy khaki coat

and grip suit-case in one hand and kit-bag in the other, he set off

along the Euston Road. as he near the station entrance, he stagger

along, ache and sweating. what a fool he have be not to foresee this

idiot difficulty! what a fool he have be to give way to sleep. he come

in view of the clock. give a cab, he would still have time to catch the

train at Victoria. he have it on his brain that his salvation depend on

his catch the train at Victoria. he stumble into the outer court,

past the hotel wing. an outgoing taxi-cab swirl towards he. he

drop his burden and stand in its path with upheld arm. there be a

sudden pandemonium of hoarse cry, a sounding of brake. he glance

round just in time to see, for a fraction of a second, the enter

motor-lorry which strike he down.





                              CHAPTER XIX



OLIVIA struggle for a fortnight against Circumstance, when Circumstance

get the upper hand.



but it have be a valiant fight from the moment Myra, on her return to

the flat, have deliver Triona’s scribble note, and have give she

account of the brief parting interview.



“it’s just as well,” she say. “it’s the only way out.”



she make a brave show of dining, while Myra wait stoically. at last,

impel to speech, she say:



“well, what do you think of it?”



“how can I think of what I know nothing about?” say Myra.



“would you like to know?”



“my liking have nothing to do with it,” say Myra brush the crumb off

the table. “if you tell I, you tell I because it may help you. but—I

know it’s not a christian thing to say—I’m not likely to forgive the

man that have do you an injury.”



“he have do I no injury,” say Olivia. “that’s what I want you to

know. no injury in the ordinary sense of the word.”



she look up at Myra’s impassive face, and meet the dull blue eye, and

find it very difficult to tell she, in spite of lifelong intimacy. yet

it be right that Myra should have no false notion.



“I’ve discover that my husband’s name be not Alexis Triona. it be John

Briggs.”



“John Briggs,” echo Myra.



“his father be a labourer in Newcastle. he be a chauffeur in Russia.

all that he have say about himself and write in his book be untrue.

when he leave we last summer to go to Finland, he really go to

Newcastle to his mother’s death-bed. everything he have tell I have be

a lie from begin to end. he—oh, God, Myra——”



she break down and clutch her face, while her throat be choke with

dry sobbing. Myra come swiftly round the table and put her arm about

she, and draw the beloved head near to her thin body.



“there, there, my dear. you can tell I more another time.”



Olivia let herself be soothe for a while. then she pull herself

together and rise.



“no, I’ll tell you everything now. then we’ll never need talk of it

again. I’m not go to make a fool of myself.”



she stiffen herself against feminine weakness. at the end of the

story, Myra ask she:



“what be you go to do?”



“I’m go to carry on as if nothing have happen. at any rate for the

present.”



Myra nod slowly. “you’re not the only one who have have to carry on as

if nothing have happen.”



“what do you mean?” Olivia ask quickly.



“nothing but what I say,” reply Myra. “it take some doing. but

you’ve get to believe in God and believe in yourself.”



“where do you get your wisdom from, Myra?” ask Olivia wonderingly.



“from life, my dear,” reply Myra with unwonted softness. and pick

up the last tray of remove dinner thing, she leave the room.



the next afternoon, she say to Myra, “Major Olifant have telephone I

that Mr. Triona be arrive at Paddington by a six-fifteen train. I

should like you to come with I.”



“very well,” say Myra.



it be characteristic of their relation that they speak not a word of

Triona during their drive to the station or during their wait on the

platform. when the train come in, and they have assure themselves that

he have not arrive—for they have take the precaution to separate and

each to scan a half-section—they re-enter their wait taxi-cab and

drive home.



“I hope I shall never see he again,” say Olivia, humiliate by this

new deception. “he tell Major Olifant he be come straight to town by

the train. the truth ben’t in he. you mustn’t suppose,” she turn

rather fiercely to Myra, “that I come to meet he with any idea of

reconciliation. that’s why I bring you with I. but people don’t part

for ever in this hysterical way. there be decency of life. there be

the commonplace arrangement of a separation.”



she burn with a new sense of wrong. once more he have elude she. now,

what she tell Myra be true. she wish never to see he again.



Blaise Olifant come up to town, anxious to be of service, and find she

in this defiant mood.



“it’s impossible for it all to end like this,” he say. “you be wound

to the quick. he’s in a state of crazy remorse. time will soften thing.

he’ll come to his sense and return and ask your forgiveness, and you

will give it.”



she reply, “my dear Blaise, you don’t understand. the man I love and

married don’t exist.”



“the man of genius exist. listen,” say he. “after he leave I, I’ve

do scarcely anything but think of the two of you. he could have put

forward a case—a very strong case—but he don’t.”



“and what be his strong case?” she ask bitterly.



Olifant put before she his reason apologia for the life of Triona.

give the first deception practise under the obsession of the little

black book act on a peculiarly sensitive temperament, the rest

follow remorselessly.



“he be be blackmail by one lie.”



“my intelligence grasp what you say,” Olivia answer, “but my heart

don’t. you’re stand away and can see thing in the round. I’m in

the middle of they, and I cann’t.”



if she, although his wife, have stand away; if she have be dissociate

from his deception; if nothing more have occur than the exposure of

the Triona myth, she might have forgive he. but the deception have

be interweave with the sacred thread of her love; she could not

forgive that intimate entanglement. to a woman the little thing be as

child, as the little one whose offender Christ curse with the

millstone and the sea. she have lain awake, his forget wrist-watch on

her arm, picture he toss by the wave of the North Sea in the

execution of her country’s errand. she have proudly tell a hundred people

of the Bolshevist gyve-mark around his ankle. she have be move to her

depth by the tragical romance of the fictitious Vronsky. in her heart

there have be hot rebellion against a Foreign Office keep

strangle-hold on a heroic servant and restrict his freedom of action.

these little suffering he have cause she she could not forgive. while

inflict they, he know that she suffer.



in vain do Olifant, unverse in the psychology of woman, plead the

cause of the erratic creature that be her husband. in vain do he set

out his honourable and uncontested record; that of a man whose response

to the call of duty be unquestione; of whose courage and endurance she

have receive personal testimony; who have cheerfully suffer wound, the

hardship of flight through Revolutionary Russia, the existence on a

mine-sweeper on perilous sea end in the daily dread catastrophe;

the record of a man who, apart from his fraud, have justify himself as

a queer, imaginative genius, writing of life in a new way, in a new,

vibrate style that have compel the attention of the English-speak

world. in vain do he adduce the boyish charm of the man. Olivia sigh.



“I don’t know he as you see he,” she say.



“then what can I do?” he ask.



she shake a despairing head. “nothing, my dear Blaise.” she rub the

palm of one hand on the back of the other, and turn she great dark

eye on he. “you cann’t do anything, but you’ve do something. you’ve

show I how loyal a man can be.”



he protest vaguely. “my dear Olivia . . .”



“it’s true,” she say. “and I’ll always remember it. and now, don’t let

we ever talk about this again.”



“as you will,” say he. “but what be you go to do?”



she reply as she have do to Myra. she would carry on.



“until when?”



she shrug her shoulder. she would carry on indefinitely. to act

otherwise would open the door to gossip. she be not go to be do to

death by slanderous tongue. she rise and stand before he in slim,

rigid dignity.



“if I cann’t out-brave the world, I’m a poor thing.”



“you stay here, then?” he ask.



“why not? where else should I go?”



“I come with a little note from my sister,” say Olifant, draw a

letter from his pocket and hand it to she.



Olivia read it through. then she say, in a soften voice:



“you’re a dear, kind friend.”



“it’s my sister,” he smile; but he could not keep an appeal out of his

eye. “why shouldn’t you?” he ask suddenly. “it will be hateful for

you here, for all your courage. and you’ll be fight what? just

shadow, and you’ll expend all your strength in it. what good will it do

you or anybody? you want rest, real rest, of body and soul.”



she meet his eye.



“do I look so woebegone?”



“the sight of you now be enough to break the heart of any one who care

for you, Olivia,” he say soberly.



“it’s merely a question of sleeplessness. that’ll pass off.”



“it will pass off quick in the country,” he urge. “it will be a

break. the house will be your. Mary and I, the discreet shadow. you

don’t know the self-effacing dear that Mary be. besides, she be one of

those woman who be a living balm for the wounded. to look at she be to

draw love and comfort from she.” he venture the tip of his finger

on her slender shoulder. “do come. your old room shall be your, just

as you leave it. or the room I have always keep sacred.”



she stand by the fireplace, her arm on the mantelshelf, look away

from he.



“or, if you like,” he go on, “we’ll clear out—we only want a few

day—and give you back your old home all to yourself.”



she stretch out a groping hand; he take it.



“I know you would,” she say. “It’s—it’s beautiful of you. I’m not

surprised, because—” she sway head and shoulder a bit, seek for

word, her eye away from he, “—because, after that first day at

Medlow, I have never think of you as do otherwise than what be

beautiful and noble. it sound silly. but I mean it.”



she withdraw her hand and walk away into the room, her back towards

he. he stride after she.



“that’s foolishness. I’m only an ordinary, decent sort of man. in the

circumstance, good Lord! I couldn’t do less.”



she face he in the middle of the room.



“and I as an ordinary, decent woman, couldn’t do less than what I’ve

say.”



“well?” say he.



they stand for a few second eye to eye. a faint colour come into her

cheek, and she smile.



“don’t suppose I’m not tempt. I be. but if I come, you’d spoil I.

I’ve get to fight.”



this valiant attitude he could not induce she to abandon. at last, with

a pathetic air of disappointment, he say:



“if I can help you in any other way, and you willn’t let I, I shall be

hurt.”



“oh, I’ll let you,” she cry impulsively. “you may be sure. who else be

there?”



he go away comfort. yet he do not return to Medlow. these early

day, he argue, be critical. anything might happen, and it would be

well for he to remain within call.



of what the future hold for she she do not think. her mind be

concentrated on the struggle through the present. she receive a woman

caller and chatter over tea as though nothing have happen. the effort

brace she, and she feel triumphant over self. she go about on her

trivial shopping. she remember a fitting for a coat and skirt which

she have resolve to postpone till after the project motor jaunt. if

she be to live in the world, she must have clothe to cover she. one

morning, therefore, she journey to the dressmaker’s in Hanover Street,

and, the fitting over, wander through the square, down Conduit Street

into Bond Street. at the corner, she run into Lydia, expensively

dress, creamy, serene.



“my dear, you’re look like a ghost. what have you be do with

yourself?”



“jog on as usual,” say Olivia.



their acquaintance have not be entirely break. a few call have be

exchange. once Lydia have lunch with Olivia alone in the Buckingham

Palace Road. but they have not meet since the early part of the year. they

stroll slowly down Bond Street. Lydia be full of news. Bobby Quinton

have marry Mrs. Bellingham—a rich woman twice his age.



“the way of the transgressor be soft,” say Olivia.



Mauregard be transfer to Rome. his idol, the russian dancer, have run

off with Danimède, the fitter at Luquin’s. hadn’t Olivia hear?



“where have you be live, my dear child? in a tomb? it have be the

talk of London for the past six week. they’re in Paris now, and they

say she lie down on the floor and let the little beast kick she. she

like it. there’s no accounting for taste. perhaps that’s why she leave

Mauregard.”



in her serene, worldly way, she go through the scandalous chronicle

of her galley. she come at last to Edwin Mavenna. Olivia remember

Mavenna? she laugh indulgently. Olivia shudder at the memory and

grip her hand tight. Mavenna—he matter little. a beast let loose

for a few moment from the darkness. he be eclipse from her vision by

the boyish, grey-clothe figure in the moonlight. she scarcely hear

Lydia’s chatter.



“one must live and let live, you know, in this world. he and Sydney be

partner now. I hint something of the sort at the time. you don’t mind

now, do you?”



“not a bit. why should I?” say Olivia.



“that’s really why I’ve not ask you down to our place in Sussex. but

if you don’t mind meet he—he’s quite a good sport really.”



Olivia’s eye wander up and down the crowded roadway.



“I wish I could see an empty taxi,” she say.



she have a sudden horror of Lydia—a horror queerly mingle with fierce

jealousy. why should Lydia, with her gross materialism, be lead this

unruffled existence?



“be you in a hurry?” Lydia ask placidly.



“I’ve an appointment with—my dentist.”



“we’ll get in here and wait till we see a taxi,” say Lydia.



they stand in the recess of a private doorway, by the bow-window of a

print shop.



“you’re not look well, my dear,” say Lydia quite affectionately.

“marriage don’t seem to agree with you. what’s the matter?”



Olivia flash: “nothing’s the matter.”



“how’s your husband?”



“very well.”



this be intolerable. she strain her eye for the little red flag of

freedom. then, as she have tell her visitor of a day or two before:



“he’s go abroad—on important business.”



“and not take you with he?”



“his business ben’t ordinary business,” she say instinctively. then she

recognize she be cover he with his own cloak. her pale cheek

flush.



“so that’s it,” say Lydia smile. “you’re a poor little grass widow.

you want buck up, my dear. a bit of old time. come and do a dinner

and a theatre with we. Sydney would love to see you again. we’ll steer

clear of naughty old Mavenna——”



she have to stop; for Olivia have rush across the pavement and be

hold up her little embroidered bag at arm’s length, and the

Heaven-send taxi be draw up to the kerb.



Lydia follow she and stand while she enter the cab.



“you’ll come, willn’t you, dear?”



“I’ll telephone,” say Olivia. she put out a hand. “good-bye. it have

be so pleasant see you again.”



Lydia shake hand and smile in her prosperous, content way. then she

say:



“where shall he drive to?”



Olivia have not give the matter a thought. she reflect swiftly. if she

say “home,” Lydia would suspect her eagerness to escape. after all, she

don’t want to hurt Lydia’s feeling. she cry at random:



“Marlborough Road, St. John’s Wood.”



“what a funny place for a dentist to live,” say Lydia.



anyhow, it be over. she be alone in the taxi, which be proceed

northward up Bond Street. of all people in the world Lydia be the one

she least have desire to meet. Dinner and Revue. possibly supper and a

dance afterwards! back again to where she have start little over a year

ago. she suddenly become aware of herself shriek with laughter. in

horror, she stop short, and feel a clattering shock all through her

frame, like a car go at high speed when, at the instant of danger,

all the brake be suddenly apply. she lie back on the cushion,

pant. her brow be moist. she put up her hand and find a wisp of

hair stick to her temple.



the cab go on. where be she? where be she go? she look out of

the window and recognize Regent’s Park. then she remember she

wildly-give destination. she put her head through the window.



“I’ve change my mind,” she say to the driver. “go to Buckingham Palace

Mansions.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the next morning come a letter from Lydia on expensive primrose

note-paper. would Friday be convenient? Sydney and herself would call

for she at seven. there be a postscript:



“I hope the St. John’s Wood dentist don’t hurt you too much.”



it give she an idea. she reply:



“so sorry. the St. John’s Wood dentist have make it impossible for I to

appear in public for at least a month.”



she check an impulse of laughter. she must keep hold on herself.



Olifant come in the afternoon. she tell he of a communication she have

receive from her bank to the effect that Alexis have place a large sum

of money to her account. but she do not tell he of her meeting with

Lydia.



“what’s to be do with the money? I don’t want it. it have well be

retransferre.”



“I’ll see what I can do,” say Olifant.



he come back next morning. he have see the manager of Triona’s bank.

nothing could be do. Alexis have draw out his balance in cash and

close his account.



“let thing be—at any rate for the present,” Olifant counsel.



when he take his leave, he say, look down on she from his lean

height:



“I do wish you would come to Medlow.”



she know that she be ill. she know that she be look ill. but her

little frame shake with an impatient movement.



“I’m go to stick it, Blaise. I’m go to stick it if I die for it.”



“it’s magnificent, but it ben’t war—or anything else,” say he.



                 *        *        *        *        *



then come Rowington. the last straw. the last straw, in the guise of an

anxious, kindly, gold-spectacle, clean-shaven, florid-face

philanthropist. first he have ask over the telephone for Triona’s

address. an urgent matter. Olivia reply that his address be secret.

would she kindly forward a letter? she reply that none of her

husband’s letter be to be forward. would Mrs. Triona see he, then?

he would wait on she at any time convenient to she. she fix the hour.

he come on the stroke.



Olivia, her heart cold, her brain numb by a hundred apprehension, be

wait for he in the drawing-room. Myra announce he. Olivia rise.



“my dear Mrs. Triona,” say he, emphasize the conventional handshake

by lay his hand over hers and hold it, “where be that wonderful

husband of your?”



“he’s go abroad,” say Olivia.



“he must come back,” say Rowington.



“he have go away for a long time on important business,” say Olivia,

parrot-wise.



she motion he to a chair. they sit down.



“I gather something of the sort from his letter. have he tell you of

certain disposition?”



she fence. “I don’t quite follow you.”



“this letter——?”



he hand she the letter of instruction with regard to payment of

royalty which he have receive from Triona. she glance through it.



“that’s all right,” she say.



he draw a breath of relief. “I’m glad you know. I have a sort of

idea—anyhow, no matter how important his business be, it’s essential

that he should come back at once.”



“why?” she ask.



but she have a sicken prescience of the answer. the kindly gentleman

pass his hand over his forehead.



“it’s just a business complication, my dear Mrs. Triona,” he say.



she rise. he too, courteously.



“be it to do with anything that happen on the night of your

dinner-party?”



“I’m afraid so.”



“Colonel Onslow and Captain Wedderburn?”



he meet her eye.



“yes,” say he.



“they’ve come to you with all sort of lie about Alexis.”



“I would give ten year of my life not to wound you, Mrs. Triona,” he

say, in great distress. “I don’t sleep a wink last night. my honour as

a publisher be involve. but let that pass. I’m think more of you.

you only can help I—and your husband. these two gentleman have come to

I with a challenge. your husband’s good faith. they ask ‘be _through

blood and Snow_ a bona-fide personal record?’”



“it be,” say Olivia, with she back to the wall.



“he’ll have to prove it.”



“he will,” say Olivia proudly. “what do they propose to do?”



“have the whole thing clear up in public—in the Press. my dear Mrs.

Triona,” he say after a few moment’ hesitation, “don’t you see the

false position I’m in? this letter I’ve show you—it look like run

away—forgive I if I wound you. but on the face of it, it do. I

daren’t tell they. but of course, if Mr. Triona come back, he’ll be

able to give all the explanation in the world. I haven’t the remotest

doubt of it—not the remotest doubt. so, whatever his business be, you

must recall he. you see the importance?”



“yes, I see,” say Olivia tonelessly.



“so will you write and tell he this?”



the truth have to come out. she say:



“as a matter of fact, I don’t know where he be. I cann’t communicate with

he.”



she hate the look of incredulous surmise on Rowington’s face. “as soon

as I can, I’ll let he know.”



“yes, yes,” say Rowington. “you must. you see, don’t you, that both

Onslow and Wedderbum feel it to be their public duty.”



“but they’re both man of decent feeling,” say Olivia. “they wouldn’t

attack a man when they know he ben’t here to defend himself.”



“I hope not, my dear Mrs. Triona,” say Rowington. “I sincerely hope

not. I’ll see they again. indeed, I try to put they off the whole

thing. I do my good.”



“what’s the exact charge they make against my husband?”



to her utmost power she would defend he. let her know fact.



he explain. there be a mysterious period of ten month. Captain

Wedderburn assert that for four of those month her husband be with

the Armoured Column, and for the remain six he lie wound in a

russian hospital. Colonel Onslow maintain that those ten month—he

have his date exact—be cover in the book by Alexis Triona’s

adventure in Farthest Russia—and that these adventure be identical

with those of another man who relate they to he in person.



“that’s definite, at any rate,” say Olivia. “but it’s a monstrous

absurdity all the same. my husband deny the russian hospital in my

presence. you can tell these gentleman that what they propose to do be

infamous—especially when they learn he be not here. will you give they

my message? to hit a man behind his back be not English.”



Rowington see burn eye in a dead white face, and a slim, dark figure

draw up tragically tense. he go home miserably with this picture in

his mind. for all her bravery she have not restore his droop faith in

Triona.



and Olivia sit, when he have leave she, stare at public disgrace.

against that she could not fight. the man she have love be a shadow, a

non-existent thing; but she bear his name. she have swear to keep bright

the honour of the name before the world. and now the world would sweep

it into the dustbin of ignominy. a madden sense of helplessness,

grow into a great terror, get possession of she.



the next morning, when Myra bring in her letter, she feel ill and

feverish after a restless night. one of the envelope bear Triona’s

familiar handwriting. she seize it eagerly. it would give some address,

so that she could summon he back to make a fight for his honour. but

there be no address. she read it through, and then break into shrill

harsh laughter.



“he say he’s go out this morning to fight for the sacred cause of

Poland.”



Myra, who be potter about the room, turn on her sharply. as soon

as Olivia be quieter, she send for the doctor. later in the day, there

come a nurse, and Myra be banish most of the day from the beloved

bedside.



thus it come about that the next morning no correspondence or morning

paper be bring into Olivia’s room. and that be why Myra, who

prefer the chatty paragraph to leader and political news, say

nothing to her mistress of a paragraph stick away in the corner of the

paper. it be only a few line—issue by the police—though Myra do

not know that—to the effect that a well-dress man with paper on he

give the name of John Briggs have be knock over by a motor-lorry

the previous morning and have be take unconscious to University

College Hospital.





                               CHAPTER XX



MYRA stand by the screen-off bed in the long ward and look

unemotionally at the unconscious man.



“yes,” she say to the Sister, “that be Mr. John Briggs. I know he

intimately.”



“be you a relative?”



“he have no relative.”



“you see, in a case like this, we have to report to the police. it’s

their business to find somebody responsible.”



“I’m responsible,” say Myra.



the Sister look at the tall, lean woman, so dignified in her well-make

iron grey coat and skirt and plain black hat, and be puzzle to place

she socially. she might be an austere lady of high degree; on the other

hand, she speak with an odd, country accent. it be, at any rate, nine

hundred and ninety-nine to one that she be a genuine friend of the

patient; but there be the remain one in a thousand that she belong

to the race of crank not unfamiliar in London hospital.



“it’s only a matter of formality,” say the Sister, “but one must have

some proof.”



so Myra draw her bow at a venture.



“Mr. Briggs be go abroad—to Poland.”



the Sister smile with relief. in his pocket-book have be find railway

ticket and unseal letter to people in Prague and Warsaw. so long as

they find some one responsible, it be all that matter. she proceed

to explain the case. a broken thigh, broken rib, and severe concussion.

possibly internal injury. the surgeon could not tell, yet.



Myra scan again the peaked bit of face beneath the headbandage,

which be all that be visible of Alexis Triona, and ask:



“can he live?”



“it’s doubtful,” say the Sister.



they move away to the centre of the ward aisle. the Sister talk of

the accident, of the patient’s position.



“he’s a rich man,” say Myra.



“so we gather,” reply the Sister, who have in she keep his

pocket-book, stuff with English bank-note of high value.



“if anything should happen, you of course will let I know.”



“your name and address?”



she give it. the sister write it down on a note-pad.



“could I see he just once more?” Myra ask.



“certainly.”



they go round the screen. Myra stand look down on the bit she could

see of the man who have bring catastrophe on her beloved. the shock of

recognition, although expect, arouse her pity. then her heart surge

with fierce resentment. serve the lie rascal right. why haven’t the

motor-lorry finish the business right away? for all her cultivate

impassivity of demeanour, she stand tremble by the bedside, scarcely

know whether she wish he to die or live. have he cross her path

unrelated to Olivia, she would have succumb to his boyish charm. he

have ever be courteous, grasp with his subtle tact the nature of the

bond between her mistress and herself. so she half-love, half-loathe

he. and yet, all this consider, it would be well for Olivia and for

himself if he be to die. she glance swiftly around. the Sister have

be call away for a second. she be alone behind the screen. she know

that if she could take that bandaged head in her gloved hand and shake

it, he would die, and Olivia would be free. she shiver at the

extraordinary temptation. then reaction come and speed she from his side.



she meet the Sister.



“can I come again to see how he be get on?”



“by all mean.”



“I shouldn’t like he to die,” say Myra.



say the Sister, somewhat mystify at this negative pronouncement:



“you may be sure we’ll do all we can.”



“I know,” say Myra.



                 *        *        *        *        *



of these proceeding, and of these conflict emotion, she say

nothing to Olivia. nor do she say anything of subsequent visit to the

hospital where Triona still lie unconscious.



in a short time Olivia recover sufficiently to dispense with the

nurse. the doctor prescribe change of air. Olifant once more suggest

Medlow, and this time she yield. but on the afternoon before her

departure, while they be pack, she have a strange conversation with

Myra.



she hold in her hand, uncertain whether to burn it, the last wild letter

of Alexis.



“I’m glad he’s go to Poland,” she say reflectively.



“why?” ask Myra, not look up from the trunk by which she be

kneel.



“it’s a man’s work, after all,” say Olivia.



“so’s dig potato.”



“I suppose you’re right,” say Olivia.



she tear up the letter and throw the fragment into the fire.



“what a hell marriage can be.”



“it can,” say Myra.



“you’re lucky. you’ve escape.”



“have I?” ask Myra intent on the packing of underwear.



at her tone Olivia start. “what do you mean?”



Myra look up, sit back on her heel.



“do you suppose, dearie, you’re the only woman in trouble in the world?”



Olivia move a step towards she.



“be you too in trouble, Myra?”



“I’ve be in trouble for the last twenty year, ever since I leave your

mother’s house to be married to he.”



Olivia stare at her open-mouthed, lose in amazement. this prim,

puritanical, predestined spinster of a Myra——



“you—marry?”



she swerve back into a chair, reel ever so little under this new

shock. if there have be one indubitable, solid fact in her world, one

that have stand out absolute during all the disillusion of the past

year, it be Myra’s implacable spinsterhood. why, she have see Myra

every day of her life, ever since she could remember, except for the

annual holiday. yes. those holiday, always a subject for jest with her

father and brother when they be alive. no one have know whither she

have go, or when she have emerge on her reappearance. she have never

give an address—so far as Olivia know. and yet her plunge into the

unknown have receive the unquestioned acceptance of the family. only

last November she have go in her mysterious way, take, however, only

a fortnight instead of her customary month. Olivia, Heaven know why, have

form the careless impression that she have betake herself to some

tabby-like home for religious incurable, run by her dissent

organization. and all this time, tabby-like in another sense, she have

be steal back to her husband. where be truth in the world? she

repeat mechanically:



“you—marry?”



Myra rise stiffly, her joint creak, and stand before her mistress,

and perhaps for the first time in her life Olivia see a gleam of light

in the elderly woman’s expressionless pale blue eye.



“yes, I’m married. before the end of my honeymoon, I find he ben’t in

his right mind. I have to shut he up, and come back to your mother. he’s

alive still, in the County Asylum. I go to see he every year.”



in a revulsion of feeling, Olivia spring to her foot and hold out both

her arm.



“Myra—my dear old Myra——”



Myra suffer the young embrace, and then gently disengage herself.



“there—there——” she say.



“why have you never tell I?”



“would it have do you any good?”



“it would have make I much more thoughtful and considerate.”



“I’ve never want thought or consideration,” say Myra. “you have. so I

say—would it have do you any good? not a ha’p’orth. I’ve be much

more use to you as I be. if you want to serve people, don’t go and throw

your private life down their throat. it choke they. you may think it

won’t—but it do.”



“but why,” ask Olivia with moist eye. “why should you want to serve

I like that—your devotion all these year?”



“my duty,” say Myra. “I tell you something of the sort a while ago.

what’s the good of repeat thing? besides, there be your mother——”



“do mother know?”



Myra nod. “she don’t know I be go to be marry. I be young

then, and afraid. Madam take I out of an orphanage, and I think I be

bind for life. . . . he come to Medlow to do thatch. that’s how I

meet he. his father, one of a large family, have come from Norfolk to

settle in the West. the Norfolk thatcher be know all over England. it

go down from father to son. his family have be thatcher in the same

village since the Norman Conquest. he be a fine, upstanding man, and in

his way an aristocrat—different from the butcher’s boy and baker’s man

that come to the back door. I love he with all my heart. he ask I

to marry he. I say ‘yes.’ we arrange it should be for my next

holiday. up to then, I have spend my holiday at a seaside place connect

with the orphanage. one pay a trifle. instead of go there, I go to

his home. it be only when the trouble come that I write to your mother.

she say the few people who know, the well. I come back as though

nothing have happen. whether she tell Mr. Gale or not, I don’t know. I

don’t think she do. there be a baby—but, thank God, it be bear dead.

your mother arrange it all, so that no one should be the wiser. you

yourself be the tiny tot. perhaps now you see why I have a duty

towards the daughter of an angel from Heaven.”



“and all my life——” Olivia begin, but Myra interrupt she

unemotionally.



“I don’t tell you any of this, because, as I say, it could do you no

good. and it’s your good I’ve live for. one must have something to live

for, anyway. some folk live for food, other folk live for religion.

I’d have live for religion if it ben’t for you. I’ve struggle and

pray to find the way. often it have be a question of you and Jesus

Christ who have call I to forsake the vain affection of this world.

and I’ve choose you. I may be damn in Hell for it, but I don’t care.”



she go on her knee again by the trunk, and continue to pack dainty

underwear.



“I’ve tell you now, because it may do you good to see that you’re not

the only married woman in trouble. I’d thank you,” she add after a

pause, “to leave I alone with this packing.”



and as Olivia, not dare to yield the fullness of her heart to this

strange, impassive creature, linger by the door, Myra say:



“you’d good go, dearie, and think it out. at any rate, you haven’t get

to go through the sorrow of the baby business.”



whether this be consolation or not, Olivia could not decide. if there

have be a child, and it have live, it might have be a comfort and a

blessing. nothing in its heredity would have mark it with a curse. but

still—it would have be a lifelong link with the corporeal man whom

she have not marry, from whom she shrink, and whom she proclaim she

desire never to see again. on the other hand, Myra’s revelation give she

strength and restore her courage. she shudder at the thought of the

hopeless lunatic in the County Asylum, drag out dead year of life.

at any rate, she be married to a live man.



                 *        *        *        *        *



her first day in Medlow pass like a dream. the kind and gentle

of woman, Mary Woolcombe, Olifant’s sister, minister to her want.

Mrs. Woolcombe, too, have make an unhappy marriage, and now live apart

from her husband, the depraved Oxford don. thus, with her hostess and

Myra, Olivia find herself within a little freemasonry of unsuccessful

wife. and one day, when she come to think of it, she laugh out loud.



“we might start a home,” she say to Myra.



it be only later, when she shake off the strangeness of the dearly

familiar, and grow strong enough to venture out into the street that

she find sense of perspective. not so long ago have she set out on her

Great Adventure—only eighteen month. yet in these she have gather the

experience of eighteen year. . . .



save for Blaise Olifant’s study, the house be little change. the oak

settle in the hall still show the mark of the tooth of Barabbas, the

bull-terri pup. the white pane in the blue and red window of the

bathroom still accuse the youthful Bobby, now asleep for ever beneath

the sod of Picardy. her own old room, use by Mrs. Woolcombe, be

practically unaltered. she stare into it as she ramble about the

house, and feel that she have do right in not dispossess its present

occupant. all her girlhood be contain within those four wall, and

she could not go back to it. the room would be haunt by its

inconsiderable ghost. she prefer her mother’s room, which, though

scrupulously kept air and dust, have remain under lock and key.

there, if ghost count for aught, would a spirit pervade of exquisite

sympathy.



as Olifant have promise, she find herself in a strange, indefinable

way, again mistress of the house, although she could take no part in its

practical direction. he have speak truth of his sister, whom she love

at first sight. Mary Woolcombe be plump, rosy, and brown-haired, with

her brother’s dark blue eye. on their first evening leave-taking,

Olivia have be impel to kiss she, and have feel the responsive warmth

of a sisterly bosom.



“I do hope you feel at home,” Olifant ask one day after lunch.



“you seem like guest, not host,” reply Olivia.



“it’s dear of you to say so,” say Mary Woolcombe, “but I wish you’d

prove it by ask your friend to come and see you.”



“I will,” reply Olivia.



but she flush scarlet, and, as soon as she be alone, she grapple

with reality. and reality nearly always have a nasty element of the

ironical. she remember the first cloud that sweep over her serene soul

during the honeymoon bliss of the point. they have discuss their future

domicile. Alexis have suggest the common-sense solution—“The Towers”

as headquarters. she, with the schoolgirl stigma of Landsdowne House

upon she, and possess by the bitter memory of the nose-in-the-air

attitude of the Blair Park crocodile—eternal symbol of social

status—have revolt at the suggestion. he, the equal and companion of

prince, look on she—and, if his last crazy letter signify

anything—look still on she, as the high-bear lady—the Princess of

his dream. each, therefore, have deceive the other. she, the daughter

of Gale and Trivett, auctioneer and estate agent, and so, by the

unwritten law, cut off from the gentry of Medlow, have undergone agony of

remorse for the sake of the son of a Tyneside operative, a boy before

the mast, a common chauffeur, a man far her inferior in the social

scale. no wonder he could not understand her hesitancy. her resentment

against he blaze anew. for his sake she have needlessly soil her soul

with deceit and snobbery. it be well that he have pass out of her

life.



“may I invite Mr. Trivett and Mr. Fenmarch to tea?” she ask.



Mary Woolcombe smile.



“the house be your, dear. that’s not a spanish courtesy but an English

fact.”



so the two old gentleman come, and Olivia entertain they in the

dining-room, as she have do on the afternoon of her emancipation. she

sit at the end of the comfortably lay table, and the dusty Fenmarch,

with the face of an old moulting badger, drink tea, while, as before,

the stout, red-gille Trivett drink whisky and soda with his hot scone.

this time, the latter explain that the whisky be a treat—forbid

by Mrs. Trivett at the domestic tea-table. they welcome she back in the

kindness of their simple heart. they know nothing of her separation

from Triona. she have be ill and come down for rest and change.



“and you look as if you need it, my dear,” say Mr. Trivett. “and some

of your good father’s old port. there should still be a dozen or two of

cockburn’s ‘70 in the cellar at the present moment—unless Major Olifant

have drink it all.”



Olivia laugh, for it be humorously mean. Mr. Fenmarch in the act of

raise his teacup to his lip, put it down again with a sigh and shake

his dusty head.



“it be a great wine,” he say with a look backward into the past.



“we’ll have a bottle up,” cry Olivia.



in spite of polite protest, she ring for Myra, and to Myra she give

instruction. and presently Myra, train from girlhood in the nice

conduct of wine, appear with the cob-web bottle, white splash

uppermost, tenderly tilt in unshake hand. Trivett take it from she

reverently while she seek corkscrew and napkin and glass, and when

she place the napkin pad on the table, and Trivett take the corkscrew,

Fenmarch, with the air of one participate in a holy rite, lay both

hand on the sacred bottle and watch the extraction of the cork as one

who await the manifestation of the god. the brow of both man be

bent, and they hold their breath. then the cork come out clear and

true, and the broad red face of Trivett be irradiate by an

all-pervade smile. it fade into an instant’s seriousness while he

smell the cork—it reappear triumphant as he hold the corkscrew,

with cork impale, beneath the nostril of Fenmarch. fenmarch sniff

and smile and bow.



“Olivia, my dear——” say Trivett with a gesture.



Olivia, understanding, hold the wine-glass. the wine flow clear,

gold dissolve in ruby—be there a colour on earth like the colour of

old port?



“stop! only a sip for I,” she laugh.



“Nonsense. it be only for the sake of her health that we let she open

it—eh, Fenmarch?”



but Fenmarch, eager on the pouring, cry:



“don’t move your glass, for God’s sake, Olivia. you’ll waste it.”



but Trivett, with a false air of chivalry, let she off with half a

glass. fenmarch refolde the napkin, so as to give the temporarily

abandon bottle a high tilt. the two man smell the wine. for the

first time since the awful night of disillusion, Olivia feel happy.

these old dear! it be like stuff greedy child with chocolate.



the two elderly gentleman raise their glass and bow to she. then

sip.



“ah!” say Fenmarch.



“H’m,” say Trivett, with the knitted brow of puzzlement.



then, suddenly the grey, badgery little man who have never be know to

laugh violently, give Olivia the shock of her life. he thrust his chair

from the table and smack his thigh and explode in a high-pitch

cackle of hilarity.



“he cann’t taste it! he’s be drink whisky! he have paralyse his

palate. I’ve be wait for it!” he beat the air with his hand. “oh

Lord! that’s good!”



Trivett’s fat jowl fall.



“——” he gasp, regardless of Olivia. “so I have.”



“Moral——” cry the delighted Fenmarch. “never try to steal a march on

your wife—it don’t pay, my boy. it don’t pay.”



and he inhale the aroma of the Heaven-give wine, and drink with the

serenity of the man who have never offend the high god.



Olivia, anxious to console, say to Mr. Trivett:



“I’ll send you some round to-morrow.”



Trivett spread out his great arm.



“my dear, it’ll have to settle. if move, it willn’t be fit to drink for a

couple of month.”



eventually he reconcile himself to the loss of the subtler shade of

flavour, and he share with Fenmarch the drinkable remainder of the

carefully handle bottle.



but it be not for this genial orgy that Olivia have convene the

meeting.



“I owe you two dear an apology,” she say.



they protest. an impossibility.



“I do,” she assert. “the last time you be here, you give I good

advice, which I reject, like a little fool. I insist on go up to

London with all my money tie up in a bundle, to seek my fortune.”



“well, my dear,” say Trivett, “haven’t you find it?”



she look from one to the other, and their wine-cheer face grow

serious as she slowly shake her head.



“I want to tell you something in confidence. it mustn’t get round the

town—at any rate, not yet. my husband and I ben’t go to live

together any more.”



“God bless my soul!” say Fenmarch.



“so,” she continue, “I’m where I be when I leave you. and I don’t want

any more adventure. and if you’d take back my bag of gold—there ben’t

so much in it now—and advise I what to do with it, I should be very

grateful.”



it have cost she some sacrifice of pride to make this little speech. she

have rehearse it; put it off and off during the pleasant wine-drinking.

she have flout they once for two unimaginative ancient, and now

dread, the possible grudge they might have against she. “if you have

only listen to we,” they might say, with ill-conceal triumph. if

they have do so, she would have accept it as punishment for her

overbearing conceit and for her snobbery. but they receive her news

with a consternation so affectionate and so genuine that her eye fill

with tear.



“you willn’t ask I why,” she say. “it’s a complicated story—and

painful. but it have nothing whatever to do with—with thing people be

divorce for. I should like you to understand that.”



“then surely,” say the old lawyer, “as the usual barrier to a

reconciliation don’t exist, there may still be hope——”



“none,” say Olivia. “my husband have do the right thing. he have go

away—abroad—for ever, and have make it impossible for I to find out

his address.”



“my dear,” say Mr. Trivett, his red face grow redder, “I don’t want

to know none of your private affair—” he lose hold of grammar

sometimes when deeply move “—it’s enough for I that you’re in

trouble. I’ve know you ever since you be bear, and I love your

father, who be the honest man God ever make.” he stretch out his

great, sunglazed hand. “and so, if old Luke Trivett’s any good to you,

my dear, you can count on he as long as he’s this side of the daisy.”



“and I’m your good friend, too,” say Mr. Fenmarch in his dusty

manner.



when they have go, Olivia sit for a long while alone in the

dining-room. and she feel as though she have return to the strong and

dear reality of life after a feverish wandering among shadow.





                              CHAPTER XXI



after this, Olivia take up her life, as she think, in firm hand. she

have make her reparation to her old friend. she join the family party

of the Trivetts at dinner, and mix with the “homely folk” that

assemble around old John Freke’s tea table. she live in a glow of

contrition for past snobbery. the vague story of her separation from

Triona which she have tell to the two old man not suffice Medlow

curiosity, she tell what she believe to be the truth.



“my husband have go to Poland to fight against the russian Reds.”



and thereby she give the impression that the cause of the break up of

her married life be the incurable adventurous spirit of her husband.

the suggestion fit in with the town’s idea of the romance of her

marriage and the legendary character of Alexis Triona, which have

originally be inspire by the local bookseller eager to sell copy of

Triona’s book. she herself, therefore, became invest in a gossamer

garment of mystery, which she wear with become grace. her homecoming

be a triumph.



as the day pass and bring no news of Alexis, she grow convinced of

the honesty of his last letter. his real achievement in the past

confirm her conviction. he be the bear adventurer. it be like he to

have seek the only field of mad action open at that hour of

frantically guard peace. he have go to Poland. in her heart she

rejoice. she see he strive to burn a past record and rise,

Phœnix-like, from its ashe.



“if he come back a polish General, all over star and glory,” say Myra,

during one of their increasingly intimate conversation, “would you take

up with he again?”



Olivia redden. “I should be glad for his sake.”



“I don’t see that you’re answer my question,” say Myra.



“I’ve tell you once and for all,” flash Olivia, “that I’ll have

nothing more to do with he as long as I live.”



she mean it with all that she know of her soul. his fraud be

unforgivable; his perfect recognition of it constitute his only merit.

in Poland, do wild thing, he be a picturesque and tolerable

personage. in her immediate neighbourhood, he become once again a

repellent figure. as far as she could, she blot he out of her

thought.



the threat of exposure at the hand of Onslow and Wedderburn still hang

over her head. the disgrace of it would react on her innocent self. the

laughter of the lydian galley ring in her ear. she guess the cynical

gossip of the new London world. that be hateful enough. she need

never return to either. but it would follow she to Medlow. she would be

pity by the Trivetts and the Frekes, and the parent of the present

generation of Landsdowne House. they would wonder why, in the face of

the revelation, she still call herself “Mrs. Triona.” to spring she

plain Mrs. Briggs-dom on Medlow she have not the courage.



she take counsel with Blaise Olifant. in his soldier-scholar protecting

way he seem a rock of refuge. he say:



“write to they through Rowington and ask they to hold their hand until

you can put they into communication with your husband, which you give

your word of honour to do as soon as you learn his address.”



she do so. the bargain be accept. when she receive Rowington’s

letter, she dance into Olifant’s study, and, sit on the corner of

his table, flourish it in his face.



“oh, the relief of it! I feel ten year young. I be on the verge of

become an old woman. now it will never come out.”



Olifant lean back in his chair and look at she wistfully. a faint

flush colour her cheek, and her eye be light with the gladness of

hundred of day ago. her lip be part, show the white, girlish

tooth. sit there, vividly alive, in the intimate attitude, smile

on he, she be infinitely desirable.



“no,” say he. “it will never come out.”



a cloud pass over her face. “still, one never know——”



“I have faith in Alexis,” say he. “he’s a man of his word.”



“I think you’re the loyal creature that ever live.”



he raise a deprecate hand. “I would I be,” say he.



“what do you mean by that?” she ask pleasantly.



“if I be,” say he, his nose seem to lengthen over the wry smile of

his lip, “if I be, I would go out into the world and not rest till I

bring he back to you.”



she slide to her foot. “with a barber’s basin for a helmet, and the rest

of the equipment. if you do such an idiot thing, I should hate you.

don’t you understand that he have go out of my life altogether?”



“life be a long, long time to look forward to, for a woman so young as

yourself.”



“you mean, I might fall in love with somebody else, and there would be

horrid complication?” she laugh in the cocksureness of youth. “oh,

no, my dear Blaise. once bite, twice shy. three time, four time, all

the multiplication table time shy.”



Though impel by primitive instinct, he could not press she far.

he find himself in a position of poignant absurdity, compensate by the

sweetness of their daily companionship. sometimes he wonder how it

could be that an awakened woman like Olivia could remain in calm

ignorance of his love. yet she give never a sign of knowledge. she

accept friendship with full hand and give it with full heart. beyond

that—nothing. from his sensitive point of view, it be all for the

good. if, like a lean spider, he sit down beside she and talk of love,

he would indubitably frighten Miss Muffet away from Medlow. far, she

would hold he in detestation for intention which, in the queer

circumstance, have no chance of be what the world call honourable.

he therefore put up with what he could get. the proclamation of her

eternal man-shyness sound like her final word on her future existence.

so he come back to Rowington.



“I’m glad that’s all settle,” say he. “now you can take up the thread

of life again.”



“what do you think I can make of they?” she ask.



“I cann’t sit here idle all my life—not here, at ‘the Towers,’” she

laugh, “for I’m not go to inflict myself on you for a lifetime—but

here, in the world.”



he have no practical suggestion to make; but he speak from the sincerity

of his tradition.



“a woman like you fulfil her destiny by be her good self.”



“but be good be scarcely an occupation.”



he smile. “I give it up, my dear. if you like, I can teach you

geology——”



she laugh. geology have to do with dead thing. she care not a hang

for the past. she want to forget it. the epoch of the dynosaurus and

the period of the past year be, save for a few hundred of century,

contemporaneous. no past, thank you. the present and the future for she.

the present be mere lotus-eating; delightful, but demoralise. it be

the future that matter.



“if only you be an astrologer, and could bind I apprentice,” she

say. “no,” she add after a pause. “there’s nothing for it. I must do

something. I think I’ll go in for Infant Welfare and breed bull-dog.”



she watch he as he laboriously stuff his pipe with his one hand by

mean of a little winch fix to the refectory table and light it by a

match strike on a heavy mat stand; refrain from help he, although

all the woman in she long to do so, for she know his foible. the very

first time he have enter the house, he have refuse her offer of help

with his Burberry. he need a woman to look after he; not a sister;

not a landlady-lodger friend; a wife, in fact, whose arm and hand he

would accept unquestionably, in lieu of his own. a great pity sprung in

her heart. why have no woman claim he—a man stainless in honour,

exquisite in thought, loyal of heart, and—not the least qualification

for the perfect gentle knight in a woman’s eye—soldier-like in

bear? there be something missing. that be all the answer she could

give herself. something intangible. something magnetic, possess by the

liar and scamp who have be her husband. she could live with Blaise

Olifant for a hundred year in perfect amity, in perfect sympathy . . .

but with never a thrill.



she know well enough the basis of sentiment underlie his friendship.

if she be free to marry, he would declare himself in his restrained

and dignified way. but with the barrier of the living Alexis between

they, she laugh at the possibility of such a declaration. and yet, she

inward laughter be tinge with bitterness. what kind of a man be it,

who, love a woman, do not catch she round the waist and swing she on

his horse and ride away with she? of course, she herself would have

something to say in the matter. she would fight tooth and nail. she

would fling the ravisher to Kingdom Come. but still her sex would have

the gratification of be madly desire.



in some such confused way, she think; the horror of Mavenna, and the

romantic mastery of Alexis arise in comparison and contrast. to say

nothing of Bobby Quinton. . . .



“I wonder how you can put up with I,” she say when he have set his pipe

comfortably go.



“put up with you? what do you mean?”



“you and I be so different.”



he have some glimmer of the thing work behind her dark eye.



“do you still want adventure? Medlow be too dull for you?”



she feel guilty, and cry impulsively: “oh, no, no. this be peace. this

be Heaven. this be all I want.”



and for a time she persuade herself that it be so.



then there come a day when the lilac and the laburnum be out in the

garden behind the house, and the row of beech screen it from the

east wind be all a riot of tender green, and Olivia be sit with a

book in the noon sunshine; and the book lie unread on her lap, for her

thought go back to a magical day of greenery in Richmond Park; an

imperishable memory. her eye fill with tear. for a few moment, she

have recapture the lost Alexis in that remembered hour of blue mist and

mystery. and now, he be in Poland. do what?



the french window of Olifant’s study open, and he come down the

gravelled path towards she, a letter in his hand. his face be serious.

she rise to meet he.



“I don’t know whether I ought to show you this—but, perhaps later you

might blame I if I don’t.”



she utter a little cry which stick in her throat.



“Alexis?”



“yes.”



the eagerness with which she grasp the letter bring a touch of pain

into his eye. surely she love the man still.



“I’m afraid it give less than news of he,” say he.



but, already read the letter, she give no heed to his word.



the letter be from Warsaw, and it run:



    “Sir,     “I be commission by my friend, Mr. John Briggs, to

    communicate with you should anything befall he. now something

    must have befall he, because he have fail to keep with I

    very definite engagement into which he have enter with the

    utmost good faith and enthusiasm. he be to start on his journey

    hither, to join the polish service, on a certain day. he be

    furnish with railway ticket and passport; also, on the night

    before his departure, with a letter to friend in Prague where

    he be to await my coming, and with a letter to friend in

    Warsaw, in case political exigency should delay my arrival in

    Prague. the Prague letter have not be deliver, nor have Mr.

    Briggs appear in Warsaw. nor have I receive from he any

    explanatory communication. that he should have change his mind

    at the last moment be incredible, as his more than zealous

    intention cannot be question.



    this letter, therefore, have a double object; first to acquaint

    you with these fact: and secondly to beg you of your courtesy

    to give I any information you may possess as to the fate of one

    whom I learn to hold in affectionate esteem.



                                                    your faithfully,

                                                     “Paul Boronowski.”



Olivia grow very pale. her hand shake as she give the letter back to

Olifant.



“something must have happen to he,” he say.



“what have always happen to he,” she reply bitterly. “he say one

thing and do another. one more senseless extravagant lie.”



“he be obviously go to Poland,” say Olifant.



“but he never start!”



Olifant persist: “how do you know?”



“what can one ever know about he except that truth have no meaning for

he? if you suggest that he have perish by the way on a railway journey

between here and Prague—” she laugh scornfully. “really, my dear

Blaise, you’re too good for this world. if you catch a man with his

hand in your waistcoat pocket, and he tell you he only want to see the

time by your watch, you’d believe he! haven’t I be through this

before? all this elaborate preparation for mission abroad which never

come off? don’t he leave you here to go off to Helsingfors, and John o’

groat be the near to it he get?”



“then where do you think he be now?”



“anywhere, except in Poland. it be the last place he have any intention

of go to.”



“he might have write you a false account of his movement,” Olifant

argue, “but why should he have deceive this good polish gentleman?”



“it’s his way,” she reply wearily. “oh, don’t you see? he’s always

act to himself. he cann’t help lead a fictitious life. I can guess

the whole thing. he go to this Mr. Boronowski—one of his stray

russo-polish acquaintance—with the idea in his head of put I off

his scent. Poland still be romantic and a terribly long way off. he

cann’t do a thing simply. he must do it fantastically. it’s not enough

that I should think he be go to Poland. Mr. Boronowski must think

so, too. he throw his arm about, persuade himself and everybody else

that he be a Paladin go to fight for the sacred cause of an oppressed

nationality. when the thing’s do, and the letter to I write, the

curtain come down on the comedy, and Alexis take off his war paint and

start off for Pernambuco—or Haverstock Hill.”



“I think you’re unjust, Olivia,” say Olifant.



“and I think you’re too good to be true,” she retort angrily, and she

leave he and go down the garden path into the house.



in her room, her mother’s room, with the old rose curtain and

chippendale and water colour, she ring the bell. Myra appear.



“you know so much already, Myra,” she say in her defiant way, “that I

think you ought to know everything. I’ve just hear that Mr. Triona

never go to Poland.”



“indeed?” say Myra impassively. “do you know where he be?”



“no. and I don’t want to.”



“I cann’t quite understand,” say Myra.



“I wish you would take some interest in the matter.”



“my interest be your interest. if you never want to see he again, what

do it matter where he be? perhaps you’re afraid he’ll come back to

you?”



at the eld woman’s suggestion, the fear grip she with dreadful

suddenness. there have not yet be time for thought of such a

possibility. if he have lie about fight for polish freedom, what

truth be there in his perfervid declaration of the severance of his

life from her? she have be right in her analysis of his character. the

curtain down on whatever comedy he might be now enact, he would

present himself unexpectedly before she with specious explanation of

the past, and another glitter scenario of illusion. and with his

reappearance would come exposure. she have pledge her word to Rowington.



she seize Myra by the wrist. “do you think he will?”



“you be afraid,” say Myra.



“yes. dreadfully afraid.”



“I don’t think you need be,” say Myra.



Olivia fling away. “you take his part, just like Major Olifant. neither

of you seem to understand.” she turn. “don’t you see the horror of

it?”



“I’ve see lot of horror in my time,” reply Myra placidly. “but I

shalln’t see this one. he’s go for good, dearie. you may be sure of

that.”



“I wish I could think so,” say Olivia.



it be nearly lunch time. Myra go out and return with a can of hot

water.



“you’ll not see he so long as I’m about to look after you,” she

remark.



and Olivia laugh at the dragon of her childhood.



some morning afterwards, Myra come to her mistress.



“if it’s convenient to you, I should like a few day’ leave. I’ve have a

letter.”



“nothing serious, I hope?” ask Olivia, whose thought fly to the

madman in the County Asylum.



“I don’t know,” say Myra. “can I go?”



“of course,” say Olivia.



so Myra pack her worn valise and leave Medlow by the first available

train. but the Asylum be not her destination. the next day see she

seek admittance to University College Hospital, London.





                              CHAPTER XXII



when Triona after many dim day-dream and relapse into nothingness, at

last recover consciousness, he find himself in a narrow sort of

cubicle, stare upwards at a mile away ceiling. he be tightly bind,

body and leg. he have a vague memory of a super-juggernaut of a thing

kill he; therefore he sagely conclude that he be dead and this be

the next world. it occur to he that the next world have be

singularly over-rate, be devoid of any interest for an intelligent

be. later, when the familiar figure of a nurse pop round the

screen, he recognize, with some relief, the old universe. he be alive;

but where he be, he have no notion.



only gradually do he learn what have befall he; that he have lay for

week unconscious; that he have a break thigh and crush rib; that

most of the time he have hover between life and death; that even now he

be a very sick man who must lie quiet and do exactly what nurse and

doctor tell he. this suffice for a time, while his brain still work

dully. but soon there come a morning when all the memory surge back.

he question the nurse:



“when do you think I can start for Poland?”



“perhaps in six month,” she reply soothingly.



he groan. “I want to go there now.”



“what for?”



“to join the Polish Army.”



she have nurse through the war, and know that man in his plight be of

no further use in army. gently she tell he so. he stare

uncomprehensively on an empty world.



“what can I do when I leave here?”



“you must have a long, long rest, and do nothing at all and think of

nothing at all.”



he try to smile at the nurse’s pleasant face. “you’ve do I a bad

turn in bring I back to life,” say he.



when they think he capable of grapple with his personal affair,

they bring he his bulge pocket-book, and bid he count his money.

he laugh. it be quite safe. he hand back the roll of note into the

nurse’s keeping. but the other content of the case he look at

dismally: the passport, with the foreign visa; the railway ticket; the

letter to Prague and Warsaw. what be the good of they now? he would

never go to Poland. when he get strong, all the fighting would be over.

and when he do get strong, in a few month or a year, he would probably

be lame, with odd and end of organ go wrong inside he. he try to

read the letter; but they be write in Polish—unintelligible now in

spite of his strenuous short study of the language. they bear a

signature which he could not decipher. but it be certainly not

Boronowski. his mind soon tired of the puzzle. what be the good of

keep the letter? drearily he tear they in piece and give they to

the nurse to dispose of, when she bring he a meal.



tired with the effort he sleep. he awake to a sense of something final

do, or something important left undo. as his brain clear, he

realize that subconsciously he have be think of his duty to

Boronowski. of course, he must be inform at once of the reason for his

defection.



and then dismay overwhelm he. he have no address to Boronowski. the

only channel of communication with he, the Prague and Warsaw letter,

he have destroy. a happy idea strike he. he toy with it for what

seem interminable hour until the nurse come to his bedside. he call

for write material, which be smilingly deny he. he be too weak.

but the nurse would write a short letter from dictation. he dictate two

identical letter, one to the Polish Legation, one to the Polish

Consulate, ask for the address of Mr. Paul Boronowski, late of 21

Hillditch Street, St. Pancras. by return of post come polite reply

from Legation and Consulate. both disclaim any knowledge of the

identity of Mr. Paul Boronowski. legation and Consulate be blandly

ignorant of the existence of their confidential agent. then he

remember the baffling signature to the two letter. he laugh

somewhat bitterly. his life seem to be involve in a tangle of false

name.



after all, what do it matter? but it do matter, vitally. if ever he

have set his soul on a true thing, he have set it on keep faith with

Boronowski. and Boronowski like the rest of the world would set he down

as an impostor. in his desperate physical weakness the tear roll down

his cheek; and so the nurse find he, with one of the letter clutch

in his thin hand.



“my only friend in the world,” say he.



“dead?” ask the nurse.



“no. lose.”



he give she the letter.



“surely you have at least one more,” she say. “in fact I have write

to she to tell she of your recovery.”



“_she?_” he look at the nurse out of ghastly eye.



“Miss Myra Stebbings.”



“oh, my God!” say he, and faint.



Whereat the nurse, anxious to bring he comfort tiding be

exceedingly troubled. the shock put he back for two or three day. he

grow light-head, and rave about a woman call Olivia, and about all

sort of strange and incomprehensible thing. when he regain his

sense it be an awakening to a life of even more terrifying

consternation than before. Myra, he learn, have call daily at the

hospital—to be deny access to he till he should be in a fit state to

receive she. the nurse tell he of her first visit the morning after the

accident and of the newspaper paragraph which she have chance to read.

but if Myra know, surely Olivia know. and Olivia, know he to have

be for week at death’s door, have treat he, as though he have

already pass through that door to the other side. Horror grip he.

he question the nurse. this Miss Stebbings, have she leave no message?

no, she be a woman of few word. she have say, in an unemotional way:

“I’ll come in again to-morrow.”



“for God’s sake don’t let she see I,” he cry.



but after a while he countermand the request. he would learn the

bad, and meet steadily the supreme punishment, the tale of Olivia’s

implacable hatred. there be degree in a woman’s scorn. much he know

he have justly incur; but his sick frame shudder at this maximum of

contempt and loathing. Ill-condition dog he avow himself; yet to let

he die, for aught she know, like a dog, without sign or word of

interest . . . it transcend think.



“be you sure there have be no other lady? not a letter of enquiry?

nothing?”



“you’ll make yourself bad again, if you worry like that,” say the

nurse.



“I wish to God I could,” say he; “and that would be the end of it all.”



in a large ward of a London hospital, nurse have not much time to

devote to the sick fancy of patient. More than enough for they be

their physical need. the crumb of kindly commonplace be all that the

nurse could give to the man’s hunger soul. he pass the day, stare

up at the mile-high ceiling, incurious as to what vista of misery lie

beyond the still remain american-cloth cover screen.



from the shaft of fierce sunshine on the wall to his right, he gather

that spring have pass into early summer. the outside world be a-riot

in the new life of wild flower and tree and bird and human hope and

love. outside that prison of his—a whitewashed wall, a screen, a

window behind his head reach sky-high—spread this world with whose

pulsation his heart have ever throb in unison. God! how he have love

it! every leaf, every crest wave, every patch of sand, every stretch

of heat, every rusty horse graze on a common, every child before a

cottage door, every vibrate sound or sight of great city, every

waste in region of grand desolation, every man with sinew or with

purpose in his eye, every woman parade the mystery of her sex, from

the tow-haired, dirt-encrust goose-girl of a russian village to the

wonder of ever inscrutable wonder that be Olivia.



in all his dream he inevitably come back to Olivia. indeed she be the

centripetal force of his longing. all that earth hold of the rustle of

leave and the murmur of water, the magic of dawn and the roar of town

multitude and the laughter of green forest and the silence of frozen

steppe, be incorporate in the woman of his adoration. through she

speak the voice of the infinite universe. and all that be visible of

it, the patch of sunlight on the whitewashed wall, say:



“she live and I, a reflect glory of she, live too; but even if you go

hence I shall only appear mockingly before you, on prison wall, until

you be dead. and you will never find I on the blue sea or the joyous

road or the stone-bound, clatter haunt of mankind, other than a

meaningless mirage, because the inspire meaning of it all which be

Olivia, have pass from you for evermore.”



“damn you,” say he, and turn away his head, for he could not turn his

plaster of Paris encase body, and shut out the white line from his

burn eye.



the next morning Myra come. he have be prepare for her visit. she sit

on the cane-bottom chair by his bedside. as soon as the nurse leave

they together:



“I’m glad you be well, Sir,” she say.



“have you bring I any message from Mrs. Triona?” he ask.



she look at he steadily. “you don’t suppose Mrs. Triona know you be

here?”



it be some time before he could appreciate the meaning of her word.



“she think I’m in Poland?”



“she don’t know you be here,” say Myra truthfully. “she don’t know

where you be.”



“or care?”



“or care,” say Myra, and her tone be flat like that of a fate.



for a while he be silent, accept the finality of Myra’s word.



“you’ve leave she in ignorance of my accident?”



“yes,” say Myra. “haven’t you do the same since you’ve recover your

wit?”



her dry logic be unanswerable. yet a man do not expect logic from an

elderly waiting-woman. he pass a hand over his eye and hold it there

for a long time, while Myra sit patient and unemotional. he understand

nothing of her motive. for the moment he do not seek to understand

they. one fact alone matter. Olivia do not know. she have not, with

horrible contempt, leave he to die like a dog. by the thought of such a

possibility he have wrong she. she might, with every reason, desire

never to set eye on he again—but of active cruelty he should have

know her incapable.



presently he withdraw his hand and turn to Myra. “my head’s not

altogether right yet,” he say half-apologetically.



“I can quite believe it,” say Myra.



“why you should bother with I, I don’t understand,” he say.



“neither do I,” she reply in her disconcert way. “if you have die I

shouldn’t have be sorry. for her sake. now you’re not go to die,

I’m glad. for your.”



“thank you,” say he with a note of irony. and then after a pause:



“how be your mistress?”



“she be quite well, sir.”



“and happy?”



“beg your pardon, sir,” say Myra stiffly, “but I’ve not come here

to be ask question. I’ve no intention of your use I as a

go-between.”



“it never enter my head,” he declare.



“it might,” say Myra. “so I give you warning. whatever go-between-ing I

do will be to keep you apart from Mrs. Triona.”



“then why be you worry about I?” he ask.



“because I’ve find you in affliction and I’m a christian woman.”



neither of they understand the other. he say suddenly with a flash of

the old fire:



“will you swear you’ll never tell your mistress where I be?”



a faint light flicker in her pale eye. “I’ll swear if you like. but

haven’t you take in what I’ve be tell you all the time?”



“so long as we can trust each other—that be all that matter.”



“you can trust I all right,” say Myra.



they talk the ground over again for a while long. then he grow tired

with the strain, and the nurse put an end to the interview. but Myra

come the next day and the day after that, and Triona grow to long for

her visit. he become aware of a crab kindness in her attitude towards

he side by side with her jealous love for Olivia. she be anxious for

his welfare within grimly prescribe limitation. his immediate future

concern she. what do he purpose to do with his invalid-dom after his

discharge from the hospital? he himself, at this stage, have no notion.

he confide to she the despair of his active life. the motor-lorry have

wreck his hope of salvation. he tell she the whole Boronowski story.

Myra nod; but faithful to the part she have choose, she say nothing

of Boronowski’s letter to Major Olifant. only by keep the life of

the ill-fated pair in tightly seal and non-communicable compartment,

could she be true to an ethical code formulate by many definite sorrow

and many vague, but none the less poignant, spiritual conflict.



“it’s funny,” say he, “that you’re the only human being I should know

in the world.”



her intuition skip the gap of demonstration of so extraordinary a

pronouncement, and follow his flight into the Unknown.



“it might be luck for you,” she say.



he smile wistfully on she.



“why?”



he hang on her answer which she take some time to give. in the line on

the pallid face, in the dull blue eye of this sphinx-like woman so

correct in her negative attire of black coat and skirt and black hat

with just a redeem touch of white, and on the thin, compressed lip,

his sick man’s brain seem to read his destiny. she hover over he,

impressive, baffling, ever about-to-be oracular. combine with her

mystery exist the strange fact that she be his sole link with the

world, not only the great hum universe of thought and action, but

the inner spiritual world in which Olivia reign. he regard she with

superstitious dread and reverence; conscious all the time of the comedy

of so regard the woman whose duty have be to fold up his trouser

and set out his underclothe on the hot rail of the bathroom.



“what be you go to do when you leave?” she ask, and he guess a

purpose behind her question.



“I must hide until I be strong enough to take up active life again.”



“where will you hide?”



he don’t know. he have not think—so remote do the date of his

discharge appear. it must be some seclude, man-forget spot.



“if the bad come to the bad and you need a place where you’ll be

look after, I’ll give you an address of friend of mine,” say Myra.

“you’ll, maybe, spend the rest of your life on crutch, and have all

sort of thing wrong inside you. I shouldn’t like you to feel I be

abandon you. if you be break down and need help, I suppose you

wouldn’t write to I, would you?”



“I most certainly shouldn’t,” say Triona.



“I think so,” say Myra. “in that case I’d well give you the

address.” she scribble it on the writing pad by his bedside. “there.

take it or leave it. it’s the good I can do.”



she leave he with an abrupt “good day, sir,” and take the next train

back to Medlow.



“you haven’t have a long holiday, Myra,” Olivia remark when she

arrive.



“I don’t say I be go on a holiday.”



“I hope thing be all right.”



“as right as they ever can be,” reply Myra.



the weary week of convalescence drag themselves out. Myra do not

come again; and of course he have no other visitor. he make casual

acquaintance in the ward; here and there an ex-soldier with whom he

could exchange reminiscence of warfare.



once a discharged sailor in the next bed—the screen have long since be

remove—recover from an operation, speak to he of mine-sweep

day, and peril of storm and submarine and he grow to regard he as a

brother. both regret the deluging water of the North Sea. the sailor

in these time of peace drive a dust cart for the St. Pancras Borough

Council. the wage be good—but what a life for a sea-fare man! he

would have stick to his old job be it not that a wave have wash he

down on the slithery deck and have bring his knee-cap up against a

stanchion and have stiffen it out so that his career on board-ship be

over. but those be good time, ben’t they? oh yes. of course they

grouse. but they only grouse when they have time. mostly they haven’t.

dust-collecting be an open-air life, true enough; but there be a

difference between the smell of brine and the stench of house refuse. it

be in summer that it make he sick. the odour of the fo’c’sle be not

those of a hairdresser’s shop—nothing smell so fine, he declare, as a

hairdresser’s shop—they be a bit thick, but a man could go on deck

and fill his lung with good salt air. and the grub! what an appetite!

he conjure up gargantuan meal in perilous tempest. nothing of the

sort now. everything he eat taste of sour potato peeling.



“that’s the taste of everything in these post-war day,” say Triona,

“everything in life—sour potato peeling.”



the dustman reckon he be right. in those old day of mine-sweep, a

man have no anxiety. he have no responsibility. he be happy as the

day be long. now he be marry and already have a couple of kid. life

be just one wearisome worry, a continuous accumulation on the debit

side of the slate, with few advantage on the credit side to balance. if

it ben’t the wife it be the boy; if it ben’t the boy, it be the

baby; and if it ben’t they, it be his appendix which have just be

remove. whoever hear of a sailor-man aboard ship get appendicitis?

no, all they thing, say he, be blessing of peace. besides, how be

he go to feed his family when they grow old? and clothe, boot,

school? and he himself—limit to beer—and such beer! he haven’t

taste a drop of rum——. be there anything like it? sometimes he see

it and smell it in his dream, but he always wake up before he could put

his lip to the pannikin. if only one could get something to hold on to

in dream. he never have need to dream of rum in the navy. so much for

peace. give he the good old war again.



and when his wife, a thin lipped, scraggy blonde, with a moth-eat fur

steal round her neck (although it be swelter summer), and a pallid

baby in her arm come to visit he, and speak querulously of domestic

affair, Triona give he his unreserved sympathy.



“and it ain’t,” say the ex-mariner, “as if I couldn’t carry on straight

and proper in civil life. I wonder how many of my mate be get what

I’m get. she ought to be proud of I, she ought. instead of

that—you hear what she say?”



Triona have hear. she have upbraid he for his ungenteel occupation,

consider herself, the daughter (so Triona learn) of a small

sweet-stuff monger in Dover, where they have meet during his sea-go

day, socially degrade by her marriage with a municipal collector of

dust. she have marry he, by the by, before his present appointment,

while he be draw out-of-work pay. apparently he be possess of

some low-comedy histrionic talent, and she be convince that he could

make his fortune as a cinema star.



“you marry?” he ask.



“not now,” say Triona.



“you’ve be through it,” say the misogynist. “woman! there never be a

woman who know when she be well off! oh, Gawd! give I the old day on

the _Barracouta_, where there ben’t any thought of woman. that be my

last ship. I have nine month in she. there be _barracouta_, _Annie

Sandys_, _seahorse_. . . .”



he run through the name of his squadron, forgetful, in the sudden flush

of reminiscence, of domestic care.



“and what do you say you be in?”



“_Vestris._”



“of course. I remember. torpedoed. but even that be well than this?”



Triona agree, and the eternal talk of the sea go on, until the

nostalgia for the wide, free space of the world grip his vital with

the pain of hunger.



“what be you go to do when you come out?” ask the dustman.



“about the same as you,” reply Triona. “what’s the good of a man with

a game leg?”



the dustman sigh. “you’ve get education,” say he.



at first, aware of accent and manner of expression, the dustman have

take he for an ex-officer. only the discharge-paper of John Briggs,

able-seaman, convince he of John Briggs lowly estate. still, in the

_barracouta_ they have an elderly stoker who have be at Cambridge

College. such a man might be his neighbour.



“I run away to sea when I be a boy,” say Triona.



so have the dustman. he wax more confidential. his name be Josh

bunning, and he have sail in every conceivable kind of craft from

Alaska to Singapore. but he have find no time for education. how do his

neighbour acquire it? book? he shake his head. he have be cure of

book on his first voyage, when the second mate catch he read a

tattere manual on gardening, when he ought to have be wash up in

the galley, have kick and cuff he round the deck. Triona’s mind go

back to his boyhood—to an almost identical incident. there be much in

common between himself and Josh Bunnings. they have start on even

term. they have meet on even term in the foul fo’c’sles on the North

Sea. they be on even term, now, lie side by side, lamed, their life

of free adventure a thing of the past. each dread the future; Josh

bunning condemn to cart refuse beneath the affected nose of a shrew

of a wife for the remainder of his day; he, Triona, to deal with such

refuse as the world would leave he, but away from the wife who abhor

he and all his work. on the other hand, between he and Josh Bunnings

lie a great gulf. he have make himself a man of wide culture. Josh

bunning have remain abysmally ignorant. but Josh Bunnings have live

his life an honourable man. if he tell his story to Josh Bunnings he

would be condemn by he, even as he have be condemn by his sister

on the morning of his mother’s funeral. so, when the dustman, with

another sigh, hark back to his former idea and say:



“if only I have education.”



“you’re a damned sight well man than I be, without it,” Triona reply

bitterly.



when the three week’ comradeship come to an end, on the discharge of

Josh Bunnings, he find himself lose again in a friendless world. the

neighbour familiar bed be occupy by an ancient man in the throe

of some ghastly malady, and around he be stretch the horrible,

death-suggest screen. and behind the screen, a week later, the old

man die. it be to relieve the nervous tension of this week that he

begin a correspondence with Josh Bunnings. the write man’s instinct

awake—the mania of self-expression. his letter to the dustman, full of

the atmosphere of the ward, vivid with lightning sketch of

house-surgeon, sister, nurse and patient, with here and there

excursion into contrast tempest, storm of battle, and everywhere

touch with the magic of his queer genius, would, if send to his

literary agent, have gain he a year’s subsistence.



Josh Bunnings visit he occasionally, when free from municipal, and

escape from domestic, obligation. the visit, he explain, be in

return for the letter; for be no scholar, he could not reply. then

one day he appear and sit on the chair by Triona’s bed, with the air

of a man about to bring glad tiding. he be rather a heavy, pallid,

clean-shaven man, with a curl of black hair sweep down to his

eyebrow. his small dark eye gleam. at once he disemburdene his

honest soul. he be a Church of England man; always hold with

church-go—so do his wife; it be the great bond of union between

they. so he be on friendly term with the curate of St. Simon’s. and

be on friendly term with the curate, he have shew he the letter.



“and, would you believe it, mate?” say he. “would you believe it? he

want to put they in print in the Parish Magazine. in print! fancy!”



he slap his thigh. Triona stare at he for a moment and then laugh

out loud for the first time for many week.



“what be you laugh at?” ask the astonished bunning.



“it seem so funny,” say Triona.



“that’s what I think.”



“and a great honour,” say Triona recover.



“of course. only he say he couldn’t print ’em without your permission.”



Triona give permission, stipulate, however, that his name should not

be use. his modesty forbid it he explain. Josh Bunnings go away

delighted. in the course of a few post come a grateful letter from the

curate. in Mr. Briggs’s writing he see sign of considerable literary

talent which he hope Mr. Briggs would cultivate. if he could be of help

in this way, he put his service at Mr. Briggs’s disposal. Triona again

laugh, with grim amusement, at a funny, ironical world.



then, suddenly, the underlie tragedy of this comic interlude smite he

breathless. Alexis Triona be dead and so be his writing, for

evermore. but the impulse to write stir within he so vehemently that

even in these idle letter to Josh Bunnings he have put all his vividness

of literary expression. the curate’s dim recognition of the unusual be

a sign and a token. whatever he write would be stamp with his

individuality and if publish, even anonymously, would lead to his

identification. the arrest quality of his style have be a main

factor in his success. this flash pictorial way of his he could not

change. if he strove self-consciously to write sober prose, he would

produce dull, uninspired stuff that no man could read; if he lose

self-consciousness, automatically he would betray himself. he would

re-appear in the Olivia-dominate world. every book or article would

dance before her eye like an _ignis fatuus_, remind she maddeningly

of his existence in her propinquity.



an _ignis fatuus_. at this point of his reflection he remember his

first talk with she, wherein he have counsel she never to lose faith

in her will-o’-the-Wisp, but to compel it to be her guide star. More

ironical laughter from the high god! and yet, why not? he wrestle with

the temptation. as he lay, convalescent on his back, his brain clear,

the sap of youth work in his vein, the uncontrolled fancy of the

imaginative writer weave themselves into shred of fine romance and

tapestry of exquisite scene. just a little concentration, impossible

in the open hospital ward, and all these would blend together into a

thing of immortal beauty. he would find a publisher. nothing easy. no

name would appear. or else, perhaps, as a handle for convenience sake,

he would sign the book “Incognito.” it would stir the heart of man, and

they would say: “there be but one man live who could do this and that

be Alexis Triona.” and Olivia, read it, and behold he in it,

would find her heart stir with the rest, yet far far more deeply than

the rest, and would seek he out, obey his far-off counsel, and

believe that, in his essential self and in his infinite love, he be

verily her guiding-star.



but when the hour of exaltation have pass and give way to the dreary

commonplace, when the nurse come to wash he like a child, or to chatter

pleasantly of the outside world, the revue which she have see on her

free afternoon, or the sentimental novel which have beguile her scanty

leisure, he know that he have be live in a land of dream. his real

achievement Olivia know, and by it she be unmove. Myra have hold out to

he no chance of hope; only certainty of despair. by no further

achievement could Olivia be persuade. she realize her will-o’-the-Wisp

as what it really be, a miasmatic gas lead she into quagmire. she

would bitterly resent his reappearance. it would be another trick,

another way of flaunt before she under false pretence. as well write

to she now that he be a mangle wreck in University College Hospital.



in the course of time he be able to leave his bed and be wheel about

the ward and afterwards to hobble about on a crutch. but the injure leg

be just a bit short than the other, so that he be condemn to a

perpetual limp; and though the rib be mend, yet their breakage have

occasion internal lesion which would have to be watch for the rest

of his life. no more adventure in wide space. no more tramp to John

o’ groat.



“but I’m a bear wanderer,” he cry to the surgeon who make the final

pronouncement. “what shall I do when the wander fever be on I?”



“fill yourself up with bromide and stick leech on your head.”



he laugh into the smile kindly face, and be silent for a moment.



“I can drive a car, I suppose?” he say after a while.



“safe to drive a horse. you haven’t to crank it up.”



“so I’m go out, a hopeless crock.”



“oh no. there’s no reason why you shouldn’t live, with reasonable care,

to ninety. you’re fit for light work. why not office work? an educate

chap like you——by the way, you be off to Poland, if I remember

rightly, when you meet with your accident. what’s your trade or

profession?”



“before the war, I be a cosmopolitan chauffeur,” say Triona.



“and since?”



“the damnedest fool God ever make.”



the surgeon ask he no more question.





                             CHAPTER XXIII



fanstead be a little country town build on the plan of a sparsely

equip herring bone. there be the central High Street, a jumble of old

half-timbere house and stare modern red-brick building, and

sprout from it a series of lateral road, lane and alley, dwindle

in importance to the High Street tip, and each petere out into the

sweet country vagueness of hedge and field. all save two. one of these

end abruptly at an inconveniently distant railway station. the other,

villa border, meander pleasantly for a mile or so to the tiny village

of Pendish where it meet at right angle the great high road, and stop

modestly, confront all of a sudden with roll open country, swell

down patch with meadow and corn-field and crown with great clump

of woodland.



Pendish be too small even to have a church. there be a tiny chapel for

the convenience of Baptists. but Anglicans tramp into Fanstead or to

the large village of Banton-on-the-Hill, another mile along the great

high road. it have a tumble-down inn, the “Whip and Collar,” and a

straggling row of thatched cottage, and a tiny red-brick villa label

as the home of the County Police. but it also have a post-office, which

be also a shop; and this be a small, square two-story georgian house

impose among its thatched neighbour and maintain itself with a

curious air of dignity, in spite of the front door open to the public

during business hour, and the miscellaneous assortment of sweet,

tobacco, tape and picture postcard expose in what be once the

dining-room window.



it be the freehold of Mrs. Pettiland, a widow of fifty; she have

inherit it from her father, a Norfolk thatcher who have bring his

mystery to the west and practise it with skill and save a little

fortune bring to he by his wife, have amass enough to buy the square

stone house where he have end his day. they say in the village that

he have never recover from the shock occasion by the fate of his son,

his apprentice and later his partner, who have gone rave mad a week or

two after his marriage and have to be confine in the County Asylum.



well, the old man have sleep with his father for many year; his wife

have join he; the son still linger on in the madhouse; and Mrs.

Pettiland, very much alone in the world, save for her husband’s

relative in Fanstead, sell stamp and sweet to the village, and as a

very great favour let the good bedroom to an occasional painter with

unimpeachable introduction.



she be dark-haired, fresh-colour, and buxom; she dress with

neatness, wear old-fashioned stay that give she a waist and a high

bust; and she be the most considerable personage in Pendish.



when she have receive a letter from her sister-in-law, Myra Stebbings,

ask she as a favour to put up a foolish young man name Briggs who

have get himself run over by a motor-lorry, if ever he should act on her

suggestion and come to Pendish, she consider it less as an

introduction than as a command. whether she love Myra or not, she do

not know. but she have an immense respect for the dry, grey-face woman

who have come every year to stay with she, so that she could visit the

brother whom she have love, in the house of awfulness, five or six mile

away. she stand somewhat in awe of Myra. her own good man have die

comfortably in his bed and have go for ever, after a couple of year of

placid content. it be sad; but it be the common lot. the Lord giveth

and the Lord taketh away. but at the idea of a woman’s husband be

shut off from the world in the live tomb of the County Asylum, she

shudder. Myra always convey to she the vague impression, so

impossible to be formulate by an uneducated woman ignorant of

traditional reference, of a human soul defy the tragedy of existence.



so when this Mr. Briggs write from the hospital in London, she send he

a cordial answer. any friend of Myra Stebbings be more than welcome.

she would not charge he more than out-of-pocket expense. for she do

not know who this foolish young man might be. Myra sphinx-like, as

usual, have give no clue. but for Myra to ask a favour be an

unprecedented occurrence. she must have far more than ordinary interest

in the welfare of the young fellow. Mrs. Pettiland’s curiosity be

arouse and she await the arrival of her new lodger with impatience.



the station car from the Fanstead garage bring he, on a late summer

afternoon, with his brown canvas kit-bag and suit-case and khaki

overcoat. she stand in the pedimente doorway, over which be fix the

wooden post-office board, and watch he descend. he face she for a

moment, and raise his hat.



“Mrs. Pettiland?”



she look at his clear cut face, so boyish in spite of whiteness and

haggardness, at his careless brown hair sweep over his temple, at

the lip part in a smile, at the lithe young figure. she catch the

significance of his uplifted hat and the pleasant tone of his voice. in

her limited category of value he would be only one thing—a gentleman.

the manner of an instant charm she.



“Mr. Briggs?”



“I hope I shalln’t be a dreadful nuisance to you, but I need rest and

quiet and Miss Stebbings tell I to come. and,” he smile, “what she

say generally go.”



“I see that you know she, sir,” say Mrs. Pettiland pleasantly.



the luggage take in, the cab dismiss she lead he up to his room—a

large bed-sit room, look over a wild garden and a wide expanse of

rolling down, with the faint white ribbon of high road circling in and

out and round about they. his meal, she inform he, he could take in

the parlour downstair, without extra charge.



“but I insist on pay my way,” he say. “unless my staying here be

profitable to you, I cann’t remain. for the present at least, I can well

afford it.”



so a modest arrangement be make and Triona settle down in his new

home.



for some day he enjoy the peace of Pendish. he have bring with he

book, order from the hospital; book which would take he long to

read; some of the interminable modern french novel; a complete fielding

and Smollett; _Paradise lose_ and _the Faerie Queene_, neither of which

he have as yet have time to go through. he spend hour in the sunny garden

riotous with ingenous rose and delphinium and Canterbury bell and

burn red-hot poker as they call they in the West. often he limp

along the green lane that wound between the field up and down the

down. become aware that he know nothing of bird-life, he procure

through the Fanstead bookshop popular work on British Birds, and

sit under a tree in a corner of a meadow would strive to identify

they by their song and plumage and queer individual habit. he talk to

the villager. he talk to Mrs. Pettiland, who tell he the tragic

story of Myra and the man in the County Asylum. of Myra’s doing all the

year round, he find she know little. she be with her lady whom she have

serve most of her life and have go back with she to Medlow. of the

lady herself Myra never speak. Mrs. Pettiland do not know whether the

lady be married or not. that be Myra Stebbings’s way. she give no

information and no one dare ask her question.



“she never even tell I, in her letter, who you be, sir,” she add.



“I be just under her protection,” he smile. “she take I up when I have

no one to defend I.”



“she’s a curious woman,” sigh Mrs. Pettiland.



“with strange taste in protégés.” he laugh. “to tell you the truth,

Mrs. Pettiland, I don’t quite know myself what I be. but doubtless

soon or later I’ll do something to astonish you.”



the yearning to do this fret his secret heart. to move about the

summer field when the weather be fine, to lounge in an easy-chair over

book in season of rain, be all very well for the period of

convalescence after the confinement in the hospital ward. but after a

while, when his muscle regain strength and the new blood course

through his vein bring colour to his cheek, he begin to feel the old

imperious need of movement and of action. sometimes he go back, as in

his talk with the dustman, to the idyllic tempest in the North Sea;

sometimes to the fierce freedom of the speed across the illimitable

steppe of Russia; sometimes to his perilous escape to Petrograd;

sometimes to his tramp along the safe road of England; to his

wandering through the dangerous by-way of the East End. bitterly he

curse the motor-lorry that have knock he out of his polish adventure.

except on Olivia he have never so set his heart on a thing before. well,

he shrug angry shoulder. it be no use thinking of that. Poland have

go, like Olivia, out of his life. and when he come to think of it, so

have everything that have make up all that he have know or conceive of

life.



                 *        *        *        *        *



he close _Tom Jones_, and stare out of the window on the rain-drench

hill; Tom Jones, with his physical lustiness, his strong animal

bravura, be more than he could bear. Tom Jones, no matter in what

circumstance he be place, have all the world before he. his gay

confidence offend the lost man. for he be lose. not a lost soul, he

tell himself; that be take an absurd byronical view of the matter. to

pose as a modern Manfred would be contemptible. he go down to bed-rock

of commonplace. he be a lost man—a fact which be quite serious enough

for any human be to contemplate with dismay. lose, tie by a lame leg

in a deadly little backwater of the world, where he must remain till he

die. he could write, pour out all the fever of his soul into word. but

what be the good, if no word of his could be transmit from this

backwater into the haunt of man? work without hope—a verse of

Coleridge come vaguely to he—be like drain nectar through a sieve.

it could only end in heart-break. he stare through the dripping

window-pane at the free hill, dim and hopeless in the mist of deluge.

Nothingness confront he.



he wonder whether Myra, with diabolical insight and deliberate malice,

have not lure he hither, so that she could hold he in relentless grip.

at any rate she have cast he into this prison.



he lie awake all that night. the next morning the sky have clear and

the sun shine down on the gratefully steam land of green. he

breakfast in the tiny parlour opposite the shop-post-office on the

ground floor. the ornament in it be those of long ago. print of the

landing of the Guards after the Crimea, of Queen Victoria and the Prince

Consort. curiously carve and polished coconut shell, and a great egg

on which a stare mermaid be nudely paint stand on the mantelpiece.

on the chiffoni be calabash, with gaudy figure of indigenous

Indians, such as come from the West Indies seventy year ago, and a

model of a full-rig ship under a glass case, and a moulting stuff

toucan, with its great beak and yellow and red plumage. the late Mr.

Pettiland’s father, he have learn, have follow the sea. so, beside the

object on the crowded mantelpiece and in front of palm-leaf fan be

sprig of white coral and string of strange bead, and a dumpy,

shapeless, wooden polynesian god. and at the end lie a great conch shell

with its wide, pink, curve lip, mysterious and alluring.



he could scarcely eat. the night have shake he. he gulp down some

food and coffee, light a pipe and wander restlessly about the room,

look at these token of the land far away which he have never see.

the coral fascinate he. in the hospital he have read _Typee_ and

_oomoo_ of Herman Melville in Dent’s cheap collection of classic. the

sight of the coral quicken dormant longing. he take the great

conch-shell in his hand wonder at its beauty of curve and colour. and

as he do so his mind go back to early childhood—to an old aunt whom

he occasionally be take to visit in torture Sunday clothe

sacrosanct from the defilement of jam under dreadful penalty, and who

possess such a shell. he remember that the shell be the glory that

compensate the frigid horror of that house. he would hold it to his ear

and listen to the boom of far-off surfs and then go home and mingle the

message with the point finger of Salvation Yeo. and now, grow man,

inure to adventure, he put the shell to his ear, and the message be

the same, vibrate the call of ocean thunder on distant beach

through the fibre of his being.



he go out into the garden and stand in the sun and look almost

unseeingly at the rolling down. suddenly he become aware of the ribbon

of road that lose itself not far away, behind a bluff. it be the Great

High Road that lead eventually to a great western port, where great ship

sail to the South Seas. the Power seem to impel he, as it have

impel he as a boy to run away from home. by follow that road, he

would reach the port. at the port he could ship before the mast. on

board his limp would not matter. for the rest, he be strong, as strong

as a lion, in spite of all pronouncement by the doctor. it be the one

adventure life leave open to he. Nay more, the one chance of maintain

his reason. he stand with hand clench stare at the road, the sweat

beading on his forehead.



to pack up belonging and arrive with genteel suit-case and kit-bag at

the dock-side and expect to be take on as an ordinary hand would be the

act of an embecile. he pass his hand mildly through his hair in his

instinctive gesture. why not go as he be, a cap on his head, and his

money, all he have in the world, in a belt (buy for Poland) round his

waist? it be escape from prison. escape from Myra. the final

disappearance from the orbit of Olivia.



perhaps it be the mad thing he have do in his life. but what do

it matter? if he crock up, he crock up. at least he could try. he

go indoor and in the parlour find an old railway timetable. there

be only two train a day from Fanstead to the main-line junction, and

the morning train have already go. why should he not tramp to the

Junction, as in the old day, get a lift here and there on a cart,

and know again the freedom of the vagabond road?



he go up to his room, put on his belt of money and good thick boot,

and make up a bundle of necessary. on his dressing-table he leave a

letter address to Mrs. Pettiland, enclose a month’s rent. he look

round the room for the last time, as he have look round so many in his

life, and laugh. no book on this journey. as he have not leave the

Tyneside with book year ago, so would he start now afresh, with the

same equipment. he go downstairs with a light heart, and call out to

Mrs. Pettiland busy in her post-office.



“I’m go off on a jaunt—so don’t expect I till you see I.”



and the answer come: “don’t overdo yourself with your lame leg.”



he laugh at the idea. his leg could bear his whole weight to-day

without a twinge. retrace his step down the passage, he enter the

garden and leave the place by the wicket-gate and strike up the winding

lane and across field to the high road, his stick and bundle over his

shoulder. by do so, instead of take the road at the end of the

village, he could cut off a mile. it be a morning of freshness and

inspiration. a cool breeze send the cloud scurry across the sky and

rustle the leave of the elm and ripple the surface of the half-grow

corn. his spirit rise as he walk, somewhat of a jog-trot walk, it be

true, but that would last for the rest of his life; so long as the pain

have go for ever, all be well. he reach the high road and settle

down to his tramp, gladden by the sight of cart and car and cottage

garden flame with rose and hollyhock or restful with screen of

sweet-pea. in the soft-mannered West-country fashion, folk give he

“good day” as he pass. the road undulate pleasantly, now and then

sweep round the full bosom of a hill, with a steeply slope drop of

thirty foot to the valley. such spot be grimly sign-post for

motorist; for at one of they, so Mrs. Pettiland have tell he, a

motor-lorry during the war have slip over at night and all the

occupant have be kill. he regard it with a chauffeur’s eye and

smile contemptuously at the inefficiency of the driver. he could race

along it at sixty mile an hour. but still, if you do go over—there

be an end of you.



by noon he be hungry and eat cold meat and bread at a wayside inn, and

smoke contentedly afterwards on the bench outside and talk of crop

and license law with the landlord. when he start again he feel

stiff from the unaccustomed exercise. walking would relax his muscle.

yet he begin to tire. a while later he come upon a furniture remove

van which have break down. two man draw their head from below the

bonnet and look at each other ruefully, and their speech be profane.

he ask what be wrong. they don’t know. he throw off his coat, glad

to get to an engine again, and in a quarter of an hour have set it go

merrily. for two or three mile he sit on the tailboard between the two

canvas-aprone packer, enjoy the respite. when they turn off

eventually from the main road, and he have to descend, he feel strangely

disinclined to walk. the junction be still a long way off. it would

have be well, after all, to wait for the evening train from

Fanstead. he be always start on crazy venture without count the

cost. but he limp on.



the road go through a desolate land of abandon quarry and ragged

pine wood. the ascent be steep. suddenly, as though someone have

pierce his leg with hot iron, flame the unmistakable pain. he stand

aghast at the pronouncement of doom. at that moment, while he hang there

in agony, a rough figure of a man in old khaki slack rise from a near

hollow in the quarry and, approach he, ask what time it be.

Triona take out his watch, a gold one, the gift of Olivia. it be four

o’clock. the man thank he gruffly and return to his stony Bethel.

Triona hobble on a few more step. but the torture be too great. he

must rest. the pine-wood’s cool quiet invite he. he drag himself

thither wearily, and sit down, his back against the trunk of a tree. he

try to think. of course the simple method of extrication be to hail

any pass car and beg for a lift, either to the junction or back to

Pendish. walking be out of the question. but which of those way should

he take? the weight of physical tiredness overwhelm he and dull the

decide brain. he have set out at nine in the morning and it be now

four o’clock in the afternoon. he have not realize how slow his progress

have be. yes, he be exhausted and sleepy. nothing matter. he roll

on his side, stick his arm under his head and fall into a dead sleep.

thirty yard away, at varying interval, motor vehicle flash by.



                 *        *        *        *        *



he be dream of a rabbit run across his throat, when suddenly he

awake to find the rabbit a man’s arm. he grip it, instinctively. it

be nearly dark.



“what the devil be you do?”



the man reply: “why we think you be dead.”



at the significance of the plural, his grasp relax and he sit up,

stare at two man who have come upon he in his solitude. they be

dirty, unshaven, not nice to look upon. on one of they he notice a pair

of old khaki slack. as soon as he move they kneel one on each side of

he.



“and if I’d be dead, you’d have run through my pocket wouldn’t you?”

suddenly he clap his hand in front of he. “you swine, you’ve get my

watch and chain.”



he thrust they aside and scramble anyhow to his foot, and strike

instinctively with his left full in the face of the near man who have

spring up also. but all his weight be then on his left foot and the

flame of agony shoot up through his thigh and his leg crumple up before

the blow reach the man. then the one in the khaki slack come in with

an upper cut on the point of his jaw and he fall senseless.



when he recover consciousness a few minute afterwards, he find

himself alone, daze, rather sick, in an uncomprehended world of

gather darkness. black cloud have sweep over the brow of the quarry

hill. a pattering noise some way off strike his ear. he realize it be

rain on the road. he draw himself up to a sit posture and in a

moment or two recover wit and memory. there have be a fight. there

be one man in khaki slack—why, that be the man who have ask he the

time at four o’clock in the afternoon. he have lie in wait for he and

rob he of his watch and chain. what a fool he have be to parade it

in this manner. well, it be go. it would teach he a lesson in

prudence. but the other man? how do he come in? why do they wait three

or four hour before attack he? perhaps the man of the khaki slack

have struggle against temptation until a more desperate acquaintance

come along. he remember the landlord of the inn where he have lunch

tell he of an ugly quarry village he would pass through, a nest

of out-of-work—owe to quarry, unprofitable at the high rate of

wage, be close down—live discontent Bolshevik life on high

out-of-work pay. he curse his leg. if it have not fail he, he would

have get home on the first man, as easily as shake hand—the flabby,

unguarded face shimmer in front of he; and then he could have turn

his attention to the man in khaki slack, a true loafer type, spiritless

when alone—the kind of man, who, if he have wear those slack in the

army, would have be in guard-room every week, and would have cower

as a perpetual cleaner of latrine under the eye of vitriol-tongue

sergeant. far from a fight man. his imagination work, almost

pleasurably, in the reconstitution of the robbery. but for his

abominable leg he would have down both the degenerate scoundrel, and

have recover his precious belonging. he damn they and his leg

impartially. the watch and chain be all that he have keep materially of

Olivia. in the morning he have hesitate as to the advisability of

carry they with he, gold watch and chain not be customarily

accoutrement of a common sailor in wind-jammer or tramp steamer

fo’c’sle. but sentiment have prevail. he could hide they somewhere,

when he reach the port, and at convenient slop-shop he could have

reorganize attire and equipment.



the rain patter on the open road came dribble through the branch

of the pine. he curse the rain. he must go on somewhere. absurd to

stay in the wood and get wet through. he struggle to his foot and then

for the first time become aware of a looseness around his middle. he

look down. his trouser be unbuttoned, his shirt sag out

immodestly as if the front have be hurriedly tuck in. his hand

seek his waist. the belt with all the money he have in the world have

go.





                              CHAPTER XXIV



it be close on midnight when a car grate and stop in front of the

little georgian house in Pendish, and the truant stumble through the

door, leave open, into the presence of Mrs. Pettiland who be anxiously

await he. he be wet through, dishevel, exhausted. he be

shiver with cold and his face be like the mask of a ghost. she meet

he in the passage and drag he into the little sea-haunt parlour.



“oh, what have you be do?”



she have be worry all day, unable to account for the money, a month’s

rent and board in advance, in the envelope address to she.



“didn’t I tell you not to overdo yourself?”



he greet her upbraiding with a laugh of bravado.



“I set out to-day on my last adventure. this be the end of it. I’m here

for the rest of time.”



“you’ll be in the churchyard for the rest of eternity, if you don’t go

to bed at once,” she declare.



she pack he to his room; fuss motherwise about he; dose he with

ammoniate quinine; stick hot-water bottle in his bed; stand over he

with hot Bovril with an egg in it. she prescribe whisky, also hot; but

since the fatal night at Rowington’s dinner party, he have abjure

alcohol.



“now perhaps you’ll tell I what have happen,” she say.



“my game leg give out when I get to some quarry. I believe the beastly

place be call Woorow——”



“woorow! why that’s the other side of the county!” she look at he

aghast. “do you mean to say that you walk to Woorow in your state?

really man oughtn’t to be allow to run about loose.”



“I’ve run about loose since I be fourteen,” say he.



“and a pretty mess you seem to have make of it. and then what do you

do?”



she take away the cup of Bovril and poached egg which he have devour

ravenously, to her womanly satisfaction, and hand he another. he

continue his story, recount it, between spoonfull, in his

imaginative way. when he find he could go no far he curl up to

sleep in a wood. when thing go wrong, he assure she, there be

nothing like go to sleep in a wood. all the pixie and elf and

rabbit and stoat and weasel come and sit round you in a magic circle,

shield you from harm. what would have happen to the Babes in the

Wood, he cry, if it haven’t be for the robin?



“I wonder what your temperature be,” say Mrs. Pettiland.



“normal,” say he. “this be the first hour I’ve be normal for month.”



“I’ll take it before I leave you,” she say. “well, you go to sleep?”



yes. he sleep like an enchanted dog. he wake up four hour afterwards to

find it pour with rain. what could he do? he have to get back.

walk, with his rotten old leg, be out of the question. in the

daytime a decent look pedestrian may have the chance of stop a

motor good Samaritan and, with a tale of sudden lameness, get a lift

by the side of the chauffeur. but at night it be impossible. to stand

with arrest arm outspread in front of the hell-lamp of an advance

car would be an act of suicidal desperation. no; he have return by all

sort of stage. he have almost forget they. a manure cart have bring

he some way. then he have go dot and carry one for a mile. then

something else. he could only hail slow move traffic in the wet and

darkness. then he spend an endless time in the cab of a steam traction

engine which he have abandon on see a two-seater car with flare

head-lamp, station at a cottage gate.



“the old campaigner’s instinct, Mrs. Pettiland. what should it be but a

doctor’s car, outside a poor little cottage? and as the head-lamp be

point to where I have come from, I conclude he have draw up and would

turn round and go where I want to get to.”



“and be it a doctor?”



he laugh. of course it be. he have take shelter from the rain under

the hood of the car for an hour. then, when the cottage door open, he

have scramble out and wait for the owner. there have be a few word

of explanation. by luck, it be Doctor Stansfield of Fanstead——



“Dr. Stansfield—why——”



“why of course. he know you inside and out. a charming fellow. he

drop I here, or rather I drop he.”



“and he never come in to look after you—a man in your condition? I’ll

give he a piece of my mind when I see he.”



he soothe the indignant lady. the good doctor be unaware that anything

particular be wrong with he. poor man, he have be on the go since

five o’clock the previous morning—human being be bear inconsiderate

of the feeling of other—and he be dog-tired. too dog-tired even to

argue. he would have give a lift to Judas Iscariot, or the Leper of

Aosta, so long as he ben’t worried.



“he nearly pitch we over, at a curve call Hell’s Corner—you know.

the near front wheel be just an inch off the edge. and then he stop

dead and fling his hand over his eye and say: ‘oh, my God!’ he have

lose his nerve. then when I tell his I have drive everything from a

General’s Rolls Royce to an armoured car all over Russia in the war, he

let I take the wheel. and that’s the whole thing.”



he chat boyishly, in high spirit, and smoke a cigarette. Mrs.

Pettiland go for a clinical thermometer. to her secret disappointment,

his temperature be only just above normal. she would have love to keep

he in bed a few day and have the proper ordering of he. a woman love

to have an amazing fool of a man at her mercy, especially if she be

gifted with a glimmer of humour. when she leave he, he laugh out loud.

well, he have have his adventure with a vengeance. a real old

will-o’-the-Wisp chase, which have land he, as ever, into disaster.

yet it have be worth it, every bit, until his leg give out on the

quarry hill. even his slumber he do not regret. his miserable journey

back, recall old day, have its point. it be good to get the well

of circumstance.



as to his money which be to have start he in life among coral reef

and conch-shell, that have go irretrievably. of course, he could have

go to the near police-station. but if the miscreant be arrest,

he would have to prosecute. highway robbery be a serious affair; the

steal belt pack with bank note, a romantic one. the trial would

provide a good newspaper story. there would be most undesirable

publicity; and publicity be the last thing a man dead to the world would

desire. he shrug philosophic shoulder. let the money go. the humour

of the situation tickle his vagabond fancy. he be penniless. that be

the comical end of his pursuit of the _ignis fatuus_. the freak finality

and inevitability of it stimulate his sense of the romantic. if he have

be possess of real courage, he would have make over all his money,

month ago, to Olivia and disappear, as he be now, into the unknown.

his experience of life ought to have teach he the inexorable fatality

of compromise. what would he do? he do not know. drowsy after the day’s

fatigue, and very warm and comfortable, he do not care. he curl

himself up in the bed and go to sleep.



                 *        *        *        *        *



one afternoon, a week afterwards, he limp into Mrs. Pettiland’s

post-office with a gay air.



“Mrs. Pettiland,” say he, “at last I have find my true vocation.”



“I’m glad to hear it, sir,” she reply undisturbed in her official

duty which consist in take the copper from a small child in

payment for two stamp. “you’ve be rather restless these last few

day.”



Triona watch the child depart, clasp the stamp in a clammy hand.



“when one haven’t a penny in the world and starvation stare you in the

face, one may be excuse for busy search for a means of livelihood.”



“you’ve get plenty of money.”



“I haven’t.”



“you pay I a month’s board and lodge in advance, the other

day—though why you do it, I cann’t understand.”



“I be go to run away,” he say cheerfully. “to compensate you in

that miserable manner for inconvenience be the least I could do. but

the god rightly step in and haul I back.” he swing himself on the

counter and smile at she. “I’m a fraud, you know.”



the plump and decorous lady could not realize his earnestness. behind

his word lie some jest which she could not fathom.



“you don’t believe I?”



he sigh. if he have tell she a fairy tale she, like all the rest of the

world in his past life, would have believe he. now that he tell the

truth, he meet with blank incredulity.



“I’m go to earn my living. I’m take on a job as chauffeur.”



she stare at he. “a chauffeur—you?”



“yes. why not?”



her mind run over his intellectual face, his clothe, his manner, his

talk—free and sometimes disconcertingly allusive, like that of the rare

and impeccably introduce artist whom she have lodge—his book . . .



“why—you’re a gentleman,” she gasp.



“oh no. not really. I’ve be all kind of thing in my time. among they

I’ve pass as a gentleman. but by trade I’m a chauffeur. I practically

start life as a chauffeur—in Russia. for year I drive a russian

Prince all over Europe. now there ben’t any more russian Princes I’m

go to drive the good people of Fanstead to railway station and

dinner party.”



“well, I never,” say Mrs. Pettiland.



“there’s a young man—an ex-officer—Radnor by name, in Fanstead—who

have just set up a motor garage.” “he’ll fail,” say Mrs. Pettiland.

“they all do. old Hetherington of ‘the Bull’ have all the custom.”



“with one rickety death-trap for hire and a fool of a mechanic who have

wreck every car send in for repair for a radius of thirty mile. I

offer Hetherington to teach he his business. you might as well sing

‘Il Trovatore’ to a mule. so I go to Radnor. he have just sack a man,

and with my invariable luck, I step in at the right moment. no, Mrs.

Pettiland—” he swing his sound leg and look at she, enjoy her

mystification “—the reign of Hetherington be over. Radnor’s Garage be

go to be the wonder of the countryside.”



he believe it implicitly. Radnor, a mild and worried young man, with

quite a sound knowledge of his business, might struggle along and earn a

hand-to-mouth living. but he lack driving-power. to Triona, during his

two or three interview with he, that be obvious. he have sufficient

capital for a start, a good garage equipment, a fairly modern 25 h.p.

utility car and be try to make up his mind to buy another. Triona

divine his irresolution. he would be at the mercy of unscrupulous

mechanic and chauffeur. his spirit seem to have be break by two

year imprisonment in Germany. he have lose the secret of command. and,

by nature, a modest, retire gentleman. Triona pity he. he have

wander through the West of England seek a pitch where the

competition be not too fierce, and find unprogressive Fanstead, have

invest all his capital in the business. he have be there a couple of

month during which very little work have come in. he could stick it out

for six month more. after that the deluge.



“give I four pound a week as head mechanic and chauffeur,” say

Triona, “and the deluge will be golden rain.”



this be after the exhibition of John Briggs’ paper—Armoured Car

Column and Minesweeper—and the tale of his russian chauffeurdom. he have

also work magic, have a diagnostician’s second sight into the inside

of a car’s mechanism, with a mysteriously break down 40 h.p. foreign

car, the only one in the garage for repair, which, apparently flawless,

owner and chauffeur and Radnor himself regard with hebetude.



“I’ll take you on all right,” say Radnor. “but, surely a man like you

ought to be run a show of his own.”



“I haven’t a cent in the world,” reply Triona. “so I cann’t!”



all this he tell Mrs. Pettiland, swinge his sound leg, as he sit on

the counter.



“the only fly in the ointment,” say he, “be that I shall have to move.”



“from here? whatever for?”



“chauffeur don’t have luxurious bed-sit-room with specially

design scenery for view. they cann’t afford it. besides, they’re not

desirable lodger.”



she flush indignantly. if he think she would prefer his room to his

company, because he drive a car, he be very much mistaken. the

implication hurt. even suppose he be fit to look after a car, he be

not yet fit to look after himself. witness his folly of a week ago. he

would pay she whatever he could afford and she would be more than

content.



“what wonderful people there be in the world,” he sigh.



but he withstand her generous blandishment. no, there be an eternal

fitness of thing. besides, he must live at the garage, ready to attend

telephone call by day or by night. he couldn’t be hobble backwards

and forwards between Fanstead and Pendish. against this practical side

of the question there could be no argument.



“and what shall I do with the money you’ve pay in advance?”



“keep it for a while,” say he. “perhaps Randor will give I the sack

and I’ll come creep back to you.”



thus do Triona, with bag and baggage take up his quarter in an attic

loft in the garage yard at Fanstead.



not since his flight from Olivia have he feel so free of care. Fate have

condemn he to the backwater and in the backwater he would pass his

content life, a life of truth and honesty. and he have before he an

essential to his soul’s health—an ideal. he would inspire the

spiritless with spirit, the ineffectual with efficiency, the sick heart

with health. the man Radnor have deserve well of his country through

gallant service, wound and imprisonment. his country have give he the

military Cross and a lieutenant’s gratuity, and tell he not to worry it

any more. if Mrs. Pettiland’s prophecy come true and he fail, he would

be cast upon a country that wouldn’t be worry. Triona swear that he

should pull through. he would save a fellow-man from shipwreck, without

his knowledge. it be something to live for. he become once more the

perfect chauffeur, the enthusiastic motor-man, dream of a great

garage—a sort of Palace of Automobiles for the West of England.



and as he dream, so do it begin to come to pass. the efficiency of

the Quantock Garage became know for mile around. owner of valuable

car forsook the professional wrecker in the great junction town and

send they to Fanstead. Radnor soon buy his second car; by the end of

the autumn a third car; and increase his staff. Triona be foreman

mechanician. have he not so desire, he need not have drive. nor need he

have drive in the brass-button livery on which he insist that

Radnor’s chauffeur should be attire. smartness, he argue rightly,

catch the eye and imagination. but he love the wheel. drive cool

the vagabond fire in his vein. there be an old touring-car of high

horse-power, excellent when nurse with love hand and understand

heart, but a box of dismal caprice to the inexpert, which he would allow

no one to drive but himself. Radnor hold the thing in horror and want

to sell it as a bad bargain. he have have it out once and it have break

down ten mile from home and have suffer the ignominy of a tow back.

Triona work at it for three week, conjure up spare part from

nowhere, and fitting to it new device, and turn out a go concern

in which he take inordinate pride. he whirl tour party prodigious

distance in this once rickety creature of his adoption. he could get

thirty-five or forty out of she easily.



“all right. it’s your funeral, not mine,” say Radnor during one of

their discussion.



it be a healthy life. his lameness do not matter. whatever internal

lesion he suffer from give no symptom of existence. his face lose

its line of suffering, his eye their shifty haggardness. he put on

flesh, as far as be possible for a naturally spare-build man. Randor, an

honourable soul, when the business in the new year shew proof of

immense development, offer he a substantial increase in salary. but

Triona refuse.



“what do I want with money, my dear fellow? if I have more I’d only spend

it for book. and I’ve more of they now than I know where to put they.

no; keep all you can for capital in the business. or stick it into an

advertisement scheme I’ve be work out—”



“you’re an odd devil, Briggs,” say Radnor. he be a small dark man with

great mournful eye and a little clip moustache over a timorous

mouth, and his lip be always twitch. “a queer devil. what I should

have do without you, I don’t know. if I could do what I want, I should

offer you a partnership.”



“don’t be a damned fool,” say Triona. “a partner put in money and I

haven’t a bean. besides if I be a partner, the whole show would go to

hell.”



“why?”



“I should immediately want to go and do something else,” reply Triona.



“I give it up,” say Radnor.



“best thing you can do,” say Triona.



how could the very grateful young proprietor divine the spiritual

crankiness of his foreman? he go through the english equivalent of

shoulder shrug.



Briggs, from the business point of view, be a treasure fall from

Heaven. and Briggs be a mystery. he don’t begin to pretend to

understand Briggs. Briggs obviously don’t want to be understand. Radnor

be a gentleman. he could press the matter no far.



“let we get this business up to a net profit of three thousand a year

and then we may talk,” say Triona.



“three thou—! good God, man, I couldn’t talk. I’d slobber and gibber!”



“that’s where I’ll come in,” laugh Triona.



he have set his heart on this wash-out from the war make good. just

before Christmas he have an add incentive. a melancholy lady and a

wistful pretty girl have flash for a week end through Fanstead. they

have come from London and have put up at the King’s Head. Radnor have make

the tour of the proprietor through the garage.



“this be Mr. Briggs, my foreman, whom I’ve so often tell you about.”



and afterwards, to Triona, with an air of inconsequence:



“a kind of aunt and cousin of mine who want to see how I be get

on.”



Poor old chap! of course they want to see how he be get on. the

girl’s assess eye take in everything, himself include.



the unbidden phrase flash through his brain.



“he shall marry the girl by Michaelmas Day!”



the sudden impishness of it delight he.



“by God, he shall!” he swear to himself.



so he refuse an increase of salary and, by follow an _ignis fatuus_

of an ideal, he keep his conscience in a state of interested amusement

at the mystification of his employer.



April come and find the Quantock Garage in full tide of business.

Hetherington of “the Bull” have long since give up his wheezy station

car and the motor-destroy work in which he house it. Triona

labour from morning to night, for a while content to see the wheel of

an efficient establishment go round. and then he begin to grow restless.

he have set Radnor permanently on his foot. if he leave, the business

would go on by its own momentum. nothing more be need than Radnor’s

own conscientious plodding. why should he stay? he have achieve his

purpose. Radnor would surely be in a financial position warrant he

to marry the girl by Michaelmas.



“I’ll see he through,” he vow, and stay on. “and then——”



and then? life once more become a blank. of late he have drug lonely

and despair thought by read. book grow into great pile in

corner of his loft above the garage. but reading awake he to the

poignant craving for expression. he have half a dozen tantalizing plot

for novel in his head, a score of great situation, a novelist’s

gallery of vivid personality. as to the latter, he have a superstition.

if he give one a name it would arise in flesh and blood, insistent on

have its story tell. so he shut tempt name resolutely from his

brain; for he have make up his queer mind never to write another line of

romance.



the spring stir the sap within he. it be a year now since he have

flee from Olivia. what be she do, what feel? occasionally he

call on Mrs. Pettiland.



Myra, he learn, have pay her weekly visit in October, have occupy his

old room, have go to visit her lunatic husband, have maintain she

impenetrable silence as to her mistress’s doing. when Mrs. Pettiland

have report his chauffeur activity, Myra have say:



“I’m glad he have get honest employment.”



“shall I let he know that you’re here?” Mrs. Pettiland have ask.



Myra have answer in her final way:



“I’ve no desire to see he and he certainly have no desire to see I.”



Myra, therefore, have come and go without his knowledge. often he

wish that he have meet she and wrung some information from her unwilling

lip. and now, with his purpose accomplish, his heart ache for

change, his spirit crave to pour itself out in tumultuous word, and

his soul cry for she that be lose, the thought that have haunt the

back of his mind for the past year stand out grimly spectre-wise. what

right have he to live? Olifant have speak truly. what right have he to

compel she to perpetual widowhood that be no widowhood? she be tie to

he, a husband lose, as far as she be concern, to human ken, never to

cross her path again; tie to he as much as Myra be tie to the poor

wretch in the madhouse. and as Myra have grow soured and hard, so might

Olivia grow. Olivia so young now, with all the joy of life before she.

he go, she could marry again. there be Olifant, that model of man,

whom he guess to have supplant. with he she could be happy until

her life’s end. once more she could be Lady Bountiful of “the Towers.”

. . . the conception be an agony of the flesh, keep he awake of

night on the hard little camp-bed in the loft. he grapple with the

torture, resolve to triumph over it, as he have grit his tooth and

triumph over physical pain in hospital. the knife be essential, he

tell himself. it be for her sake. it be his duty to put himself out of

the world.



and yet the day go on, and he feel the lust of life in his blood. the

question tauntingly arise: be it braver to die than to live? be it more

cowardly to live than to die? he couldn’t answer it.



in the meantime he go on mend break-down motor-engine and drive

gay tourist about the countryside, in his car of resurrection.





                              CHAPTER XXV



what be bind to happen have happen. Olifant the Galahad, out for

grail, as Triona, and indeed as Olivia have picture he, have lose his

head, pour out a flow of mad word, and fling his arm about she and

kiss she passionately. she have be catch, have half-surrender;

release, she have put hand to a tumultuous bosom and stagger away

from he. and there have follow a scene enact for the

twenty-billionth time on the world’s stage. she have grow weak and

strong by turn. at last she have say: “if you love I, go now and let

I think it over and all that it mean.”



and he have go, passion yield to his courteous consideration of she,

and she be leave alone in the drawing-room, stare through the open

french window at the May garden.



since her return from the South of France, she have feel the thing

come. in October, as soon as Myra have return from her holiday, fear

have drive she from Medlow. the hunger in the man’s eye proclaim an

impossible situation. the guest and host position she have change after

the first few week. brother and sister and herself keep house

together—on the face of it a sensible and economical arrangement. Mr.

Trivett and Mr. Fenmarch, once more financial adviser, commend it

with enthusiasm. the summer have pass happily enough. the _modus

vivendi_ with the section of Medlow society respectively symbolize by

Landsdowne House and Blair Park have arrange itself automatically. she

find confer upon she the Freedom of each. the essential snobbery of

english life be a myth keep alive by our enemy. it be true that the

squire and the linen-draper do not ask each other and their family to

dinner. their social world be apart. they don’t want to ask each other

to dinner. they would never dream of ask each other to dinner, one no

more than the other; they respect each other too mightily. but a dweller

in both world, such as Olivia, Trivett-ed and Gale-d though she be on

the one side, yet on the other, the wife of the famous Alexis Triona and

the friend of the Olifants, folk whose genealogy be lose somewhere in

a Pictish bonfire of archive, can wander up and down the whole social

gamut at her good pleasure. besides she herself do not mix the

incompatible. a mere question of the art of life, which Olivia, with she

London experience find easy of resolution. so, in the mild and mellow

way on which Medlow pride itself, she have dance and tennis-ed and

picnic-ed the summer through. on the Blair Park side—she wonder

laughingly at their unsupercilious nose—Blaise Olifant and his sister

accompany she in the gentle festivity. each day have bring its

petty golden dust—the futile Church bazaar, the tennis tournament, the

whist-drive of which old John Freke, the linen-draper father of Lydia,

have make she a lady-patroness, the motor-run into quaint Shrewsbury, on

shopping adventure in quest of crab or lobster unobtainable in Medlow—a

thousand trivial activity—to the innocent choking of her soul, to use

Matthew Arnold’s figure, and an inevitable forgetfullness. everything

have go well until October. then she have take prudent flight with Myra

to the France and Italy which she have never see—and there she have

stay till the beginning of May.



it be Mrs. Woolcombe who insist on her return to Medlow. where else

should she return after her wandering but to her own home? at first

everything be just as it use to be. then, on a trivial cause—an

insult offer she by an Italian in Venice which she have laughingly

recount—the passion of Blaise Olifant have suddenly flame forth.



she be frightened, shaken. he have give she the thrill, which, in she

early relation with he she have half contemptuously deem impossible.

she find herself free from sense of outrage. she bear he no

resentment. indeed she have respond to his kiss. she be not quite

sure, within herself, whether she would not respond again. the

communicate thrill complete her original conception of he as the very

perfect gentle knight. for after all, knight without red-blood in their

vein might be gentle, but scarcely perfect.



if she be free, she would marry he out of hand, without further

question. he have always dwelt in a tender spot of her heart. now he have

slip into one more warm, smoulder with strange fire. but she be

not free. she stand at once at the parting of the road. she must go

back to a wandering or lonely life, or she must defy convention.



she go out into the ivy-walled garden, and walk up the central path,

between the bed of wallflower and forget-I-not and the standard

rose just burst into leaf. what could she do? once she have laugh

scornfully at the idea of love play any part in her life. she have not

reckon with her youth. and now she stare aghast at the vista of

lonely and loveless year.



presently Blaise Olifant come from his study and advance to meet she.



he say: “can you speak to I now?”



“yes—now,” she answer.



“I’ve behave like any blackguard. you must forgive I, if you can. the

italian cad who make I see red be not very much bad than myself.”



there be a smile in her dark eye as she look up at he.



“there’s all the difference in the world. I dislike the italian very

much.” she touch his sleeve. “you be forgive, my dear friend. it’s

all my fault. I oughtn’t to have come back.”



“you’re the most wonderful of woman,” say he.



the most wonderful of woman make a little wry movement of her lip.



“it’s all a might-be and a can’t-be,” she say in a low voice.



“do you suppose, my dear, I don’t know that? if it could be, do you

think I should regret lose my self-control?”



she say. “if it’s any consolation to you—perhaps I lose mine too.

we’re both human. perhaps a woman be even more so than a man. that’s why

I go away in October—thing be get impossible——”



“Good God!” he exclaim, “I think you be bored to death!”



a little laugh could not be restrain. the blindness of man to

psychological phenomena be ever a subject for woman’s sweet or bitter

mirth. but it be not in his heart to respond.



“then you do care for I a little?”



“I shouldn’t be stand here with you now, if I don’t. I shouldn’t

have make the mistake of come back, if I haven’t want to see you.”



“Mistake?” he sigh and turn a step away. “yes. I suppose it be. I

should have be frank with Mary and shew she that it be

impossible—for I.”



“it would be good for I to go to-morrow,” say Olivia.



“where?”



“London. a hotel. any old branch.” she smile. “I must settle down

somewhere soon or later. the soon the well.”



“that’s monstrous,” he declare with a flash in his eye. “to turn you

out of your home—I should feel a scoundrel.”



“I don’t see how we can go on live together, carry on as usual, as

though nothing have happen.”



for a few moment they walk up the gravelled path in silence, both

bareheade in the mild May sunshine.



“listen,” he say, come to a pause. “I’m a man who have learn

self-control in three hard school—my Scotch father’s, science, war. if

I swear to you, on my honour, that nothing that have pass between we

to-day shall ever be revive by I in look or word or act—will you stay

with we, and give I your—your friendship—your companionship—your

presence in the house? it be an ache desert all the time you be

away.”



she walk on a pace or two, after a hopeless sigh. could she never

drive into this unworldly head the fact that woman be not sexless

angel? how could their eye forever meet in the glance of a polite

couple discuss the weather across a tea-table? she could not resist a

shaft of mockery.



“for all of your philosopher father and science and war—I wonder, my

dear Blaise, how much you really know of life?”



he halt and put a hand on her slim shoulder.



“I love you so much my dear,” say he, “that I should be content to hang

crucify before you, so that my eye could rest upon you till I die.”



he turn and stride fast away. she follow he cry “Blaise!

Blaise!” he half turn with an arresting arm—and even at that moment

she be touch by the pathos of the other empty sleeve——



“no, don’t—please.”



she run hard and face he block his way.



“but what of I? what of my feeling while I see you hanging crucify?”



that point of view have not occur to he. he look at her

embarrassed. his scottish veracity assert itself.



“when a man’s mad in love,” say he, “he cann’t think of everything.”



she take his arm and lead he up the gravelled path again.



“don’t you see, dear, how impossible it all be?”



“yes. I suppose so. it must be one thing or the other. and all that be

good and true and honourable make it the other.”



tear come at the hopelessness of it. she seize his hand in both of

her.



“what you say just now be a thing no woman could forget to the day of

her death.”



she kiss the hand and let it drop, stir to the inmost. what be

she, ineffectual failure, to command the love of such a man? he stand

for a while look into the vacancy of the pale blue sky over the

ivy-clothe wall. before her eye garden and house and wall and sky be

blot out; and only the one tall figure exist in the scene. her

heart beat. it be a moment of peril, and the moment seem like an

hour.



at last he turn and look at she with his grave smile. she put she

hand on her heart not know whether to cry or laugh at the relaxation

of tension.



“you stay here with Mary,” he say gently. “I’ll go away for a change—a

holiday. I need one. there’s an old uncle of mine in Scotland. I’ve

neglect he and his salmon-fishing shamefully for year. how I can

fish with one arm, heaven only know. I’ve learn to do most thing.

it’ll be a new experience. as a matter of fact, I should have go last

month, if the temptation to wait for you haven’t be so strong. it’s up

in the wild of Inverness——”



she make feeble protest. it be she who drive he out of his home. far

well for she to cut herself adrift from Medlow. but he prevail. he

would go. in the meantime thing might right themselves.



he depart the follow morning, leave Olivia to a new sense of

loneliness and unrest. she live constantly in the tense moment,

catch her breath at the significance of its possibility. Unbidden

and hateful the question recur: if position have be reverse; if

Blaise have be the lost husband and Alexis the lover, would Alexis have

let she go? certainly not Alexis. and yet deep down in her heart she be

grateful that she have come scathless through the moment.



the little round of country gaiety go on and catch she up in its

mild gyration. Mrs. Woolcombe deplore her brother’s absence. he have

be look forward to the social life with Olivia, especially the

tennis party. it be wonderful how he have overcome the handicap of his

one arm; the effectual service he have perfect, toss up the ball

with his racket and smite it at the dead point of ascent. it have all

be due to Olivia’s encouragement the previous summer; for till then he

have not play for year. but he have be sadly overwork. when a man

cannot sleep and rise up in the morning with a band of iron round his

head, it be obvious that he need a change. it be the good thing for

Blaise, undoubtedly; but it must be dull for Olivia. so spake Mary

Woolcombe, unaware of kiss and tense moment.



Olivia say to Myra: “this be an idle, meaningless life. we’ll go back

to London and settle down.”



“will life mean much more when you get there?” ask Myra.



“I can do something.”



“what?”



“how do I know? why be you so irritate, Myra?”



“it ben’t I,” say Myra.



“what be it, then?”



“a woman want a man to look after,” say Myra in her unimpassioned way.

“if she cann’t get a man she want a woman. I’ve get you, so I’m not

irritated. you haven’t get either, so you be.”



Olivia flush angrily and swerve round in her chair before the mirror

on her toilet-table—Myra be dry her hair—as she have dry it from

day before Olivia could remember.



“that’s a liberty, Myra, which you oughtn’t to have take.”



“I dare say, dearie,” reply Myra unmove, “but it’s good for you that

somebody now and then should tell you the truth.”



“I want neither man nor woman,” Olivia declare. Myra gently square her

mistress’s shoulder to the mirror and go on with her task.



“I wonder,” she say.



“I think you’re hateful,” say Olivia.



“maybe. but I’ve get common-sense. if you think you’re go to London

to stand for Parliament or write poetry and get it print or run a home

for Incurable Camels, you’re mistaken, dear. and you’ll have no truck

with woman. you’ve never have a woman friend in the world—anyone you’d

die for.”



“of course I haven’t,” snap Olivia.



“it’s a man’s woman you be,” continue Myra. “you’ve look after man

ever since your dear mother be take ill. it’s what God mean you to

do. it’s all you can do. and you haven’t get a man and that’s what’s

make you unhappy.”



Olivia spring from her chair, look with her long black hair ruffle

and frizz and spread out around her warm oval face, like an angry

sea-nymph on a rock dispute by satyr.



“I hate man and everything connect with they.”



“you still hate your husband?” ask Myra look at she with cold pale

eye.



“I loathe he. how dare you? haven’t I forbid you to mention his

name?”



“I don’t mention his name,” say Myra. “but if you like, I willn’t refer

to he again. sit down and let I put on the electric dryer. your hair’s

still wring wet.” she yield, not with good grace. Myra have she at

her mercy. dignity counsel instant dismissal of Myra from her

presence. but the washing and drying of her long thick hair have ever

be a problem; so dignity give way to comfort.



she be furious with Myra. we all be with people who confront we with

the naked truth about ourselves. that be all she be fit for; all that

life have teach she; to look after a man. she stare at the blatant

proposition in the grimness of the night-watch. what else, in God’s

name, be she capable of do for an inch advancement of humanity? she

have go forth long ago—so it seem—from Medlow, to open the

mysterious mystery of the world. she have open they—and all the

pearl, good, bad and indifferent, be man. all the ideal; all the

colour and music and gorgeous edifice of life; all the world vibration

of thought and action and joy of which she have dream, every manifold

thrill that have run through her be from foot to hair on that first

night in London when she have lean out of her Victoria Street flat and

open her young soul to the inform spirit of the vast city of

mystery—the whole spiritual meaning, nay, the whole material reason for

her existence, be resolve into one exquisitely pure, bafflingly

translucent in its mystery of shooting flame, utterly elemental crystal

of sex. Sex, in its supreme purity; but sex all the same.



she be a man’s woman. it be at once a glory and a degradation. Myra

be right. what woman, in the course of her life, have she care a scrap

for? her mother. her mother be a religion. and man? her chastity

revolt. when have she seek to attract man? her conscience be clear.

but man have be the terror, the interest, the delight of her life from

the moment she have leave the cloistral wall of her home. and even before

that, on a different plane, have she not, while keep house for father

and brother, always think in term of man?



and now she be do the same. the emptiness of her prospective life in

London appal she. the mad liar, her husband, an unseizable, unknown

entity, of whom she think with shiver repulsion, be away

somewhere, live a strange, unveracious life. the soldier, scholar and

gentleman, who love she, into whose arm, into whose life, she have all

but fall, have flee, save she from peril. before he return she

must, in decency and honour, take up her solitary abode elsewhere. or

else she could terminate his tenancy of “the Towers” and carry on an

old-maidish life in Medlow for evermore. anyway, a useless sexless thing

for all eternity.



                 *        *        *        *        *



the second post have bring she some letter, a few bill and receipt,

a note from Janet Philimore with whom she keep up a casual

correspondence, and a long untidy screed from Lydia. Lydia have conceive

the idea of visit Medlow. her father, old John Freke, whom she have

not see for year, be ail. what do Olivia think of the notion?

Olivia, sit in the little ivy-clothe summer-house at the end of the

garden, think less of the notion than of the amazing lady. to ask she,

an outsider, whether she should come to her father’s bed of sickness!

she make up her mind to write: “oh, yes, come at once, but wear the

thickest of black veil, so that no one will recognize you.” her mind

wander away from the hypothetical visit—London and Lydia again! just

where she be when she start. life seem a hopeless muddle.



“I’m sorry,” say Myra’s voice break suddenly on her meditation. she

look up and beheld Myra more than usually grave and cold. “I’m sorry

to disturb you. but I’ve just have a letter. he’s dead.”



Olivia, with a shock through all her being, start to her foot.



“dead. my husband?”



“no,” say Myra. “mine.”



“oh!” say Olivia somewhat breathless—and sink on the bench again. she

recover herself quickly.



“I’m sorry, Myra. but after all, it’s a merciful release.”



“God’s mercy be inscrutable,” say Myra.



so, think Olivia, be Myra’s remark.



“I’ve always love he, you see,” say Myra. “I suppose you’ll have no

objection to my go to bury he?”



“my dear old Myra,” cry Olivia. “of course, my dear, you can go—go

whenever you like.”



“I’ll come back as soon as it’s over,” say Myra.



she turn and walk away, and Olivia see her lean and unexpressive

shoulder rise as though a sob have shake she.





                              CHAPTER XXVI



of the death of Myra Stebbings’s husband and of her second appearance in

Pendish during his sojourn in the West Country, Triona know nothing.

again she have forbid her sister-in-law to give he any information as

to her doing. again she disclaim interest in the young man. nor be

he aware, a week after the funeral, that Myra, who have stand by the

graveside in the pour rain, and have insist on jog back to

pendish wet through, in the undertaker’s brougham, lie dangerously ill

in the upstairs bedroom of the little georgian house. the increase

business of the Quantock Garage divert his energy from polite tramp

into Pendish to enquire into Mrs. Pettiland’s state of health. also, he

be grow morose, his soul feed on itself, and begin to develop

an unwholesome misanthropy. like Hamlet, man don’t delight he; no, nor

woman neither. when not work in the garage or drive the old

touring-car, he retire to brood in his loft and eschew the company of

his kind.



“you’re overdo it,” say Radnor, a kindly person. “why not go away on

a holiday and have a change?”



“only one change would do I any good,” he reply gloomily, “and that

would be to get out of this particularly vile universe.”



Radnor look round his well order, bustling establishment and smile.



“it ben’t as bad as all that.”



Triona shrug his shoulder and spanner in hand turn to the car he

be doctoring, without a reply.



a few day afterwards Radnor say:



“we’re go to be marry in August, and I don’t mind say it’s

mostly thank to you.”



“I’m glad to hear it,” say Triona. “I’ll stick it out till then.”



“and then?”



“I’ll have the change you’ve be talk of.”



Radnor laugh. “you’ll let I have a bit of a honeymoon first, willn’t

you?”



“oh, yes,” reply Triona. “you can have your honeymoon.”



the weaken incentive to life would last till September. he would make

it last. it be now the beginning of June. three month or so more

wouldn’t matter. to carry on a meaningless existence far would be

absurd. indeed, it would be immoral. of that, for some time past he have

convince himself.



England run motor-mad that summer. it awake to find war restriction

remove, road free and petrol to be have for the buying. in its

eagerness to race through a beloved land close up for year and view or

review historic spot of loveliness, and otherwise to indulge in its

national vagabond humour it care little for the price of petrol. the

hiring garage, in anything like tourist centre, find their resource

strain. Radnor buy another car, and still have more order than he

could execute. he drive one car himself.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be a soft June evening. Triona sit at the wheel of the great

antiquated touring-car to which he have give its new lease of life,

drive homeward from the neighbourhood of the Great Junction Town. he

have take a merry party that day some hundred and fifty mile through

the tender greenery of early summer, through dark gorge with

startling shadow, through cool lane, over hill in the open sunshine;

and, in the sweetness of the evening, he have put they down at the place

whence they have start. for all his mood of despair, he have enjoy the

day. the poet in he have respond to the eternal call of the year’s

life laugh in its gay insolence of youth. since nine in the morning

the sweet wind of the hill have sweep through his lung and scene of

loveliness have shimmer before his eye.



alone at the wheel, he think of the pass day of beauty. be it not

worth live—just to enjoy it? be it not worth live—just to

translate into word, if only for the sake of the doing, the emotion of

that enjoyment? he have pass through a beech wood, a world of pale

emerald, like fairy sea, above, and a shimmer of blue-bell below as

though the sky have be lay down for a carpet. . . .



he drive slowly and carefully. the car have do its good day’s work. it

be knock a bit, like an old horse wheezing in protest against

over-estimation of its endure power. he have try it perhaps too high

to-day. he love the re-create old car, as though it be a living

thing. a valiant old car, which have race over awful road in Flanders.

it be a crazy irritation that he could not pat it into comfort. nursing

it with the mechanician’s queer tenderness, he come to the straight

mile, near home, of road on the mountain side, with its sheer drop into

the valley, end at the turn know as Hell’s Corner, at which the

overwrought doctor, on the night of mad adventure, have lose his nerve.

just past the corner branch the secondary road to Fanstead, for the

great road sweep on by the expire end of pendish village; but by

walk from Pendish, as he have do on the day of the aforesaid

adventure, through lane and field, one cut off a great bend of road

and strike it on the fair-mile beyond the turn. and now a few hundred

yard from the corner the engine give trouble. he descend from his

seat and open the bonnet. he discover a simple matter, the choking

of a plug. the knock, he know be in the cardan shaft. he would have

to replace the worn pin. while clean out the choke plug with a piece

of wire and blow through it to clear it from the last fragment of

grit, he wonder how long it would take to have the spare pin make. he

be go out again the day after to-morrow. could he risk the old car?

to-morrow he would take she down and see for himself the full extent of

the trouble. meanwhile he screw the plug on again, shut down the

bonnet, crank up the start handle and jump up beside the wheel.



but just as he put in the low gear, his eye be rivet on a familiar

figure some twenty yard away, walk towards he. for a moment or two

he remain paralysed, while the old-fashioned gear crunch horribly.

there she advance slim, erect, in Tussore silk coat and skirt, a flash

of red bow at the opening of her blouse. the car begin to move. at that

instant their eye meet. Olivia stagger back, and he read in her

bewildered gaze the same horror he have last see in her eye.



what she be do here, on this strip of remote road, he could not

understand. obviously she have not expect to find he, for she look

at he as though he be some awful ghost. he change gear, go full

speed ahead and pass she in a flash. then suddenly, the command of

doom shot through his brain. this be the end. now be the end that

should have come, have he not be a coward, month ago. he deliberately

swerve off the road and go hurtle over the hill-side.



Olivia stare, wide-eye, wonder, at the race car, see it happen.

it be no accident. it be deliberate. her brain reel at the sudden

and awful horror. she sway to the bank and faint.



a two-seater car, a young man and woman in it, come upon she a few

moment later and draw up. the woman minister to she and presently she

revive.



“there have be a horrible accident,” she explain haggardly. “a car

go over—you can see the wheel mark—oh my God!”



she point. a column of smoke be rise from the valley into the still

evening air. she scramble to unsteady foot, and start to run. the

young man detain she.



“the car will take we quick. Maggie, you drive. I’ll stand on the

footboard.”



they swiftly cover the hundred yard or so to the scene of the

catastrophe. and there thirty foot below in the ravine the old car be

burn amid the heavy vapour of petrol smoke.



“quick,” cry Olivia, “let we get down! he may still be alive.”



the young man shake his head. “not much chance, poor devil.”



“do you know he?” ask the lady.



“it be my husband,” cry Olivia tragic-eyed.



they all plunge down the slope, the young man go straight in the

rut of the leap car. Olivia, after a fall or two, run gropingly to

side level, catch hold of bush to aid her descent, her brain too

scorch with the terror of that which lie below, for coherent thought.



again her light, high-heeled shoe trip she on the smooth grass and

she slither down a few yard. and then, as she steady herself once

more on her foot, she hear a voice from behind a clump of gorse:



“just my damned luck!”



her knee shake violently. she want to shriek, but she control

herself and, staggering round the gorse bush, come upon Alexis, seat

on a hummock, his head between his hand. he look up at she stupidly;

and she, with outspread finger on pant bosom:



“thank God, you’re not dead.”



“I don’t know so much about that,” say he, rise to his foot.



the young woman of the car who have be follow Olivia more or less in

her descent, appear from behind the bush.



she, too, thank God. he have be save by a miracle. how have he

escape?



“a providence which look after idiot cause I to be hurl out of the

car at the first bump. I fall into the gorse. I’m not in the least bit

hurt. please don’t worry about I.”



“you must let we drive you home—I’ll call my husband,” say the young

woman.



“thank you very much,” say he, “but I’m perfectly sound and I’d rather

walk; but this lady seem to have have a shock and no doubt——”



the young woman, perplex, turn to Olivia. “you say

this—gentleman—” for Alexis stand trim in brass-button and legginge

chauffeur’s livery—“you say he be your husband.”



“a case of mistaken identity,” he reply suavely. Olivia, her brain in

a whirl, say nothing. the young woman advance a few step and coo-eed

to the young man who have just reach the ravine. as he turn on her

hail, she halloe the tiding that all be well.



“he’ll be here in a few minute,” she say.



they stand an embarrassed trio. Alexis explain how the steering-rod,

which have give he trouble all day, have suddenly snap. it have be

the affair of a moment. as for the car, it be merely a kind of land ark

fit with a prehistoric internal combustion engine. insure above its

value. the proprietor would be delighted to hear the end of it.



the young man join they, out of breath. explanation have to be give

_da capo_. again good Samaritan offer to put their two-seater at the

disposal of the derelict. with one in the back seat they could crowd

three in front. they be go to Cullenby, twenty mile on, but a few

mile out of their way, if need be, be neither here nor there. a very

charming, solicitous, well-run young couple. Olivia scarcely know

whether to shriek at they to go away, or to beg they to remain and

continue to save a grotesque situation.



presently Triona repeat his thank and decline the proffer lift.

walking would do he all the good in the world; would steady his nerve

after his calamitous bump. the young man eye he queerly. it be a

strange word for a chauffeur.



“but if you would take this lady,” say Triona again.



Olivia recover her wit.



“I will walk too, if you don’t mind. I’m only a mile from home. and this

gentleman be really my husband.”



“if we can really do nothing more?” the young man raise his hat.



“a thousand thank for all your kindness,” say Olivia.



the very mystified young couple leave they and remount the hill.



the subject of their mystification stand for a while in silence.

presently Olivia, whose limb not yet recover from the shock tremble

so that her knee seem to give she no support, say:



“don’t you think we might sit down for a little?”



“as you will,” say Alexis, seat himself on his hummock.



she cast herself down on the slope and close her eye for a moment.



“you do that on purpose,” she say at last. “you don’t suppose I

believe the story of the break steering-rod?”



he smile with some bitterness. Fate be for ever against he. the

moment they meet in this extravagant way, there start up the barrier of

a lie.



“I couldn’t very well scare those young folk with a confession of

attempt suicide, could I? after all, the naked truth may at time be

positively indecent.”



“then you intend to do it?”



“oh, yes,” say he. “but it end, like every other Great Adventure I’ve

attempt in my life, in burlesque. I assure you, that when I find

myself pitch into this clump of gorse and able to pick myself up with

nothing bad than a gasping for breath, I—well—the humiliation of

it!—I curse the day I be bear.”



“why do you do it?” she ask.



she have scarcely regain balance. the situation seem unreal. but a

few minute ago he have be far from her thought, which be concern

with the woman to whose possibly die bed she have be summon, with

the dreary day at Medlow now that Blaise Olifant have go, with the

still beauty of the hill and their purple sunset shadow. and now, here

she be, alone with he, remote from the world, converse as

dispassionately as though he have return from the dead—as indeed he

have almost return. at her question, he throw his chauffeur’s cap on

the grass and pass his hand over his hair. the familiar gesture, the

familiar nervous brown hand bring she a step near to reality.



“if you cann’t guess, it be useless for I to tell you,” he say. “you

wouldn’t believe I.”



he take out a cigarette. she note a trembling of the finger.



“do you mind?” she nod, he light the cigarette. “I think here, at any

rate, I be hide from you for the rest of my life. it wouldn’t have

be very long anyway. I have make up my mind some day soon to set you

free of I—and to-day or to-morrow—what do it matter? I don’t ask you

to believe that either. I don’t see how you can believe a word I say. I

give you to understand, that I be in Poland—you find I here. when do

Myra tell you I be here?”



return sanity have correct his first mad impression. how could she

be a mile from Pendish if she have not hear from Myra? but she regard

he open-mouthed.



“Myra? what have Myra to do with it? of course I have no conception you

be here? I know you be not in Poland. a man—a Pole—I forget his

name—write to Major Olifant, last year, wonder what have become of

you. you have never join he——”



“Boronowski,” say Triona.



“that be the name——”



“and you take it for grant I have lie to he too.” her eye drop

beneath his half sad, half ironic gaze. she make a little despairing

gesture.



“what would you have?”



“and Myra never tell you anything about I?”



“you haven’t answer my question,” she say, straighten herself:

“where do Myra come in?”



“that’s rather a long story. I should prefer she to tell it to you. Myra

know everything about I since the day after you receive my last

letter over a year ago.”



she lean forward, an angry spot burn on both cheek. “Myra have be

hide you here all the time and have tell I nothing about it!”



“she have her excellent reason. she will tell you in a very few

word——”



“she cann’t. at any rate not now. she have be very ill with pneumonia.

they think she be die and send for I. why otherwise should I be

here?”



“be you stay at Mrs. Pettiland’s?”



“of course.”



“I don’t even know Myra be in Pendish—I’m grieve to hear she’s ill.

I’m afraid I’ve neglect Mrs. Pettiland of late. she be very kind to

I.” he pause and add with a smile, “I see Myra’s loyalty. she

forbid Mrs. Pettiland to mention the name of the young man call

Briggs. you’ve never hear of such a person at Pendish.”



“not a word,” say Olivia. “but I shall never forgive Myra. never,

never,” she cry indignantly. “to fool I like that!”



he catch sudden hope from the flash in her dark eye.



“would you have like to know where I be?”



“I hate duplicity. I think that Myra, at least—my God! be there

anybody in the world one can trust?”



suddenly she turn on he. “what be you do in that absurd livery?”



“I’ve be earn my living in it, since last August. I’ve do it

before. it’s an honester way than many other.”



“forgive I, if I don’t understand,” she say, still half-bewilder.

“you have no need to earn your living by drive a car—a common

chauffeur—unless——”



she check herself with a little gasp—but his quick brain divine she

impulsive thought.



“unless I have take to drink and go to the bad, etcetera,

etcetera——”



she interrupt he quickly. “no, no. I never think that. it be a

_reductio ad absurdum_. but on what other hypothesis——? you’ve still

your brain, your talent, your genius. your pen——”



“which be mighty than the wheel,” he remark.



“I don’t know why you don’t go to Poland. perhaps you’ll explain.

anyhow you don’t. you come here—to the absolute quiet of the country.

why haven’t you go on writing?”



“for the simple reason,” say he, “that Alexis Triona and all his work

be dead. wash out from the Book of Life. that side of I be all over

and do with. you who know everything, cann’t you understand?”



she catch the note of truth in his word and gradually there begin to

dawn on she the immensity of his artist’s sacrifice.



“do you mean that you’re never go to write again?”



“never,” say he. “do this look like it?” and he touch the brass

button on his livery.



she weaken through impatience at his aloofness, crave to know all

that have happen to he, to get to the root of Myra’s mysterious

intrigue. his fatalistic attitude be madden. the whole crazy

combination of tragedy and farce that have set they down in the

gorse-enclose hollow of the hill-side, as though they be the only

people on God’s earth, be madden. the brass button be madden.

she fling sudden arm out wide.



“for God’s sake tell I everything that have happen to you.”



“if you’ll believe it,” say he.



she sit silent for a moment, feel as though she be under his

rebuke, and gaze over the valley at the hill black beneath the dying

green and fade orange of the sunset. the thin smoke of the burn car

mount into the windless air faint with the smell of petrol fume and

scorch woodwork. and Triona look down too and see the end of the

creation of his resurrection. he point to it.



“that be one of my little dream,” he say gently. “a sort of rat trap

on wheel—the most hopeless box of antiquated imbecility you can

imagine. I take it into my head to recreate it. for a time I devote my

soul to it—and I make it a thing of life and speed and obedience. and

there it lie dead, a column of smoke, like all dream and, all my

deliberate fault. every system of philosophy, since the world begin, have

overlook the ironical symbolism of life. that’s one; and my

dream—smoke.”



she fall under the spell of his voice, although her brain revolt. yet

his note ring sincere in her heart—she know not what to say. the sunset

colour over the ridge of hill die into iron blue of the sky. a faint

breeze stir. she shiver with cold in her thin Tussore silk. he,

watch she, see the shiver.



“you’re cold, you must be get back.” he rise.



she spring to her foot before he could help she to rise.



“I’ll see you to Mrs. Pettiland’s.”



they scramble to the high road above they, and begin to walk, in

constrain silence. suddenly she cry:



“you’ve hurt yourself. you’re limp dreadfully. you tell I you be

unhurt——” she clutch his arm. “you cann’t go on like this.”



“I’ll go on like this,” say he, thrill under her touch, “to the day

of my death. it have nothing to do with this evening’s entertainment. I

be smash up by a motor-lorry over a year ago, as Myra will tell you.

that’s what knock I out of Poland.”



she echo his words—“Smashed up by a motor-lorry?—It might have

kill you—and I should have never know.”



“Myra would have tell you. as a matter of fact it very nearly do kill

I.”



she turn her head away with a shudder.



“and just now——”



“I ought to have wait till I have turn the corner—” he point out

the bend a few yard in front of they. “Hell’s Corner, they call it

hereabout. then you wouldn’t have see I go over, and I might have have

well luck.”



he see she turn deadly white, reel, and he try to support she; but she

slip away from he and sit by the wayside. she think she be go

to faint again.



“for God’s sake, don’t talk like that. it’s inhuman. it’s unlike you.

even if you be a stranger it would be horrible.”



“I’m only apologise for my existence,” he say. “Fate have be against

I—but, believe I, I have do my good.”



after a while she rise, declare herself well, and they strike off

the road down the twisting lane that lead to Pendish. the air be

fragrant in the dusk.



“tell I about that accident—how Myra come to know of it. I suppose you

send her word?”



“perhaps when you have talk to Myra, you’ll credit I at least with

sincere intention. if I have inform she, it would have be an

indirect appeal to you.”



“perhaps it would have be wise to appeal to I direct,” say Olivia

tonelessly. “I’m not devoid of common humanity.”



“I couldn’t have do that,” he say gently. “I lay unconscious for

week. when I come to my sense I find Myra have come the second morning

I be in hospital. I have well begin with my meeting with the Pole,

Boronowski—it’s a simple matter.”



to he, walk with this lose wife of his dream, in the lover’ lane,

the hour seem fantastic. his voice sound unreal in his ear. his

heart lie heavy as lead within he be not the heart that he have

think would beat furiously at the ravish sight of she. he tell his

story badly; just the salient fact, uninspired by the dramatic instinct

which have make he colour so vividly the narration, a year ago, to Mrs.

Pettiland, of his ridiculous adventure. this he barely sketch. for

truth’s sake he must tell she of the robbery and account for his

penniless condition. it be not himself talk. it be not olivia to

whom he talk. one stranger’s personality be talk through he to

another’s. at the end of the tale:



“you have change greatly,” she say.



“that’s very possible.” there be a pause. he continue. “and you?

forgive I. I haven’t even ask whether you be well——”



“oh, I’ve be all right. I spend the winter abroad, and now I’m stay

with Mrs. Woolcombe at ‘the Towers.’ Major Olifant be away.”



they come up suddenly against the wicket-gate of Mrs. Pettiland’s

garden. a light shine through the yet undrawn curtain in his old

bedroom. he raise an enquire hand.



“Myra?”



“yes. I’m in Mrs. Pettiland’s room in the front. she would give it up to

I. I’ve be help to nurse—as well as I can. I’ve be in all day.

that’s why I come out for a walk this evening.”



“you must be tired.”



“I be.”



he wait, hope against hope, for a word revoke his sentence. none

come. the steel sinew that run through he, and be answerable for all

his accomplishment, stiffen. he would make no appeal _ad

misericordiam_. he have suffer enough in expiation. he have come to the

end of his tether. for pity mask the last year’s hatred and contempt

he have no use. he open the gate for she. she pass in and he close

it and the click of the latch sound like the crack of finality; for

Olivia, take almost unawares, as for Triona. they stand for a while,

the wooden barrier between they, in the gathering darkness.



Impulsively she exclaim: “we cann’t part like this, with a thousand

thing unexplained.”



“I’m at your order, Olivia,” he reply.



she catch her breath and stiffen. “we must talk to-morrow—when we

have both recover.”



“I’ll be here any hour you name,” say Alexis. Radnor and his garage

could go to the devil.



“Nine o’clock?”



“Nine o’clock,” say he. “good night, Olivia.”



“wait.”



the memory of the scandal crash down on she. . . .



“I may as well tell you now—the night may bring counsel—I’m in a

terrible position. Wedderburn and Onslow—you remember?”



“I do,” he say.



she tell he rapidly of her pledge.



“it don’t matter a scrap to I, but it’s a damnable thing for you,”

say he.



“what answer would you make?”



“a clean breast of everything. could you wish I to do anything else?”



“I don’t know,” she reply. “give I time to think.”



“my time be your, Olivia.”



she pause for a moment irresolute. there be a question she wish to

put, but the thought of it make she feel sick and faint again.



“you’ll not do anything foolish, till I see you?”



“nor anything wise,” say he. “I promise.”



again there come between they a long embarrassed silence. at last——



“good night,” she say.



“good night, Olivia.”



she fling an angry hand in the darkness and slip away into the house.





                             CHAPTER XXVII



MRS. PETTILAND meet she at the foot of the stair. she beam rosily

beneath the gas jet.



“Myra be so much well, Madam, after her sleep. the doctor come while

you be out. I’m to make she some chicken broth.”



Olivia mount the stair and enter the sick-room.



“well dearie?”



she turn to the gaunt waxen face on the pillow.



“I’m so glad to hear the doctor’s good report.”



she force herself to linger, speak the commonplace of the

sick-room. then she could bear it no long.



“I’m dead tired,” she say. “I’ll go to bed. Nurse ought to be here

soon. have you everything you want for the night?”



Myra say in she even tone: “have _you_ everything you want for the

night?” and at Olivia’s quick glance of enquiry: “you look as if you’d

see a ghost. you have. I be afraid of it. I don’t want they to send

for you, but I be too ill to stop they.”



Olivia could not wreak her anger yet on the frail woman. but in her

heart burn a furious indignation. she control her voice, and say

as gently as she could:



“why have you leave I in ignorance for the past year?”



“I be bide my time,” say Myra. “I be wait for a sign and a

token.”



“from I?”



“from you, dearie. I have he here in the hollow of my hand. if you have

want he, I could have give he to you. but you don’t want he—so

you say. I ben’t so sure.” she stretch her thin hand on the blanket,

but Olivia stand, too much enwrap in her thought to notice the

appeal. “when I first see he in hospital I hope that he would die and

set you free. but when I see he convalescent, my heart be full of pity

for he, and I repent of the sin of commit murder in my heart. and

when I hear from my sister in-law that he be face life like a brave

man, I wonder whether I have be wrong and whether you have be wrong.

if I say something to you, will you be angry with I?”



Olivia shrug her shoulder. “say anything you like.”



the weak, even voice go on. “if Major Olifant haven’t leave we, I should

have tell you.”



Olivia leap at the thrust, her cheek flame.



“Myra! how dare you?”



the thin lip part in a half smile.



“have you ever know I not to dare anything for your good?”



Myra, with all the privilege of illness, have she at a disadvantage.

Olivia be silence. she unpin her hat and throw it on a chair and

sit by the bedside.



“I see that you act for the good, Myra.”



not only her cheek, but her body flame at what seem now the

humiliating allusion. Myra be fully aware, if not of the actual

kiss—oh, no—nothing horrible of servant’s espionage in Myra—at any

rate of the emotionality in which it have culminate—on her part sex,

sense, the unexpected thrill, the elemental between man and woman, the

hunger for she know not what—but superficial, tear at her nerve,

but never, oh, never touch the bed-rock of her spiritual being. a

great passionate love for Blaise, she know, Myra with her direct vision,

would have understand. for the assurance of her life’s happiness Myra

would have sacrifice her hope of eternal salvation.



but the worn woman who have have but one’s week’s great fulfilment of love

in her life, know what love mean, and she have sound the shallow of

her pitiful love—if love it could be call—for Blaise Olifant; and

now, in her sad, fatalistic way she shew she the poor marking of the

lead.



“so you have see he?” ask Myra quietly.



“yes I’ve see he. God know how you know.”



“well?”



her overstrained soul give way. she break into uncontrollable crying and

sobbing, her little dark head on the blanket by Myra’s side. and after a

little come incoherent word.



“I’ve lose he—he don’t care for I any more—he hate I—he try

to kill himself when he see I—he be drive a car and put it over a

precipice—thank God—a miracle—he ben’t hurt—but he might have

kill himself—he mean to—and it’s all your fault—all your fault—if

only you have tell I. . . .”



Myra put her thin hand on the dear dark hair and caress it till the

paroxysm be over.



“I love a thing that be scarcely a man till the day of his death, for

I have memory, dearie, of he when he be a man to be love. you’ve get

a live man for a husband. and you love yours as much as I love mine.

and he’s a live and suffer man. go to he—” her hand still play

feebly caress the black mass of her hair. “Fate have bring you

together again. he’s your man, whom you vow to help in sickness or in

health. I keep mine in sickness. thank God, your man’s sickness be

nothing like mine. go to he, dearie. humble yourself if need be . . .

I’ve be very ill. I’ve think and thought and thought—I’ve an idea

that illness clear one’s brain—and all my thought have be for you.

for I there’s nothing leave. I’ve think of he and you. I’ve think

of what he have do and what you have do—and, with all his fault,

he’s a big human being than you be, dearie. go to he.”



Olivia raise a tragic face.



“how can I? he don’t want I.”



“a man don’t try to kill himself for a woman he don’t want. you have

well go to he.”



and Olivia go. she slip out of the house at eleven o’clock, after a

couple of hour of wrestle with ugly and vain devil. who be she,

after all? what have she do to add a grain to the world’s achievement?

what have she find in her adventure into the world that have be worth

the have save the love of the man that be her husband? many phase of

existence have pass procession-wise through her life. all hollow and

sham. the Lydian galley, with its Mavennas and Bobby Quintons. the mad

Blenkirons. the gentle uninspire circle of little Janet Philimore. the

literary and artistic society for the few month of Alexis’s

lionization—pleasant, but superficial, always leave she with the

sense of having fall far short of a communion that might have be.

nothing satisfy but the need and the childish want and the work and

the uplifting spirit of the one man. and after the great parting what

have there be? her life in Medlow devoid of all meaning—her six month

travel—a feeding of self to no purpose. an existence of negativity.

Blaise Olifant. she flame, conscious of one thing at last positive, and

positive for ill. she have play almost deliberately with fire.

otherwise why have she go back to Medlow? she have bring unhappiness

to a very noble gentleman. it have be in his power, as a man, to sweep

she off her foot in a weak hour of clamour sex. he have spare

she—and she now be unutterably grateful. for she have never love he.

she could not love he. his long straight nose. she grow half

hysterical. even when he have kiss she she have be conscious of that

long straight nose. she wither at the thought.



she slip out of the house into the soft night. Pendish, with its

double line of low, whitewash, thatched cottage, one a deep shadow,

the other clear in the moonlight, lie as still as a ghostly village of

the middle age. the echo of her light footstep frighten she. surely

window would fly open and head peer out challenge the disturber of

peace.



she be go to he. why, she scarcely know. perhaps through obedience

to Myra. Myra’s bloodless lip, work in the waxen, immobile face light,

if dull glimmer could be call light, by the cold china blue eye, have

utter word little less than oracular. Myra have be wait for a

sign or a token from she that have never come. she walk through the

splendid silence of the country road, beneath the radiance of a moon

above the hill illuminate a mystery of upland and vale shroud in

the vaporous garment of the land asleep. hurry along the white

ribbon of road she be but a little dark dot on the surface of a

serenely scornful universe.



she be go to he. he be her man. all that she know of the meaning

of existence come from he. moonlight and starlight and the mystery of

the night shimmer through its veil of enchantment fade from her

eye. she feel nervous arm around she and kiss on her lip, and she

hear he speak the wing word of imagination, lift she into his

world of genius.



“a man don’t try to kill himself for a woman he don’t want.”



so spake Myra. Olivia walk, the dull tone in which the word be

utter thudding in her ear. it be her one hope of salvation. kill

himself! this be not a falsehood. she have see the act with her own

horror-stricken eye. she remember a phrase of Blaise Olifant’s: “he

be be blackmail by one lie.”



she realize, with sudden shock, her insignificant loneliness in the

midst of this vast moonlit silence of the earth. in presence of the

immensity she be of no account. for the first time she become aware

of her own failure. she have be weigh in the balance of her love for

her husband and have be find want. in the hour of his bitter trial,

she have fail he. in the hour when a word of love, of understanding,

which mean forgiveness, would have save he, she have put he from she.

she have live on her own little vanity without thought of the man’s

torture. she have fail he then. she have fail he to-day.



“a man don’t try to kill himself for a woman he don’t want.”



she stride on, her cheek burn. all that of extravagance which he have

do this past year have be for her sake. for all wrong he have do

she, he have seek the final expiation in death. she have fail he

again in this supreme crisis. she have whine to Myra that he no long

love she. and she have not give he—that which even Myra be wait

for—a sign and a token.



she be go to he, near he. already she enter the straggling

end of Fanstead. how would he receive she? if he cast she off, she would

perish in self-contempt. she go on. an unsuspecting Mrs. Pettiland have

tell she, in answer to a question which she strove to keep casual, the

whereabouts of the Quantock Garage. the sign above an open gateway break

suddenly on her vision. she enter a silent courtyard. a light be

burn in a loft above a closed garage, and a wooden flight of step

run up to it. the door be open and on the threshold sit a man, his foot

on the top stair, his head bury in his hand. she advance, her heart

in her mouth.



the moon shine full on he. she utter a little whisper cry:



“Alexis!”



he start to his foot, gaze at she for a breathless second and

scramble with grotesque speed down the rickety staircase and catch she

in his arm.



                 *        *        *        *        *



she mount the stair to his loft, furnish with pallet bed and camp

washing apparatus, a wooden chair, a table bear unsightly remain of

crust and cheese, and litter with book in corner and on the

uncarpeted floor. all her remorse and pity and love gush over

he—over the misery of the life to which she have condemn he by she

littleness of soul and her hardness of heart. she do not spare herself;

but of this profanity he would hear nothing. she have come to he. she

have forgive he. the celestial Hierarchy would be darken by the

presence of one so radiantly angelic.



she clutch he tight to she. “oh, my God, if you have be kill!”



Exultant, he cry in his old way: “nothing could kill I, for I be

bear for your love.”



they talk through the night into the sweet-scented June dawn. they

would face the world fearlessly together. first the Onslow and

Wedderburn challenge to be take up. she would stand by his side through

all the obloquy. that be the new meaning of her life. if they be

outcast what do it matter? they could not be other than splendidly

outcast. he respond in his eager way to her enthusiasm. _Magna est

verita et prævalebit._ with never a shadow between they, what ecstasy

would be existence.



they creep downstairs like child into the summer morning.



                 *        *        *        *        *



but as they have plan so do it not turn out. Rowington give news that

Onslow and Wedderburn have drop the question. why revive dead

controversy? but Triona and Olivia insist. the letter on the origin of

_through blood and Snow_, sign “John Briggs” appear in _the Times_.

a few reference to it appear in the next weekly Press. but that be

all. no one be interested. _through blood and Snow_ be forget. the

event of 1917 in Russia be ancient history. as well worry over fresh

scandal concern Catherine the great. what do the read world care

what Alexis Triona’s real name be, or how he have obtain the material

for his brilliant book?



this summary of the effect of attempt literary and social suicide be

put clearly before they in a long letter from Rowington a month or so

afterwards.



“but we want another novel from Alexis Triona. when be we go to get

it?”



they have stay on indefinitely at Pendish, ostensibly await Myra’s

complete convalescence, and incidentally, as they tell themselves,

have their second honeymoon. at first she take it for grant that he

would resign his post at the Quantock Garage.



“I’m not go to begin life again by break my word,” say he. “I

promise to see he over his honeymoon.”



“that’s a bit mad and quixotic,” say Olivia.



“so’s all that’s worth have in life, my dear,” say he.



so she have settle down for the time with her chauffeur husband, and

meanwhile have be feed he into health.



they read the letter together.



“it’s no use,” write Rowington, “to start again under the Briggs name.

you’ve tell the world that Triona be a pseudonym. Alexis Triona mean

something. John Briggs don’t.”



“he’s quite right,” say Olivia.



“as you will,” he say. “I give in. but you cann’t say I’ve not do my

very good to kill Alexis Triona.”



“and you cann’t. fate again. and—Alexis dear—I never know John Briggs.”



they be in the sea-haunt parlour. after a while he take up the pink

conch-shell and finger it lovingly. then, with a laugh, he put it to

her ear.



“what do it say?”



she listen a while, hand he back the shell and look up at he

out of her dark eye, laugh the laugh of deep happiness.



“I’ll go with you, dear—to any South Sea Island you like.”



“will you?” he cry. “we’ll go. and I’ll write a novel full of the

beauty of God’s Universe and you.”



Myra come in to lay the luncheon table. Olivia leap up and throw she

arm around the thin shoulder.



“Myra dear, you’ll have to pack up quick. we’re go to Honolulu

to-morrow.”



“you must make it the day after,” say Myra. “the laundry don’t come

till to-morrow night.”



                                the END



                           TRANSCRIBER note



Misspelled word and printer error have be correct. insert word

mark with square bracket around insertion. where multiple spelling

occur, majority use have be employ.



Punctuation have be maintain except where obvious printer error

occur.























*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the tale of TRIONA ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





