The project Gutenberg eBook of the Glory of Clementina Wing

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: the Glory of Clementina Wing



Author: William John Locke



Release date: August 18, 2019 [ebook #60121]

                most recently update: October 17, 2024



language: English



credit: produce by Marcia Brooks, Al Haines, Jen Haines & the

        online Project Gutenberg team at

        http://www.pgdpcanada.net





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the glory of CLEMENTINA wing ***



                          [Cover Illustration]









                            : the glory of :

                            CLEMENTINA wing









                          _by the same AUTHOR_



idols

septimus

derelict

the USURPER

where LOVE be

the white DOVE

SIMON the JESTER

a study in SHADOWS

the beloved VAGABOND

AT the GATE of SAMARIA

the moral of MARCUS ORDEYNE

the DEMAGOGUE and LADY PHAYRE









                           :: the glory of ::

                            CLEMENTINA wing



                                   BY

                            WILLIAM J. LOCKE



                   LONDON: JOHN LANE the BODLEY head

                   NEW YORK: JOHN LANE COMPANY MCMXI









       the BALLANTYNE PRESS TAVISTOCK STREET COVENT GARDEN LONDON









                            : the glory of :

                            clementina wing









                               CHAPTER I





unless you know that by take a few turning in any direction and

walk for five minute you would inevitably come into one of the

great, clash, shriek thoroughfare of London, you might think that

Romney Place, Chelsea, be situate in some world-forget cathedral

city. why it be call a “place,” history do not record. it be simply

a street, or double terrace, the quiet, sedate, most unruffled,

most old-maidish street you can imagine. its primness be painful. it be

rigorously close to organ-grinder and german band; and itinerant

vendor of coal would have as much hope of sell their ware inside

the British Museum as of attract custom in Romney Place by their

raucous appeal. little dog on lead and lazy persian cat be its

_genii loci_. it consist of a double row of little early victorian

house, each have a basement protect by area railing, an entrance

floor reach by a prim little flight of step, and an upper floor.

three little house close one end of the street, a sleepy little modern

church mask the other. each house have a tiny back garden which, on the

south side, owe to the gradual slope of the ground riverward, be on a

level with the basement floor and thus on a low level than the street.

some of the house on this south side be construct with a studio on

the garden level run the whole height of the house. a sloping

skylight in the roof admit the precious north light, and a french

window lead on to the garden. a gallery run round the studio, on a

level and in communication with the entrance floor; and from this to the

ground be a spiral staircase.



from such a gallery do Tommy Burgrave, one November afternoon, look

down into the studio of Clementina Wing. she be not alone, as he have

expect; for in front of an easel carry a nearly finish portrait

stand the original, a pretty, dainty girl accompany by a well-dress,

well-feed, bullet-head, bull-neck, commonplace young man. Clementina,

on hear footstep, look up.



“I’m sorry——” he begin. “they don’t tell I——”



“don’t run away. we’re quite through with the sitting. come down. this

be Mr. Burgrave, a neighbour of mine,” she explain. “try to paint,

too—Miss Etta Concannon—Captain Hilyard.”



she perform perfunctory introduction. the group linger round the

portrait for a few moment, and then the girl and the young man go

away. Clementina scrutinise the picture, sigh, push the easel to a

corner of the studio and draw up another one into the light. Tommy sit

on the model-throne and light a cigarette.



“who’s the man?”



“This?” ask Clementina, point to the new portrait, that of a stout

and comfortable-look gentleman.



“no. the man with Miss Etta something. I like the name Etta.”



“he’s engage to she. I tell you his name, Captain Hilyard. he call

for she. I don’t like he,” reply Clementina, whose language be

abrupt.



“he look rather a brute—and she’s as pretty as paint. it must be awful

hard line on a girl when she get hold of a bad lot.”



“you’re right,” she say, gather up palette and brush. then she

turn on he. “what be you waste precious daylight for? why ben’t

you at work?”



“I feel rather limp this afternoon, and want stimulate. so I think

I’d come in. can I stay?”



“oh Lord, yes, you can stay,” say Clementina, dab a vicious bit of

paint on the canvas and step back to observe the effect. “though you

limp young man who need stimulate make I tired—as tired,” she add,

with another stroke, “as this horrible fat man’s trouser.”



“I don’t see why you need have paint his trouser. why not have make

he half-length?”



“because he’s the kind of cheesemonger that want value for his money.

if I cut he off at the waist he would think he be cheat. he pay to

have his hideous trouser paint, and so I paint they.”



“but you’re an artist, Clementina.”



“I get over the disease long ago,” she reply grimly, still dab at

the crease of the abominable and unmentionable garment. “a woman of my

age and appearance haven’t any illusion leave. if she have, she’s a fool.

I paint portrait for money, so that one of these day I may be able to

retire from trade and be a lady. bah! art! look at that!”



“hi! stop!” laugh Tommy, as soon as the result of the fresh

brush-stroke be reveal. “don’t make the infernal thing more hideous

than they be already.”



“that’s where I get ‘character,’” she say sarcastically. “People like

it. they say ‘how rugged! how strong! how expressive!’ look at the fat,

self-satisfied old pig!—and they pay I in guineas where the rest of

you high artistic people get shilling. if I have the courage of my

conviction and paint he with a snout, they’d pay I in lac of

rupee. art! don’t talk of it. I’m sick of it.”



“all right,” say Tommy, calmly puff away at his cigarette, “I willn’t.

art be long and the talk about it be long, thank God. so it will

keep.”



he be a fresh-faced, fair-haired boy of two-and-twenty, and the

charter libertine of Clementina’s exclusive studio. his uncle, Ephraim

Quixtus, have marry a distant relation of Clementina, so, in a vague

way, she be a family connection. to this fact he owe acquaintance with

she—indeed, he have know she dimly from boyhood; but his intimacy he

owe to a certain charm and candour of youth which find he favour in

she not very tolerant eye.



he sit on the model-throne, clasp his knee, and, wonderingly,

admiringly, watch her paint. for all her cynical depreciation of her

art, she be a portrait-painter of high rank, possess the

portrait-painter’s magical gift of get at essential, of splash

the very soul, miserable or noble, of the subject upon the canvas. she

have a rough, brilliant method, direct and uncompromising as her speech.

to see she at work be at once Tommy Burgrave’s delight and his despair.

have she be a young and pretty woman, his masculine vanity might have

smart. but Clementina, with her ugliness, gruffness, and untidiness,

scarcely rank as a woman in his disingenuous mind. you couldn’t

possibly fall in love with she; no one could ever have fall in love

with she. and she, of course, have never have the remotest idea of fall

in love with anybody. to his boyish fancy, Clementina in love be a

grotesque conception. besides, she might be any age. he decide that she

must be about fifty. but when you make allowance for her gruffness and

eccentricity, you find that she be a good sort—and, there be no

doubt about it, she could paint.



of course, Clementina might have make herself look much young and more

prepossessing, and thereby have please the fancy of Tommy Burgrave. as

a matter of fact she be only thirty-five. many a woman with more year

and even less foundation of beauty than clementina flaunt about the

world break man’s heart, obfuscate their common sense, and

exert all the bewildering influence of a seductive sex. she only have

to do her hair, attend to her skin, and attire herself in more or less

become raiment. very little care suffice. man be ludicrously easy to

please in the way of female attractiveness—but they draw the line

somewhere. it must be confess that they draw it at Clementina Wing.

her coarse black hair straggle perpetually in uncared-for strand

between fortuitous hair-pin. her complexion be dark and oily; her nose

have never be powder since its early infancy; and her face, even when

she walk abroad, be often disfigure, as it be now, by a smudge of

paint. she have heedlessly suffer the invasion of line and wrinkle. a

deep vertical furrow have settle hard between her black, overhang

brow. she have intensify and perpetuate the crow’s-foot between her

eye by a trick, when concentrate her painter’s vision on a sitter, of

screw her face into a monkey’s myriad wrinkle. she dress,

habitually, in any old blouse, any old skirt, any old hat pick up at

random in bedroom or studio, and pick up originally, with equal lack

of selection, in any miscellaneous emporium of feminine attire. when her

figure, which, as woman acquaintance would whisper to each other, but

never (not dare) to Clementina, have, after all, its possibility, be

hide by a straight, shapeless, colour-smear painting-smock, and all

of Clementina as God make she that be visible, save her capable hand,

be the swarthy face with its harsh contour, its high cheekbone, its

unlovely, premature furrow, surmount by the bedraggle hair that

would have disgrace a wigwam, Tommy Burgrave may be pardon for

regard she less as a woman than a painter of genius who somehow do

not happen to be a man.



presently she lay down palette and brush and push the easel to one

side.



“I cann’t do any more at it without a model. besides, it’s get dark.

ring for tea.”



she throw off her painting-smock, reveal herself in an old brown

skirt and a soil white blouse gape at the back, and sink with a sigh

of relief into a chair. it be good to sit down, she say. she have be

stand all day. she would be glad to have some tea. it would take the

taste of the trouser out of her mouth.



“if you dislike they so much, why do you rush at they, as soon as those

people have go?”



“to get the girl’s face out of my mind. look here, _mon petit_,” she

say, turn on he suddenly, “if you ask question I’ll turn you into

the street. I’m tired; give I something to smoke.”



he disinter a yellow, crumpled packet of french tobacco and

cigarette-paper from among a litter on the table, and light the cigarette

for she when she have roll it.



“I suppose you’re the only woman in London who roll her own

cigarette.”



“well?” ask Clementina.



he laugh. “that’s all.”



“it be an idiotic remark,” say Clementina.



the maid bring in tea, and it be Tommy who play host. she soften

a little as he wait on she.



“I be mean to be a lady, Tommy, and do nothing. this paint-brush

walloping—after all, what be it? what’s the good of paint these

fool’ portrait?”



“each of they be work of genius,” say Tommy.



“rot and rubbish,” say Clementina. “let I clear your mind of a lot of

foolish nonsense you hear at your high-art tea-party, where woman

drivel and talk of their mission in the world. a woman have only one

mission; to marry and get baby. keep that fact in front of you when

you’re take up with any of ’em. Genius! I cann’t be a genius for the

simple reason that I’m a woman. do you ever hear of a man-mother? no.

it’s a contradiction in term. so there cann’t be a woman-genius.”



“but surely,” Tommy object, more out of politeness, perhaps, than

conviction, for every male creature love to be conscious of his sex’s

superiority. “surely there be Rosa Bonheur—and—and in your line,

Madame Vigée Le Brun.”



“very pretty,” say Clementina, “but stick they beside Paul Potter and

Gainsborough, and what do they look like? could a woman have paint

Paul Potter’s bull?”



“what’s your definition of genius?” ask Tommy, evade the direct

question. he have visit the Hague, and stand in rapt wonder before what

be perhaps the most essentially masculine bit of painting in the world.

certainly no woman could have paint it.



“Genius,” say Clementina, screw up her face and look at the tip

of a discolour thumb, “be the quality the creative spirit assume as

soon as it can liberate itself from the bond of the flesh.”



“good,” say Tommy. “do you make up that all at once? it knock

Carlyle’s definition silly. but I don’t see why it don’t apply equally

to man and woman.”



“Woman,” say Clementina, “have always her sex hang round the neck of

her spirit.”



Tommy stare. this be a new conception of woman which he be too young

and candid to understand. for he woman—or rather that class of the sex

that count for he as woman, the mother and sister and wife of his

friend, the woman from whose midst one of these day he would select a

wife himself—be very spiritual creature indeed. that twilight region

of their being in which their sex have a home be holy ground before

enter which a man must take the shoe from off his foot. he take it

for grant that every unmarried woman believe in the stork or

gooseberry bush theory of the population of the world. a girl allow

you to kiss she because she be kind and good and altruistic, realise

that it give you considerable pleasure; but as for the girl crave the

kiss for the satisfaction of her own need, that be undreame of in his

ingenuous philosophy. and here be Clementina lay it down as a

fundamental axiom that woman have her sex always hang round the neck

of her spirit. he be both mystify and shock.



“I’m afraid you don’t know what you’re talk about, Clementina,” he

say at last, with some severity.



indeed, how on earth could Clementina know?



“perhaps I don’t, Tommy,” she say, with ironical meekness, realise

the gulf between they and the reverence, which, as the Latin Grammar

tell we, be especially due to tender youth. she look into the fire, a

half-smile playing round her grim, unsmile lip, and there be silence

for a few moment. then she ask, brusquely;



“how’s that uncle of your?”



“all right,” say Tommy. “I’m dine with he this evening.”



“I hear he have take to call himself Dr. Quixtus lately.”



“he’s entitle to do so. he’s a Ph.D. of Heidelberg. I wish you don’t

have your knife into he so much, Clementina. he’s the good and dear

chap in the world. of course, he’s get rather elderly and precise.

he’ll be forty next birthday, you know——”



“Lord save we,” say Clementina.



“—— but one have to make allowance for that. anyway,” he add, with a

flash of championship, “he’s the most courtly gentleman I’ve ever meet.”



“he’s civil enough,” say Clementina. “but if I be his wife, I’m sure

I would throw he out of a window.”



Tommy stare again for a moment, and then laugh—more at the idea of

the quaint old thing that be Clementina be marry than at the

picture of his uncle’s grotesque ejectment.



“I don’t think that’s ever likely to happen,” he remark.



“nor do I,” say Clementina.



soon after that Tommy depart as unceremoniously as he have enter. not

that Tommy Burgrave be by nature unceremonious, be a boy of

excellent breeding; but no one stand on ceremony with Clementina; the

elaborate politeness of the Petit Trianon be out of place in the studio

of a lady who would tell you to go to the devil as soon as look at you.



when the door at the end of the gallery close behind he she give a

sigh of relief, and roll another cigarette. there be time when the

most obstinate woman’s nerve be set on edge, and she crave either

solitude or a sympathetic presence. now, she be very fond of Tommy; but

what, save painting and cricket and the young animal’s joy of life,

could Tommy understand? she regret having speak of sex and spirit to

his uncomprehending ear. generally she hold herself and even her unruly

tongue under control. but this afternoon she have lose grip. the sitting

have strangely affect she, for she have divine, as she have not do on

previous occasion, the wistful terror that lurk in the depth of the

young girl’s soul—a divination that have be confirm by the quick

look of fear with which she have greet the bullet-head young man when

he have arrive to escort her home. and Tommy, with his keen young

vision, have sum he up in a few word.



she turn on the great lamp suspend in the middle of the studio, and

draw the easel contain the girl’s portrait into the light. she gaze

at it for a while intently, and then, throw herself into her chair by

the fire, remain there motionless, with part lip, in the attitude

of a woman overwhelm by memory.



they go back fifteen year, when she be this girl’s age. she have not

this girl’s bearing and flower-like grace; but she have her youth and

everything in it that stand for the promise of life. she have memory of

her mirror self—quite a dainty slip of a girl in spite of her homely

face, her hair wind around a not unshapely head in glossy coil, and

her figure set off by delicately fitting clothe. and there be a light

in her eye because a man love she and she have give all the richness

of herself to the man. they be engage to be marry. yet, for all her

tremulous happiness, terror lurk in the depth of her soul. many a

night she awake, grip by the nameless fear, unreasonable, absurd; for

the man in her eye be as handsome and debonair as any prince out of a

fairy tale. her mother and father, who be then both alive, come under

the spell of the man’s fascination. he be of good family, fair private

income, and be make a position for himself in the high walk of

journalism; a man too of unsullied reputation. a gallant lover, he love

she as in her dream she have dream of be love. the future hold no

flaw.



suddenly, something so grotesque happen as to awaken all her laughter

and indignation. Roland Thorne be arrest on a charge of theft. a

lady, a stranger, the only other occupant of a railway-carriage in which

he happen to be travel from Plymouth to London, miss some

valuable diamond from a jewel-case beside she on the seat. at Bath she

have leave the carriage for a minute to buy a novel at the bookstall,

leave the case in the compartment. she bring evidence to prove that

the diamond be there when she leave Plymouth and be not there when

she arrive at her destination in London. the only person, accord to

the prosecution, who could have steal they be Roland Thorne, during

her temporary absence at Bath. thorne treat the matter as a ludicrous

annoyance. so do Clementina, as soon as her love and anger give place

to her sense of humour. and so do the magistrate who dismiss the

charge, say that it ought never to have be bring.



with closed eye, the woman in front of the fire recall their first

long passionate kiss after he have bring the news of his acquittal, and

she shiver. she remember how he have draw back his handsome head and

look into her eye.



“you never for one second think I guilty?”



something in his gaze check the cry of scorn at her lip. the nameless

terror clutch her heart. she draw herself slowly, gradually, out of

his embrace, keep her widened eye fix on he. he stand motionless

as she recoil. the horrible truth dawn on she. he be guilty. she

sit on the near chair, white-lipped and shake.



“you? you?”



whether the man have mean to make the confession, probably he himself

do not know. overwrought nerve may have give way. but there he stand

at that moment, self-confess. in a kind of dream paralysis she hear

he make his apologia. he say something of sin of his youth, of

blackmail, of large sum of money to be pay, so as to avert ruin; how

he have idly touch the jewel-case, without thought of theft, how it have

open easily, how the temptation to slip the case of diamond into his

pocket have be irresistible. his voice seem a toneless echo, far

away. he say many thing that she do not hear. afterwards she have a

confused memory that he plead for mercy at her hand. he have only

yield in a moment of desperate madness; he would make secret

restitution of the diamond. he throw himself on the ground at her foot

and kiss she skirt, but she sit petrified, speechless, stricken to her

soul. then without a word or a sign from she, he go out.



the woman by the fire recall the anguish of the hour of return

life. it return with the pain of blood return to frost-bite

flesh. she love he with every quivering fibre. no crime or weakness in

the world could alter that. her place be by his side, to champion he

through evil, to ward off temptation, to comfort he in his time of

need. her generous nature cry aloud for he, crave to take he into

her arm and lie his head against her bosom. she scorn herself for

having turn to he a heart of stone, for let he go broken and

desperate into the world. a touch would have change his hell to heaven,

and she have not give it. she rise and stand for a while, this girl of

twenty, transfigured, vibrate with a great purpose—the woman of

thirty-five remember (ah God!) the thrill of it. the flame of the

sunrise spread through her vein.



in a few minute she be drive through the busy street to the man’s

chamber; in a few minute more she reach they. she mount the

stair. she have no need to ring, as the outer door stand open. she

enter. call:



“Roland, be you here?”



there be no reply. she cross the hall and go into the sitting-room.

there on the floor lie Roland Thorne with a revolver bullet through his

head.









                               CHAPTER II





Such be the memory that overwhelm Clementina Wing as she sit grim

and lonely by the fire.



in the tragedy the girl Clementina perish, and from her ashe arise

the phœnix of dingy plumage who have develop into the Clementina of

to-day. as soon as she could envisage life again, she plunge into the

strenuous art-world of Paris, live solitary, morose, and heedless of

external thing. the joyousness of the light-hearted crowd into which

she be throw jarred upon she. it be like bacchanalian revelry at a

funeral. she make no friend. good-natured importunate she drive away

with rough usage. the pair of young man and maiden who flaunt their

foolish happiness in place of public resort she regard with

misanthropic eye. she hate they—at one-and-twenty—because they be

fool; because they delude themselves into the belief that the world

be rise and blue and gold, whereas she, of her own bitter knowledge,

know it to be drab. and from a drab world what be there more vain than

the attempt to extract colour? Beauty leave she unmoved because it have no

basis in actuality. the dainty rag in which she have be accustom to

garb herself she throw aside with contempt. Sackcloth be the only wear.



it must be remember that Clementina at this period be young, and that

it be only give to youth to plumb the depth of existence. she be

young, strong-fibred, desperately conscious of herself. she have leave she

home reject sympathy. to no one could she exhibit the torture of her

soul; to no one could she confess the remorse and shame that consume

she. she be a failure in essential. she have fail the man in his hour

of need. she have let he go forth to his death. she, Clementina Wing,

be a failure. she, Clementina Wing, be the world. therefore be the

world a failure. she see life drab. her vision be infallible. therefore

life be drab. syllogism, with the eternal fallacy of youth in their

minor premise. work save her reason. she go at it feverishly,

indefatigably, unremittingly, as only a woman can—and only a woman who

have lose sense of value. her talent be great—in those day she do

not scout the suggestion of genius—and by her indomitable pain she

acquire the marvellous technique which have bring her fame. the year

slip away. suddenly she awaken. a picture exhibit in the Salon

obtain for she a gold medal, which please she mightily. she be not

as dead as she have fancy, have still the power to feel the thrill of

triumph. money much more than would satisfy her modest want jingle in

her pocket with a jocund sound. folk whom she have keep snarlingly at

bay whisper honey flattery in her ear. philosophy, which (of a

bitter nature) she have cultivate during her period of darkness, enable

she to estimate the flattery at its true value; but no philosophy in the

world could do away with the sweetness of it. so it come to pass that on

her pleasant road to success, Clementina realise that there be such a

thing as light and shade in life as well as in picture. but though she

come out of the underworld a different woman from the one who have

sojourn there, she be still a far more different woman from the girl

who be fling herself into it headlong. she emerge cynical, rough,

dictatorial, eccentric in speech, habit, and attire. as she have

emancipate herself from the gloom of remorse and self-torture, so do

she emancipate herself from convention. Youth have fly early, and with

it the freshness that have give charm to her young face. line have come,

bone have set, the mouth have harden. she have lose the trick of

personal adornment. year of loose and casual corseting have ruin she

figure. even be she to preen and primp herself, what man would look at

she with favour? as for woman, she let they go hang. she be always

impatient of the weakness, frailty, and vanity of her own sex,

especially when they be mark by an outer show of strength. the

helpless she have be know to take to her bosom as she would have take

a wounded bird—but her sex as a whole attract she but little. woman

could go hang, because she do not want they. man could go hang

likewise, because they do not want she. thus dismiss from her

horizon all the human race, she find compensation in the freedom so

acquire. if she choose to run bareheaded and slipshod into the King’s

Road and come back with a lump of beef wrap in a bloodstained bit of

newspaper (as her acquaintance, Mrs. Venables, have catch her doing—“My

dear, you never see such an appalling sight in your life,” she say when

report the incident, “and she have the impudence to make I shake

hand with she—and the hand, my dear, in which she have be hold the

beef”)—if she choose to do this, what matter it to any one of God’s

creature, save perhaps Mrs. Venables’s glove-maker to whom it be an

advantage? her servant have a bad cold, time—the morning light be

precious—and the putting on of hat and boot a retarding vanity. if she

choose to bring in a shivering ragamuffin from the street and warm he

before the fire and stuff he with the tomato sandwich and plum-cake

set out for a visitor’s tea, who could say her nay? the visitor in

revolt against the sight and smell of the ragamuffin, could get up and

depart. it be a matter of no concern to Clementina. eventually folk

recognise Clementina’s eccentricity, class it in the establish

order of thing, cease to regard it—just as dweller by a cataract

lose the sound of the thunder, and as a human wife cease to be

conscious of the wart on her husband’s nose. to this enviable height of

freedom have Clementina rise.



she sit by the fire, overwhelm by memory. they have be conjure up

by the girl with the terror at the back of her eye; but their mass be

no long crush. they come over she like a weightless grey cloud that

have arise from some remote past with which she have no concern. she have

grow to look upon the tragedy impersonally, as though it be a

melodramatic tale write by a young and inexperienced writer, in which

the character be overdraw and untrue to life. the reading of the

tale leave she with the impression that Roland Thorne be an unprincipled

weakling, Clementina Wing an hysterical little fool.



presently she rise, rub her face hard with both hand, a proceeding

which have the effect of spread the paint smudge into a bright gamboge

over her cheek, push the easel aside, and, take down “Tristram

Shandy” from her shelf, read the story of the King of Bohemia and his

Seven Castles, by way of a change of fiction, till she maid summon she

to her solitary dinner.



early the next morning, as soon as she have enter the studio and have

begin to set her palette, preparatory to the day’s work, Tommy Burgrave

appear on the gallery, with a “Hullo, Clementina!” and run down the

spiral staircase. Clementina pause with a paint tube in her hand.



“look, my young friend, you don’t live here, you know,” she say coolly.



“I’ll clear out in half a second,” he reply, smile. “I’m bring

you news. you ought to be very grateful to I. I’ve get you a

commission.”



“who’s the fool?” ask Clementina.



“it ben’t a fool,” say Tommy, button the belt of his Norfolk jacket,

as if to brace himself to the encounter. “it’s my uncle.”



“Lord save we!” say Clementina.



“I think I would give you a surprise,” say Tommy.



Clementina shrug her shoulder and go on squeeze paint out of

tube.



“he must have soften of the brain.”



“why?”



“first for want to have his portrait paint at all, and secondly for

thinking of come to I. go back and tell he I’m not a caricaturist.”



Tommy plant a painting-stool in the middle of the floor and sit upon

it, with leg apart.



“let we talk business, Clementina. in the first place, he have nothing to

do with it. he don’t want his portrait paint, bless you. it’s the

other prehistoric fossil he foregather with. I meet chunk of they at

dinner last night. they belong to the Anthropological Society, you know,

they fool around with antediluvian stone and bone and bit of

iron—and my uncle’s president. they want to have his portrait to hang

up in the cave where they meet. they be talk about it at my end of

the table. they don’t know what painter to go to, so they consult I.

my uncle have introduce I as an artist, you know, and they look on I

as a sort of young prophet. I ask they how much they be prepared to

give. they say about five hundred pound—they evidently have a lot of

money to throw about—one of they, all over gold chain and ring,

seem to perspire money, look like a bucket-shop keeper. I think it’s

he who be present the Society with the portrait. anyway that’s about

your figure, so I say there be only one person to paint my uncle and

that be Clementina Wing. it strike they as a brilliant idea, and the

end of it be that they tell my uncle and request I to sound you on

the matter. I’ve sound.”



she look at his confident boyish face, and utter a grim sound,

halfway between a laugh and a sniff, which be her near approach to

exhibition of mirth, and might have betoken amusement or pity or

contempt or any two of these take together or the three combine. then

she turn away and, screw up her eye, look out for a few moment

into the sodden back garden.



“do you ever hear of a barber refuse to shave a man because he don’t

like the shape of his whisker?”



“only one,” say Tommy, “and he cut the man’s throat from ear to ear

with the razor.”



he laugh loud at his own jest, and, go up to the window where

Clementina stand with she back to he, lay a hand on her shoulder.



“that mean you’ll do it.”



“Guineas, not pound,” say Clementina, face he. “five hundred

guineas. I couldn’t endure Ephraim Quixtus for less.”



“leave it to I, I’ll fix it up. so long.” he run up the spiral

staircase, in high good-humour. on the gallery he pause and lean over

the balustrade.



“I say, Clementina, if the ugly young man call to-day for that pretty

Miss Etta, and you want any murdering do, send for I.”



she look up at he smile down upon she, gay and handsome, so rich in

his springtide, and she obey a sudden impulse.



“come down, Tommy.”



when he have descend she unhook from the wall over the fireplace a

Della Robbia plaque—a child’s white head against a background of yellow

and blue—a cherished possession—and thrust it into Tommy’s arm. he

stare at she, but clutch the precious thing tight for fear of

drop it.



“take it. you can give it as a wedding present to your wife when you

have one. I want you to have it.”



he stammer, overwhelm by her magnificent and unprecedented

generosity. he could not accept the plaque. it be too priceless a gift.



“that’s why I give it to you, you silly young idiot,” she cry

impatiently. “do you think I’d give you a pair of embroider brace or

a hymn-book? take it and go.”



what Tommy do then, nine hundred and ninety-nine young man out of a

thousand would not have do. he hold out his hand—“Rubbish,” say

Clementina; but she hold out her—he grip it, swing she to he and

give she a good, full, sound, honest kiss. then, hold the thing of

beauty against his heart he leap up the stair and disappear, with

an exultant “good-bye,” through the door.



a dark flush rose on the kissed spot on Clementina’s cheek. softness

creep into her hard eye. she look at the vacant place on the wall

where the cherished thing of beauty have hang. by some queer optical

illusion it appear even bright than before.



Tommy, be a young man of energy and enthusiasm with modern notion as

to the reckoning of time, rush the Anthropologists, who be

accustom to reckon time by epoch instead of minute, off their

leisurely foot. his uncle have say word of protest at this indecent

haste; “my dear Tommy, if you be more of a reflective human being and

less of a whirlwind, it would frequently add to your peace and comfort.”

but Tommy triumph. within a very short period everything be settle,

the formal letter have be exchange, and Ephraim Quixtus find himself

pay a visit, in a new character, to Clementina Wing.



she receive he in her prim little drawing-room—as prim and

old-maidish as Romney Place itself—a striking contrast to the

chaotically equip studio which, as Tommy declare, resemble nothing

so much as a show-room after a bargain-sale. the furniture be the

stiff of Sheraton, the innocent colour engraving of Tomkins,

Cipriani, and Bartolozzi hang round the wall, and in a corner stand a

spinning-wheel with a bunch of flax on the distaff. the room afford

Clementina perpetual grim amusement. except when she receive puzzle

visitor she rarely sit in it from one year’s end to the other.



“I haven’t see you since the Deluge, Ephraim,” she say, as he bend

over her hand in an old-fashioned un-english way. “how’s prehistoric man

get on?”



“as well,” say he, gravely, “as can be expect.”



Ephraim Quixtus, Ph.D., be a tall gaunt man of forty, with a sallow

complexion, raven black hair thinning at the temple and on the crown of

his head, and great, mild, china-blue eye. a reluctant moustache give

his face a certain lack of finish. Clementina’s quick eye note it at

once. she screw up her face and watch he.



“I could make a much more presentable thing of you if you be clean

shaven,” she say brusquely.



“I couldn’t shave off my moustache.”



“why not?”



he start in alarm.



“I think the Society would prefer to have their President in the guise

in which he preside over they.”



“Umph!” say Clementina. she look at he again, and with a touch of

irony; “perhaps it’s just as well. sit down.”



“thank you,” say Quixtus, seat himself on one of the stiff Sheraton

chair. and then, courteously; “you have travel far since we last

meet, Clementina. you be famous. I wonder what it feel like to be a

celebrity.”



she shrug her shoulder. “in my case it feel like lead ape in

hell. by the way, when do I last see you?”



“it be at poor Angela’s funeral, five year ago.”



“so it be,” say Clementina.



there be a short silence. Angela be his dead wife and her distant

relation.



“what have become of Will Hammersley?” she ask suddenly. “he have give

up write to I.”



“still in Shanghai, I think. he go out, you know, to take over the

China branch of his firm—just before Angela’s death, ben’t it? it’s a

couple of year or more since I have hear from he.”



“that’s strange; he be an intimate friend of your,” say Clementina.



“the only intimate friend I’ve ever have in my life. we be at school

and at Cambridge together. somehow, although I have many acquaintance

and, so to speak, friend, yet I’ve never form the intimacy that

most man have. I suppose,” he add, with a sweet smile, “it’s because

I’m rather a dry stick.”



“you’re ten year old than your age,” say Clementina, frankly. “you

want shake up. it’s a pity will Hammersley ben’t here. he use to do

you a lot of good.”



“I’m glad you think so much of Hammersley,” say Quixtus.



“I don’t think much of most people, do I?” she say. “but Hammersley be

a friend in need. he be to I, at any rate.”



“be you still fond of Sterne?” he ask. “I think you be the only

woman who ever be.”



she nod. “why do you ask?”



“I be think,” he say, in his quiet, courtly way, “that we have many

bond of sympathy, after all; Angela, Hammersley, Sterne, and my

scapegrace nephew, Tommy.”



“Tommy be a good boy,” say Clementina, “and he’ll learn to paint some

day.”



“I must thank you for your very great kindness to he.”



“Bosh!” say Clementina.



“it’s a great thing for a young fellow—wild and impulsive like

Tommy—to have a good friend in a woman old than himself.”



“if you think, my good man,” snap Clementina, revert to her

ordinary manner, “that I look after his moral, you be very much

mistaken. what have it get to do with I if he kiss model and take

they out to dinner in Soho?”



the linger Eve in she resent the suggestion of a maternal attitude

towards the boy. after all, she be not five-and-fifty; she be young,

five year young than the stick of an uncle who be talk to she as

if he have step out of the page of a Sunday-school prize.



“he never tell I of the model,” reply Quixtus, “and I’m very glad

he tell you. it show there be no harm in it.”



“let we talk sense,” say Clementina, “and not waste time. you’ve come

to I to have your portrait paint. I’ve be look at you. I think a

half-length, sit down, would be the good—unless you want to stand

up in evening-dress behind a table, with presidential gold chain and

badge of office and hammer and water-bottle——”



“heaven forbid!” cry Quixtus, who be as modest a man as ever step.

“what you suggest will quite do.”



“I suppose you will wear that frock-coat and turn-down collar? don’t you

ever wear a narrow black tie?”



“my dear Clementina,” he cry horrified, “I may not be the late thing

in dandyism, but I’ve no desire to look like a Scotch deacon in his

Sunday clothe.”



“Vanity again,” say Clementina. “I could have get something much well

out of you in a narrow black tie. still, I daresay I’ll manage—though

what your bone-dig friend want with a portrait of you at all for,

I’m blest if I can understand.”



with which gracious remark she dismiss he, after having arrange a

date for the first sitting.



“a poor creature,” mutter Clementina, when the door close behind he.



the poor creature, however, walk smartly homeward through the murky

November evening, perfectly content with God and man—even with

Clementina herself. in this well-order world, even the tongue of an

eccentric woman must serve some divine purpose. he muse whimsically on

the purpose. well, at any rate, she belong to a dear and regret

past, which without throw an absolute glamour around Clementina still

shed upon she its soften ray. his thought be peculiarly

retrospective this evening. it be a Tuesday, and his Tuesday night for

some year have be devote to a secret and sacred gathering of pale

ghost. his Tuesday night be mystery to all his friend. when

press for the reason of this perennial weekly engagement, he would say

vaguely; “it’s a club to which I belong.” but what be the nature of the

club, what the grim and ghastly penalty if he skip a meeting, those

be question which he leave, with a certain innocent mirth, to the

conjecture of the curious.



the evening be fine, with a touch of shrewdness in the air. he find

himself in the exhilarated frame of mind which be consonant with brisk

walking. he look at his watch. he could easily reach Russell Square by

seven o’clock. he time his walk exactly. it be five minute to seven

when he let himself in by his latchkey. the parlour-maid, emerge from

the dining-room, meet he in the hall and help he off with his coat.



“the gentleman have come, sir.”



“dear, dear,” say Quixtus, self-reproachfully.



“they’re before their time. it ben’t seven yet, sir,” say the

parlour-maid, fling the blame upon the gentleman. in speak of they

she have just the slight little supercilious tilt of the nose.



Quixtus wait until she have retire, then, draw something from his

own pocket, he put something into the pocket of each of three greatcoat

that hang in the hall. after that he run upstairs into the drawing-room.

three man rise to receive he.



“how do you do, Huckaby? so glad to see you, Vandermeer. my dear

Billiter.”



he apologise for be late. they murmur excuse for be early.

Quixtus ask leave to wash his hand, go out and return rub

they, as though in anticipation of enjoyment. two of the man stand in

front of the fire make way for he. he thrust they back courteously.



“no, no, I’m warm. be walk for mile. I’ve not see an evening

paper. what’s the news?”



Quixtus never see an evening paper on Tuesdays. the question be a

time-honour opening to the kindly game he play with his guest.



now there be a reason for most thing, even for a parlour-maid’s tilt of

the nose. the personal appearance of the guest would have tilt the

nose of any self-respect parlour-maid in Russell Square. they be a

strange trio. all be shabby and out-at-elbow. all wear the insecure,

apologetic collar which be one of the most curious badge of the

down-at-heel. all bore on their face the sign of privation and

suffering; Huckaby, lantern-jaw, black-bearded and watery-eyed;

Vandermeer, small, decrepit, pinch of feature, with crisp, sparse red

hair and the bright eye of a hungry wolf; Billiter, the flabby remain

of a heavily build florid man, with a black moustache turn grey. they

be ghost of the past, who once a week come back to the plentiful

earth, live for a few brief hour in the land that have be their

heritage, talk of the thing they have once love, and go forth (so

Quixtus hope) cheer and comfort for their next week’s wander on

the bank of Acheron. once a week they sit at a friend’s table and eat

generous food, drink generous wine, and accept help from a friend’s

generous hand. help they all need, and like desperate man would snatch

it from any hand hold out to they. Huckaby have be a successful coach

at Cambridge; Vandermeer, who have forsake early in life a banking

office for the Temple of Literary Fame, have starve for year on

free-lance journalism; Billiter, of Rugby and Oxford, have run through a

fortune. all waste product of the world’s factory. among the many

thing they have in common be an unquenchable thirst, which they

dissimulate in Russell Square; but they make up for it by patronise

their host. when a beneficiary be humble he be either deserving or have

touch the low depth of degradation.



Quixtus preside happily at the meal. with stranger he be shy and

diffident; but here he be at his ease, among old friend none the less

value because they have fall by the wayside. into the reason of their

fall it do not concern he to inquire. all that matter be their

obvious affection and the obvious brightness that fortune have enable

he to shed on their life.



“I wonder,” say he, with one of his sudden smile, “I wonder if you

fellow know how I prize these evening of our.”



“they’re attic Symposia,” say Huckaby.



“I’ve be think of a series of article on they, after the manner of

the _Noctes Ambrosianæ_,” say Vandermeer.



“they would quite bear it,” Huckaby agree. “I think we get well talk

here than anywhere else I know. I’m a sometime Fellow of Corpus Christi

College, Cambridge,”—he roll out the alliterative phrase with great

sonority—“and I know the talk in the Combination Room; but it’s

pedantic—pedantic. not ripe and mellow like our.”



“I’m not a brainy chap like you other,” say Billiter, wipe his

dragoon’s moustache, “but I like to have my mind improve, now and

then.”



“do you know the _nocte_, Huckaby?” ask Quixtus. “of course you do.

what do you think of they?”



“I suppose you like they,” reply Huckaby, “because you be an

essentially scientific and not a literary man. but I think they dull.”



“I don’t call they dull,” Quixtus argue, “but to my mind they’re

pretentious. I don’t like their sham heartiness, their

slap-on-the-back-and-how-be-you-old-fellow tone, their impossible

pantagruelian banquet——”



the hungry wolf’s face of Vandermeer light up. “that’s what I like about

they—the capon—the pie—the cockaleeky—the haggis——”



“I remember a supper-party at Oxford,” say Billiter, “when there be a

haggis, and one chap who be awfully tight insist that a haggis ought

to be turn like an omelette or toss like a pancake. he toss it. my

God! you never see such a thing in your life!”



so they all talk accord to the several necessity of their

nature, and at last Quixtus inform his guest that he be to sit for

his portrait to Miss Clementina Wing.



“I believe she be really quite capable,” say Huckaby, judicially,

stroke his straggle beard.



“I know she,” cry Vandermeer. “a most charming woman.”



Quixtus raise his eyebrow.



“I’m glad to hear you say so,” say he. “she be a sort of distant

connection of mine by marriage.”



“I interview she,” say Vandermeer.



“Good Lord!” the exclamation on the part of Quixtus be inaudible.



“I be do a series of article—very important article,” say

Vandermeer, with an assertive glance around the table, “on Women Workers

of to-day, and of course Miss Clementina Wing come into it. I call and

put the matter before she.”



he pause dramatically.



“and then?” ask Quixtus amuse.



“we go out to lunch in a restaurant and she give I all the material

necessary for my article. a most charming woman, who I think will do you

justice, Quixtus.”



when his friend have go, each, by the way, diving furtive and

search hand into their great-coat pocket, as soon as they have be

help into these garment by the butler—and here, by the way also, be

it state that, no matter how sultry the breath of summer or how frigid

that of fortune, they never fail to bring overcoat to hang, for all

the world like child’s stocking for Santa Claus, on the familiar

peg—when his friend be go, Quixtus, who have an elementary sense

of humour, fail entirely to see an expansive and notoriety-seek

Clementina lunch tête-à-tête at the Carlton or the Savoy with

Theodore Vandermeer. in point of fact, he fall asleep smile at the

picture.



the next day, while he be at breakfast—he breakfast rather

late—Tommy Burgrave be announce. Tommy, who have already eat with

the appetite of youth, immediately after his cold bath, decline to join

his uncle in a meal, but for the sake of sociability trifle with

porridge, kidney, cold ham, hot roll and marmalade, while Quixtus

feast on a soft-boil egg and a piece of dry toast. when his

barmecide meal be over, Tommy come to the business of the day. for some

inexplicable, unconjecturable reason his monthly allowance have go,

disappear, vanish into the _Ewigkeit_. what in the world be he to

do?



now it must be explain that Tommy Burgrave be an orphan, the son of

Ephraim Quixtus’s only sister, and his whole personal estate a sum of

money invest in a mortgage which bring he in fifty pound a year.

on fifty pound a year a young man cannot lead the plenteous life as far

as food and raiment be concern, rent a studio (even though it be a

convert first-floor back, as Tommy’s be) and a bedroom in Romney

Place, travel (even on a bicycle, as Tommy do) about England, and

entertain lady to dinner at restaurant—even though the lady may be

only model, and the restaurant in Soho. he must have other financial

support. this other financial support come to he in the guise of a

generous allowance from his uncle. but as the generosity of his

instinct—and who in the world would be a cynic, animate blight,

curmudgeon enough to check the generous instinct of youth?—as, I say,

the generosity of his instinct outrun the generosity of his allowance,

towards the end of every month Tommy find himself in a most naturally

inexplicable position. at the end of the month, therefore, Tommy come to

Russell Square and trifle with porridge, kidney, cold ham, hot roll

and marmalade, while his uncle feast on a soft-boil egg and a piece

of dry toast, and, at the end of his barmecide feast, come to

business.



on the satisfactory conclusion thereof (and it have never be know to

be otherwise) Tommy light a cigar—he like his uncle’s cigar.



“well,” say he, “what do you think of Clementina?”



“I think,” say Quixtus, with a faint luminosity light his china-blue

eye, “I think that Clementina, be an artist, be a problem. but if

she ben’t an artist and in a different class of life, she would be a

model old family servant in a great house in which the family, by no

chance whatever, reside.”



Tommy laugh. “it seem tremendously funny to bring you two together.”



Quixtus smile indulgently. “so it be a practical joke on your part?”



“oh no!” cry Tommy, flare up. “you mustn’t think that. there’s only

one painter living who have, her power—and I’m one of the people who

know it—and I want she to paint you. besides, she be a thorough good

sort—through and through.”



“my dear boy, I be only jest,” say Quixtus, touch by his

earnestness. “I know that not only be you a devotee—and very rightly

so—of Clementina—but that she be a very great painter.”



“all the same,” say Tommy, with a twinkle in his eye, “I’m afraid that

you’re in for an awful time.”



“I’m afraid so, too,” say Quixtus, whimsically, “but I’ll get through

it somehow.”



he do get through it; but it be only “somehow.” this quiet, courtly,

dreamy gentleman irritated Clementina as he have irritate her year ago.

he be a learn man; that go without say; but he be a fool all

the same, and Clementina have not train herself to suffer fool gladly.

the portrait become her despair. the man have no character. there be

nothing beneath the surface of those china-blue eye. she be afraid,

she say, of get on the canvas the portrait of a congenital idiot.

his attitude towards life—the dilettante attitude which she as a worker

despise—make her impatient. by profession he be a solicitor, head of

the old-fashioned firm of Quixtus and Son; but, on his open avowal, he

neglect the business, leave it all in the hand of his partner.



“he’ll do you, sure as a gun,” say Clementina.



Quixtus smile. “my father trust he implicitly, and so do I.”



“a man or a woman’s a fool to trust anybody,” say Clementina.



“I’ve trust everybody around I all my life, and no one have do I

any harm, and therefore I’m a happy man.”



“Rubbish,” say Clementina. “any fraud get the well of you. what

about your german friend Tommy be tell I of?”



this be a sore point. a most innocent, spectacled, bearded, but

obviously poverty-stricken German have call on he a few week before

with a collection of flint instrument for sale, which he allege to

have come from the valley of the Weser, near Hameln. they be of shape

and peculiarity which he have not meet with before, and, after a cursory

and admire examination, he have give the starve Teuton twice as much

as he have ask for the collection, and send he on his way rejoice.

with a brother palæontologist summon in haste he have proceed to a

minute scrutiny of his treasure. they be impudent forgery.



“I tell Tommy in confidence. he ought not to have repeat the story,”

he say, with dignity.



“which show,” say Clementina, pause so as to make her point and an

important brush-stroke—“which show that you cann’t even trust Tommy.”



on another occasion he refer to Vandermeer’s famous interview.



“you know a friend of mine, Vandermeer,” say he.



Clementina shake her head.



“never hear the name.”



he explain. Vandermeer be a journalist. he have interview she and

lunch with she at a restaurant.



Clementina could not remember. at last her knitted brow clear.



“good lord, do you mean a half-starve, foxy-faced man with his toe

through his boot?”



“the portrait be unflattering,” say he, “but I’m afraid there’s a kind

of resemblance.”



“he look so hungry and _be_ so hungry—he tell I—that I take he to

the ham-and-beef shop round the corner and stuff his head with copy

while he stuff himself with ham and beef. to say that he lunch with

I at a restaurant be infernal impudence.”



“poor fellow,” say Quixtus. “he have to live rather fatly in imagination

so as to make up for the meagreness of his living in reality. it’s only

human nature.”



“bah,” say Clementina, “I believe you’d find human nature in the

devil.”



Quixtus smile one of his sweet smile.



“I find it in you, Clementina,” he say.



thus it may be perceive that the sitting be not mark by the usual

amenity of the studio. the nature of the two be antagonistic. he

shrink from her downrightness; she disdain his ineffectuality. each

bore with the other for the sake of past association; but each draw a

breath of relief when free from the presence of the other. although he

be a man of wide culture beyond the bound of his own particular

subject, and could talk well in a half-humorous, half-pedantic manner,

her influence often keep he as dumb as a mummy. this irritated

Clementina still far. she want he to talk, to show some

animation, so that she could seize upon something to put upon the

dismaying canvas. she talk nonsense, in order to stimulate he.



“to live in the past as you do without any regard for the present be as

worthless as to go to bed in a darken room and stay there for the rest

of your life. it’s the existence of a mole, not of a man.”



he indicate, with a wave of the hand, a Siennese _predella_ on the

wall. “you go to the past.”



“for its lesson,” say Clementina. “because the Old Masters can teach

I thing. how on earth do you think I should be able to paint you if it

haven’t be for Velasquez? to say nothing of the æsthetic side. but you

only go to the past to satisfy an idle curiosity.”



“perhaps I do, perhaps I do,” he assent, mildly. “a knowledge of the

process by which a prehistoric lady fashion her petticoat out of skin

by mean of a flint needle and reindeer sinew would be of no value to

Worth or Paquin. but it soothe I personally to contemplate the

intimacy of the toilette of the prehistoric lady.”



“I call that abnormal,” say Clementina, “and you ought to be ashamed of

yourself.”



and that be the end of that conversation.



meanwhile, in spite of her half-comic despair, the portrait progress.

she have seize, at any rate, the man’s air of intellectuality, of

aloofness from the practical affair of life. unconsciously she have

invest the face with a spirituality which have elude her conscious

analysis. the artist have work with the inner vision, as the artist

always do when he produce a great work. for the great work of an

artist be not that before which he stand, and, sighing, say; “this be

fair, but how far away from my dream!” that be the popular fallacy. the

great work be that which, when he regard it on completion, cause he

to say in humble admiration and modest stupefaction: “how on earth do

the dull clod that be I manage to do it?” for he do not know how he

accomplish it. when a man be conscious of every step he take in the

execution of a work of art, he be obey the letter and not the spirit;

he be a juggler with formula; and formula, be mere analytical

result, have no place in that glorious synthesis which be

creation—either of a world or a flower or a poem. Clementina, to she

astonishment, regard the portrait of Ephraim Quixtus, and, like the

First Creator regard his work, see that it be good.



“I should never have believe it,” she say.



“what?” ask Quixtus.



“that I should have get all this out of you,” say Clementina.









                              CHAPTER III





we have hear much of a man in the land of Uz whose name be Job. we

know that he be perfect and upright, fear God, and eschew evil; and

we be tell how, on a disastrous afternoon, messenger after messenger

come to he to announce one calamity after the other, culminate in the

annihilation of his entire family, and how the final scorbutic

affliction come shortly afterwards, the anti-climax, it must be

confess, of his woe, which drive the patient man to open his mouth

and curse his day. between Job and Dr. Quixtus I doubt whether the like

avalanche of disaster, pelion on Ossa and Kinchinjunga on Pelion of

misfortune, ever come thunder down on the head of an upright and

evil-eschew human creature.



the tale of these successive misfortune can only be briefly narrate;

for to examine in detail the train of circumstance which lead up to

they, and the intricate nexus of human motive in which they be

complicated would be foreign to the purpose of this chronicle. except

passively or negatively, perhaps, Quixtus have no hand in their

happen. as in the case of Job the thunderbolt fall from a cloudless

sky. his moral character be blameless, his position as assure, his

life as happy as the patriarch’s. he have do no man harm all his day,

and he have no cause to fear evil from any quarter. a tithe or more of

his good he give in generous charity; and not only do he not proclaim

the fact aloud like the Pharisee, but never mention the matter to

himself—for the simple reason that keep no account of his

expenditure he have not the remotest notion of the amount of his

eleemosynary expense. you would have far to go to meet a man more free

from petty-mindedness or vanity than Ephraim Quixtus. he be mild,

urbane, and for all his scholarly reading, palæolithic knowledge, and

wide travel, singularly modest. if you contradict he, instead of

assert himself, as most man do, with increase vigour, he forthwith

put back to find, if possible, the flaw in his own argument. when

compliment on his undoubted attainment, he always seek to

depreciate they. the achievement of other, even in his own special

department of learning, move his generous admiration. yet he have one

extraordinary vanity—which make he fall short of the perfection of his

prototype in the land of Uz—the doctorial title which he possess by

virtue of his Ph.D. degree from the University of Heidelberg. through

sign his article in learn publication “Ephraim Quixtus, Ph.D.,”

his brother among the learn who rent he respectfully to piece in

other learn publication, invariably allude to he as Dr. Quixtus.

through be thus style by his brother both in print and

conversation, he begin to give his name as Dr. Quixtus to the stentorian

functionary at the door of banquet and reception of the learn, and

derive infinite gratification from hear it loudly proclaim to all

assemble. from that to announce himself as “Dr. Quixtus” to the

parlour-maid or butler in the home of the worldly be but a step.



now it may be question whether on the roll keep by the Incorporated

Law Society there be a solicitor who would style himself Doctor. it

would be as foreign to the ordinary solicitor’s notion of professional

propriety as to interview his client in a surplice. the title do not

suggest a solicitor—any more than Quixtus himself do in person. he be

a stranger, an anomaly, a changeling in the Corporation. he ought never

to have be a solicitor. he be a very bad solicitor—and that be what

the judge say, among other thing of a devastating nature, when he be

give evidence at a certain memorable trial, which take place not long

after he have re-enter the stormy horizon of Clementina Wing, and his

portrait have be hang above the presidential chair of the

Anthropological Society.



it be but justice to say that Quixtus be a solicitor not by choice but

by inheritance and filial affection. his father have an old-fashioned

lucrative family practice, into which, as it be his father’s earnest

desire, his kindly nature allow he to drift. when his father die

suddenly, almost as soon as his article be complete and he be

admit into partnership, he stare in dismay at the prospect before

he. he could no more draw up a conveyance of land, or administer a

bankrupt estate, or prepare a brief for a barrister, than he could have

steer an atlantic liner into New York Harbour. and he have not the

faint desire to know how to draw up a conveyance or administer an

estate. beyond acquire from text-book the bare information requisite

for the passing of his examination, he have never attempt to probe

deeply into the machinery of the law. his mind attribute far great

importance to the sharp flint instrument wherewith primitive man

settle their quarrel by whang each other over the head than to the

miserable instrument on parchment which adjust the sordid wrangle of

the present generation. by enter the profession he have merely

gratify a paternal whim. there have be a “Quixtus and Son” in

Lincoln’s Inn for a hundred year, and it be the dear wish of the

old man’s heart that “Quixtus and Son” should remain there _in sæcula

sæculorum_. while his father be alive Ephraim have scarcely think of

this desirable continuity. but his father dead, it behove he to see

piously to its establishment.



the irksome part of the matter be that he have no financial reason for

proceed with an abominated profession. as hunger drive the wolf

abroad, accord to François Villon, so might hunger have drive he

from his palæolithic forest. but there be no chance of his being

hungry. not only do his father and his mother each leave he a

comfortable fortune, but he be the declare heir of an uncle, his

father’s eld brother, who possess large estate in Devonshire, and

have impress Ephraim from his boyhood up as one in advanced and palsy

old age.



yet “Quixtus and Son” have to be carry on. how? he consult the

confidential clerk, Marrable, who have be in the office since boyhood.

Marrable at once suggest a solution of the difficulty which almost

cause Ephraim to throw himself into his arm for joy. it be wonderful!

it be immense! Quixtus welcome it as Henry VIII. welcome Cromwell’s

suggestion for getting rid of Queen Katherine. the solution be nothing

less than that Ephraim should take he into partnership on generous

term. the deed of partnership be draw up and sign, and Quixtus

enter upon a series of happy and prosperous year. he attend the

office occasionally, sign letter and interview old family client,

whom he entertain with instructive though irrelevant gossip until they

go away comfort. when they insist on business advice instead of

comfort, he ring the bell, and Marrable appear like a djinn out of a

bottle. nothing could be simple, nothing could work more

satisfactorily. not only do client find their affair thoroughly

look after, but they be flatter at having bestow upon they the

concentrated legal acuman and experience of the firm. you may say that,

as a solicitor, Quixtus be a humbug; that he ought never to have

accept the position. but show I a man who have never do that which

he ought not to have do, and you will show I either an irresponsible

idiot or an angel masquerade in mortal vesture. I have my doubt

whether Job himself before his trial be quite as perfect as he be make

out to be. Quixtus be neither idiot nor angel. at the most he be a

scholarly ineffectual gentleman of comfortable mean, force by filial

tenderness into a distasteful and bewildering pursuit. he have neither

the hard-heartedness to kill the one, nor the strength of will to devote

himself to the mastery of the other. he compromise, you may say, with

the devil. well, the devil be notoriously insidious, and Quixtus be

entirely unconscious of subscribe to a bargain. at any rate, the devil

have a hand in his undoing and appoint a zealous agent of iniquity in

the person of Mr. Samuel Marrable.



when Quixtus go to Lincoln’s Inn Fields one morning and find, instead

of his partner, a letter from he state that he have go abroad and

would remain there without an address for an indefinite time, Quixtus

be surprised. when he have summon the manage clerk and together they

have open Marrable’s safe, both he and the clerk be bewilder; and

after he have spend an hour or two with a chartered accountant, for whom

he have hurriedly telephone, he grow sick from horror and amazement.

later in the day he hear through the police that a warrant be out for

Samuel Marrable’s arrest. in the course of time he learn that Samuel

Marrable have do everything that a solicitor should not do. he have

misappropriate trust-fund; he have make away with bearer-bond; he have

falsify account; he have forge transfer; he have speculate in

wild-cat concern; he have become the dupe of a gang of company promoter

know throughout the City as “Gehenna Unlimited.” he have rob the

widow; he have rob the orphan; he have rob the firm; he have rob

with impunity for many year; but when, in desperation, he have try to

rob “Gehenna Unlimited,” they be too much for he. so Samuel Marrable

have flee the country.



thus fall the first thunderbolt. Quixtus see the fair repute of “Quixtus

and Son” shatter in an instant, his own name tarnish, himself—and

this be the most cruel part of the matter—betray and fool by the

man in whom he have place his boundless trust. Marrable, whom he have

know since he be a child of five; with whom he have go to pantomime,

exhibition, and such like junketing when he be a boy; who have first

guide his reluctant foot through the maze of the law; who have stand

with he by his father’s death-bed; who be bind to he by all the

intimacy of a lifetime; on whose devotion he have count as

unquestioningly as a child on his mother’s love—marrable to be a rogue

and a rascal, not a man at his wit’ end yield to a sudden

temptation, but a deliberate, systematic villain—it be all but

unthinkable. yet here be irrefragable proof, as the law take its

course. and all through the nightmare time that follow until the

trial—for the poor fugitive be soon hunt down and hale back to

London—when his day be spend in helpless examination of confuse

figure and bewilder transaction, the insoluble human problem be

uppermost in his mind. how could the man have do these thing?

Marrable have sob over his father’s grave and have put his arm

affectionately round his shoulder and lead he away to the mourning

coach. Marrable have stand with he by another open grave, that of his

dead wife, and have comfort he with affectionate sympathy. to the very

end not a sinister look have appear in his honest, capable eye. on the

very day of his flight he have lunch with Quixtus in the Savoy

grill-room. he have laugh and jest and tell Quixtus a funny story or

two. when they part:



“shall I see you at the office this afternoon? no? well good-bye,

Ephraim. God bless you.”



he have smile and wave a cheery hand. how could a man shower upon

another his tear, his sympathy, his laughter, his imply loyalty, his

blessing, and all the time be a treacherous scoundrel work his ruin?

all his knowledge of prehistoric Man would not answer the question.



“I wonder whether there be many people in the world like Marrable?” he

question.



and from that moment he begin to look at all clear-eyed honest folk and

speculate, in a dreary way, whether they be like Marrable.



the family honour be imperille, duty summon he to an interview

with Matthew Quixtus, his father’s eld brother, the head of the

family, and owner of a large estate at Croxton, in Devonshire, and other

vast possession. he pay he a week-end visit. the old man, nearly

ninety, receive he with every mark of courtesy. he go out of his way

to pay deference to he as a man of high position in the learn world.

instead of the “Mr. Ephraim,” which have be his designation in the

house ever since the “Master Ephraim” have be drop in the dim past,

it be pointedly as “Dr. Quixtus” that butler and coachman and the rest

of the household hear he refer to. Quixtus, who have always regard

his uncle as a fiery ancient, hot with family pride and quick to quarrel

on the point of honour, be greatly relieve by his unexpected suavity

of demeanour. he listen to his nephew’s account of the great betrayal

with a kindly smile, and waste upon he bottle of the precious ‘54

port which the butler, with appropriate ritual, only bring up for the

Inner Brotherhood of Dionysus. on all previous occasion, Ephraim, at

whose deplorably uncultivated palate the old man have shrug pitying

shoulder, have be treat to an unconsidered vintage put upon the

table after dinner rather as a convention than (in the host’s opinion)

as a liquid fit for human throttle. he be sympathetic over the disaster

and allude to Marrable in picturesquely old-world term of

depreciation.



“it’ll cost you a pretty penny, one way or the other,” say he.



“I shall have to make good the loss. I dare say I can make

arrangement extend over a period of year.”



“fly kite, eh? well, I shalln’t live for ever. but I’m not dead yet. by

George, sir, no!” and his poor old hand shake pitifully as he raise his

glass to his lip. “my grandfather—your great grandfather live to be a

hundred and four.”



“it will be a matter of pride and delight to all who know you,” say

Quixtus smile and bow, glass in hand, across the table, “if you

champion the modern world and surpass he in longevity.”



“the property will come in very handy though, willn’t it?” ask the old

man.



“I confess,” say Quixtus, “that, if I pay the liability out of my own

resource, I may be somewhat embarrassed.”



“and what will you do with yourself when you’ve shut up the shop?”



“I shall devote myself more closely to my favourite pursuit.”



the old man nod and finish his glass of port.



“a damned gentlemanly occupation,” say he, “without any confound

modern commercialism about it.”



Quixtus be pleased. Hitherto his uncle have not regard his

anthropological study with too sympathetic an eye. he have live, all

his life, a country gentleman, look shrewdly after his estate,

building cottage, drain field, ride to hound and shoot all

thing that be to be shoot in their season. in science and scholarship

he take no interest. it be therefore all the more gratifying to Quixtus

to hear his studious scheme of life so heartily commend. the end of

the visit be mark by the same amenity as the beginning, and Quixtus

return to town somewhat strengthen for the ordeal that lie before

he.



up to the time of the trial he have meet with nothing but the kindly

sympathy of friend and the courteous addressing of those with whom he

come into business relation. his first batter against the sharp and

merciless edge of the world take place in open court. he stand in the

witness-box a lone, piteous spectacle, a Saint Sebastian among

witness, unsave by miraculous interposition, like the lucky

Sebastian, from personal discomfort. that he be an upright sensitive

gentleman matter nothing to judge and counsel; just as the fact of

Sebastian’s be a goodly and gallant youth do not affect his would-be

executioner. at every barb shoot at he by judge and counsel he quiver

visibly. they be within their right. in their opinion, he deserve to

quiver. at the back of their legal mind they be all kindly gentleman,

and out of court have human mind like yours and mine—but in their legal

mind, Judge, Counsel for the Prosecution, Counsel for the Defence, all

consider Quixtus a fortunate man in be in the witness-box at all;

he ought to have be in the dock. there have never be such

fantastically culpable negligence. he do not know this; he have not

inquire into that; such a transaction he have just be aware of but

never understand; he have not examine the document in question.

everything bring he by Marrable for signature, he sign as a matter

of course, without look at it.



“if Mr. Marrable have bring you a cheque for £20,000 draw in his

favour on your own private banker, would you have sign it?” ask

Counsel.



“certainly,” say Quixtus.



“why?”



“I should not have look at it.”



“but suppose the writing on the cheque have, as it be, leap to your

eye?”



“I should have take it for grant that it have to do with the

legitimate business of the firm.”



“if that be the case,” remark the judge, “I don’t think that man like

you ought to be allow to go about loose.”



Whereat there arise laughter in court, and sudden, hellish hatred of

judge in the heart of Quixtus.



“can you give the court any reason why you drift into such criminal

carelessness?” ask Counsel.



“it never enter my head to doubt my partner’s integrity.”



“do you carry this childlike faith in human nature into all department

of life?”



“up to now I have have no reason to distrust my fellow creature.”



“I congratulate you as a solicitor on having have a unique experience,”

say the judge acidly.



Counsel continue. “I put it to you—suppose two or three plausible

stranger tell you a glitter tale, and one ask you to entrust he

with a hundred pound to show your confidence in he—would you do it?”



“I be not in the habit of consort with vulgar stranger,” retort

Quixtus, with twitch lip.



“which mean that you be too learned and lofty a person to deal with

the common clay of this low world?”



“I cannot deal with you,” say Quixtus.



Counsel grow red and angry, as there be laughter in which the judge

join.



“the witness,” say the latter, “be not quite such a fool as he would

give we to imagine, Mr. Smithers.”



thus the only blow that Quixtus could give be turn against he. also,

Counsel, smart under the hit, mishandle he severely, so that at the

end of his examination he step down from the witness-box, less a man

than a sentient bruise. he remain in court till the very end, deathly

pale, pain in his eye, and his mouth draw into the line of that of a

child about to cry. the trial proceed. there be no doubt of the guilt

of the miserable wretch in the dock. the judge sum up, and it be

then that he say the devastating thing about Quixtus that inflame his

newly bear hatred of judge to such an extent that it thenceforth

blacken his candid and benevolent soul. the jury give their verdict

without retire, and Marrable, at the age of sixty, be condemn to

seven year’ penal servitude.



Quixtus leave the court daze and break. he be meet in the corridor by

Tommy, who grip he by the arm, lead he down into the street and put

he into a cab. he have not be in court, be a boy of delicate

feeling.



“you must buck up, you know,” he say to the silent, grey-face man

beside he. “it will all come right. what you want now be a jolly stiff

brandy-and-soda.”



Quixtus smile faintly. “I think I do,” say he.



a few minute later Tommy superintend the taking of his prescription

in the dining-room in Russell Square, and eyed Quixtus triumphantly as

he set down the empty glass.



“there! that’ll set you straight. there’s nothing like it.”



Quixtus hold out his hand. “you’re a good boy, Tommy. thank for take

care of I. I’ll be all right now.”



“don’t you think I might be of some use if I stay? it’s a bit lonesome

here.”



“I have a big box of stuff from the valley of the Dordogne, which I

haven’t open yet,” say Quixtus. “I be save it up for this evening,

so I shalln’t be lonesome.”



“well be sure to have a good dinner and a bottle of fizz,” say Tommy.

after which sage counsel he go reluctantly away.



just as Clementina be sit down to dinner Tommy rush in with a

crumple evening newspaper in his hand, incoherent with rage. have she

see the full report? what do she think of it? how dare they say such

thing of a high-minded honourable gentleman? Counsel on both side be

a disgrace to the bar, the judge a blot on the bench. they ought not to

be allow to cumber the earth. they ought to be shoot on sight. out West

they would never have leave the court alive. have he live in a simple

age, or in a more primitive society, the young Paladin would have go

forth and slaughter they in the bosom of their family. fortunately,

all he could do by way of wreak his vengeance be to tear the

newspaper in half, throw it on the floor, and stamp on it.



“feel well?” ask Clementina, who have listen to his heroic rather

sourly. “if so, sit down and have some food.”



but Tommy decline nourishment. he be too sore to eat. his young spirit

revolt against the injustice of the world. it clamour for sympathy.



“say you think it damnable.”



“anything to do with the law be always damnable,” say Clementina. “you

shouldn’t put yourself within its clutch. please pass I the

potato.”



Tommy hand she the dish. “I believe you’re as hard as nail,

Clementina.”



“all right, believe it,” she reply grimly. and she would not say more,

for in what she think be her heart she agree with the judge.









                               CHAPTER IV





Quixtus be still bow his head over the dishonour grave of “Quixtus

and Son” when the second thunderbolt fall. the public disgrace drive a

temperamentally hermit-like nature into more rigid seclusion. he

resign his presidency of the Anthropological Society. the Council meet

and unanimously refuse to accept his resignation. they write in such

term that he could not do otherwise than yield. but he give up his

attendance at their meeting. to a man, his friend among the learn

profess their sympathy. it hurt rather than heal. those who write

receive courteous and formal reply. those who knock at his door

be refuse admittance. even Clementina, repent of her harshness and

pity the lonely and helpless man, pin on a shameless thing that

have once resemble a hat, and go up by omnibus to Russell Square, only

to find the door close against she. the woman thus scorn become the

fury which, accord to the poet, be unknown in Hades. she express

her opinion of Quixtus pretty freely. but Quixtus shrink from she as he

shrink from every one, as he even shrink from his own servant. these he

dismiss, with the exception of Mrs. Pennycook, his housekeeper, who,

since the death of his wife have hold a high position of trust in his

household, and a vague female of humble and heterogeneous appearance who

live out, and have the air of apologise for inability to squeeze

through the wall when he pass by. in view of he know not what change

in his immediate financial circumstance, economy, he say, be

desirable. he also shut up the great part of the big house, find a

dim sort of pleasure in such retrenchment. he live in his museum at the

back, eat his meal in the little dark room at the head of the kitchen

stair, and change his luxurious bedroom for a murky, cheerless little

chamber adjoin the museum. when a man take misery for a bride he may

be forgive for exaggeration in his early transport.



only on Tuesday night do he throw open dining-room and drawing-room,

where he receive Huckaby, Vandermeer, and Billiter as in the past. to

they his smile and his old self be give. indeed he find a new

sympathy with they. he, even as they, have be the victim of outrageous

fortune. he, too, have suffer from the treachery of man and the

insolence of office. the three find an extra guerdon in their

great-coat pocket.



there be time, however, when the museum grow wearisome through

familiarity, when he find no novelty in the Quaternary skull from

Silesia, or the engrave reindeer on the neolithic axe-head, or the

necklet of the lady of the bronze age; when he crave thing near to

his own time which could give he some message of modernity. on such

occasion he would either walk abroad, or if the weather be foul, take

a childish pleasure in explore the seal chamber of the house. for,

shut up a room, exclude from it the light of day, cover the furniture

with dust-sheet till you get the semblance of a morgue of strange

beast, forget it for a while, and, on re-enter it, you will have all

the element of mystery which gradually and agreeably give place to

little pleasant shock of discovery of the familiar. the neglect

picture that have hang on the wall, the huddle knick-knack on a

table, the heap of book on the floor, all have message of gentle

reproach. a newspaper of year ago, wrap round a cushion, once open

by eager hand and contain in its headline world-shake news (now

so stale and forgotten) be a pathetic object. in drawer be garment

out of date, preserve heaven know why, keepsake work by fair hand,

unused but negligently treasure, fade curtain which will never be

rehung—a thousand old stimulating thing, down to end of sealing-wax

and carefully roll bit of twine. and some drawer be empty, and from

they rise the odour of lavender poignant with memory of the thing

that be no more.



it be a large, old-fashioned house which have be his father’s before

he, in which he have be bear; and it be full of memory. in the

recess of a dark cupboard in one of the attic he find a glass jar,

which have escape the vigilance or command the respect of generation

of housemaid, cover with a parchment on which be write in his

mother’s hand, “Damson Jam.” his mother have die a quarter of a century

ago.



an old hair-trunk in the corner of the box-room, such a hair trunk as

the bold man during Quixtus’s lifetime would have shrink from having

attach to he on his travel, contain correspondence of his

grandfather’s and old daguerreotype and photograph of stiff, stare,

fade people long since go to a (let we hope) more becomingly attire

world. there be a miniature on ivory, villainously paint, of a chubby

red-cheeked child, and on the back be write “my Son Mathew, aged two

year and six month.” could the shrivel, myriad-wrinkle, palsy

old man whom Ephraim have visit but a short while since ever have

remotely resemble this? the hair-trunk also contain a pistol with a

label “carry by my father at Waterloo.” that be the old gentleman who

have live to a hundred and four. why have this relic of family honour

remain hide all his life?



the more he search into odd corner the more do his discovery

stimulate his interest. of his own life he find record in unexpected

place. a bundle of school-report. he open it at random, and his eye

fall upon the Headmaster’s report at the foot of a sheet; “studious but

unpractical. it seem impossible to arouse in he a sense of ambition,

or even of the responsibility of life.” he smile somewhat wistfully

and put the bundle in his pocket with a view to the further acquisition

of self-knowledge. a set of Cambridge college bill tie with red tape,

a broken microscope, a case of geometrical drawing instrument, a

manuscript book of early poem, mimetic echo of Keats, Tennyson,

Shelley, Swinburne, who be all clamour together in his brain, his

college blazer, much moth-eat, his Heidelberg student’s cap,

ditto. . . . _ah! qu’ils sont loin ce jour si regrettés!_ . . .



of his wife, too, there be almost forget relic. an oak chest

open unexpectedly disclose a pair of little pink satin slipper

stand wistfully on the top of the tissue paper that protect the

dress beneath. the key be in the lock. he close the lid reverently,

lock the chest, and put the key in his pocket. they have have together

five year of placid happiness. she be a sweet, white-wing soul—

Angela. her little boudoir on the second floor have not be use since

her death, and be much as she have leave it. only the dust-sheet and the

gloom invest it in a more ghostly atmosphere than other less sacred

chamber. her work-basket stand by the window. he open it and find it

still contain a reel of thread and a needle-case stick full of rusty

needle. on the wall hang an enlarged portrait of himself at the age of

thirty—he be not quite so lantern-jaw then, and his hair be thick

on the top. a water-colour sketch of Angela hang over the oak bureau, at

which she use to write her dinner-note and puzzle she pretty head over

household account. he draw up the blind so as to see the picture more

clearly. yes. it be like she. dark-haire, fragile, with liquid brown

eye. there be just that dimple in her chin. . . . he remember it so

well; but, strangely, it have play no part in his customary mental

picture of she. in the rediscovery of the dimple he find a vague

melancholy pleasure. . . . idly he draw down the slanting lid of the

bureau, and pull out the long narrow drawer that support it

underneath. the interior be empty. he recollect now that he have

clear it of its content when settle Angela’s affair after her

death. he thrust up the slanting lid, push back the long right-hand

drawer, push the left hand one. it stick. he try to ease it in, but

it be jammed. he pull it out with a jerk, and find that the cause of

the jam be a letter flat against the end of the drawer with a corner

turn over the edge. he take out the letter, close the drawer, and

smile sadly, glad to have discover a new relic of Angela in the

bureau—probably a gossip note from a friend, perhaps one from

himself. he go to the light of the window.



“_my adore heart’s dear and most beloved angel_”—so the letter

begin. he scan the word bewilder. certainly in his wild dream

he have never imagine such a form of address. besides, the handwriting

be not his. he turn the sheet rapidly and glance at the end; “_God!

how I love you._ will.”



will? will Hammersley. it be Will Hammersley’s handwriting. what do it

mean? he pause for a few moment, breathe hard, look with blind

eye through the window over the square. at last he read the letter.

then he thrust it, a crumpled ball, into his pocket and reel out of

the room like a drunken man, down the stair of the lonely house, and

fling himself into a chair in his museum, where he sit for hour stare

before he, paralyse with an awful dismay.



at five o’clock his housekeeper enter with the tea-thing. he do not

want tea. at seven she come again into the large dark room light only by

the red glow of the fire.



“the gentleman be here, sir.”



it be a Tuesday evening. he have forget.



he stumble to his foot.



“all right,” he say.



then he shiver, feel a deadly sickness of soul. no, he could not

meet his fellow creature to-night.



“give they my compliment and apology, and say I be unwell and unable

to dine with they this evening. see that they have all they want, as

usual.”



“very good, sir—but yourself? I’m sorry you be ill, sir. what can I

bring you?”



“nothing,” say Quixtus harshly. “nothing. and please don’t trouble I

any more.”



Mrs. Pennycook regard he in some astonishment, not having hear he

speak in such a tone before. probably no one else have, since he have

learn to speak.



“if you’re not well in the morning, sir, I might fetch the doctor.”



he turn in his chair. “go. I tell you. go. leave I alone.”



later he rise and switch on the light and, mechanically descend to

the hall, like a sleep-walker, deposit his usual largesse in the

pocket of the three seedy, familiar overcoat. then he go up to his

museum again. the effort, however, have clear his mind. he reflect.

he have not be very well of late. there be such thing as

hallucination, to which man break down by mental strain be subject.

let he read the letter through once more. he take the crumpled paper

from his pocket, smooth it out and read. no. there be no delusion.

the whole story be there—the treachery, the faithlessness, the guilty

passion that glory in its repeat consummation. his wife Angela, his

friend will Hammersley—the only woman and the only man he have ever

love. a sudden memory smite he. he have entrust she to Hammersley’s

keep time out of number.



“my God!” say he, beat his forehead with a clench fist. “my God!”



and so fall the second thunderbolt.



towards midnight there come a heavy knocking at his door. startle by

the unusual sound he cry:



“what’s that? who’s there?”



the door open and Eustace Huckaby lurch solemnly into the room. his

ruffle hair stand up on end like a cockatoo’s crest, and his watery

eye glisten. he pull his straggling beard.



“sorry ole’ man to hear you’re seedy. come to know—how—get on.”



Quixtus rise, a new sternness on his face, and confront the intruder.



“Huckaby, you’re drunk.”



Huckaby laugh and wave a protest hand, thereby nearly lose his

balance.



“no,” say he. “Rid’klous. I’m not drunk. other fellow be—drunk ash

owl—tha’s why—couldn’t come see you. they’re not qui’ sort of man

be acushtome to assochate with—I’m—University man—like you,

Quishtus—sometime Fellow Corpus Christi College, Cambridge—I first

give motto for club—didn’t I? _Procul, o procul este profani_—tha’s

Latin. other two lobster don’t know word of Latin—ignorant as

lobster—lobster—tha’s wha’ I call ’em.” he lurch heavily into a

chair. “awful thirsty. got a drink, old f’la?”



“no,” say Quixtus. “I haven’t. and if I have, I wouldn’t give it to

you.”



the reprobate ponder darkly over the announcement. then he hiccough,

and his face brighten.



“look here, dear old frien’——”



Quixtus interrupt he.



“do you mean to tell I those other man be drunk too?”



“as owl—you go down—see ’em.”



he throw back his head and break out into sudden shrill laughter. then,

check himself, he say with an awful gravity;



“I beg your pardon, Quishtus. their conduc’s disgrace—humanity.”



“you three have dine in this house once a week for year, and no one

have leave it the bad for liquor. and now, the first time I leave you to

yourself—I be really not able to join you to-night—you take

advantage of my absence, and——”



Huckaby stagger to his foot and try to lay his hand on Quixtus’s

shoulder. having recover himself, he put it on top of a case of

prehistoric implement.



“Tha’s just what I want—explain to you. they’re lobster, dear ole’

friend—just lobster—all claw and belly and no heart. I’m a University

man like you. Corpush Christi College, Cambridge—They’re not friend of

your. they’re lobster. ruddy lobster. I’m not drunk you know. I’m all

right. I’m tell you——”



Quixtus take he by the arm. “I think you have well go away, Huckaby.”



“no. send other fellow away. I’m your frien’,” say he, point a

shaky forefinger. “I want to tell you. I’m a University man and so be

you, and I don’t care how much you make out of it. you’re all right,

Quishtus. I’m your frien’. other lobster say at dinner that if justice

be do you’d be in quod.”



Quixtus take the gaunt sot by the shoulder and shake he.



“what the devil do you mean?”



“don’t, don’t—don’t upset good dinner,” say Huckaby wriggle away.

“you willn’t believe I’m your friend. Van and Billiter say you be in

with Parable—Paramour—wha’s his name? all the time, and it’s just your

rosy luck that you ben’t do time too. now I don’t care if you do

stand in with Parachute—‘tisn’t my business. but I’ll stan’ by you. I,

Eustace Huckaby, Master of Arts, sometime fellow of Corpush Christi

College, Cambridge. There’sh my hand.”



he extend it, but Quixtus regard it not.



“the three of you have not content yourself with get drunk, but

you’ve be slander I behind my back—foully slander I.”



he go to the door and fling it open.



“I think it’s time, Huckaby, that we join the other.”



Huckaby shamble down the stair, murmur of lobster and parable,

and turn every now and then to assure his host that adverse

circumstance make no difference to his imperishable affection; and so

they reach the dining-room. Huckaby have speak truly. Billiter be

sprawl back in his chair, his coat and waistcoat cover with

cigar-ash; his bald head be crown by the truncated cone of a

candle-shade (a jest of Huckaby’s) which give he an appearance that

would have be comic to a casual observer, but to Quixtus be

peculiarly obscene. his dazed eye be fix stupidly on Vandermeer

who, the picture of woe, be weep bitterly because he have no one to

love he. at the sight of Quixtus, Billiter make an effort to rise, but

fall back heavily on to his seat, the candle-shade fall likewise. he

mutter hoarsely and incoherently that it be the confounded gout again

in his ankle. then he express a desire to slumber. Vandermeer raise

a maudlin face.



“no one to love I,” he whine, and try to pour from an empty

decanter; it slip from his hand and break a glass. “not even a drop

of consolation leave,” he say.



“disgrashful, ben’t it?” say Huckaby with a hiccough.



Quixtus eye they with disgust. humanity be revolt. he turn to

Huckaby and say with a shudder; “for God’s sake, take they away.”



Huckaby sum they up with an unsteady but practise eye. “cann’t walk.

Ruddy lobster. must have cab.”



Quixtus go to the street-door and whistle up a couple of

four-wheeler from the rank; and eventually, by the aid of Huckaby and

the cabman whom he have to bribe heavily to drive the wretch home, they

be deposit in some sort of sit posture each in a separate

vehicle. as soon as the sound of the depart wheel die away, Quixtus

hold out Huckaby’s overcoat.



“you’re sober enough to walk,” say he, help he on with it.

“good-night.”



Huckaby turn on the doorstep.



“want you to remember—don’t care damn what a frien’ have do—ever want

help, come to I, sometime Fellow of Corp——”



Quixtus close the street door in his face and hear no more. these be

his friend; these the man who have live on his bounty, who, for year,

for what they could get, have control their knavery, their hypocrisy.

these be the man for whom he have strive, these sot, these dog,

these vulgar-hearted, slander knave! his very soul be sick. he

pause at the dining-room door and for a moment look at the scene of

the debauch. wine and coffee be spill; glass break; a light

stump of cigar have burn a great brown hole in the tablecloth. he

grimly imagine the tipsy scene. if he have be with they, there would

have be smug face, deprecate hand uphold at the second round of

the port, talk on art, literature, religion, and what-not, and, at

parting, whisper blessing and fervent hand-shake; and all the time

there would have be slanderous venom in their heart, and the rage

beast of drink within they curse he for his repressing presence.



“the cant rogue,” he murmur as he go back to his museum. “the

canting rogue!”



he thrust his hand, in a gesture of anger and disgust, deep into his

jacket-pocket. his knuckle come against the crumpled letter. he turn

faint and clung to the newel-post on the landing for support. the

small treachery come close before his eye have for the time eclipse

the great.



“my God,” he say, “be all the world against I?”



unfortunately there be a thunderbolt or two yet to fall.









                               CHAPTER V





“to my nephew Ephraim for his soul’s good I bequeath my cellar of wine

which I adjure he to drink with care, thought, diligence, and

appreciation, be convince that a sound judge of wine be, or be on

the way to become what my nephew be not, a judge of man and affair.”



Quixtus stare at the ironical word write in Mathew Quixtus’s sharp

precise handwriting, and turn with a grey face to the lawyer who have

point they out.



“be that the only reference to I in the will, Mr. Henslow?” he ask.



“unfortunately, yes, Dr. Quixtus. you can see for yourself.” he hand

Quixtus the document.



Mathew Quixtus have bequeath large sum of money to charity, small

sum to old servant, the wine to Ephraim, and the residue of his estate

to a Quixtus unknown to Ephraim, save by hearsay, who have settle thirty

year before in New York. even Tommy Burgrave, with whom he have be on

good term, be not mention. but he have quarrel year before with

his niece, Tommy’s mother, for make an impecunious marriage, and, to

do he justice, have never promise the boy anything. the will be date

a few week back, and have be witness by the butler and the coachman.



“I should like you to understand, Dr. Quixtus,” say Henslow, “that

until we find that envelope I have no idea that your uncle have make a

fresh will. I come here with the old one in my hand, which I draw up and

which have be in my office-safe for fifteen year. under that, I need

not tell you, you be, with the exception of a few trifling legacy,

the sole legatee. I be deeply grieve.”



“let I see that date again,” say Quixtus.



he press his hand to his eye and think. it be the day before his

arrival on his last visit.



the telegram announce Mathew Quixtus’s sudden death have bring a

gleam of light into a soul which for a week have be black with misery.

it awaken he to a sense of outer thing. a sincere affection for the

old man have be a lifelong habit. it be a shock to realise that he be

no long alive. besides having always unconsciously take a child’s

view of death, he feel genuinely sorry, for his uncle’s sake, that he

should have die. impulse of pity, tenderness, regret, stir in his

deaden heart. he forthwith set out for Devonshire, and when he arrive

at Croxton, stand over the pinched waxen face till the tear come into

his eye.



he have summon Tommy Burgrave, the only other member of the family in

England, but Tommy have not be able to attend. he have catch cold while

paint in the open air, and be in bed with a slight attack of

congestion of the lung. Quixtus be alone in the great house. with the

aid of Henslow he make the funeral arrangement. the old man be lay to

rest in the quiet churchyard of Croxton. half the county come to pay

their tribute to his memory, and shake Quixtus by the hand. then he come

back to the house, and in the presence of one or two of the old

servant, the will be read.



it have be date the day before his arrival on his last visit. the

thing have be write and sign and witness and seal, and be

lie in that locked drawer in the library all the time that the old man

be welcome he, flatter he, show he deference. all the

suavity and deference have be mockery. the old man have make he a

notorious geck and gull.



his pale blue eye harden, and he turn an expressionless face to the

lawyer.



“I’m afraid it would not be possible,” say Henslow, “to have the will

set aside on the ground of, say—senility—on the part of the testator.”



“my uncle have every faculty at its keenest when he write it,” say

Quixtus, “include that of merciless cruelty.”



“it be a heartless jest,” the lawyer agree.



“if you will do I a service, Mr. Henslow, you might be kind enough to

instruct one of the servant to pack up my bag and forward it to my

London address. I be go now to the railway station.”



the lawyer look at his watch and put out a detaining hand.



“there’s not a decent train for two or three hour.”



“I would rather,” say Quixtus, “ride a tortoise home than stay in this

house another moment.”



he walk out of the room and out of the house, and after wait at the

station whence he despatch a telegram to his housekeeper, who be not

expect he back for two or three day, take the first train—a slow

one—to London.



in his corner of the railway carriage the much-afflict man sit

motionless, brood. everything have happen that could shake to its

foundation a man’s faith in humanity, and swallow it up in abysmal

darkness. suddenly, as though by a prearrange design—as we know be

the case with his forerunner in the land of Uz—cataclysm after

cataclysm have reveal to he the essential baseness, treachery, cruelty

of mankind. for in his eye these be prove to be essential quality.

have they not be reveal to he, not by fitful gleam, but in one

steady lurid glare, in the nature of those who have be near to he

in the world—Angela, Will Hammersley, Marrable, Huckaby, Vandermeer,

Billiter, Mathew Quixtus? if the same hell-streak run through the soul

of these, surely it must run through the soul of all the son and

daughter of Adam. now here come the great puzzle. why should he,

Ephraim Quixtus, (as far as he could tell) vary from the unkindly race

of man? why hitherto have baseness, treachery, and cruelty be as

foreign to his nature as an overpower inclination towards arson or

homicide? why have he be unequipped with these quality which appear

to serve mortal as weapon wherewith to fight the common battle of

life? the why, he could not tell. that he have they not, be obvious.

that he have go to the wall through lack of they be obvious, too.

instead of the dagger of baseness, the sword of cruelty, the shield of

treachery, all finely temper implement of war, he have be fight

with the wooden lath of virtue and the brawn-buckler of trust. arm as

he should have be, he would have out-manœuvre Marrable at his own

game, keep his wife in chaste and wholesome terror of his jealousy, send

Huckaby and Company long since to the limbo where they belong, delude

his uncle into the belief that he be a devil of a fellow, and now be

stand with flap wing and crow voice triumphant on this

dunghill of a world. but he have be hopelessly outmatch. whoever have

take upon himself the responsibility of equip he for the battle of

life have be guilty of incredible negligence. but on whom could he call

to remedy this defect? man call on the unknown God to make they good;

but it would be idiotic as well as blasphemous to call on he to make

one bad. how, then, be the essential quality of baseness, treachery,

and cruelty to be capture and bring into his armoury? perhaps the

Devil might help. but we be so matter-of-fact and scientific in these

day that even the simple soul of Quixtus could not quite believe in his

existence. if he have live in the Middle Ages (so in scholarly gloom run

his fancy) he could have draw circle and pentagram and thing on the

floor, and utter the incantation, and all the hierarchy of hell would

have be at his command, Satanas, Lucifer, Mephistopheles, Asmodeus,

Samael, Asael, Beelzebub, Azazel, Macathiel. . . . Quixtus rather lean

towards Macathiel—the name suggest a merciless, bowelless,

high-cheek-bone devil in a kilt——



impatiently he shake his thought free from the fantastic channel into

which they have wander and bring they back into the ever-thickening

slough of his soul. the train lumber on, stop at pretty wayside

station where fresh-faced folk with awkward gait and soft deep voice

clatter cheerily past Quixtus’s window on their way to or from the

third-class carriage, or at the noisy, bustling station of large

town. now and then a well-dress traveller invade his solitude for a

short distance. but Quixtus sit in his remote corner seeing, hear

nothing, brood on the baseness, treachery, and cruelty of mankind. he

have come to the end of love, the end of trust, the end of friendship.

when the shape of those who be still loyal to he flit across his

darken fancy he curse they in his heart. they be as corrupt as the

rest. that they have not be find out in their villainy only prove a

thick mask of hypocrisy. he have finish with they all. if he have be

a more choleric man gift with the power of picturesque vehemence of

language he might have outrivalle Timon of Athens in the denunciation

of his fellow. it must be a relief to any one in such a frame of mind

to stand up and, with violent gesture, express his view in term of

sciatica, itch, blains, leprosy, venome worm and ulcerous sore, and

to call upon the bless breeding sun to draw from the earth rotten

humidity, and below his sister’s orb to infect the air. he know exactly

what he feel, give it full artistic expression, and find himself all

the well for it. but Quixtus, inarticulate, have no such comfort.

indeed, he could hardly have express the welter of horror, hate, and

misery that be his moral being, in any form of speech whatever. as the

train rumble on, the phrase “evil be thou my good” wove itself into the

rhythm of the machinery. he let it sing dully and stupidly in his ear,

and his mind work subconsciously back to Macathiel.



as yet he have imagine no future attitude towards life. his soul be in

a state of negation. the insistent invocation of Evil be but a

catchword, irritate his brain and have no real significance. at the

most he envisage the future as a period of inactive misanthropy and

suspicion. he have as yet no stirring to action. on the other hand, he

do not, like Job, after the first series of affliction, rend his

clothe, shave his head, and bear his reverse with pious resignation.



the train arrive an hour late, as slow train be apt to do, and it be

nearly half-past eleven when he reach his house in Russell Square. he

open the door with his latchkey. the hall be dark, contrary to

custom. he switch on the light, and, turning, see that the letter-box

have not be clear. mechanically he take out the letter, and beneath

the hall lamp glance at the outside of the envelope. among they be

the telegram he have send from Devonshire.



even a man wallow in the deep abyss of spiritual misery need

food; and when he find that a telegram ordering supper (for his return

be unexpected) have not be open, he may be pardon purely material

disappointment and irritation. Mrs. Pennycook, the housekeeper, must

have profit by his absence to take a holiday. but what business have

she to take a holiday and leave the house uncare for at that time of

night? for, if she have return, she would have light the hall-light, and

clear the letter-box. he resign himself peevishly to the prospect of

a biscuit and a whisky-and-soda in the little back room where he eat his

meal.



he stride down the passage to the head of the kitchen stair and open

the study door. a glare of light meet his eye, and a moment afterwards

something else. this be Mrs. Pennycook in an armchair, sleep a

bedraggle sleep with two empty quart bottle of champagne and an empty

bottle of whisky by her side. he shake she hard by the shoulder; but

beyond stertorous and jerky breath the blissful lady show no sign of

animation.



it be then that a constricting thread snap in Quixtus’s brain. it

be then, as if by a trick of magic, that all the vaguely billow

horror, disillusion, disgust, resentment and hatred co-ordinated

themselves into a scheme of fierce vividness.



just as the boil make Job, who have bear the annihilation of his family

with equanimity, open his mouth and curse his day, so do a drunken

servant, who neglect to give he his supper, awaken Ephraim Quixtus to

the glorious thrill of a remorseless, relentless malignity.



he throw up his hand and laugh aloud, peal of unearthly laughter

that wake the echo of the empty house, that wake the canary in its

cage by the window, cause it to utter a few protest “cheep,” that

arrest the policeman on his beat outside, that do everything human

laughter in the way of noise can do, even stimulate the blissful lady

to open half a glaze eye for the fraction of a second. after his

paroxysm have subside, he look at the woman for a moment, and then

with an air of peculiar malevolence take a sheet of note-paper from a

small writing-table beneath the canary’s cage and write on it:



“_let I never see your face again.—E. Q._”



this, by the aid of a hairpin that have fall into her lap, he pin to

her apron. then, with another laugh, he leave she beneath the glare of

the light, and go out into the street. he be thrill, like a drunken

man, with a new sense of life. year have fall from his shoulder. he

have solve the riddle of the world. Baseness, treachery, cruelty, he

feel they pulsate in his heart with a madden joy of existence. evil

be his good. he be no long even a base, treacherous, cruel man. he

be a devil incarnate. the long exultant year in front of he would be

spend in deed of shame and crime and unprecedented wickedness. if there

be a throne to be wade to through slaughter, through slaughter would

he wade to it. he would shut the gate of Mercy on mankind. he hold out

both hand in front of he with stiffen outspread finger. if only

there be a human throat between they, how they would close around it,

how he would gloat over the die agony! Caligula be the man for he.

he regret his untimely death. what a colleague could have be make

of the fiend who wish that the whole human race have one neck so that

it could be sever at one blow!



he have reach this stage in his exultant reflection when he find

himself outside a restaurant which he have never enter, at the Oxford

Street end of the Tottenham Court Road. he remember that he be

hungry; that a new-bear spirit of wickedness must be feed. he go in,

unconscious of the company or the surrounding, and order supper. the

waiter say that it be nearly closing time. Quixtus call for a plate

of cold beef and a whisky-and-soda. he devour the meat ravenously,

forgetful of the bread by his side, and drink the drink at a gulp.

having light a cigar, he throw half a sovereign on the table and walk

out. he walk along the street heedless of direction, down Shaftesbury

Avenue, across Piccadilly Circus blaze with light, through Leicester

Square, along the still hurry Strand to Fleet Street noiseless and

empty, his brain on fire, weave exquisite fabric of devilry. suddenly

he halt on a glorious thought. why should he not begin there and then?

the whole of London, with its crime and sin and rottenness, lie before

he. he retrace his step back to the Babylon of the West. what could

he do? where could he find adequate wickedness? when he reach Charing

Cross again it be dark and deserted. a square mile of London have every

night about an hour of tearing, surge, hectic life. then all of a

sudden the thousand of folk be sweep away to the four comer of the

mighty city, and all be still. a woman, as Quixtus pass, quicken she

pace and murmur word. here be a partner in wickedness to his hand.

but the flesh of the delicately fibred man revolt simultaneously with

the thought. no. that do not come within his scheme of wickedness. he

slip a coin into the woman’s palm, because she look so forlorn, and

go his way. she be useless for his purpose. what he seek be some

occasion for pitilessness, for do evil to his fellow creature. a

fine rain begin to fall; but he heed it not, burn with the sense of

adventure. a reminiscence of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde cross his mind.

Hyde, like Caligula, be also the man for he. don’t he once throw a

child down in a lonely street and stamp on it?



he walk and walk through the now silent place, and the more he

walk the less opening for wickedness do he see. the potentiality of

Babylon appear to he overrate. after a wide and aimless détour he

find himself again at Charing Cross. he strike down Whitehall. but in

Whitehall and Parliament Street, the stately palace on either side,

vast museum of an Empire’s decorum, forbid the suggestion of

wickedness. the belate omnibus and cab that pass along be

invest with a momentary hush of respectability. he turn up the

Thames Embankment and see the mass of the great building with here and

there patch of light window show above the tree-top of the

garden, the bench below fill with huddle sodden shape of human

misery, the broad silent thoroughfare, the parapet, the dimly flow

river below—a black mirror mark by streak of light, reflection from

lamp on parapet and bridge, the low-lie wharf on the opposite side

swallow up in blackness—and no attractive wickedness be apparent;

nor be there any on the great bridge, disturb only by the slow

waggon mountain high bring food for the insatiable multitude of

London, and lumber on in endless trail with an impressive

fatefulness; nor even at the coffee-stall at the corner of the Waterloo

Bridge Road, its damp little swarm of frequenter cluster to it like

bee, their face illuminate by the segment of light cast by the

reflector at the back of the stall, all harmlessly drink cocoa or

wistfully watch other drink it. for a moment he think of join

the swarm, as some of the face look alluringly vile; but the inbreed

instinct of fastidiousness make he pass it by. he plunge into the

unsavoury street beyond. they be still and ghostly. all thing

diabolical could no doubt be find behind those silent window; but at

two o’clock in the morning sin be generally asleep, and sleep sin and

sleep virtue be as alike as two pin. meanwhile the fine rain fall

unceasingly, and the Earnest Seeker after Wickedness begin to feel wet

and chilly.



this be a degenerate age. a couple of century ago Quixtus could have

man a ship with cut-throat, hoist the skull and cross-bone, and

become the Terror of the Seas. or, at a more recent date, if he have be

a Corsican he could have take his gun and go into the maquis and

declare war on the island. if he have live in the fourteenth century he

could have become a condottiere after the fashion of the gentle Duke

Guarnieri, who, wear on his breast a silver badge with the

inscription “the Enemy of God, of Pity, and of Mercy,” gain for

himself enviable unpopularity in Northern Italy. as a malay, he could

have take a queerly curve, businesslike knife and run amuck, to his

great personal satisfaction. in prehistoric time, he could have sit for

a couple of delicious month in a cave, polish and sharpen a

beautiful axe-head, and, having fit it to its haft, have go forth

and (probably skulk behind tree so as to get his victim in the

rear) have have as gorgeous a time as be give to prehistoric man to

imagine. but nowadays, who can do these delightful, vindictive, and

misanthropical thing with any feeling of security? if Quixtus, obey

a logically develop impulse; have slaughter a young man in evening

dress in Piccadilly, he most indubitably would have be hang, to say

nothing of be subject to all the sordid procedure of a trial for

murder.



nor be this all. owe to some flaw in our system of education, Quixtus

have not be train to deed of violence; no one have even set before

he the theoretical philosophy of the subject. you may argue, I be

aware, that we use other weapon now than the cutlass of the pirate or

the stone-axe of the quaternary age; we have the subtler vengeance of

voice and pen, which can give a more exquisite finish to the devastation

of human life. but I would remind you that Quixtus, through the neglect

of his legal study and practice, be ignorant of the ordinary law of

chicane, and of the elementary principle of financial dishonesty that

guide the nefariousness of folk like “Gehenna, unlimited.”



it must be admit, therefore, that Quixtus enter on his career of

depravity greatly handicap.



the grey light of a hopeless May dawn be just begin to outline the

tower and spire of Westminster against the sky when Quixtus find

himself by the Westminster Hospital. he be damp and chill, somewhat

depressed. the thrill of adventure have pass away, leave

disappointment and a little disillusion in its place. he be also

physically fatigued, and his shoulder and foot ache. one ghostly

hansom-cab stand on the rank, the horse droop its dejected head into

a lean nosebag, the driver asleep inside. Quixtus resolve to arouse the

man from his slumber, and, abandon the pursuit of evil for the

night, drive home to Russell Square. but as he be cross the road

towards the vehicle, a miserable object, start up from the earth, run

by his side and address he in a voice so hoarse that it scarcely rise

above a whisper.



“for Gord’s sake, guv’nor, spare a poor man a copper or two. I’ve not

taste food for twenty-four hour.”



Quixtus stop, his instinctive finger dive into his pence-pocket.

suddenly an idea strike he.



“you must have lead a very evil life,” say he, “to have come to this

stage of destitution.”



“Whatcher gettin’ at?” growl the applicant, one eye fix suspiciously

on Quixtus’s face, the other on the fumble hand.



“I’m not go to preach to you—far from it,” say Quixtus; “but I

should like to know. you must have see a great deal of wickedness in

your time.”



“if you arsk I,” opine the man, “there’s nothing but wickedness in

this blankety blank world.”



he do not say “blankety blank,” but use other and more lurid epithet

which, though they be not exactly the one that Quixtus himself would

have choose, at least show he that his companion and himself be

agree on their fundamental conception of the universe.



“if you will tell I where I can find some,” he say, “I will give you

half a crown.”



a glimmer of astonished interest light up the man’s dull eye. “Whatcher

want to know for?”



“that’s my business,” say Quixtus.



the cabman, suddenly awaken, see the possibility of a fare. he

clamber out of the vehicle.



“Cab, sir?” he call across the road.



“yes,” say Quixtus.



“‘arf a crown?” say the battered man.



“certainly,” say Quixtus.



“then I’ll tell yer, guv’nor. I’ve be a bookie’s tout, see? not a

slap-up bookie in the ring—but an outside one—one what do a bit of

welshing when he could, see?—and what I say be, that I seed more

wickedness there than anywhere else. if you want to see blankety blank

wickedness you go on the turf.” he clear his throat, but his whisper

have grow almost inaudible. “I’ve go and lose my voice,” he say.



Quixtus look at the drench, starve, voiceless, unshorn horror of a

man stand outcast and die of want and wickedness in the grey dawn,

under the shadow of the central symbol of the pomp and majesty of

England.



“you look very ill,” say he.



“Consumpshon,” breathe the man.



Quixtus shiver. the cabman, who have hastily dispossess the dejected

horse of the nosebag, have climb into his dicky and be swinge the

cab round.



“I thank you very much for your information,” say Quixtus. “here’s half

a sovereign.”



Voicelessness and wonder provoke an inarticulate wheeze like the

spitting of a cat. the man be still gape at the unaccustomed coin in

his hand when the cab drive off. but Quixtus have not be many minute

on his way when a thought smite he like a sledge-hammer. he bring his

fist down furiously on the leathern seat.



“what a fool! what a monumental fool I’ve be!” he cry.



he have just realise that the devil have offer he as pretty a little

chance of sheer wickedness as could be meet with on a May morning, which

he have not take. instead of give the man ten shilling, he ought to

have laugh in his face, taunt he with his emaciation and drive off

without pay the half-crown he have promise. to have let the very

first opportunity slip through his finger! he would have to wear a

badge like that of the gentle Duke Guarnieri to keep his wit from

wandering.



when he reach home he look for a moment into the little room at the

head of the kitchen stair. the Blissful One still sleep, a happy smile

on her face, and the paper pin to her apron.



there be surely some chance of wickedness here. Quixtus _furen_

scratch an inventive head. suppose he carry she outside and set she

on the doorstep. he regard she critically. she be buxom—about twelve

stone. he be a spare and unathletic man. a great yawn interrupt his

speculation, and turn off the light he stumble off sleepily and

wearily to bed.









                               CHAPTER VI





the Blissful one carry out her master’s write injunction. he do not

see her face again. she pack up her trunk the next morning and

silently steal away with a rack headache and a set of gold teaspoon

which she take in lieu of a month’s wage. the vague female awaken

Quixtus and prepare his breakfast. when he ask she whether she could

cook lunch, she grow pale but say that she would try. she go to the

near butcher, buy a fibrous organic substance which he assert to

be prime rump-steak, and come back do something desperate with it in

a fry pan. after the first disastrous mouthful, Quixtus rise from the

table.



“I give it to you for yourself, my good woman,” say he, pride himself

on his murderous intent. “I’ll get lunch elsewhere.”



he back to his club, for the first time for many day. and this mark

his reappearance in the great world.



he be halfway through his meal when a man, pass down the room from

pay-desk to door, catch sight of he and approach with extended hand.



“my dear Quixtus. how good it be to see you again.”



he be a bald, pink-faced little man, wear great round gold

spectacle that seem to be fit on to his smile. Kindliness and the

gladness of life emanate from he, as perfume do from a jar of attar

of rose. his name be Wonnacott, and he be a member of the council of

the Anthropological Society. Quixtus, who have know he for year,

scan his glad cherubic face, and set he down as a false-hearted

scoundrel. with this mental reservation he greet he cordially enough.



“we want you badly,” say Wonnacott. “thing ben’t all they should be

at the Society.”



“the monkey’s tail peep out between their coat tail?” Quixtus ask

eagerly.



“no. no. it’s only Griffiths.” griffith be the Vice-President. “he

know his subject as well as anybody, but he’s a perfect fool in the

chair. we want you back.”



“very good of you to say so,” reply Quixtus, “but I’m think of

resign from the Society altogether, give up the study of

anthropology and present my collection to a criminal lunatic asylum.”



Wonnacott, laughing, draw a chair from the vacant table next to

Quixtus’s and sit down.



“why—— what?”



“we know how Primitive Man in most of the epoch slay his enemy,

cook his food, and adorn or disfigure his person; but of the subtle

working of his malignant mind we be hopelessly ignorant.”



“I don’t suppose his mind be more essentially malignant than yours or

mine,” say Wonnacott.



“quite so,” Quixtus agree. “but we can study the malignancy, the

brutality and bestiality of the mind of we live people. we be book

open for each other to read. historic man too we can study—from

document—Nero, Alexander the Sixth, Titus, Oates, Sweeny Tod the

Barber——”



“but, my dear man,” smile Wonnacott, “you be get into the province

of criminology.”



“it’s the only science worth study,” say Quixtus. then, after a

pause, during which the waiter put the Stilton in front of he and

hand he the basket of biscuit, “do you ever go to race meeting?”



“sometimes—yes,” laugh the other, startle at the unexpectedness of

the question. “I have my little weakness like other people.”



“there must be a great deal of wickedness to be find on race-course.”



“possibly,” reply Wonnacott, apologetically, “but I’ve never see any

myself.”



Quixtus musingly butter a piece of biscuit. “that’s a pity. a great

pity. I be think of go on the turf. I be tell that nowhere else

could such depravity be find.”



one or two of Wonnacott’s smile drop, as it be, from his face and

he look keenly at Quixtus. he see a hard glitter in the once mild,

china-blue eye, and an unnatural hardness in the setting of the once

kindly lip. there be a curious new eagerness on a face that have always

be distinguish by a gentle repose. the hand, too, that manipulate

the knife and biscuit, shake feverishly.



“I’m afraid you’re not very well, my dear fellow,” say he.



“not well?” Quixtus laugh, somewhat harshly. “why I feel ten time

young than I do this time yesterday. I’ve never be so well in my

life. why, I could——” he stop short and regard Wonnacott

suspiciously—“No. I willn’t tell you what I could do.”



he drink the remainder of his glass of white wine, and throw his napkin

on the table.



“let we go and smoke,” say he.



in the smoking-room, Wonnacott, still observe he narrowly, ask he

why he be so interested in the depravity of the turf. Quixtus meet his

eye with the same suspicious glance.



“I tell you I be go to take up the study of criminology. it’s a

useful and fascinating science. but as the subject do not seem to

interest you,” he add with a quick return to his courteous manner,

“let we drop it. you mustn’t suppose I’ve lose all interest in the

Society. what especially have you to complain of about Griffiths?”



Wonnacott explain, and for the comfortable half-hour of coffee and

cigarette after lunch they discuss the ineffectuality of Griffiths

and, as all good man will, exchange view on the little foible of

their colleague on the Council of the Anthropological Society. Quixtus

discourse so humanly, that Wonnacott, on his way office-ward, having

light a cigar at the spirit-lamp in the club-vestibule, look at the

burning end meditatively and say to himself:



“I must have be mistake after all.”



but Quixtus remain for some time in the club deep in thought, scan

a newspaper with unseeing eye. he have be injudicious in his

conversation with Wonnacott. he have almost betray his secret. it

behove he to walk warily. in these day the successful serpent have to

assume not only the voice, but the outer semblance and innocent manner

of the dove. if he go crawl and hiss about the world,

proclaim his venomousness aloud like a rattle-snake, humanity would

either avoid he altogether, or hit he over the head out of

self-protection. he must ingratiate himself once more with mankind, and

only strike when opportunity offer. for that reason he would simulate

a continued interest in Prehistoric Man.



on the other hand, the newly bear idea of the study of criminology

hover agreeably and comfortingly over his mind. so much so, that he

presently leave the club, and, walk to a foreign library, order the

work of Cesare Lombroso, Ottolenghi, Ferri, Topinard, Corre and as many

other authority on criminology as he could think of, and then, having

ransack the second-hand bookshop in Charing Cross Road, drive home

exultant with an excellent set of “the Newgate calendar.”



thus he enter upon a new phase of life. he begin to mingle again with

his fellow, hateful and treacherous dog though they be. he be no

long morose and solitary. at the next meeting of the Anthropological

Society he occupy the Presidential Chair, amid a chorus of

(hypocritical) welcome. he accept invitation to dinner. also, find

intense discomfort in the ministration of the vague female, and

realise that after make good all Marrable’s defalcation, he be

still the possessor of a large fortune, he procure the service of a

cook and reinstate his former manservant—luckily disengage—in

office, and again inhabit the commodious apartment which he have

abandon. in fact, he not only resume his former mode of life, but

exceed it on the social side, walk more abroad into the busy way

of man. in all of which he show wisdom. for it be manifestly

impossible for a man to pursue a successful career of villainy if he

lock himself up in the impregnable recess of a gloomy house and meet

no mortal on whom to practise.



one afternoon, after deep and dark excogitation, he proceed to Romney

Place and call upon Tommy Burgrave whom he have not see since the day

of the trial. Tommy, just recover from the attack of congestion of

the lung, which have prevent he from attend his great uncle’s

funeral, be sit in his dressing-gown before the bedroom fire, while

Clementina, unkempt as usual, be superintend his consumption of a

fry sole.



Tommy greet he boyishly. he couldn’t rise, as his lap be full of

tray and fat thing. his uncle would find a chair somewhere in the

corner. it be jolly of he to come.



“you might have come soon,” snap Clementina. “the boy have be half

dead. if it haven’t be for I, he would have be quite dead.”



“you nurse he through his illness?”



“what else do you suppose I mean?”



“he could have have a train nurse,” say Quixtus. “there be such

thing.”



“train nurse!” cry Clementina, in disdain. “I’ve no patience with

they. if they’re ugly, they’re brute—because they know that a

good-look boy like Tommy willn’t look at they. if they’re pretty,

they’re fool, because they’re always hope that he will.”



“I say, Clementina,” Tommy protest. “nurse be the dear people in

the world. a fellow crock up be just a ‘case’ for they, and they never

think of anything but pull he through. ‘Tisn’t fair of you to talk

like that.”



“ben’t it?” say Clementina, conscious of a great gap than usual in

the back of her blouse, and struggle with one hand to reconcile button

and hole. “what on earth do you know about it? just tell I, be you a

woman or be I?”



Tommy lay down his fork with a sigh. “you’re an angel, Clementina, and

this sole be delicious; and I wish there be more of it.”



she take the tray from his knee and put it on a side table. Tommy

turn to Quixtus, who sit Sphinx-like on a straight-back chair, and

express his regret at not having be able to attend his great-uncle’s

funeral.



“you miss an interesting ceremony,” say Quixtus.



Tommy laugh. “I suppose the old man don’t leave I anything?”



he have hear nothing privately about the will, and, as probate have not

yet be take out, the usual summary have not be publish in the

newspaper.



“I’m afraid not,” say Quixtus. “do you expect anything?”



“oh Lord, no!” laugh Tommy, honestly.



“then more fool you, and more horrid old man he,” say Clementina.



there be a pause. Quixtus, not feel call upon to defend his

defunct and mock kinsman, say nothing. Clementina draw the crumple

yellow packet of Maryland tobacco and paper from a pocket in her skirt

(she insist on have pocket in her skirt) and roll a cigarette.

when she have lick it, she turn to Quixtus.



“I suppose you know that I come like a fool to your house and be

refuse admittance.”



“well train servant,” say Quixtus, “have a knack of indiscriminate

obedience.”



“you might have say something more civil,” she say, take aback.



“if you will dictate to I a formula of politeness I will repeat it with

very great pleasure,” he retort. “put a little honey on my tongue and

it will wag as mellifluously as that of any hypocrite who win for

himself the adulation of mankind.”



“mercy’s sake man!” exclaim Clementina, in her astonishment allow

the smoke to mingle with her word. “where on earth do you learn to

talk like that?”



their eye meet, and Clementina suddenly screw up her face and look

at he. she see in those pale blue eye something, she could not tell

what, but something which have not be in the eye of the gentle,

sweet-souled man she have paint. her grimace, although familiar through

the sitting, somewhat disconcert he. she make the grim sound that

with her represented laughter.



“I be only wonder whether I have get you right after all.”



“of course, you get he right,” cry Tommy the ingenuous. “it’s one of

the ripping piece of work you’ve ever do.”



“the Anthropological Society find it quite satisfactory,” say Quixtus

stiffly.



“Flattered, I’m sure,” say Clementina.



Tommy, dimly aware now of antagonism, diplomatically introduce a fresh

topic of conversation.



“you haven’t tell he, Clementina,” say he, “of the letter you get the

other day from Shanghai.”



“Shanghai?” echo Quixtus.



“yes, from Will Hammersley,” say Clementina, her voice soften. “he’s

in very bad health, and hope to come home within a year. I think you,

too, might have hear from he.”



Quixtus shake his head. for a moment he could not trust himself to

speak. the sudden mention of that detest name stun he like a blow.

at last he say; “I never realise you be such friend.”



“he use to come to I in my trouble.”



Quixtus pass his hand between neck and collar, as if to free his

throat from clutch finger. his voice, when he speak, sound hoarse

and far away in his ear.



“you be in his confidence, I suppose.”



“I think so,” say Clementina, simply.



to the sorely afflict man’s unbalanced and suspicious mind this be a

confession of complicity in the wrong he have suffer. he control

himself with a great effort, and turn his face away so that she should

not see the hate and anger in his eye. she, too, have work against

he. she, too, have mock he as the poor blind fool. she, too, he swear

within himself, should suffer in the general devastation he would work

upon mankind. as in a dream he hear she summarise the letter which she

have receive. Hammersley have of late be a victim to the low Eastern

fever. once he have nearly die, but have recover. it have take hold,

however, of his system and nothing but home would cure he. in Shanghai

he have make fortune enough to retire. once in England again he would

never leave it as long as he live.



“he write one or two page of description of what May must be in

England—the fresh sweet green of the country lane, the cool lawn, the

old grey church peep through the tree, the restful, undulating

country, the smell of the hawthorn and blackthorn at dawn and eve—those

be his word—the poor man’s so sick for home that he have turn into a

twopenny ha’penny poet——”



“I think it’s damned pathetic,” say Tommy. “don’t you, Uncle Ephraim?”



“I beg your pardon,” say Quixtus with a start.



“don’t you think it’s pathetic for a chap strand sick in a

God-forsake place in China, to write that high falutin’ stuff about

England? Clementina read it to I. it’s the sort of thing a girl of

fifteen might have write as a school essay—all the obvious thing you

know—and it mean such a devil of a lot to he—everything on earth. it

fairly make I choke. I call it damn pathetic.”



Quixtus say in a dry voice, “yes, it’s pathetic—it’s comic—it’s

tragic—it’s melodramatic—it’s nostalgic—it’s climatic—— yes,” he

add, absently, “it’s climatic.”



“I wonder you don’t say it’s dyspeptic and psychic and fantastic,” say

Clementina, snatch an old hat from the bed. “do you know you’ve

talk nothing but rubbish ever since you enter this room?”



“Language, my dear Clementina,” he quote; “be give to we to conceal

our thought.”



“bah!” say Clementina. she hold out her hand abruptly. “good-bye. I’ll

run in later, Tommy; and see how you’re get on.”



Quixtus open the door for she to pass out and return to his

straight-back chair. Tommy hand he a box of cigarette.



“willn’t you smoke? I try one cigarette to-day for the first time, but

the beastly thing taste horrid—just as if I be smoke oatmeal.”



Quixtus decline the cigarette. he remain silent; look gloomily at

the young, eager face which mask heaven know what faithlessness and

guile. be in league with Clementina, whom he know now be his enemy,

Tommy be his enemy too. and yet, for the life of he, he could not

carry out the malignant object of his visit. for some time Tommy

direct the conversation. he upbraid the treacherous english climate

which have entice he out of door, and then stretch he on a bed of

sickness. it be rough luck. just as he be begin to find himself as

a landscape painter. it be a beautiful little bit of river—all pale

golden light and silver grey—now that may be begin and all the

tree in early leaf he could not get that spring effect again—could

not, in fact, finish the picture. by the way, his uncle have not hear

the news. the little picture that have get (by a mistake, accord to

Clementina) into a corner of the New Gallery, have just be sell.

twenty-five guineas. ben’t it rip? a man call Smythe, whom he have

never hear of, have buy it.



“you see, it ben’t as if some one I know have buy it, so as to give a

chap some encouragement,” he remark naïvely. “it be a stranger who

have the whole show to pick from, and just jump at my landscape.”



Quixtus, who have fill up by monosyllable the various pause in

Tommy’s discourse, at last rise to take his leave. he have try now and

then to say what he have come to say; but his tongue have grow thick and

the roof of his mouth dry, and his word literally stick in his throat.



“it’s awfully good of you, Uncle Ephraim,” say Tommy, “to have come to

see I. as soon as I get about again, I’ll try to do something jolly for

you. there’s a bit of wall in your drawing-room that’s just die for a

picture. and I say”—he twist his boyish face whimsically and look

at he with a twinkle in his dark blue eyes—“I don’t know how in the

world it have happen—but if you _could_ let I draw my allowance now

instead of the first of the month——”



this be the monthly euphemism. against his will Quixtus make the

customary reply.



“I’ll send you a cheque as usual.”



“you _be_ a good sort,” say Tommy. “and one of these day I’ll get

there and you willn’t be ashamed of I.”



but Quixtus go away deeply ashamed of himself, disgust with his

weakness. he have start out with the fixed and diabolical intention of

tell the lad that he be about to disinherit he.



he have scheme this exquisite cruelty in the coolness of solitude. in

its craft and subtlety it appear peculiarly perfect. he have come fully

prepared to perform the deed of wickedness. not only have Clementina’s

gentle presence not cause he to waver in his design, but his discovery

of her complicity in his great betrayal have inflame his desire for

vengeance. yet, when the time come for the wreaking thereof, his valour

be of the ooze nature lament by Bob Acres. he be shock at his

pusillanimity. in the middle of Sloane Square he stop and curse

himself, and be nearly run over by a taxi-cab. as it be empty he

hail it, and continue his malediction in the security of its

interior.



manifestly there be something wrong in his psychological economy which

no reading of Lombroso or “the Newgate Calendar” could remedy. or be he

merely suffer from a lack of experience in evil doing? do he not

need a guide in the Whole Art and Practice of Wickedness?



he walk up and down his museum in anxious thought. at last a smile light

up his gaunt feature. he sit down and write note of invitation to

Huckaby, Vandermeer, and Billiter to dinner on the following Tuesday.









                              CHAPTER VII





Quixtus receive they in the museum, a long room mainly furnish with

speciman case whose glass top form a double incline plane, diagram

of geological formation, and bookcase full of palæontological

literature—a cold, inhuman, inhospitable place. the three look more

dilapidated than ever. Huckaby’s straggle whisker have grow deeply

into his cheek; Vandermeer’s face have become foxy, Billiter’s more

pallid and puffy. no overcoat hang on the accustomed peg, for the

cessation of the eleemosynary deposit have lead, among other misfortune,

to the pawning of these once indispensable article of attire. the three

wear, therefore, the dismally apologetic appearance of the man who have

no wedding garment. the only one of they who put on a simulated

heartiness of address be Billiter. he thrust out a shaky hand—



“my dear Quixtus, how delightful——”



but the sight of his host’s unwelcoming face chill his enthusiasm.

Quixtus bow slightly and motion they, with his grave courtesy, to

comfortless seat. he command the situation. so might a scholar prince

of the school of Machiavelli have receive his chief poisoner,

strangler, and confidential abductor. they go down to dinner. it be

not an hilarious meal. the conversation which use to flow now fall in

spattering drop amid a dead silence.



“it’s a fine day,” say Quixtus.



“very,” say Huckaby.



“Finer than yesterday,” say Vandermeer.



“it promise well for to-morrow,” say Billiter.



“it always break its promise,” say Quixtus.



“H’m,” say Huckaby.



they make up for the lack feast of reason by material voracity. a

microscopic uplifting of Spriggs the butler’s eyebrow betoken wonder

at their gargantuan helping. Vandermeer, sit at the foot of the

table opposite to Quixtus, bend his foxy face downwards till the

circumference of the plate become the horizon of his universe. Billiter

eat with stolid cynicism; Huckaby, with a faint air of bravado. once he

say:



“I’m afraid Quixtus we get a bit merry the last time.”



“it’s to the memory of that,” reply Quixtus; “that I owe the pleasure

of your company to-night.”



“I’m beastly sorry—” begin Billiter.



“pray don’t mention it,” Quixtus interrupt blandly. “I hope the quail

be to your liking.”



“fine,” say Vandermeer, without raise his eye from his plate.



once more reign the spell of silence which oppress even the three

outcast man; but Quixtus, harden by his fix idea, feel curiously at

his ease. he sit in his chair with the same sense of security and

confidence as he have do before deliver his Presidential Address at

the meeting of the Anthropological Society, while the secretary go

through the preliminary formal business. the preliminary business here

be the meal. as soon, however, as the port have be send round and

Spriggs have retire, Quixtus address his guest.



“gentleman,” say he, and meet in turn the three pair of question

eye. “you may wonder perhaps why I have invite you to dinner to-night,

and why, you be thus invite, the meal have not be warm by its

accustomed glow of geniality. it be my duty and my pleasure now to tell

you. Hitherto at these dinner we have—let we say—wear the comic mask.

beneath its rosy and smile exterior we have dissimulate our own

individual sentiment. we have be actor, without realise it, in an

oft-repeat comedy. only on the occasion of our last meeting do we put

aside the mask and show to each other what we be.”



“I’ve already apologise,” murmur Billiter.



“my dear fellow,” say Quixtus, raise his long thin hand, “that’s the

last thing I want you to do. in this world of fraud and deceit no man

ought to regret having bare his soul honestly to the world. now,

gentleman, I have not ask you here to insult you at my own table. I

have gather you around I because I need your counsel and your

service for which I hope adequately to remunerate you.”



a quiver of animation pass over the three face. “Remunerate” be a

magic word; the master-word of an incantation. it mean money, and money

mean food and drink—especially alcoholic drink.



“I know I be speak for my two friend,” say Huckaby, “when I say

that our heart be always at your service.”



“the heart,” reply Quixtus, “be a physiological organ and a

sentimental delusion. there be no heart in that sense. you know as

well as I do, my dear fellow, that there be no such thing as love,

affection, honour, loyalty in the world. self-interest and

self-indulgence be the guide principle of conduct. govern by a

morbid and futile tradition, we refuse to regard the world in the

malevolent light of day, but see it artificially through the

hypocritical coloured glass of benevolence.”



Huckaby and Vandermeer, who retain the rudiment of an intellect,

look at their once simple-minded and tender-hearted host in blank

bewilderment. they hardly know whether to wince under a highly educate

gentleman’s cutting irony, or to accept these remarkable proposition as

honest statement of opinion. but the ironical note be not perceptible.

Quixtus speak in the same gentle tone of assurance as he would have use

when enter on a dissertation upon the dolichocephalic skull in his

collection which have be find in a long barrow in Yorkshire. he be

the master of a subject lay down incontrovertible fact. so Huckaby

and Vandermeer, marvel greatly, stare at he out of speculative

eye. Billiter, before whom the incautious decanter of port have halt,

lose the drift of his host’s philosophic utterance.



“the time have now come,” continue Quixtus, relighte (unsophisticate

soul!) the cigar which he have allow to go out—“the time have now come

for we four to be honest with one another. up to a recent date I be a

slave to this optical delusion of tradition. but thing have happen to

clear my eye, and to make I frankly confess myself no well than

yourself—an entirely unscrupulous man.”



“pray remember that I’m a sometime fellow—” begin Huckaby.



“I’m a gentleman of good family—” begin Billiter, who have understand

the last sentence.



“yes. yes,” reply Quixtus, interrupt they. “I know. that’s why your

assistance will be valuable. I need the counsel of man of breed and

education. I find from my reading that the vulgar criminal would be

useless for my purpose. now, you all have trust man who have fail

you. so have I. you have feel the cowardly blow of Fortune. so have I.

you have no vestige of faith in your fellow man—you even believe I to

be a party to my late partner’s fraud—you can have, I say, no faith

leave in humanity. neither have I. you be ishmael, your hand against

every man. so be I. you would like to be revenge upon your fellow

creature. so would I. you have pass your life in pursue evil

rather than good. you, in a word, be entirely unscrupulous. if you will

acknowledge this we can proceed to business. if not; we will part

finally as soon as this agreeable evening be at an end. gentleman what

do you say?”



Billiter, look upon the wine while it be red—there be not much

leave to show the colour—laugh wheezily and shortly.



“I suppose we’re wrong ‘un,” say he. “at least I be. I own up.”



Vandermeer say bitterly: “when a man be hunt by poverty he cann’t run

straight, for at the end of the straight path be death.”



“and you, Huckaby?”



“I also have bolt into a drain or two in my time.”



“good,” say Quixtus. “now we understand one another.”



“you may understand we,” say Huckaby, tug at his untidy beard, “but

I’m hang, draw, and quarter if we understand you.”



“I think I have make myself particularly clear,” say Quixtus.



“for my part,” say Billiter, “I cann’t make out what you’re get at

except to make we confess that we’re wrong ‘un.”



“dear, dear,” say Quixtus.



“I cann’t understand it,” say Vandermeer, look intently at he across

the table out of his little sharp eye. “I cann’t understand it, unless

it be that you have some big scoop on and want we to come into it, so as

to do the dirty work. if that’s so I’m on, so long as it’s safe. but

I’ve steer clear of the law up to now and have no desire to run the

risk of penal servitude.”



“oh Lord no!” cry Billiter with a shiver.



Quixtus press the burn stump of his cigar against his plate and

look up with a smile.



“please make your mind easy on that score. I have be read

criminology lately with considerable interest, and I have go through a

volume or two of ‘the Newgate calendar,’ and the result of my reading be

the conviction that crime be folly. it be a disease. it be also vulgar.

no, I have no desire to increase my personal possession in any way;

neither do I contemplate the commission of act of violence against the

person or the destruction of property. anything therefore that come

within the category of crime may be dismiss from our consideration.”



“then in the name of Gehenna,” exclaim Huckaby, “what be it that you

want we to do?”



“it be very simple,” say Quixtus. “I may plot out an attractive scheme

of wickedness, but the circumstance of my early training have leave I

without the power to execute it. I should like to call on any one of you

for guidance, perhaps practical assistance. I may want to see and hear

of wickedness go on around I. I would count on you to gratify my

curiosity. lastly, not have an inventive mind, it be rather

analytic than synthetic, I should welcome any suggestion that you might

bring I.”



“it’s a rum go,” say Billiter, “but I’m on, so long as there’s money in

it.”



“there will be money in it,” say Quixtus.



“then I’m on too,” say Vandermeer.



“you will find we, my dear Quixtus,” say Huckaby, “your very devoted

familiar—your Oliviers le Daim, your eminence gris, your _âme

damnées_. we’ll be your minister evil spirit, your genius from Eblis.

it’s a new occupation for a Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge,

but it’s not unallure. and now, as Billiter have finish the decant,

may I take the liberty of ask for another bottle, so that Vandermeer

and I can drink to the health of our chief.”



“with all the pleasure in life,” say Quixtus.



                 *        *        *        *        *



as soon as the three newly constitute Evil Genii be out of earshot of

the house, they stop on the pavement with one accord and burst into

unseemly laughter.



“do you ever hear anything like it?” cry Billiter.



“he’s as mad as Bedlam,” say Vandermeer.



“a sort of invert Knight of the Round Table,” say Huckaby. “he yearn

to ride abroad commit human wrong.”



“be we to call for order every day like the butcher, the baker, and

the greengrocer?” say Vandermeer.



“he be so sane at first,” say Vandermeer, “that I really think he

have some definite scoop in view. but it all turn out to be utter

moonshine.”



“if he don’t want to thieve or murder or paint the town red,” say

Billiter, “what the blaze in the way of wickedness be leave for he to

do?”



“it’s moonshine,” repeat Vandermeer.



“if it ben’t,” say Huckaby, “none of we would touch it. we cann’t take

the matter seriously. we’re just lend ourselves to a farce, that’s

all.”



“naturally,” Billiter agree. “we must humour he.”



they walk on slowly, discuss the unprecedented situation. they be

unanimous in the opinion that the poor gentleman have go distraught.

they have all notice sign of his affliction on the last occasion of

their dining at his table. if he have be in his right sense then, he

would surely not have behave with such discourtesy. they agree to

forgive he for turn they out of door.



“it’s lucky for he,” say Huckaby, “that he have three old friend like

ourselves. he might have get into other hand, and then—God help he.

my only reason for fall in with his mood be in order to protect he

from himself—and from shark and blood-sucker.”



Billiter and Vandermeer declare that they, too, have act only out of a

sense of loyalty to their old and distracted friend. they protest so

hard that their tongue clave to the roof of their mouth, and each

acknowledge his thirst. they turn into the bar-parlour of the first

public-house, where they call for whisky, and, each man having find a

hat as good a substitute for the sack of Joseph’s brother as an

overcoat, they continue to call for whisky, and to drink it until the

tavern close for the night. by that time they glow with conscious

virtue. Huckaby swear that he would permit no ruddy lobster to dig

their claw into Quixtus’s sacred person.



“here’s poor dear old chap’s health, drunk in very last drop,” cry

Billiter, enthusiastically drain his last glass.



the tragedy of Quixtus’s loss of reason reduce Vandermeer to tear. he

be sorrowful in his cup. he, Vandermeer, have no one to love he; but

Quixtus should never find himself in that desolate predicament, as he,

Vandermeer, would love he like a friend, a brother, like a

silver-haired maiden aunt.



“I’ve have a silver-haired maiden aunt myself,” he wail.



while Billiter comfort he, Huckaby again warn they against ruddy

lobster. if they would swear to join he in a league to defend their

patron and benefactor, he would accept their comradeship. if they

prefer to be ruddy lobster, he would wash his hand of they. they

repudiate the crustacean suggestion. they be more Quixtus’s friend

than he. a quarrel nearly break out, each claim to be the most loyal

and disintereste friend Quixtus ever have in his life. finally they be

reconcile and wrung each other warmly by the hand. the barman call

closing time and push they gently into the street. they stagger

deviously to their several garret and go to bed, each certain that he

have convince the two other of his beauty and nobility of soul.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Vandermeer be the first of the Evil Genii to be summon. Quixtus lay

before he the case of Tommy and the failure of his diabolical project.

Vandermeer listen attentively. there be method after all in his

patron’s madness. he wish to do some hurt to his nephew for the sheer

sake of evil-doing. as far as the intention go he be seriously try

to carry out his malevolent principle. it be not all moonshine.

Vandermeer think quickly. he be the craftiest of the three, and that

perhaps be why Quixtus have instinctively choose he for the first

adventure. he see profit in humour the misanthrope, though he smile

inwardly at the simplicity of his idea.



“there’s nothing particularly diabolical in tell a young fellow with

a brilliant career before he that you’re go to cut he out of your

will.”



“ben’t there?” say Quixtus, with an air of disappointment. “what then

would you suggest?”



“first,” answer Vandermeer, “what do you think would be a fair price

for a suggestion?” he regard he with greedy eye. “would twenty

pound be out of the way?”



“I’ll give you twenty pound,” say Quixtus.



Vandermeer draw in his breath quickly, as a man do who win a bet at

long odd.



“there be all sort of thing you can do. the obvious one would be to

stop his allowance. but I take it you want something more artistic and

subtle. wait—let I think—” he cover his eye with his hand for a

moment. “look. how will this do? it strike I as infernally wicked. you

say he be devoted to his art. well, make he give it up——”



“excellent! excellent!” cry Quixtus. “but how?”



“can you get he into any business office in the City?”



“yes. my friend Griffiths of the Anthropological Society be secretary of

the Star Assurance Coy. a word from I would get the boy into the

office.”



“good. then tell he that unless he accept this position within a month

and promise never to touch a paint-brush again, he will not receive a

penny from you either during your lifetime or after your death. in this

way you will bring he up against an infernal temptation, and whichever

way he decide he’ll be wretche. I call that a pretty scheme.”



“it’s an inspiration of genius,” exclaim Quixtus excitedly. “I’ll

write the cheque now.” he sit down to his desk and pull out his

cheque-book. “and you will go at once to my nephew—I’ll give you a card

of introduction—and acquaint he with my decision.”



“what?” cry Vandermeer.



Quixtus calmly repeat the last sentence. Vandermeer’s face go a

shade paler. he wring his hand, which be naturally damp, until they

grow as bloodless as putty. he have never do any wanton harm in his

life. all the meanness and sharp-dealing he have practise be but a

poor devil’s shift to fill an empty belly. Quixtus’s behest cover he

with dismay. it be unexpected. it be one thing to suggest to a crazy

and unpractical patron a theoretical fantasia of wickedness, and another

to be command to put it oneself into execution. it be less moonshine

than ever.



“don’t you want to do it?” ask Quixtus, unwittingly balance

temptation, in the form of a fat cheque-book, in his hand.



Vandermeer fall. what wolf-eyed son of Hagar would have resist?



“I think,” say he, with a catch in his throat, “that if the suggestion

alone be worth twenty pound, the carrying out of it be worth—say—ten

more?”



“very well,” say Quixtus; “but,” he add drily, “the next time I hope

you’ll give an estimate to cover the whole operation.”



the second of the three to receive a summon from the Master be

Billiter.



“you know something about horse-racing,” remark Quixtus.



“what I don’t ben’t worth know. I’ve chuck away a fortune in

acquire the knowledge.”



“I want you to accompany I to race-meeting and show I the wickedness

of the turf,” say Quixtus.



“so that’s my little job be it?”



“that’s your little job.”



“I think I can give you a run for your money,” remark Billiter, a pale

sunshine of intelligence overspread his puffy feature. “but—” he

pause.



“but what?”



“I cann’t go race with you in this kit.”



“I will provide you,” say Quixtus, “with whatever costume you think

necessary for the purpose.”



Billiter go his way exult and spend the remainder of the afternoon

in track a man down from his office in Soho, his house in Peckham,

several tavern on the Surrey side of the river, to a quiet café in

Regent Street. the man be a red-faced, thick-necked, hard, fishy-eye

villain with a mouth like the slit of a letter-box, and go by the name

(which he wear inscribe on his hat at race-meeting) of Old Joe Jenks.

Billiter draw he into a corner and whisper gleeful tiding into his

ear. after which Old Joe Jenks draw Billiter to a table and fill he

up with the most seductive drink the café could provide.



before the lesson in horse-racing under Billiter’s auspex begin—for

gorgeous raiment, appropriate to Sandown and Kempton, like Rome, be not

build in a day—Quixtus send for the remain evil Genius.



“what have you to suggest?” he ask after some preliminary and

explanatory conversation.



a humorous twinkle come into Huckaby’s eye, and a smile play round his

lip beneath the straggling brushwood of hair.



“I have a great idea,” he say.



“what be it?”



“break a woman’s heart,” say Huckaby.



Quixtus reflect gravely. it would indeed be a charming, entice piece

of wickedness.



“I shouldn’t have to marry she?” he ask in some concern.



“Heaven forbid.”



“I like it,” say Quixtus, lean back in his chair and smooth his

scrappy moustache with his lean finger. “I like it very much. the only

difficulty be: where can I find the woman whose heart I can break?”



“take a tour abroad,” say Huckaby. “on the Continent of Europe there

be thousand of english woman only wait to have their heart

break.”



“that may be true,” say Quixtus; “but how shall I obtain the necessary

introduction?”



“I,” cry Huckaby raise a bony hand that protrude through a very

frayed and dirty shirt-cuff. “I, Eustace Huckaby, will reassume my air

of academical distinction and will accompany you into the _pay du

tendre_ and introduce you to any woman you like. in other word, my dear

Quixtus, although I may not look like a Lothario at the present moment,

I have have considerable experience in amatory adventure—and I’m sure

you would find my assistance valuable.”



Quixtus reflect again. aware of his limitation he recognise the

futility of go alone on a heart-break expedition among strange

even though expectant female. but would Huckaby be an ideal companion?

Huckaby be self-assertive, not to say impudent, in manner; and Huckaby

have certain shocking habit. on the other hand, perhaps the impudence

be the very quality need in the quest; and as for the habit—he

decide.



“very well. I accept your proposal—on one condition. what that be you

doubtless can guess.”



“I can,” say Huckaby. “I give you my word of honour that you will never

see I otherwise than sober.”



an undertaking which would not preclude he from take a bottle of

whisky to bed whenever he feel so inclined.



“we have well start at once,” say Huckaby, after some necessary

discussion of the question of wardrobe.



“I must wait,” reply Quixtus, “until I’ve attend some race-meeting

with Billiter.”



Huckaby frown. he be not aware that to Billiter have already be

assign a sphere of action.



“I don’t want to say anything unfriendly. but if I be you I shouldn’t

trust Billiter too implicitly. he’s a—” he pause—be sober and

serious he reject the scarlet epithet which, when use in allusion to

his friend, have give colour to his gayer speech—“He’s a man who know

too much of the game.”



“my dear Huckaby,” say Quixtus. “I shall never trust another human

be as long as I live.”



that evening, somewhat wonder that he have hear no news of Tommy or

of Vandermeer, he unlock the iron safe in his museum and take out his

will. he light a candle and set it by the hearth. now be the time to

destroy the benevolent document. he put it near the flame; then draw it

back. a new thought occur to he. to practise on his nephew the same

trick as his uncle have play upon he be mere unintelligent

plagiarism. he feel a sudden disdain for the merely mimetic in

wickedness.



“I will be original,” say he. “yes, original.” he repeat the word as

a formula both of consolation and incentive, and blow out the candle,

put the will back into the safe.









                              CHAPTER VIII





“Lord have mercy upon we!” cry Clementina.



the pious ejaculation be in the nature of a reply to Miss Etta

Concannon, the fragile slip of a girl whose portrait she have paint and

in whose cornflower-blue eye she have catch the haunt fear. there

be no fear, however, in the eye to-day. they be bright, direct, and

abnormally serious. she have just announce her intention of become a

hospital nurse. Whereupon Clementina have cry: “Lord have mercy upon

we!”



now it must be state that Etta Concannon have bestow on an embarrassed

Clementina her young and ardent affection; secretly, during the sitting

for the portrait which her father have commission Clementina to paint

as a wedding present, and openly; when the sitting be end and she

call upon Clementina as a friend. in the first flush of this avow

adoration she would send shy little note, ask whether she might come

to the studio to tea. as she live quite close by, the missive be

despatch by hand. Clementina, disturb in the midst of her painting,

would tear a ragged corner from the first bit of paper her eye fall

upon—note-paper, brown-paper, cartridge-paper—once it be

sand-paper—scribble “yes” on it with a bit of charcoal and send it out

to the wait messenger. at last she be drive to desperation.



“my good child,” she say, “cann’t you drop in to tea without put I

to this elaborate correspondence?”



Etta Concannon think she could, and thence-forward come to tea

unheralded, and, eventually such be her power of seduction that she

entice Clementina to her own little den in her father’s house in Cheyne

Walk—a fairy den all water-colour and gossamer very much like herself,

in which Clementina give the impression of an ogress who have blunder

in by mistake. it be on the first visit that Clementina repudiate the

name of Miss Wing. she hate and loathe it. on Etta’s lip it suggest

a prim, starch governess—the conventional french caricature of the

English Old Maid with long tooth and sharp elbow. she might be an old

maid, but she ben’t a prim governess. everybody call her Clementina.

upon which, to her profess discomfort, Etta throw her arm round her

neck and kiss she and call she a darling. why Clementina waste she

time over this chit of a girl she be at a loss to conjecture. she be

about as much use in the world as a rainbow. yet for some fool reason

(her own expression) Clementina encourage she, and feel less grim in

her company. the odd part of their intercourse be that the one thing

under heaven they do not talk about be the bullet-head, bull-neck

young man to whom Etta be engage—not until one day when, in response

to the follow epistle, Clementina brusquely dismiss her sitter,

skewer on a battered hat, and rush round to Cheyne Walk.



“my dearest, dearest Clementina,—Do come to I. I be in abject misery.

the very bad have happen. I would come to you, but I’m not fit to be

see.



                                                  your own unhappy

                                                               “Etta.”



“my poor child,” cry Clementina, as she enter the bower and beheld a

very dim and watery fairy sob on a couch. “who have be do this

to you?”



“it’s r-Raymond,” say Etta, chokingly.



to her astonishment Clementina find herself sit on the couch with

her arm round the girl. now and then she do the most idiotic thing

without know in the least why she do they. in this position she

listen to Etta’s heartrende story. it be much involve, here and

there incoherent, tell with singular disregard of chronological

sequence. when properly piece together and shorn of irrelevance, this

be what it amount to:



certain doing of the bullet-head young man, doing not at all

creditable—mean and brutal doing indeed—have reach the ear of

Etta’s father. now Etta’s father be a retired admiral, and Etta the

beloved child of his old age. the report of Captain Hilyard’s doing have

wound he in his weak spot. in a fine fury he telephonically

command the alleged wrongdoer to wait upon he without delay. captain

Hilyard obey. the scene of the interview be a private room in the

service club to which Admiral Concannon belong. Admiral Concannon go

straight to the point—it be an uncomfortable characteristic of british

admiral. the bullet-head young man not be able to deny the charge

bring against he, Admiral Concannon express himself in such term

as be only polished to their bright perfection on the quarter-deck

of a man-of-war. the young man show resentment—amazing impudence,

accord to the Admiral—whereupon the Admiral consign he to the

devil and charge he never to let he (the Admiral) catch he (the

bullet-head young man) lift his scoundrelly eye again to an

innocent young girl. Admiral Concannon come home and tell his daughter

as much of the tale of turpitude as be meet for her ear. captain

Hilyard repair forthwith in unrighteous wrath to his quarter and

pack off Etta’s letter, with a cover note in which he insinuate

that he be not sorry to have see the last of her amiable family. it

have all happen that day.



hence the tear.



“I think you write I that the bad have happen,” say Clementina.



“well, haven’t it?”



“Good Lord!” cry Clementina. “it’s the very good thing that ever

happen to you in all your bear day.”



in the course of a week Clementina bring the sorrow damsel round to

her own way of thinking.



“do you know,” say Etta, “I use to be rather afraid of he.”



“any fool could see that,” say Clementina.



“do you guess?” this with wide-open cornflower eye.



“look at your portrait and you’ll see,” say Clementina, mindful of the

avalanche of memory which the portrait of Tommy Burgrave’s

rough-and-ready criticism of the bullet-head young man have start on

its overwhelming career. “have you ever look at it?”



“of course I have.”



“to look at a thing and to see it,” remark Clementina, “be two

entirely different proposition. for instance, you look at that young

man, but you don’t see he. yet your soul see he and be afraid. your

father too—I cann’t understand what he be about when he consent to

the engagement.”



“Captain Hilyard’s father and he be old mess-mate,” say Etta.



“old messmaker!” snap Clementina. “and what make you accept he?”



Etta look mournful. “I don’t know.”



“the next time you engage yourself to a young man, just be sure that you

do know. I suppose this one say, ‘dilly, dilly, come and be kill,’

and you go like the foolish little geese in the nursery rhyme.”



“they be duck, dear,” laugh Etta, take Clementina’s grim face

between her dainty hand. “duck like you.”



Clementina suffer the caress with a wry mouth.



“I think you’re get well,” she say. “and I’m jolly glad of it. to

have one young idiot on my hand ill with congestion of the lung and

another ill with congestion of the heart—both at the same time—be more

than I bargain for. I suppose you think I’m a sort of Sister of

Charity. why don’t you do as your father tell you and go down to your

Aunt What’s-she-name in Somersetshire?”



Etta make a grimace. “Aunt Elmira would drive I crazy. you’re much more

wholesome for I. and as for father”—she toss her pretty head—“he

have to do what he’s tell.”



so Etta remain in town, her convalescence synchronise with that of

Tommy Burgrave. Clementina begin to find time to breathe and to make up

arrear of work. as soon as Tommy be able to take his walk abroad, and

Etta to seek distraction in the society of her acquaintance, Clementina

shut herself up in her studio, forbid the young people to come near

she, and for a week paint the livelong day. at last, one morning two

piteous letter be smuggle almost simultaneously into the studio.



“. . . I haven’t see you for month and month. do let I come to

dinner to-night. . . . Tommy.”



“. . . oh darling, do come to tea this afternoon. . . . Etta.”



“I shall go and paint in the Sahara,” cry Clementina. but she seize

two dirty scrap of paper and scrawl on they:



“Lord, yes, child, come to dinner.”



“Lord, yes, child, I’ll come to tea.” and having fold they crookedly

despatch they to her young friend.



it be during this visit of Clementina to the fairy bower in Cheyne Walk

that Etta inform she of her intention of become a hospital nurse.



“Lord have mercy upon we!” cry Clementina.



“I don’t see why I shouldn’t,” say Etta.



“the idea be preposterous,” reply Clementina. “what need have you to

work for your living?”



“I want to do something useful in the world.”



“you’ll do much well by remain ornamental,” say Clementina. “it’s

only when a woman be as ugly as sin and as poor as charity that she need

be useful; that’s to say while she’s unmarried. when she’s married she

have get as much as she can do to keep her husband and child in order.

a girl like you with plenty of money and the devil’s own prettiness have

get to stay at home and fulfil her destiny.”



Etta, sit on the window seat, look at the Thames, see in patch

of silver through the fresh greenery of the Embankment tree.



“I know what you’re think of, dear,” she say, with the indulgent

solemnity of the Reverend Mother of a Convent, “but I shall never

marry.”



“Rubbish,” say Clementina.



“I’ve make up my mind, quite make up my mind.”



Clementina sigh. youth be so solemn, so futile, so like the youth of

all the generation that have pass away. the child be suffer from

one of the natural sequelæ of a ruptured engagement. once maiden in her

predicament gat they into nunnery and become nun and that be the end

of they. whether they regret their rash act or not, who can say?

nowadays they rush into philanthropic or political activity, contrive

happy evening for costermonger or unhappy afternoon for Cabinet

Ministers. the impulse drive they to nunnery, Whitechapel, or Caxton

Hall have always be merely a reaction of sex; and the duration of the

period of reaction be proportionate to the degree of brokenness of the

heart. as soon as the heart be mend, sex have her triumphant way again

and leap in response to the eternal foolishness that the maiden blush

to read in the eye of a comely creature in trouser. this Clementina

know, as all those—and only those—whose youth be behind they know it;

and so, when Etta with an air of cold finality say that she have make up

her mind, Clementina sigh. it be so ludicrously pathetic. Etta’s

heart have not even be break; it have not sustain the wee-est,

tiniest fracture; it have be roughly handle; that be all. in a

month’s time she would no more yearn to become a hospital nurse than to

follow the profession of a chimney-sweep. in a month’s time she would be

flirt with merry, whole-hearted outrageousness. in a month’s time, if

the True Prince come along, she might be in love. really in love. what a

wonderful gift to a man would be the love of this fragrant wisp of

womanhood!



“I’ve quite make up my mind, dear,” she repeat.



“then there’s nothing more to be say,” reply Clementina.



a shade of disappointment spread over the girl’s face, like a little

cloud over a May morning. she jump from the window-seat and slide to a

stool by Clementina’s chair.



“but there’s lot to be say. lot. it’s a tremendously important

decision in life.”



“tremendous,” say Clementina.



“it mean that I’ll die an old maid.”



“like I,” say Clementina.



“if I’m like you I willn’t care a bit!”



“Lord save we,” say Clementina.



the girl actually take it for grant that she enjoy be an old

maid.



“I’ll have a little house in the country all cover with honeysuckle,

and a pony-trap and a dog and a cat and you’ll come and stay with I.”



“I think you be go to be a hospital nurse,” say Clementina.



“so I be; but I’ll live in the house when I’m off duty.”



Clementina roll a cigarette. Etta kneel bolt upright and offer a

light match. now when a lissom-figure girl kneel bolt upright, with

a shapely head throw ever so little back, and stretch out her arm,

there be few thing more adorable in this world of beauty. Clementina

look at she for full ten second with the eye of a Moses on Mount

Nebo—suppose (a bewilder hypothesis) that Moses have be an artist

and a woman—and then, disregard cigarette and light match, she

lay her hand on the girl’s shoulder and shake she gently so that she

sink back on her heel, and the match go out.



“oh, you dear, delightful, silly, silly child.”



she rise abruptly and go to the mantelpiece and light the cigarette for

herself. Etta laugh in blushing confusion.



“but darling, nurse do have time off now and then.”



“I ben’t think about nurse at all,” say Clementina.



“then what be you think of?” ask Etta; still sit on her heel

and crane her head round.



“never mind,” say Clementina. “but what will you want an old frump like

I in your house for?”



“to listen to my trouble,” say the girl.



Clementina walk home through the soft May sunshine, a smile twinkle

in her little beady eye and the corner of her lip twist into an

expression of deep melancholy. if she have be ten year young there

would have be no smile in her eye. if she have be ten year old a

corroborative smile would have play about her lip. but at thirty-five

a woman in Clementina’s plight often do not know whether to laugh or

to cry, and if she be a woman with a sense of humour she do both at

once. the eternal promise, the eternal message vibrate through the air.

the woman of five-and-thirty hear it instinctively and reject it

intellectually. she hurry her pace and grip she

umbrella—Clementina always carry a great, untidy, bulge

umbrella—as if to assure herself that it would rain to-morrow from

leaden sky. but the day laugh at she, and the garden which she

pass flaunt lilac and laburnum and pink may and springtide and youth

before she, and buttercup look at she with a mocking air of

innocence. forget-I-not in window-box lean forward and whisper,

“see how fresh and young we be.” a very young plane tree look

impudently green; in its dainty fragility it suggest Etta.



“drat the child,” say Clementina, and she walk along, shut she

eye to the immature impertinence of the spring. but outside the window

of a fruiterer’s in the Royal Hospital Road she stop short, with a

little inward gasp. a bunch of parrot-tulip—great riotous gold thing

splash all over with their crimson heart’ blood, flare like the

sunset flame of a tropical summer. as a hungry tomtit fly straight to

a shred of meat, she go in and buy they.



when she reach her house in Romney Place she peep for the last (and

the hundredth) time into the open mouth of the twisted white paper

cornet.



“they’ll make a nice bit of colour on the dinner-table for Tommy,” she

say to herself.



o Clementina! o woman! what in the name of Astarte have the gold and

crimson reprobate to do with Tommy?



she let herself in with her key, traverse her Sheraton drawing-room,

and open the door lead on to the studio gallery. Tommy be below,

walk up and down like a young wild beast in a cage. his usually tidy

hair be ruffle, as though frenzied finger have disturb its calm.

Clementina call out:



“you ask if you could come to dinner. six o’clock ben’t dinner-time.”



“I know,” he cry up at she. “I’ve be here for an hour.”



she go down the spiral staircase and confront he.



“what have you be do to your hair? it’s like Ferdinand’s in _the

Tempest_. and;” notice a new note of violence in the customary

peaceful chaos of the studio, “why have you be kick my cushion

about?”



“my uncle have go stick, stark, staring, raving, lunatic mad,” say

Tommy.



he turn on his heel and strode to the other end of the studio.

Clementina throw the parrot-tulip on a chair and draw off her left-hand

old cotton glove, which she cast on the tulip. then for a while, during

Tommy’s retreat and approach, she gaze thoughtfully at the thumb-tip

which protrude from the right-hand glove.



“I’m not at all surprised,” she say, when Tommy join she.



“how else can you account for it?” cry Tommy, fling his arm wide.



“account for what?”



“what he have do. listen. a week ago he come to see I, as jolly as

could be. you be there——”



“about as jolly as a slug,” say Clementina.



“anyway he be all right. I tell the dear old chap I have unaccountably

exceed my allowance—and he send I a cheque next day, just as he

always do. this afternoon a card be bring up to I—my uncle’s card.

write on it in his handwriting: ‘to introduce Mr. Theodore

Vandermeer.’”



“what name?” ask Clementina, prick her ear.



“Vandermeer.”



“go on.”



“I tell the servant to show he in—and in come a dilapidated devil

look like a mangy fox——”



“that’s the man.”



“do you know he?”



“all right. go on.”



“—— who squirm and wriggle and beat about the bush, and at last

tell I that he be commission by my uncle to inform I that unless I

give up painting and go into some infernal City office within a month

he’ll stop my allowance and cut I out of his will.”



Clementina work the thumb-tip through the hole in the right hand glove

until the entire thumb be visible.



“what be you go to do?” she ask.



Tommy wave his arm. “I must try to see my uncle and ask he what’s the

meaning of it. of course I’ve no claim on he—but he’s a rich man and

fond of I and all that—and, when my poor mother die, he sort of

adopt I and give I to understand that I needn’t worry. so I haven’t

worry. and when I take up with paint he encourage I all he know.

it’s damnable!” he pause, and stride three or four pace up the studio

and three or four back, as though to work off the dangerous excess of

damnability in the situation. “it ben’t as if I be an idle waster

go to the devil. I’ve work jolly hard, haven’t I? I’ve put my back

into it, and I’m begin to do something. only last week I be tell

he about the New Gallery picture—he seem quite pleased—and now,

without a minute’s warning, he send this foxy-faced jackal to tell I

to go into an office. It’s—it’s—God know what it ben’t!”



“I believe,” say Clementina, look at her thumb, “that there be

quite worthy young man in City office.”



“I would soon go into a stoke-hole,” cry Tommy. “oh, it’s

phantasmagorical!”



he sit down on the platform of the throne and bury his head in his

hand.



“cheer up,” say Clementina. “the world haven’t come to an end yet and we

haven’t have dinner.”



she open a door at the back of the studio that communicate with the

kitchen region and, call out for Eliza, be answer by a distant

voice.



“go to the grocer’s and fetch a bottle of champagne for dinner.”



“yes, ma’am,” say the voice, come nearer. “what kind of champagne?”



“I don’t know,” say Clementina. “but tell he to send the good bottle

he have get.”



“what a good sort you be,” say Tommy.



neither be alarm by the prospective quality of this vaguely select

vintage. how holy be simplicity! it enable man and woman to face and

pass through terror without recognise they.



Clementina take off her hat and right-hand glove, and roll a

cigarette. Tommy burst out again:



“why don’t he send for I and tell I so himself? why don’t he write?

why do he charter this seedy, ugly scoundrel? I ask the wretch. he

say my uncle think that such a delicate communication have well be

make through a third party. but what’s my uncle do—associate with

such riff-raff? why don’t he choose a gentleman? this chap look as if

he’d murder you for tuppence.”



the young be apt to exaggerate the defect of those who have not gain

their esteem. as a matter of fact, acknowledge afterwards by Tommy,

Vandermeer have accomplish his unpleasant mission with considerable

tact and delicacy. Tommy be an upstanding, squarely build young Saxon,

with a bright blue eye, and there be a steep flight of stair lead

down from his studio.



“once I feed he on ham and beef round the corner,” say Clementina.



“the devil you do,” say Tommy.



Clementina relate the episode and her subsequent conversation with

Quixtus.



“I give it up,” say Tommy. “I know that my uncle be greatly upset by

the trial—and I have be think that perhaps it have rather unhinge

his mind—and that be why he take up with such a scarecrow. but he have

apparently be a friend of his for year. it show you how little we

know of our fellow creature,” he moralise. “if there ever be a chap I

think I know inside out it be my Uncle Ephraim.” then pity smite he.

“if he’s really off his head, it’s tragic. he be the good and dear

and kindest-hearted fellow in the world.”



“do you ask the man whether your uncle have go mad?”



“of course I do—in so many word. Man seem to look on it as an

astonishing suggestion. he say my uncle have long disapprove of my

take up painting as a profession, and now have arrive at the

conviction that the good thing for I be a commercial career—a

commercial career!”



so do Thrones and Dominations, I imagine, speak of the mundane

avocation of a mere Angel.



“if you refuse, you’ll be give up three hundred a year now and heaven

know how much afterwards,” say Clementina.



“and if I accept I would be give up my self-respect, my art, my

dream, every thing that make for life—life with the big of

capital L’s. by George, no! if my uncle willn’t listen to reason I’ll not

listen to unreason, and there’s an end of it. I’ll pull through

somehow.”



“good,” say Clementina, who have remain remarkably silent. “I be

wait to hear you say that. if you have hesitate I should have tell

you to go home and dine by yourself. a little starvation and struggle

and fringe to your trouser will be the making of you. as for your

uncle, if he’s crazy he’s crazy, and there’s an end of it, as you say.

let’s talk no more about it. what make you beg to come to dinner this

evening?” she ask, with a resumption of her aggressive manner.



“the desire of the moth for the star,” he laugh.



she respond in her grim way, and bid he amuse himself while she go

upstairs to wash her face and hand. Clementina do wash her face,

literally, scrub it with Old Brown Windsor soap and towel it

vigorously afterwards, thereby accomplish, as her feminine

acquaintance assert, the ruin of her skin. she rise and go to the

foot of the stair. Tommy’s eye fall on the parrot-tulip in their white

comet.



“what be you go to do with those gaudy thing?”



Clementina have forget they. the curious impulse of the blood that have

lead to their purchase have be spend. Tommy’s news have puzzle she and

have take her mind off foolishness. she glance at they somewhat

ashamedly.



“stick they in water, of course,” she reply. “you don’t suppose I’m

go to wear they?”



“why not?” cry Tommy, and, snatch out a great gold and crimson

bloom, he hold it against her black hair and swarthy brow. “by Jove. you

look stunning!”



Clementina, in a tone of some asperity, tell he not to be a fool, and

mount the stair with unaccountably burn cheek.



at dinner, Tommy, inspire by more than three-fourth of the grocer’s

good bottle of champagne talk glowingly of his prospect in the event

of his uncle’s craziness not be a transitory disorder. after all, the

world be his oyster, and he know the trick of open it. Most people

bungle, and jab their finger through try to prize it open at the

wrong end. the wise man, say he, in the tone of an infant solon, be he

who not only make a mock of misfortune, but bent it to his own use as an

instrument for the attainment of happiness. when challenge, he

confess that he get this gem of sapience out of a book. but it be

jolly true, ben’t it? really, he be look forward to poverty. he be

sick of silk hat and patent leather boot and the young woman he meet at

tea-party. nature beat the lot. nature for he. Thoreau—“The boy’s

go as crack as his uncle!” cry Clementina—Thoreau, he insist,

have find out the truth. he would give up his studio, take a labourer’s

cottage in the country at two shilling a week, live on lentil, paint

immortal though perhaps not instantaneously remunerative landscape by

day and do all sort of thing with his pencil for the sake of a

livelihood by night. he know of a beautiful cottage, two room and a

kitchen, near Hagbourne, in Berkshire. the place be a forest of

cherry-tree. nothing more breathlessly beautiful on the earth than the

whole of a countryside quiver with cherry-blossom—except the same

countryside when it be a purple mist of cherry. Geoffrey King have the

cottage last summer. there be a bit of a garden which he could

cultivate—cherry-tree in it, of course; also flower and vegetable.

he would supply Clementina with pansy and potato all the year round.

there be a pig-sty, too—useful in case he want to run a pig. when

Clementina be tired of London, she could come to the cottage and he

would sleep in the pig-sty.



for the second time that day she ask:



“what will you want an old frump like I in the house for?”



“to look at my picture,” say Tommy.



Clementina sniff. “I think as much,” she say. “really, the callous

selfishness of old age be saint-like altruism compare with the fresh,

spontaneous egotism of youth.”



Tommy, accustom to her sharp saying, only laugh boyishly. how be

he to guess the history of the parrot-tulip? he be mildly surprised,

however, when she decide to spend the evening, not in the studio, but

in the stiff, Sheraton drawing-room. he protest. it be so much

jollier in the studio. she ask why.



“this place have no character, no personality. it look like a show

drawing-room in a furniture dealer’s window. it have nothing to do with

you. it mean nothing.”



“that’s just why I want to sit in it,” say Clementina. “you can go to

the studio, if you like.”



“that wouldn’t be polite,” say Tommy.



she shrug her shoulder and sit down at the piano and play scrap

of Mozart, Beethoven, and Grieg—memory of girlhood—with the inexpert

musician’s uncertainty of touch. Tommy wander restlessly about the

room examine the Bartolozzis and the back of the book in the

glass-protect case. at last he become conscious of strain. he leant

over the piano, and wait until she have break down hopelessly in a

fragment of Peer Gynt.



“have I say or do anything wrong, Clementina? if so, I’m dreadfully

sorry.”



she shut the piano with a bang.



“you poor, motherless babe,” she cry. “whom would you go to with your

trouble, if you haven’t get I?”



Tommy smile vaguely.



“deuce know,” say he.



“then let we go down to the studio and talk about they,” say

Clementina.









                               CHAPTER IX





after leave Clementina, Tommy go for a long brisk walk in order to

clear his mind, and on his homeward way along the Embankment, branch

off to the middle of old Chelsea Bridge in order to admire the moonlight

view; he also take off his hat in order to get cool. the treacherous May

wind cool he effectually and send he to bed for three day with a

chill.



Clementina sit by his rueful bedside and rate he soundly. the idea of

one just recover from pneumonia set his blood boil hot and

then cool himself on a bridge at midnight in the bitter north-east

wind! he be about as sane as his uncle. they be a pretty and

well-match pair. both ought to be place under restraint. a dark house

and a whip would have be their portion in the good old time.



“I’ve get ’em both now,” say Tommy, grin. “this confound bedroom

be my dark house and your tongue be the whip.”



“I hope it hurt like the devil,” say Clementina.



Tommy write from his sick bed a dignified and manly letter to his uncle,

and, like Brutus, pause for a reply. none come. Quixtus read it, and

his warped vision see ingratitude and hypocrisy in every line. he have

already speak to Griffiths about the office-stool in the Star Insurance

Company. Tommy’s emphatic refusal to sit on it place he in an awkward

position with regard to Griffiths. opening in a large insurance office

be not as common as those for hop-picker in August. griffith, a

sour-temper man at time, would be annoy. Quixtus, encourage by

Vandermeer, regard himself as an ill-use uncle, and not only miss

all the thrill of his deed of wickedness, but accept Tommy’s decision

as a rebuff to his purely benevolent intention. he therefore add the

unfortunate Tommy to the list of those whom he have try and find

want. he have a grievance against Tommy. such be the topsyturvydom of

man after a little thread have snap in his brain.



now, it so happen that, on the selfsame day that Tommy crawl again

into the open air, Clementina, stand before her easel and painfully

paint drapery from the lay figure, suddenly feel the whole studio

gyrate in a whirling maelstrom into whose vortex of unconsciousness she

be swiftly suck. she fall in a heap on the floor, and remain there

until she come to with a splitting headache and a sensation of carry

masse of bruise pulp at various corner of her body instead of limb.

her maid, Eliza, find she lie white and ill on the couch to which

she have drag herself, administer water—there be no such thing as

smell-salt in Clementina’s house—and, on her own responsibility,

summon the near doctor. the result of his examination be a

diagnosis of overwork. Clementina jeer. only idler suffer from

overwork. besides, she be as strong as a horse. the doctor remind she

that she be a woman, with a woman’s delicately adjust nervous system.

she also have her sex’s lack of restraint. a man, find that he be

lose sleep, appetite, control of temper and artistic grip, would

abandon work and plunge utterly unashamed into hoggish idleness. a woman

always feel that by fight against weakness she be uphold the

honour of her sex, and struggle on insanely till she drop.



“I’m glad you realise I’m a woman,” say Clementina.



“why?”



“because you’re the first man who have do so for many year.”



the doctor, a youngish man, very earnest, of the modern neuropathic

school, miss the note of irony. this be the first time he have see

Clementina.



“you’re one of the most highly string woman I’ve ever come across,” say

he, gravely. “I want you to appreciate the fact and not to strain the

tension to breaking-point.”



“you wrap it up very nicely,” say Clementina, “but, to put it brutally,

your honest opinion be that I’m just a silly, unreasonable, excitable,

sex-ride fool of a female like a million other. ben’t that so?”



the young doctor bear the scrutiny of those glitter, ironical point

of eye with commendable professional stolidity.



“it be,” say he, and in say it he have the young practitioner’s

horrible conviction that he have lose an influential new patient. but

Clementina stretch out her hand. he take it very gladly.



“I like you,” she say, “because you’re not afraid to talk sense. now

I’ll do whatever you tell I.”



“go away for a complete change—anywhere will do—and don’t think of

work for a month at the very least.”



“all right,” say Clementina.



when Tommy, look very much the bad for his relapse, come in the

next day to report himself in robust health once more, Clementina

acquaint he with her own bodily infirmity. it be absurd, she

declare, that she should break down, but absurdity be the guide

principle of this comic planet. holiday be ordain. she have spend a

sleepless night think how she should make it. Dawn have bring

solution of the problem. why not make it in fantastic fashion,

harmonise with the absurd scheme of thing?



“what be you go to do?” ask Tommy. “spend a frolicsome month in

Whitechapel, or put on male attire and go for a soldier?”



“I shall hire an automobile and motor about France.”



“it’s sport enough,” say Tommy, judicially, “but I should hardly

call it fantastic.”



“wait till you’ve hear the rest,” say Clementina. “I have originally

intend to take Etta Concannon with I; but since you’ve come here

look like three-ha’porth of misery, I’ve decide to take you.”



“I?” cry Tommy. “my dear Clementina, that’s absurd.”



“I think you would agree with I,” say Clementina, “but I’m go to

do it. wouldn’t you like to come?”



“I should think so!” he exclaim, boyishly. “it would be gorgeous.

but——”



“but what?”



“how can I afford to go motor abroad?”



“you wouldn’t have to afford it. you would be my guest.”



“it’s delightful of you, Clementina, to think of it—but it’s

impossible.”



Whereupon an argument arise such as have often arise between man and

woman.



“I’m old enough to be your grandmother, or at least you think so, which

come to the same thing,” say Clementina.



Tommy’s young pride would not allow he to accept largesse from feminine

hand, however elderly and unromantic.



“if I have a country house and host of servant and several motor-car

and ask you to stay, you’d come without hesitation.”



“that would be different. don’t you see for yourself?”



Clementina choose not to see for herself. here be a dolorous baby of a

boy disinherit by a lunatic uncle, emaciate by illness and unable to

work, refuse a help hand just because it be a woman’s. it be

preposterous. Clementina grow angry. Tommy hold firm.



“it’s merely selfish of you. don’t you see I want a companion?”



Tommy point out the companionable quality of Etta Concannon. but she

would not hear of Etta. the sight of Tommy’s wan face have decide she,

and she be a woman who be accustom to carry out her decision. she

be somewhat dictatorial, somewhat hectoring. she have take it into her

head to play fairy godmother to Tommy Burgrave, and she resent his

repudiation of her godmotherdom. besides, there be purely selfish

reason for choose Tommy rather than Etta, which she acknowledge with

inward candour. Tommy be a man who would fetch and carry and keep the

chauffeur up to the mark, and inspire gendarme and custom-house

official and maitre-d’hotel with respect, and, although Clementina

fear neither man nor devil, she be aware of the value of a suit of

clothe fill with a male entity as a travel adjunct to a lone

woman. with Etta the case would be different. Etta would fetch her

motor-veil and carry her glove with the most adoringly submissive grace

in the world; but all the real fetching and carry for the two of they

would have to be do by Clementina herself. therein lie the difference

between Clementina and the type generally know as the emancipate

woman. she have no exaggerated notion of the equality of the sex,

which in feminine logic generally mean the high superiority of woman.

Circumstance have emancipate she from dependence upon the other sex, but

on the circumstance and the emancipation she cast not too favourable an

eye. she have a crystal clear idea of the substantial usefulness of man

in this rough and not always ready cosmic scheme. therefore, for

purpose of utility, she want Tommy. in her usual blunt manner she

tell he so.



“you run in here at all hour of the day and night, and it’s Clementina

this and Clementina that until I cann’t call my soul my own—and now, the

first time I ask you to do I a service you fall back on your silly

little prejudice and vanity and pride, and say you cann’t do it.”



“I’m very sorry,” say Tommy, humbly.



“I tell you what it be,” say Clementina, with a curiously vicious

feminine stroke, “you’d come if I be a smart-look woman with fine

clothe who could be a credit to you—but you willn’t face go about

with an animate rag-and-bone shop like I.”



Tommy flush as pink as only a fair youth can flush; he spring forward

and seize her wrist and, unwittingly, hurt she in his strong and

indignant grip.



“what you’re say be abominable and you ought to be ashamed of

yourself. if I think anything like that I’d be the most infernal cur

that ever trod the earth. I’d like to shake you for dare to say such

thing about I.”



he fling away her hand and stalk off to the other end of the studio,

leave she with tingle wrist and unfindable retort.



“if you really think I can be of service to you,” he say, in a

dignified way, having complete the return journey, “I shall be most

happy to come.”



“I don’t want you to make a martyr of yourself,” she snap.



Tommy consider within himself for a moment or two, then break into his

boyish laugh.



“I’m an ungrateful pig, and I’ll follow you all over the world. dear old

Clementina,” he add, more seriously, put his hand on her shoulder,

“forgive I.”



Clementina gently remove his hand. she prefer the grip on the wrist

that hurt. but, mollify, she forgive he.



so in a few day they start on their travel.



                 *        *        *        *        *



the thirty-five horse-power car whirl they, a happy pair, through the

heart of summer. above the blue sky blaze, and beneath the white road

gleam a shivering streak. the exhilarating wind of their motion fill

their lung and set their tired pulse throb. now and then, for

mile, the great plane tree on each side of the way form the

never-end nave of an infinite cathedral, the roof a miracle of green

tracery. through quiet, sun-bake village they pass, at a snail’s

pace, hoot child and dog from before their path—and because they

proceed slowly and Tommy be goodly to look upon, the woman smile

from their doorway, or from the run laundry stream where they kneel

and beat the wet clothe, or from the fountain in the cool, flag

little square jutting out like a tiny transept from the aisle of the

street. baby stare stolidly. here and there a bunch of little girl,

their hair tie in demure pigtail, the blue sarrau over their loud

check frock; would laugh and whisper, and one more daring than the rest

would wave an audacious hand, and when Tommy blow she a kiss from his

finger there come the little slut’s gracious response, amid mirth and

delight unspeakable. man would look up from their dusty, bare, uneven

bowl-alley beneath the tree and watch they as they go by. an

automobile, in spite of its frequency, be always an event in a french

village. if it race mercilessly through; there be reasonable

opportunity to curse which always gladden the heart of man. if it

proceed slowly and show deference to the inhabitant, it be an event

rare enough to command their admiration. instead of shut their eye

against a sort of hell-chariot in a whirlwind; they can observe the

gracefully build car and its stranger though human occupant, which be

something deserve a note in the record of an eventless day. if they

stop and quit the car so as to glance at leisure at old church or

quaint fountain—and in many an out-of-the-way village in France the

water of the community gush forth from a beautiful work of art—all

the idler of the sunny place cluster round the car, while the british

chauffeur stand by the radiator, impeccably vesture and unembarrasse

as a fate. at noon come the break for déjeuner; preferably in some

little world-forget townlet, where, after the hor-d’œuvre, omelette,

cutlet, chicken, and fruit—and where be the sad, plague-stricken hamlet

of France that cannot, in the twinkling of an eye, provide such a meal

for the hungry wayfarer?—they love to take their coffee beneath the

awning of a café on the shady side of the great, sleepy square, and

absorb the sleepy, sunny, prosperous spirit of the place; the unpainted

bandstand in the centre, the low-lie house with sleepy little shop

and cafés—Heavens! how many cafés!—around it, the modern, model-build

Hôtel de Ville, the fine avenue of plane tree without which no Grande

Place in France could exist, and, above the roof of the house, the

weather-beat, crumble Gothic tower of the church surmount by its

extinguisher-shape leaden belfry alive with vivid yellow and olive.

and then the road again past the rapidly become familiar object; the

slow ox-cart; the herd of wayside goat in charge of a dirty,

tow-head child; the squad of canvas-suit soldier; the great

lumber waggon draw by a string of three gaudily and elaborately

yoked horse, the driver fast asleep on the top of his mountainous load;

the mongrel dog that seek, and happily find not, euthanasia beneath

the wheel of the modern car of Juggernaut; the sober-vest peasant

woman bend beneath their burden with the calm unexpressive face of

caryatide grow old and wither. towards the late afternoon be

reach the large town where they would halt for the night: first come

the eternal, but grateful, outer boulevard cool with foliage, run

between newly build, perky house and shop and then lead into the

heart of the old city, grey, narrow-streete, picturesque. as the

automobile clatter through the great gateway of the hotel into the

paved courtyard, out come the decent landlord and smile landlady,

welcome their guest, summon unshaven man in green-baize apron—who,

at dinner, be to appear in the decorous garb of waiter, and in the

morning, by a subtle modification of costume (dingy white apron instead

of green-baize) be to do uncomplaine work as housemaid—to take

down the luggage, and show the traveller to their clean, bare room.

after the summary removal of the journey’s dust come the delicious

saunter through the strange old town; the stimulus of the sudden burst

into view of the west front of a cathedral, with its deeply recess and

sculpture doorway, and its great, flamboyant window strike by the

westering sun; the quick, indrawn breath of delight when, in a narrow,

evil-smell, cobble-paved street, they come unexpectedly upon some

marvel of an early Renaissance façade, with its refined riot of

ornament, its unerre proportion, its laugh dignity—laugh all

the more and with all the more dignity, as become its mocking,

aristocratic soul, because the ground floor be give up to a dingy

tinsmith and its upper storey to the same class of easy-go,

slatternly folk who sit at the window of the other unconsidered house

in the sallow and homely street; the gay relief of emerge from such

unsavoury and foot-massacre by-way into the quarter of the town on

which the Syndicat d’Initiative pride itself—the wide, well-keep

thoroughfare or _place_ with its inevitable greenery, its flourishing

cafés thick with decorous folk beneath the awning, its proud and

prosperous shop, its Municipal Theatre, Bourse, Hôtel de Ville, its

generously spout fountain, its statue of the great son—poet, artist,

soldier—of the locality; its crowd of well-feed saunterer—fat and

greasy citizen, the supercilious aristocrat and the wolf-eyed anarchist

might perhaps join together in call they—but still God’s very worthy

creature; its general expression, not of the joy of life, for a

provincial town be, as a whole, govern by condition which affect only

a part of a great capital, but of the undeniable usefulness and

pleasurableness of human existence. then, after dinner, out again to the

cool terrace of a café—in provincial France no one lounge over coffee

and tobacco in an hotel—and lastly to bed, with wind and sun in their

eye and in their heart the peace of a beautiful land.



they have plan the first part of their route—Boulogne, Abbeville,

Beauvais, Sens, Tonnerre, Dijon, through the Côté d’Or and down the

valley of the Rhone to Avignon. after that the road of France be open

to they to go whithersoever they will. the ground, the experience, the

freedom, all be new to they. to Clementina France have practically be

synonymous with Paris—not Paris of the Grands Boulevards, Montmartre,

and expensive restaurant, but Paris of the Left Bank, of the studio,

of struggle and toil—a place not of gaiety but grimness. to Tommy it

mean Paris, too—Paris of the young artist-tourist, a museum of great

picture—the Louvre, the Luxembourg, the Pantheon immortalise by Puvis

de Chavannes; also Dieppe, Dinard, and such-like dependency of

Britain. but of the true France such as they behold it now they know

nothing, and they behold it with the wide-open eye of child.



after a few day the weariness fall from Clementina’s shoulder; new

life speed through her vein. her hard lip catch the long-forget

trick of a smile. she almost lose the art of acid speech. she grow young

again.



Tommy hold the money-bag.



“I’m not go to look like a maiden aunt treat a small boy to bun

at a confectioner’s,” she have declare. “I’m go to be a real lady for

once and see what it’s like.”



so Clementina do nothing in the most ladylike manner, while Tommy

play courier and carry through all arrangement with the impressive

air of importance that only a young Briton in somebody else’s motor-car

can assume. he have forget the little sacrifice of his pride, he have

forget, or at least he disregard, with the precious

irresponsibility of three-and-twenty, the fact that his income be

reduce to the negligible quantity of a pound a week; he give himself up

to the enjoyment of the passing hour, and if ever he do cast a forward

glance at the clouded future, behold! the cloud be rosy with the

reflection of the present sunshine.



he be proud of his newly discover talent as a courier, and boast in

his boyish way.



“ben’t you glad you’ve get I to take care of you?”



“it’s a new sensation for I to be take care of.”



“but you don’t dislike it?”



he be arrange at the bottom of the car a pile of rug and wrap as a

footstool for Clementina, at the exact height and angle for her

luxurious comfort.



Clementina sigh. she be begin to like it very much indeed.









                               CHAPTER X





when they swing round the great bend of the Rhone, and Vienne come in

sight, Tommy utter a cry of exultation.



“oh Clementina, let we stay here for a week!”



when they stand an hour afterwards on the great suspension bridge that

connect Vienne with the little town of Sainte-Colombe, and drink in the

afternoon beauty of the place, Tommy amend his proposition.



“oh Clementina,” say he, “let we stay here for ever!”



Clementina sigh, and watch the broad blue river sweep in its

majestic curve between the woode mountain from whose foliage peep a

myriad human habitation, the ancient Château-Fort de la Bâtie stand

a brave and mutilate sentinel on its dominating hill, the nestling town

with its byzantine tower and tiled roof, the Gothic west front of the

Cathedral frame by the pylon of the bridge, the green boulevarded

embankment and the fort of Sainte-Colombe in its broad and more

smile valley guard, it too, by its grim square tower, the laugh

peace of the infinite web of afternoon shadow and afternoon sunlight.

away up the stream a barge move slowly down under a sail of burnish

gold. a few moment afterwards come under the lee of the mountain,

the sail turn into what Tommy, who have point it out, call a

dream-colour brown. from which it may be deduce that Tommy be

grow poetical.



in former time Clementina would have rebuke so nonsensical a fancy.

but now, with a nod, she acquiesce. Nay more, she openly agree.



“we who live in a sunless room in the midst of paint-pot, know nothing

of the beauty of the world.”



“that’s true,” say Tommy.



“we hope, when we’re tired, that there be such a place as the Land of

Dreams, but we imagine it’s somewhere east of the sun, and west of the

moon. we don’t realise that all we’ve get to do to get there be to walk

out of our front door.”



“it all depend upon the inward eye, don’t it?” say the boy. “or,

perhaps, indeed, it need a double inward eye—two personality, you

know, harmonise in a subtle sort of way, so as to bring it into focus.

you see what I mean? I don’t think I could get the whole dreamy

adorableness of this if I haven’t you beside I.”



“do you mean that, Tommy?” she ask, with eye fix on the Rhone.



“of course I do,” he reply, earnestly.



her lip work themselves into a smile.



“I never think my personality could harmonise with any other on God’s

earth.”



“you’ve live a life of horrible, rank injustice.”



she start, as if hurt. “ah! don’t say that.”



“to yourself, I mean, dear Clementina. you’ve never allow yourself

a good quality. now you’re begin to find out your mistake.”



“when it’s point out that I can harmonise with your beautiful nature!”



at the flash of the old Clementina, Tommy laugh.



“I’m not go to deny that there’s good in I. why should I? if there

ben’t, I shouldn’t be here. you wouldn’t have ask I to be your

companion,” he add quickly, fear lest she might put a wrong

construction on his word. “when a good woman do a man the honour of

admit he to her intimate companionship, he know he’s good—and it

make he feel well.”



her left elbow rest on the parapet of the bridge, and her chin rest

on the palm of her hand. without look at he she stretch out the

other hand and touch he.



“thank you for say that, Tommy,” she say in a low voice.



their mutual relation have modify considerably during the journey. the

change, in the first place, have come instinctively from Tommy. Hitherto,

Clementina have represent little to his ingenuous mind but the

rough-and-ready comrade, the good sort, the stunning portrait-painter.

with many of his man friend he be on practically the same term. quite

unconsciously he patronise she ever so little, as the Prince Charmings

of life’s fairy-tale be apt to patronise those who be not quite so

charming or quite so princely as themselves. when he have dine with the

proud and gorgeous he love to strut before she aureole in his

reflect splendour; not for a moment remembering that have Clementina

choose to throw off her social nonconformity she could have sit in high

place at the house of such a proud and gorgeous hierarchy as he, Tommy

Burgrave, could not hope, for many year, to consort with. sometimes he

treat she as an old family nurse, who spoil he, sometimes as a

bearded master; he tease she; chaff she, lay trap to catch she

sharp saying; greet she with “Hullo,” and part from she with an

airy wave of the hand. but as soon as they set off on their travel the

subtle change take place, for which the fact of his be her guest

could only, in small degree, account. be in charge of all

arrangement, and thus assert his masculinity, he see Clementina in a

new light. for all her unloveliness she be a woman; for all her lack of

convention she be a lady bear and breed. she be as much under his

protection as any dame or damsel of the proud and gorgeous to whom he

might have have the honour to act as escort; and without a moment’s

self-consciousness he begin to treat Clementina with the same courteous

solicitude as he would have treat such dame or damsel, or, for the

matter of that, any other woman of his acquaintance. whereas, a month or

two before he would have tramp by her side for mile without the

thought of her possible fatigue enter his honest head, now her

inability to stroll about the street of these little provincial town,

without physical exhaustion, cause he grave anxiety. he administer

to her comfort in a thousand way. he see to the proper working of the

shutter in her room, to the smooth opening of the drawer and press;

put the fear of God into the heart of chamber-maid and valet through

the medium of a terrific lingua franca of his own invention; supply

she with flower; rise early every morning to scour the town for a _New

York Herald_ so that it could be take up to Clementina’s room with her

coffee, and _petit croissant_. his habit of speech, too, become more

deferential, and his discourse gain in depth and sincerity what it

lose in picturesque vernacular. to sum up the whole of the foregoing in

a phrase, Tommy’s attitude towards Clementina grow to be that of an

extremely nice boy towards an extremely nice maiden aunt.



this change of attitude act very powerfully on Clementina. as she have

remark, it be a new sensation to be take care of: one which she

like very much indeed. all the sternly repressed feminine in she—all

that she call the silly fool woman—respond to the masculine

strength and delicacy of touch. she, on her side, see Tommy in a new

light. he have develop from the boy into the man. he be responsible,

practical, imperious in his frank, kindly, anglo-Saxon way. it be a new

joy for the woman, who, since girlhood, have fight single-handed for her

place in the world, to sit still and do nothing while difficulty

vanish before his bright presence just as the crest of alarm

steep vanish before the irresistible rush of the car.



once when a loud report and the grinding of the wheel announce a

puncture, she cry involuntarily.



“I’m so glad!”



Tommy laugh. “well, of all the feminine reason for

gladness!”—Clementina bask in her femininity like a lizard in the

sun. “I suppose it’s because you can sit in the shade and watch Johnson

and I toil and broil like nigger on the road.”



she blush beneath her swarthy skin. that be just it. she love to see

he throw off his coat and grapple like a young Hercules with the tyre.

for Johnson’s much more efficient exertion she care not a scrap.



her heart be full of new delight. it be a new delight to feel

essentially what she in her irony use to term a lady; to be address

with deference and tenderness, to have her desire execute just that

instant before specific formulation which give charm and surprise.

every day she discover a new and unsuspected quality in Tommy, and

every evening she dwelt upon the sweetness, freshness, and strength of

his nature. the lavender fragrance, the nice maiden-aunt-ity of her

relation with Tommy, I be afraid she miss.



it give she an odd little thrill of pleasure when Tommy propound his

theory of the perfect focal adjustment of the good in their nature.

when he implicitly give her rank as angel she be deeply move. so she

stretch out her hand and touch he and say “thank you.”



“you say nothing about my proposal to stay here for ever,” he remark,

after a while.



“I’m quite ready,” she reply absently. “why shouldn’t we?”



Tommy point out a white château that flash through the greenery of

the hill behind the cathedral.



“that’s the place we’ll take. we’ll fill it with book—chiefly sermon,

and flower—chiefly poppy, and we’ll smoke hashish instead of

tobacco, and we’ll sleep and paint dream-picture all the rest of our

life.”



“I suppose you cann’t conceive life—even a dream-life—without picture

to paint in it?”



“not exactly,” say he. “can you?”



“I shouldn’t be paint picture in my dream-life.”



“what would you be do?”



but Clementina do not reply. she look at the brave old sentinel fort

glow red in the splendour of the westere sun. Tommy continued—“I’m

sure you would be paint. how do you think a musician could face an

existence without music? or a golfer without golf?” and he break into

his fresh laugh. “I wonder what dream-golf would be like? it would be a

sort of mixed arrangement, I guess, with star for ball and cloud for

bunker and mead of asphodel for put green.” he suddenly lift

his hand, palm face palm, and look through they at the frame

picture. “clementina dear, if I don’t get that old Tour de la Bâtie with

the sunset on it, I’ll die. it will take eternity to get it right, and

that’s why we must stay here for ever.”



“we’ll stay as long as you like,” say Clementina, “and you can paint to

your heart’s content.”



“you’re the dear thing in the world,” say Tommy.



Dinner time draw near. they leave the bridge reluctantly, and mount the

great broad flight of forty step that lead to the west door of the

Cathedral. a few of the narrow side street bring they into the Place

Miremont, where their hotel be situate. in the lazy late afternoon

warmth it look the lazy and most peaceful spot inhabit by man.

the square, classic Town Library, hermetically closed, its inner

mystery hide behind draw blind, stand in its midst like a

mausoleum of dead and peaceful thought. nothing live trouble it save

a mongrel dog asleep on the step. no customer ruffle the tranquillity

of the shop around the _place_. a red-trousere, blue-coat little

soldier—so little that he look like a toy soldier—and an old man in

a blouse, who walk very slowly in the direction of the café, be the

only human on foot. even the hotel omnibus, rattle suddenly into the

square, fail to break the spell of quietude. for it be empty, and its

emptiness give a pleasurable sense of distance from the fever and the

fret of life.



it be even say that Pontius Pilate find peace in Vienne, lying,

accord to popular tradition, under a comparatively modern monolith

term the Aiguille.



“be you quite sure this place ben’t too dead-and-alive for you?”

Clementina ask, as they approach the hotel.



he slide his hand under her arm.



“oh no!” he cry, with a little reassuring squeeze. “it’s heavenly.”



while she be cleanse herself for dinner, Clementina look in the

glass. her hair, as usual, straggle untidily over her temple. she wear

it bunch up anyhow in a knot behind, and the resentful hair-pin

invariably fail in their office. this evening she remove the faithful

few, the saving remnant that for the world’s good remain in all

community, even of hair-pin, and her hair thick and black fall about

her shoulder. she comb it, brush it, bring it up to the top of

her head and twist it into a neat coil hold it there with her hand,

and for a moment or two study the effect somewhat dreamily. then, all

of a sudden, a change of mood sweep over she. she let the hair down

again, almost savagely wound it into its accustomed clump into which she

thrust hair-pin at random, and turn away from the mirror, her mouth

draw into its old grim line.



Tommy find she rather uncommunicative at dinner which be serve to

they at a separate side table. at the table d’hôte in the middle of the

room, eight or nine man, habitué and commercial traveller feed in

stolid silence. she eat little. Tommy; notice it, openly reproach

himself for having cause her fatigue. the day in the open air—and open

air pump into the lung at the rate of thirty or forty mile an

hour—be of itself tiring. he ought not to have drag she about the

town. besides, he add with an appearance of great wisdom, a surfeit of

beauty give one a soul-ache. they have feast on nothing but beauty

since they have leave Chalon-sur-Saône that morning. he, too, have a touch

of soul-ache; but luckily it do not interfere with his carnal appetite.

it ought not to interfere with Clementina’s. here be the whitest and

tender morsel of chicken that ever be and the crisp bit of

delectable salad. he help she from the dish which she have refuse at

the hand of the waiter, and she eat meekly. but after dinner, she send

he off to the café by himself, say that she would read a novel in

the salon and go to bed early.



the loneliness of the salon, instead of rest she, get on her nerve;

which anger she. what business have she, Clementina Wing, with nerve?

or be Tommy right? perhaps it be soul-ache from which she be

suffer. certainly, one strove to pack away into oneself anything of

beauty, make it a part of one’s spiritual being. one could be a

glutton and suffer from the consequence. the soul-ache, if such it

be, have nothing of origin in the emotion that have prompt her touch

on Tommy’s arm, or the coiling of her hair on the top of her head.

nothing at all. besides, it be a very silly novel, a modern french

version of Daphnis and Chloe, in which Daphnis figure as a despicable

young neuropath whom Tommy would have kick on sight, and Chloe, a sly

hussy whom a sensible mother would have spank. she throw it into a

corner and go to her room to brace her mind with Tristram Shandy.



she have not be long there, however, when there come a knocking at her

door. on her invitation to enter, the door open and Tommy stand

breathless on the threshold. his eye be bright and he be quiver

with excitement.



“do come out. do come out and see something. I hit upon it unawares, and

it knock I silly. I’ve run all the way back to fetch you.”



“what be it?”



“something too exquisite for word.”



“what about the soul-ache?”



“oh! let we have an orgy while we’re about it,” he cry recklessly.

“it’s worth it. do come. I want you to feel the thing with I.”



the appeal be irresistible. it be spirit summon spirit. without

thinking, but dimly conscious of a quick throbbing of the heart,

Clementina put on her hat and go with Tommy out of the hotel. the full

moon blaze from a cloudless sky, flood the little silent square. she

pause on the pavement.



“yes, it’s beautiful,” she say.



“oh—that’s only the silly old moon,” cry Tommy. “I’ve get something

much well for you than that.”



“what be it?” she ask again.



“you wait,” say he.



he take she across the square, through two or three turn of narrow

cobble-paved street, whirl she swiftly round a corner and say;



“look!”



Clementina look, and walk straight into the live heart of the

majesty that once be Rome. there, in the midst of an open space, the

modern house around it obscure, soften, de-characterised by the

magic-work moon, stand in its proud and perfect beauty the Temple of

Augustus and Livia. twenty century, with all their meaning, vanish

in a second. it be the heart of Rome. there be the great Temple,

perfect, imperishable, with its fluted corinthian column, its

entablature, its pediment, its noble cornice throw endless mystery

of shadow. no ruin, from which imagination flog by scholarship might

dimly picture forth what once have be; but the Temple itself,

untouched, haughty, defy Time, the companion for two thousand year

of the moon that now bathe it lovingly, as a friend of two thousand

year’ standing must do, in its soft splendour, and share with the

moon its godlike scorn of the hectic and transitory life of man.



Clementina draw a sharp breath of wonder. Moisture cloud her eye. she

could not speak for the suddenness of the shock of beauty. Tommy gently

take her arm, and they stand for a long time in silence, close together.

in their artist’ sensitiveness they be very near together, too, in

spirit. she glance at his face in the moonlight, alive with the joy of

the thing, and her heart give a sudden leap. all the beauty of the day

translate itself into something even more radiant that flood she

soul, cause the row of flute column to swim before her eye until

she shut they with a little sigh of content.



at last they move and walk slowly round the building.



“I just couldn’t help fetch you,” say Tommy.



“oh, I’m glad you do. oh so glad. why don’t we know of this before we

come.”



“because we be two thrice-blessedly ignorant cockney, dear. I hate to

know what I’m go to see. it’s much well to be like stout Cortez and

his man in the poem and discover thing, ben’t it? by Jove, I shall

never forget run into this.”



“nor I,” say Clementina.



“the moment the car turn the bend to-day I know something be go to

happen here.”



more have happen than Tommy dream of in his young philosophy. nor do

Clementina enlighten he. she slide his arm from under hers and take it,

and lean ever so little on it, for the first time for many, many year

a happy woman.



when they leave the Temple she plead for an extension of their walk.

she be no long tired. she could go on for ever beneath such a moon.



“a night make for lover,” say Tommy, “and we ben’t the only

one—look!”



and indeed there be couple saunter by, head to head, talk of

the thing the moon have hear so many million time before.



“I suppose they take we also for lover,” say Clementina foolishly.



“I don’t care if they do,” say Tommy. “let we pretend.”



“yes,” say Clementina. “let we pretend.”



they wander thus lover-like through the town, and come on the quay

where they sit on the coping of the parapet, and watch the moonlit

Rhone and the brave old Château-Fort on the hill.



“be you glad you come with I?” she ask.



“it have be a sort of enchanted journey,” he reply, seriously. “and

to-night—well to-night be just to-night. there be no word for it.

I’ve never thank you—there be thing too deep for thank. in return

I would give you everything I’ve get—in myself, you know—if you want

it. in fact,” he add, with a boyish laugh, “I’ve give it to you

already whether you want it or not.”



“I do want it, Tommy,” she say, with a catch in her voice. “you don’t

know how much I want it.”



“then you have a devoted, devoted, devoted slave for the rest of your

life.”



“I do believe you be fond of I.”



“Fond of you!” he cry. “why, of course I be. there’s not another woman

like you in the world.” he take her hand and kiss it. “bless you,” he

say. then he rise. “we’ve sit out here long enough. your hand be

quite cold and you’ve only that silly blouse on. you’ll catch a chill.”



“I’m quite warm,” say Clementina mendaciously; but she obey he with

surprising meekness.



if any one have have a sufficiently fantastic imagination and sufficient

audacity to prophesy to Clementina before she start from London the

effect upon her temperament of a Roman Temple and moonshine, she would

have say thing in her direct way uncomplimentary to his intelligence.

she would have forget her own epigram to the effect that woman always

have her sex hang round the neck of her spirit. but her epigram have

prove its truth. she be feel a peculiar graciousness in the focal

adjustment above consider, be let her spirit soar with its

brother to plane of pure beauty, when lo! suddenly, spirit be hurl

from the empyrean into the abyss by the thing cling round its neck,

which take its place on the say plane with a pretty gurgle of

exultation.



that be what have happen.



and be it not all too natural? there be plant which will keep within

they a pallid life in a coal-cellar—but put in the sun and the air and

the rain will break magically into riotous leaf and bud and flower.

love, foolish, absurd, lunatic, reprehensible—what you will—have come

into the sun and the air and the rain, and it have break magically into

blossom. of course, she have no business to bring it into the air; she

ought to have keep it in the coal-cellar; she ought not to have let the

door be open by the wheedling of a captivate youth. in plain

language, a woman of six-and-thirty ought never to have fall in love

with a boy of twenty-three. of course not. a vehement passionate nature

be the easy thing in the world to keep under control. a respectable

piece of british tape ought to be strong enough leash for any tiger of

the jungle.



that Clementina, ill-favour and dour, should have give herself up, in

the solitude of her room, to her intoxication be, no doubt, a matter for

censure. it be mad and bad and sad, but it be sweet. it be human. the

rare one from whom no secret of a woman’s pure heart be hide might say

that it be divine. but the many who pity let they not grudge her hour

of joy to a woman of barren life.



but it be only an hour. the grey dawn creep into the sleepless room,

and the glamour of the moonlight have go. and there be a desperate

struggle in the woman’s soul. the boy’s word ring in her ear. he be

fond of she, devote to she, would give up his life to she. he speak

sincerely. why should she not take the word at a little above their

face-value? no strong-natured woman of five-and-thirty, with

Clementina’s fame and wealth and full great sympathy need fear rebuff

from a generous lad who profess himself to be her devoted, devoted,

devoted slave. all she have to do be to put up the bann. whether

ultimate bliss will be achieve be another matter. but to marry he out

of hand be as easy as lie. it do not need Clementina’s acute

intelligence for she to be fully aware of this. and another temptation

creep over her pillow to her ear, peculiarly insidious. the boy would be

free to pursue his beloved art without sordid care. there would be no

struggle and starvation and fringed hem to his trouser. a woman who

really love a man would soon her heart be fray than his

trouser-hem.



she rise and throw wide the shutter. the little Place Miremont look

ghostly in the white light, and the classic Bibliothèque, with its

round-head window, more than ever a calm mausoleum of human wisdom.

it be strange how coldly suggestive of death be the birth of day.



Clementina creep back to bed and, tired out, fall asleep. the waiter

bring in the breakfast tray awaken she. on the _New York Herald_

which Tommy have go to the railway station to procure, lie a dewy

cluster of red and yellow rose; on a plate a pile of letter, the top

one address in Etta Concannon’s great girlish scrawl.



why in the world should a bunch of parrot-tulip have flare before her

eye? they do. they have mark the beginning of it. the red and yellow

rose mark the end.



“_Attendez un moment_,” she say to the waiter, while she tear open the

envelope and glance through Etta’s unimportant letter. “bring I a

telegraph form.”



he produce one from his pocket. if you ask a waiter in a good french

provincial hotel for anything—a copy of Buckle’s history of

Civilisation or a boot-jack—he will produce it from his pocket. he also

hand she a pencil.



this she bite musingly for a few second. then she scribble hastily on

the telegraph form:



“_join I at once. book straight through to Lyons. Wire train. will meet

you at station. promise you_”—Her lip twist into a wry smile as the

word she seek enter she head—“_heavenly time. my guest of course.

Clementina. Hôtel du Nord, Vienne._”



“by the way, _garçon_,” she say, hand he the telegram, “why be this

call the Hôtel du Nord?”



“_Parceque, Madame, c’est ici, à Vienne, que commence le Midi_,” reply

the waiter.



he bow himself out. a courtier of Versailles at the levée of the

Pompadour could not have make his speech and exit with well grace.



later in the day Clementina receive the reply from Etta.



“_you darling, start to-morrow. Arrive Lyons seven o’clock morning

Thursday._”



Tommy, fire by the picture make by the bend of the Rhone and the

Château-Fort de la Bâtie, spend most of the day on the quay, with the

paraphernalia of his trade, easel and canvas and box of colour and

brush, paint delightedly, while Clementina, beneath an

uncompromise white umbrella with a green lining, buy on her

travel, sit near by read many tale out of one uncomprehended novel.

just before dinner she inform he of the almost immediate arrival of

Etta Concannon.



“oh, I say!” he exclaim in an injure voice. “that spoil everything.”



“I don’t think so,” say Clementina.









                               CHAPTER XI





Clementina motor to Lyons by herself; dine in gaunt and lonely

splendour at the Grand Hotel, and meet Etta Concannon’s train very early

the next morning. Etta, dewy fresh after she all night train journey,

throw her arm round her neck and kiss she effusively. she be a

heaven-bear darling, a priceless angel, and various other hyperbolical

thing. yes, she have have a comfortable journey; no trouble at all; all

sort of nice man have come to her aid at the various stage. she have

be up since five stand in the corridor and look at the country

which be fascinating. she have no idea it be so full of interest.



“and do one of the nice man get up at five too, and stand in the

corridor?” ask Clementina.



the girl flush and laugh. “how do you guess? I couldn’t help it.

how could I? and it be quite safe. he be ever so old.”



“I’m glad I’ve get you in charge now,” say Clementina.



“I’ll be so good, dear,” say the girl.



the luggage secure, they drive off. Etta’s eye sparkle, as they go

through the ugly, monotonous, clatter street of Lyons.



“what an adorable town!”



as it be not even light by the cheap glamour of the sun, for the sky be

overcast and threatening, it look peculiarly depressing to normal

vision. but youth find it adorable. o thrice bless blindness of

youth!



“what have happen to Mr. Burgrave?” she ask, after a while, “I

suppose his time be up and he have to go back.”



“oh, no,” say Clementina coolly. “he’s at Vienne.”



“oh-h!” say Etta, with a little touch of reproach. “I think it be

just go to be you and I and we two.”



“we’ll put he in front next to Johnson and have the back of the car all

to ourselves. but I think you like Tommy Burgrave.”



“he’s quite harmless,” say Etta carelessly.



“and he think of nothing in the world but his painting, so he willn’t

bother his head much about you,” say Clementina.



Etta fall at once into the trap. “I’m not go to let he treat I as

if I don’t exist,” she cry. “I’m afraid you’ve be spoil he,

darling. man ought to be show their place and teach how to behave.”



his behaviour, however, on their first meeting be remarkably correct.

the car, enter Vienne, draw up by the side of the quay where he have

pitch his easel. he rise and run to greet its occupant with the most

welcoming of smile, which be not all direct at Clementina. Etta have

her share. it be not in the nature of three-and-twenty to look morosely

on so dainty a daughter of Eve—all the daintier by contrast with the

dowdy eld woman by her side. Tommy have speak truly when he have

profess his downright honest affection for Clementina; truly also when

he have deprecate the summoning of the interlope damsel. but he have

not count on the effect of contrast. he have see Etta in his mind’s

eye as just an ordinary young woman who would disturb that harmonious

adjustment of artistic focus on whose discovery he have pride himself so

greatly. now he realise her freshness and dewiness and goodness to look

upon. she adorn the car; make quite a different vehicle of it.

stand by the door he notice how passer-by turn round and glance

at she with the frank admiration of their race. Tommy at once feel

himself to be an enviable fellow; he be go to take a great pride in

she; at the low, as a mere travel adjunct, she do he credit.

Clementina watch he shrewdly, and the corner of her mouth curl in

an ironical twist.



“it ben’t my fault, Miss Concannon, that I don’t come to Lyons to meet

you. Clementina wouldn’t let I. you know what a martinet she be. so I

be here all last evening simply languish in loneliness.”



“why wouldn’t you let poor Mr. Burgrave come to Lyons, Clementina?”

laugh Etta.



“if you begin to pester I with question,” reply Clementina, “I’ll

pack you off to England again.”



“all inquiry to be address to the courier,” say Tommy.



“and you’ll answer they?”



“every one,” say Tommy.



thus the freemasonry of youth be at once establish between they. Etta

smile sweetly on he as the car drive off to the hotel, and Tommy

return to his easel with the happy impression that everything,

especially the intervention of interlope damsel, be for the good in

this good of all possible world.



they meet shortly afterwards at déjeuner, the bright of meal, whereat

Etta talk her girlish nonsense, which Tommy take for peculiarly

sparkling discourse. Clementina, wear the mask of the indulgent

chaperon, let the babble flow unchecked.



“do you think Etta will spoil everything?” she ask he, as soon as

they be alone for a moment.



“oh no,” cry the ingenuous Tommy. “she’s go to be great fun.”



“H’m!” say Clementina, feel as though she might make the historic

reply of the frog at whom the boy throw stone. but she have

deliberately bring about the lapidation. she wince; but she could not

complain.



it must not be imagine, however, that Tommy transfer his allegiance

in youth’s debonair, thoughtless way to the new and pretty princess.

on the contrary, in all the little outward show of devotion he

demonstrate himself more zealously than ever to be Clementina’s vassal.

in the excursion that they make during the next few day keep Vienne

as a base—to La Tour du Pin, Grenoble, Saint-Marcellin, Mont-Pilat—it

be to Clementina that he turn and point out the beauty of the

road, and her unsteady footstep that he guide over rough and

declivitous path. to she he also turn for serious conversation. the

flower and the _New York Herald_ come to her room as unfailingly as the

morning coffee. he manifest the same tender solicitude as to she

possible suffering from hunger, drought, dust or fatigue. he pay she

regal honour. in this he be aid and abet by Etta Concannon, who

have her own pretty way of perform homage. in fact, the care of

Clementina soon become at once a rivalry and a bond between they, and

Clementina, so far from be neglect, find herself the victim of

emulous and sometimes embarrassing ministration. as she herself phrase

it in a moment of bitter irony, they be make love over her live

body.



they leave Vienne, Tommy having make sufficient study for immortal

studio painting, and take up their quarter at Valence. there be a

spaciousness about Valence rare in provincial town of France. you stand

in the middle of wide boulevard, the long vista close at one end by

the far blue top of the mountain of the Vivarais, and at the other by

the distant Alps, and you think you be dwell in some sweet city in

the air. in the clear sunshine it be as bright and as crisp as a cameo.



“I love Vienne, but I adore valence,” say Etta Concannon. “here I can

breathe.”



they be sit on the terrace of a café in the Place de la République

in front of the great monument to Emile Augier. it be the cool of the

evening and a fresh breeze come from the mountain.



“I, too, be glad to get out of Vienne,” say Clementina.



Tommy protest. “that’s treason, Clementina. we have such rip time

there. do you remember the evening I fetch you out to see the Temple

of Augustus and Livia?”



Clementina give one of her non-committal grunt. she do indeed remember

it. but for that night the three of they would not have be sit

together over coffee at valence.



“Tommy’s so sentimental,” Etta remark.



“since when have you be call he ‘Tommy’?” ask Clementina.



“we fix that up this afternoon,” he say, cheerfully. ‘Mr. Burgrave’

suggest an afternoon party where one cart tea and food about—not a

chummy motor tour.”



“we agree to adopt each other as cousin,” say Etta.



“we be kind of lonely, you know,” laugh Tommy. “we happen to have no

cousin of our own, and, besides, you desert we to-day, and we feel

like two abandon babe in the car.”



“I don’t think you be much to be pity,” say Clementina.



in pursuance of her scheme of self-annihilation she have several time

send they out on jaunt together, while she herself go for a grim walk

in the dust and heat. this afternoon Etta have return radiant. she have

have the time of her life, and Tommy be the dear thing that ever

happen. Etta be addict to the hyperbole of her generation. at

dinner Tommy have admit the general amenity of their excursion to

Valence Crest—and now come the avowal of the establishment of their

cousinly and intimate relation. the scheme be succeed admirably.

how could it fail? throw together two bright, impressionable and

innocent young human of opposite sex, and of the same social

position, link they by a common tie, let they spend hour in each

other’s company, withdraw the ordinary restriction that limit the

intercourse of such being in everyday society, bathe they in sunshine

and drench their soul with beauty, and you have the Garden of Eden over

again, the Serpent be replace by his chubby and wing successor.

the result be almost inevitable. but you can withdraw with certainty the

qualifying adverb, when one of the potentially high contracting party

have be suffer from heart-scratch, and have announce her intention

of become a hospital nurse.



I be quite aware that in the eye of the world Clementina’s conduct be

outrageous. Etta be the only child of a wealthy admiral; Tommy, a

penniless painter. Admiral Concannon have confidently entrust his

daughter to her care and have not the least idea of what be go on.

when the disastrous story should reach his ear, he would foam

righteously at the mouth, and use, with perfect justification, the most

esoteric of quarter-deck language. I do not attempt to defend

Clementina. all the same, you must remember that in Tommy Burgrave she

be give to Etta as a free gift she most priceless possession. Tommy

in her eye be the real Prince Charming—at present, as often happen

in fairy tale, under a cloud, but destine in real life, as in the

fairy tale, to come, by a speedy wave of the magic wand, into his

principality. as to the waving of the magic wand, she have her own idea.

she be quite prepared to weather the admiral’s storm.



“there be never anything so sudden but the fight of two ram,” be

Rosalind’s startling description of the courtship between Oliver and

Celia. these lover, however, be Elizabethans who do thing in a

large, splendid and unhesitate way. the case with Tommy and Etta, who

be modern, govern by all kind of subtlety and delicacy, three

century’ growth, be not quite so instantaneous. the ordinary modern

youth and maiden, of such clean upbringing, walk along together, hand in

hand in perfect innocence, for a long time, never realise that they

be in love with one another till something happen. the maiden may be

send into the country by an infuriated mother. hence revelation with

anguish. the indiscreet jesting of a friend, a tragedy cause both to

come hard against the bed-rock fact of life, may shatter the guileless

shell of their love. I know of two young thing who come by the

knowledge through bump their head together beneath a table while

search for a fallen penny. a shock, a jar be all that be need. but

with Tommy and Etta nothing yet have happen. they walk along together

sweetly imagine themselves to be fancy-free. if the truth be know

it would be find that the main subject of their conversation be

Clementina.



when the time come for they to leave the café, Tommy help both lady

to put on their jacket. the human warmth of the crowded terrace

shelter from the mountain breeze by the awning have render wrap

unnecessary. but outside they discover the air to be chill. Clementina

first be invest—with the slight hint of hurry. she turn and see

Tommy snatch Etta’s jacket from a far too ready waiter’s hand. in his

investiture of Etta there be the slight hint of lingering. in the

nice adjustment of the collar their finger touch. the girl raise

laugh eye which his meet tenderly. a knife be thrust through

Clementina’s heart and she close her thin lip tightly to dissimulate

the pain.



Etta come into her room that night under the vague pretence of play

maid and help she to undress. her aid chiefly consist in sit on

the bed and chatter out of a bird-like happiness.



“it’s all just heaven,” she declare. “I wish I could show you how

grateful I be. I’ve have nothing like it all my life. when I get home I

willn’t rest till I’ve tease father into get a car—he’s so

old-fashioned you know, and think his fat old horse and the family

omnibus make up the only equipage for a gentleman. but I’ll worry he

into a car, and then we’ll go all over Europe. but it willn’t be quite the

same without—without you, Clementina, dear.”



Clementina wriggle into an old flannel dress jacket and begin to

roll a cigarette.



“I think you be go to be a hospital nurse.”



“so do I,” say the girl, a shadow flit swiftly over her face. “but

I don’t seem to want to now, I should hate it.”



“what have make you change your mind?” ask Clementina, after the first

puff of smoke.



Etta, on the bed, nurse her knee. her fair hair fall in a mass about

her shoulder. she look the picture of innocence—a female child

Samuel out of an illustrate Family Bible.



“the sight of you, darling, at Lyons Station.”



“little liar!” murmur Clementina.



but she forebore to question the girl far. she have no intention of

supply the necessary shock above mention. the observance of the

gradual absorption of these two young soul one in the other be far too

delicious an agony to be wantonly break. besides, it harden she

nature (so she fondly imagine), dry up the newly find well-head of

passion, reduce the soft full woman back to the stony-hearted;

wooden-faced, bitter-tongue, cynical, portrait-paint automaton, the

enviable, self-mutilate Clementina of a few month ago. when a woman

want to punish herself she do so conscientiously. the offending Eve

should be thoroughly whip out of she.



the car of thirty-five million dove-power speed through the highway of

sunny France—through enchant forest glade, over mountain of the

moon; through city of wonderland, so, at least, it seem to two young

soul. for Clementina, alas, the glamour of sky and sunshine and

greenery have depart. for Johnson, happy possessor of a carburation in

lieu of a temperament it have never exist. from Valence they strike

north-west, though St. Etienne, Roanne, Nevers, Bourges. it be at

bourge that she come upon the two young people unawares.



she have enter, not know where they be, for they have go off

together, the cloistered courtyard of the Hôtel de Jacques Cœur. now the

cloister form an arcade gallery a few foot above the ground, which be

reach by a flight of step. she hear voice, approach hide from

they, behold the pair sit on the bottom step, in the cool shadow.



“I should never get the whole adorableness of this,” say Tommy, “if I

haven’t you beside I. you and I seem to be like the two barrel of a

field-glass—adjust to one focus.”



Clementina, hug the wall, tip-toed out of the cloister. there be

only one alternative, a whirlwind, a hurricane of a temptation which she

be strong enough to resist: to descend then and there and box his ear

soundly.









                              CHAPTER XII





while Clementina, in her own fashion, be shatter an idyll to piece,

Quixtus under the tutelage of Billiter pursue the most distasteful

occupation in which he have ever engage. have some Rhadamanthine Arbiter

of his destiny compel he, under penalty of death, to choose between

horse-race and laborious practice as a solicitor, he would

unhesitatingly have choose the latter. course and stand and paddock and

ring, the whole machinery of the sport, weary he to exasperation.

just as there be some man to whom, as the saying go, music be the

most expensive form of noise, so be there other to whom the racing of

horse be merely the most extravagantly cumbersome form of gambling. why

train valuable animal, they ask; to run round a field, when the same

end could be attain by make little leaden horse gyrate mechanically

round a disk, at a millionth part of the cost? of the delight of

study pedigree, of follow form, of catch the precious trickle

of information that percolate through the litter of stable, of back

their judgment thus misguide they have no notion. they cannot even feel

a thrill of excitement at the sight of the far-off speck of gallop

horse. they wonder at the futility of it all as the quadruped scrabble

down the straight. an automobile, they plead, can go ten time as fast.

that such purblind folk exist be sad; but after all they be God’s

creature, just the same as jockeys and professional tipster.



at first there be one feature of the race-course which fascinate

Quixtus—the ring. then he imagine he have come into contact with

incarnate evil. those coarse animal face, swell with the effort of

bawl the odd, those hard greedy eye bulge from purple cheek,

those voice raucous, inhuman, suggest to his mild fancy a peculiarly

depraved corner of Tophet. but what practical evil result from this

Masque of Hades be not quite apparent. nobody seem any the bad. the

bookmaker smile widely on those who win, and those who lose smile on

the world with undaunted cheerfulness. so, in the course of time,

Quixtus begin to regard the bookmaker with feeling of disappointment,

which give place after a while to indifference, and eventually to

weariness and irritation.



even Old Joe Jenks, thick-neck, fishy-eyed villain, to whom Billiter

personally introduce he, prove himself, in all his dealing, to be a

scrupulously honest man. the turf, in spite of its depressing ugliness,

appear but a manœuvring ground for the dull virtue. where be its

wickedness? he complain, at length, to Billiter.



Billiter seem for the moment to be in a bad humour. he tug at his

heavy moustache.



“I don’t see what fault you can find with racing. you’re make a very

good thing out of it.”



which be true. Fortune, who have play he such scurvy trick, be now

turn on he her sunniest smile. he be win prodigiously,

fantastically. Billiter select the horse which he be to back, he

back they to the amount advise by Billiter, and in most instance the

horse win.



“if you think the mere gaining of money give I any pleasure, my dear

Billiter,” say he, “you’re very much mistaken. I have sufficient mean

of my own to satisfy my modest requirement, and to accept large sum of

money from your friend, Mr. Jenks, be humiliating and repulsive.”



“if that’s the matter, you can turn they over to I,” say Billiter, “I

don’t get much out of the business.”



they be walk about the paddock, between the race. Quixtus halt

and regard his morose companion with cold inquiry.



“you give I to understand that you be bet on the same horse as I

be.”



Billiter curse himself for an incautious fool.



“only now and then,” say he, “and for small stake. how can I afford to

plunge like you?”



“what be the dismal quadrupe I be bet on for this next race?” ask

Quixtus look at his card.



“Punchinello. forty-five to one. dead cert.”



“then,” say Quixtus, “here be five pound. put they on Punchinello and

if he win you will have two hundred and twenty-five.”



Billiter leave he, make his way out of the paddock to that part of the

race-course where the outside bookmaker have their habitation. Old Joe

Jenks in the flaming check suit and a white hat adorn with his name

and quality stand on a stool shout the odd, take bet and give

direction to the clerk at his side. business for a moment be slack.



“another fiver for the governor on Punchinello,” say Billiter.



Old Joe Jenks jump from his stool and take Billiter aside.



“look here, old friend,” say he, “chuck it. come off it. I’m not

play any more. I pour a couple of quart of champagne over your

head because you tell I you have get hold of a mug, and instead of the

mug you bring up a ruddy miracle who back every wrong ‘un at a hundred

to one—and romp in. and think you straight, Mr. Billiter, sir, I’ve

stretch out the odd—to oblige you. and you’ve damn well land I.

it’s get monotonous. see? I’m tired.”



“it’s not my fault, Joe,” say Billiter, humbly. “look. just an extra

fiver on Punchinello. he’s get no earthly—you know that as well as I

do.”



“do I?” growl the bookmaker angrily, convince that Billiter be

over-reach he. “how do I know what you know? you want to have it

both way, do you? well you willn’t get it out of I.”



“I swear to God, Joe,” say Billiter, earnestly, “that I’m straight. so

little do I expect he to win that I’ve not ask a penny commission.”



“then ask it now, and be hang to you,” cry the angry bookmaker, and

leap back to his stool, he resume his brazen-throate trade.



Billiter keep his five-pound note, unwilling to risk it with another

bookmaker on the laughing-stock of a Punchinello, and saunter away

moodily. he be a most injure man. Old Joe Jenks doubt his good

faith. now, be there a single horse select for his patron to back

upon which any student of race outside a lunatic asylum would have

stake money? not one. he could lay his hand on his honest heart and

swear it. and have he stake a penny on his selection? no. he could

swear to that, too. he have not (fool that he be) ask Quixtus for a

commission. through his honourable deal he be a poor man. the

thought be bitter. he have run straight with jenk. it be not his fault

if the devil have get into the horse so that every shocking outsider,

back by Quixtus, reveal ultra-equine capacity. what could a horse

do against the superhorse? nothing. what could billiter himself do?

nothing. except have a drink. in the circumstance it be the only thing

to do. he go into the bar of the grand stand and order a whisky and

soda. it sizzle gratefully down a throat burn with a sense of wrong.

his moral tone restore, he determine to live in poverty no more for

the sake of a quixotic principle, and, proceed to a ready-money

bookmaker of his acquaintance, pull out his five-pound note and back

Rosemary, a certain winner (such be his private and infallible

information) at eight to one. this duty to himself accomplish, he go

to the grand stand to view the race, leave Quixtus to do that which

seem good to he.



the bell ring, the course be clear, the number put up; the horse

canter gaily past. at the sight of Rosemary, a shiny bay in beautiful

condition, Billiter’s heart warm; at the sight of Punchinello, a

scraggy crock who have never win a race in his inglorious life, Billiter

sniff scornfully. if Old Joe Jenks be such a fool as to refuse a free

gift of two pound ten—they have agree to halve the spoil—the folly

thereof lie entirely on Old Joe Jenks’s head.



the start be make. for a long time the horse run in a bunch. then

Rosemary creep ahead. billiter’s moustache beneath the level

field-glass betray a happy smile. Rosemary increase her lead. at

the turn into the straight, something happen. she swerve and lose she

stride. three other dash by, among they the despise Punchinello.

they pass the post in a flash, Punchinello first. Billiter murmur

thing at which the world, have it hear they, would have grow pale, and

again seek the bar. emerge thence he go in quest of his patron. he

have not far to go. Quixtus sit on a wooden chair at the back of the

grand stand read a vellum cover _Elzevir_ duodecimo edition of

Saint Augustine’s Confessions. when Billiter approach he rise and

thrust the volume into the tail pocket of his frock-coat.



“be that a race?” he ask.



“Race. of course it be. _the_ race. don’t you see it?”



“thank goodness, no,” say Quixtus. “do any horse win?”



the sodden and simple wit of Billiter rise like a salmon at this gaudy

fly of irony. he lose his temper.



“your damned, spavined, bow-legge, mule-be-get crock of a

Punchinello win.”



Quixtus regard he mildly; but a transient gleam of light flicker in

his china-blue eye.



“then, my dear Billiter,” say he, “I have win nine hundred pound,

which, in view of my opinion of the turf, base on experience, I think I

shall hand over to the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel to be

earmark for the conversion of the Mahommedans in Mecca. as for you,

Billiter, you have win two hundred and twenty-five pounds”—Billiter

quiver with sub-aspirate anathema—“which ought to satisfy the

momentary cupidity of any man. let we go. the more I see of it the more

be I convince that the race-course be no place for I. it be too good.”



Billiter glance at he with wrathful suspicion. be he speak in

childish simplicity or in mordant sarcasm? the grave, unsmile face,

the expressionless blue eye give he no clue.



thus, however, end Quixtus’s career on the Turf. to stand about

wearily in all weather in order to witness what, to his fastidious mind

be merely a dull and vulgar spectacle, be an act of self-sacrifice

from which he derive no compensating thrill. the injure Billiter

having patch up a peace with Old Joe Jenks, convince he of his own

ingenuousness and of the inevitable change in his patron’s luck, in vain

persuade Quixtus to resume his investigation. he offer to introduce

he to a fraternity of so-call commission agent and tout, in whose

company he could saturate himself with vileness.



“I have no taste for disgusting society,” say Quixtus.



“then I don’t know what the deuce you do want,” exclaim Billiter in a

fume.



“you cann’t touch pitch without be defile.”



“I think that be just what you be try to be.”



“in one way, yes,” reply Quixtus, musingly; “but I loathe touch the

pitch.”



in spite of his confessed belief in the altruistic purity of the turf,

he regard as unspeakable defilement the cheque which he have receive

from Old Joe Jenks. he have keep they in his drawer, and the more he

look at they the more do the bestial face of Old Joe Jenks obtrude

itself before his eye, and the more repugnant do it become to his now

abnormal fastidiousness to pay they into his own banking account. to

destroy they, as be his first impulse, merely signify a benefit

confer on the odious jenk, who would be only too glad to repocket

his filthy money. what should he do? at last a malignant idea occur

to his morbidly and curiously work mind. he would cast all this pitch

and defilement upon another’s head. some one else should shiver with the

disgust of it. but who? the inspiration come from Tartarus. he endorse

the cheque to the value of nearly two thousand pound, and pay they

into the banking account of his nephew Tommy Burgrave.



he would be as diabolically and defiledly wicked as you please, but the

intermediary pitch he would not touch.



that be his attitude towards all the suggestion for wickedness lay

before he by his three counsellor. they, for their part, although they

recognise great advantage in foster the gloomy humour of their mad

patron, begin to be weary in evil-doing. after they have tax their

invention for an attractive scheme of villainy, they find that it

either come within the tabooed category of crime or, by its lack of

refinement, fail to commend itself to the sensitive scholar. they be

at their wit’ end. the only one to whose proposal Quixtus turn an

attentive ear be Huckaby, who have suggest the heart-break

expedition through the fashionable resort of Europe. and, to the credit

of Huckaby, be it here mention that, beyond certain fantastical and

mocking suggestion, such as the devastation of old woman’s ward in

workhouse by mean of an anonymous Christmas gift of nitroglycerine

plum-pudding, this be the only serious proposal he submit. anxious,

however, lest the idea should lose its attraction, he urge Quixtus to

start immediately. it be not every day that a down-at-heel wastrel have

the opportunity of luxurious foreign travel, to say nothing of the

humorous object of this particular excursion. but Quixtus, very

sensibly, point out to his eager follower that the fashionable resort

of Europe, save the great capital, be empty during the month of May

and June, and that it would be much well to postpone their journey

until August fill they with the thousand woman wait to have their

heart break.



Vandermeer, unemployed since his embassy to Tommy Burgrave, unsuccessful

in his suggestion and envious of Billiter and Huckaby, at last hit upon

an ingenious idea. he bring Quixtus a dirty letter. it run:



“dear Mr. Vandermeer,—You, who be an old friend of my husband’s in

our well day and know how valiantly I have struggle to keep the home

together, cann’t you help I now? I be ill in bed, my child be

starve. the little one be lie now even too weak to cry out for

bread. it would break a wolf’s heart to see they. if you cann’t help I,

for I know how thing be with you, cann’t you bring my case before your

rich friend, Mr. Quixtus, of whose kindness and generosity you have so

often speak? . . .



                                                 “your sincerely,

                                                     “Emily Wellgood.”



it bear the address “2, Transiter Street, Clerkenwell Road, N.W.”



“what do you bring I this for?” ask Quixtus as soon as he have read

it.



“I be satisfy my own conscience as far as Mrs. Wellgood be

concern,” reply Vandermeer, “and at the same time give you an

opportunity of be wicked. it’s a genuine case. you can let they die

of starvation.”



Quixtus lean back in his chair and give the matter his consideration.

Vandermeer have interrupt he in the midst of a paper which he be

write to controvert a new theory as to the juxtaposition of the

palæolithic and neolithic tomb at Solutré, and he require time to

fetch back his mind from the quaternary age to the present day. the

prospect of a whole family perishing of hunger by an act; as it be, of

his will, please his fancy.



“very good. very good, Vandermeer. let they starve,” say he. “let they

starve,” he murmur to himself, as he take up his pen.



Vandermeer, hang about, hint at payment for the service render.

Quixtus meet his crafty eye with equal cunning.



“you would be too soft-hearted—you would give they some of the money.

wait till some of they be dead.” he roll the last word delectably

round his tongue. “and now, my dear Vandermeer, I’m very busy. many

thank and good-bye.”



Vandermeer leave reluctantly and Quixtus resume his work.



“the bizygomatic transverse diameter,” he write, put down the

beginning of the sentence that be in his head when Vandermeer be

announce. he pause. he have lose the thread of his idea. it be a

subtle argument depend on the comparative measurement of newly

discover skull. he throw down his pen impatiently, and in mild and

gentlemanly language anathematise Vandermeer. he attack the

bizygomatic transverse diameter again; but the starve family occupy

his thought. presently he abandon work for the morning and give

himself up to the relish of his wickedness. it have a delicious flavour.

practically he be slay mother and babe, while he stand outside the

ordinary repulsive and sordid circumstance of murder. Vandermeer should

have his reward. after lunch, he felt impel to visit they. a force

strong than a strong inclination to return to his paper lead he out of

the front-door and into a taxi-cab summon from the neighbouring rank.

he promise himself the thrill of gloating over the suffering of his

victim. besides, the letter contain a challenge. “it would break a

wolf’s heart to see they.” he would show the writer that his heart be

hard than any wolf’s. instinctively his hand seek the waistcoat

pocket in which he keep his loose gold. yes; there be three

sovereign. he smile. it would be the finished craft of devildom to lay

they out on a table before the woman’s hungering and ravish eye and

then, with a merciless chuckle, to pocket they again and walk out of the

house.



“I will _not_ be a fool,” he assert, as the taxi-cab enter the

Clerkenwell Road.



the taxi-cab driver sign that he wish to communicate with his fare.

Quixtus lean forward over the door.



“do you know where Transiter Street be, Sir?”



Quixtus do not. do any easy London gentleman know the mean street in

the purlieus of Clerkenwell? but, oddly enough, a milkman of the

locality know not Transiter Street either. nor do a policeman on duty.

nor do a postman. Perplexed, Quixtus drive to the near District Post

Office and make inquiry. there be no such street in Clerkenwell at

all. he consult the Post Office London Directory. there be no such

street as Transiter Street in London.



Quixtus drive home in an angry mood. once more he have be deceive.

Vandermeer have invent the emaciated family for the sake of the fee.

do the earth hold a more abandon villain? he grimly set about

devise some punishment for his disingenuous counsellor. nothing

adequate occur to he till some day afterwards when Vandermeer send

he another forge letter announce the demise, in horrible torment, of

the young child. he take up his pen and write as follow:



“my dear Vandermeer,—I be send Mrs. Wellgood the burial expense. I

have also enclose a cheque for yourself. will you kindly go to

Transiter Street and claim it. for the present I have no further need of

you.



                                                 “your sincerely,

                                                    “Ephraim Quixtus.”



he post the letter himself on his way to lunch at the club where

Wonnacott remark on his high good humour.



since the discontinuance of the Tuesday dinner (for they be not

resume after the establishment of the new relation), Huckaby,

Billiter, and Vandermeer have contract the habit of meeting once a week

in the bar-parlour of a quiet tavern for a companionable fuddle. there

they exchange view on religion and alcohol, and relate unveracious

(and uncredited) anecdote of their former high estate. jealous of each

other, however, they speak little of Quixtus, and then only in general

term. the poor gentleman be still distraught. it be a sad case,

cause they to wag their head sorrowfully and order another round of

whisky.



but one evening of depression, Quixtus having for some time refuse

their ministration, and pocket having become woefully empty, they

talk with great freedom of their respective dealing with their

patron. Vandermeer relate the practical joke he have play upon he;

Billiter describe his astounding luck, and his crazy reason for

retire from the turf; and Huckaby, by way of illustrate the

unbalanced state of Quixtus’s mind, confide to they the project of

break a woman’s heart.



“what be you go to get out of it?” ask Vandermeer brutally, for

the first time break through the pretence that they be three

devoted friend band together to protect the poor mad gentleman’s

interest.



Huckaby raise a protest hand. “my dear van!”



“oh, drop it,” cry Vandermeer. “you make I tired.” he repeat the

question.



“simply amusement. what else?” say Huckaby.



they wrangle foolishly for a while. at last Billiter, who have remain

silent, bring his fist down, with a bang, on the table.



“I’ve get an idea,” say he. “have you any particular woman in view?”



“Lord, no,” say Huckaby.



“I can put you on to one,” say Billiter. “no need to go abroad. she’s

here in London.”



Huckaby call he uncomplimentary name. the Continental trip, as far

as he be concern, be the essence of the suggestion; the capture of

the wild goose a remote consideration.



“besides, old man,” say he, “this be my show.”



Billiter look glum. after all, the idea be of no great value.

Vandermeer’s cunning brain begin to work. he ask Billiter for a

description of the lady.



“she’s the widow of an old pal of mine,” reply Billiter. “Lady and all

that sort of thing. her husband, poor old chap, come to grief—dragoon

Guards—in the running for a title—go it too hot, you know—die

leave she with nothing at all. she have pull through, somehow—life

in devilish good style, dress expensively, and have the cleverness to

hang on to her social position. damned nice woman—but as for her heart,

you could go at it with a pickaxe without risk of break it. I think

she would just suit the case.”



“where do the money come from to live in good style and dress

expensively?” ask Huckaby.



“billiter think it might just as well come from Quixtus as from any one

else. don’t you, Billiter?”



Billiter nod sagaciously and gulp down some whisky and water.



“and then we’d all stand in,” cry Vandermeer.



“that may be all very well in its way,” say Huckaby, “but I’m not go

to give up my one chance of get abroad.”



“go abroad then,” retort Vandermeer. “if the lady be of the kind I

take she to be, she willn’t mind cross the Channel when she know

there’s a golden feather coot in Boulogne just die to moult in her

hand.”



“you be crude and vulgar in your idea, Van,” say Huckaby. “gentleman

of Quixtus’s position no more go to Boulogne for a holiday than they

frequent ramsgate boarding-house. and they don’t give large sum of

money to expensively dress lady with conjecturable mean of

support.”



“he’s such a fool that he would never guess anything,” argue

Vandermeer.



“hold on,” say Billiter, “you’re on the wrong tack altogether. I tell

you she be a lady.” his manner change subtly, the moribund instinct of

birth crackling suddene into a tiny flame. “I don’t know if you two

quite realise what that mean, but to Quixtus it would mean everything.”



“I’m a sometime fellow of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge——” begin

Huckaby, ruffle.



“then you must have meet a lady connect with somebody in your damned

Academy,” say Billiter, who have be send down from Oxford.



“the University of Cambridge ben’t an Academy,” say Huckaby, waxing

quarrelsome.



“and a woman who subsist on gift from her gentleman friend cann’t be a

real lady,” say Vandermeer.



“oh go to blaze, both of you!” cry Billiter, angrily.



he clap on his hat and rise. but as he have be sit in the corner

of the divan, between Huckaby and Vandermeer, with the table in front of

he, a dignified exit be impracticable. indeed, he be immediately

plump down again on his seat by a tug on each side of his coat, and

adjure in the vernacular not to stray from the path of wisdom.



“what’s the use of quarrel?” ask Huckaby. “she’s a lady if you say

so.”



“of course, old man,” Vandermeer agree. “have a drink?”



Billiter be mollify, and the refinement of the Dragoon Guardsman’s

widow be accept as indisputable, a long and confidential conference

take place, the conspirator speak in whisper, with head close

together, although they happen to be alone in the saloon-bar. it be

the first time they have contemplate concerted action, the first time

they have discuss anything of real interest; so, for the first time

they forget to get fuddle. the plot be simple. billiter be to

approach Mrs. Fontaine (at last he disclose the lady’s identity) with

all the delicacy such a mission demand, and lie the proposal before

she. if she fall in with it she would hold herself in readiness to

repair to whatever Continental resort might be indicate, and then

having make herself know to Huckaby, would be introduce by he to

Quixtus. the rest would follow, as the night the day.



“the part I don’t like about it,” object Vandermeer, “be not only

let a fourth into our own private concern, but give she the lion’s

share. we’re not a syndicate of philanthropist.”



“I’m by way of think it willn’t be our concern much long,” reply

Billiter.



“and nobody ask you to come in,” say Huckaby. “you can stand out if

you like.”



an ugly look overspread Vandermeer’s foxy face.



“oh can I? you see what happen if you try that game on.”



“besides,” continue Billiter, disregard the snarl, “it will be to

our advantage. which of we be go to touch our demented friend for a

hundred pound? we don’t do it in former day; much less now. but I’ll

back Mrs. Fontaine to get at least three thousand out of he. thirty per

cent, be our commission without which we don’t play, and that give we

three hundred each. I could do with three hundred myself very nicely.”



“how be we to know what she get?”



“that’s easily manage,” say Huckaby, pull his ragged beard. “she’ll

make her return to Billiter and I’ll undertake to get the figure out

of Quixtus.”



“but where do I come in?” ask Vandermeer. “how shall I know if you two

be play straight?”



“you’ll have your damned head punch in a minute,” say Billiter,

look fierce. “to hear you one would think we be a set of crook.”



“if we ben’t, what the devil be we, then?” mutter Vandermeer

bitterly.



but Billiter have turn his broad back on he and do not catch the

word, whereby possibly he escape a broken head. Billiter be sometimes

sensitive on the point of honour. he have sink to low depth of

meanness and petty villainy than the other two in whom the moral sense

still linger. he would acknowledge himself to be a “wrong ‘un” because

that vague term connote in his mind merely a gentleman of broken

fortune who be put to shift (such as his disastrous bargain with Old

Joe Jenks and the present conspiracy) for his living; but a crook be a

common thief or swindler, a member of the criminal class, of a

confraternity to which he, Billiter, deem it impossible that he could

belong, especially during a period like the present, when he find

himself, after many year of dingy linen, apparelle in the gorgeous

raiment of his gentlemanly day. he have sink below the line of

self-realisation. but the other have not. Vandermeer, who hitherto have

merely snap like a jackal at pass food to satisfy his hunger, do

not deceive himself as to what he have become. Cynical, he feel no

remorse. on the other hand, Huckaby, who go to bed that night sober,

have a bad attack of conscience during the small hour and wake up next

morning with a headache. whereupon he upbraid himself for his folly;

first, in confide to his companion the project of his whimsical

adventure; secondly, in allow it to drift into such a despicable

entanglement; thirdly, in associate himself with a scarlet crustacean

of Billiter’s claw-power; and fourthly, in not get drunk.



Huckaby be near Quixtus than the other in education and point of

view. though willing to accept any alm throw to he he be not

rapacious; he have not regard his mad and wealthy patron entirely as a

pigeon to be pluck; and beneath all the corruption of his nature there

burn a spark of affection for the kindly man who have befriend he and

whose trust he have betray. he spend most of the ineffectual day in

shape a resolution to withdraw from the discreditable compact. but by

the last post in the evening he receive a laconic postcard from

Billiter: “_the Fountain play_.”



the sap will-power give way before the march of practical event.

with a shrug he accept the message as a decree of destiny, and

wander forth into congenial haunt, where, in one respect at least, he

do not repeat the folly of the previous evening.









                              CHAPTER XIII





not long after this Quixtus announce to Huckaby his intention of go

to Paris to attend a small Congress of the Anthropological Societies of

the North-west of France, to which he, as president of the

Anthropological Society of London, have be invite. he have gradually,

in spite of his preoccupation, resume his interest in his favourite

pursuit, and, though he know his learn friend to be villain at

heart, he enjoy their learn and even their light conversation.

human society have begin to attract he again. it afford he saturnine

amusement to speculate on the corruption that lie hide beneath the

fair exterior of man and woman. he also have a half-crazy pleasure in

wear the mask himself. when he smile in his grave and benevolent

manner on the woman by his side at the dinner-table, how could she

suspect the malignant ferocity of his nature? he be play a part. he

be fool she to the top of her bent. she go away with the

impression that she have be talk to a mild, scholarly gentleman of

philanthropic tendency. she possibly ask the monster to tea. he

hug himself with delight. when it be a question, however, of

identify remain of aurochs and mammoth and reindeer, or

establish the date of a flint hatchet, he take the matter seriously

and give it his profound attention. a palæolithic carving of a cave lion

on mammoth ivory recently discover in the Seine-et-Oise be to be

exhibit at the Congress and form the subject of a paper. as soon as he

hear this he accept the invitation with enthusiasm. the carving be

suppose to be the most perfect of its kind yet discover, and Quixtus

burn to behold it.



Huckaby, whose financial affair be in the sad condition and who

have call with the vague hope of a trifle on account of service to be

render, prick up his ear at the announcement. even though the main

heart-break quest be defer to August, why should they not seek a

minor adventure during Quixtus’s visit to Paris? it would be a kind of

trial trip. at the suggestion Quixtus shake his head. the Congress would

occupy all his time and attention.



“quite so,” say Huckaby. “while you’re busy with prehistoric man, I’ll

be hunt down modern woman. by the time I’ve find she, you’ll have

finish. having do with the bone, you can devote a few extra day to

the flesh.”



Quixtus wince. “that’s rather an unfortunate way of put it.”



“to the spirit then—the Evil Spirit,” say Huckaby, unabashed. “that

be, if we discover a subject. we’re bind to try various experiment

before we finally succeed.”



“I’m afraid it will be more trouble than the thing be worth,” say

Quixtus, musingly.



here be something happen which Huckaby dread. Quixtus be

begin to lose interest in the adventure. in another month he might

regard it with repugnance. he must start it now with Mrs. Fontaine in

Paris, or the whole conspiracy must collapse. the thought urge Huckaby

to fresh effort of persuasion.



“revenge be sweet and worth the trouble,” he say at last.



“yes,” reply Quixtus, in a low voice. “revenge would be sweet.”



Huckaby glance at he swiftly. beyond the iniquity of Marrable, he be

ignorant of the precise nature of the injury which Quixtus have

sustain at the hand of fortune. be it possible that a woman have

play he false? but what have this fossil of a man to do with woman?



“I, too,” say he, with malicious intent; “would like to pay off old

score against a faithless sex. you have find they faithless, haven’t

you?”



Quixtus’s brow darken. “as false as hell,” say he.



“I know a woman have treat you shamefully,” say Huckaby, after a pause

during which Quixtus have fall into a dull reverie.



“infamously,” reply Quixtus, below his breath. he look away into the

distance, madness gathering in his eye. for the moment he seem to

forget the other’s presence. Huckaby take his opportunity. he say in a

whisper:



“she betray you?”



Quixtus nod. Huckaby watch he narrowly, an absurd suspicion

begin to form itself in his mind. by his chance phrase about revenge

he have put his friend’s unsound mind on the track of a haunt tragedy.

who be the woman? his wife? but she have die beloved of he, and for

year, until this madness overtake he, he have speak of she with the

reverence due to a depart saint. it be a puzzle; the solution

peculiarly interesting. how should he obtain it? Quixtus be not the man

to blab his intimate secret into the ear of his hire bravo—for as

such he know that Quixtus regard he. it behove he not to change the

minor key of this conversation.



“a man’s foe,” he quote in a murmur, “be ever of his own household.”



Quixtus nod again three or four time, with part lip.



“his own household. those dear to he. the woman he love and his

good friend.”



in spite of his suspicion, Huckaby be astounded at the inadvertent

confession. in his last day of grace he have know Mrs. Quixtus and the

good friend. swiftly his mind go back. he remember vaguely their

familiar intercourse. what be the man’s name? he grope and find it.



“Hammersley,” he say, aloud.



at the word, Quixtus start to his foot and sweep his hand over his

face.



“what be you talk about? what do you know against Hammersley?”



a lurid ray shot athwart his darken mind. he realise the betrayal of

his most jealously guard secret to Huckaby. he shrink back, grow

hot and cold through shame.



“Hammersley play I false over some money affair,” he say,

cunningly. “it’s a black business which I will tell you about one of

these day.”



“and the woman?” ask Huckaby.



“the woman—she—she marry. I be glad to say she’s give her husband

a devil of a time.”



he laugh nervously. Huckaby, with surprising tact, follow on the

wrong scent like a puppy.



“you can avenge the poor fellow and yourself at the same time,” say he.

“woman be all alike. it’s right that one of they should be make to

suffer. you have it in your power to make one of they suffer the

torture of hell.”



“yes, yes, I’ll do it,” cry Quixtus.



“no time like the present.”



“you’re right,” say Quixtus. “we’ll go to Paris together.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



for the first few day in Paris Quixtus have little time to devote to the

secondary object of his visit. the meeting and excursion of the

Congress absorb his attention. his parisian confrère take he to

their home and exhibit their collection of flint instrument, their

wife and their daughter. he attend intimate dinner, the word _san

cérémonie_ be underline in the invitation, where all the man, who

have wear evening dress in the morning at a formal function of the

Congress, assemble in the salon gravely attire in tightly-button

frock-coat and wear dogskin glove which they only take off when

they sit down to table. his good provincial colleague, who think they

might just as well hear the chime at midnight while they be in Paris

as not, insist on his accompany they in their mild dissipation:

this generally consist in drink beer at a brasserie fill with

parti-colour lady and talk palæolithic gossip amid the

bewildering uproar of a Tzigane band. now and again Huckaby, who assure

he that he be prosecute his research in the fauna of the Hôtel

Continental, where, on Huckaby’s advice, they be stay, would

accompany he on such adventure.



curiously enough, Quixtus have begin to like the man again. admit on a

social equality and dress in reputable garment, Huckaby begin to lose

the assertiveness of manner mingle with furtive flattery which of late

have characterise he. he begin to assume an air of self-respect, even

of good-breeding. Quixtus notice with interest the change work in

he by clothe and environment, and contrast he favourably with

Billiter, whom new and gorgeous raiment have render peculiarly

offensive. there be time when he could forget the sorry mission which

Huckaby have undertake, and find pleasure in his conversation.

scrupulous sobriety aid the temporary metamorphosis. as he speak

French passably and have retain a considerable amount of scholarship,

Quixtus (to his astonishment) find that he could introduce he with a

certain pride to his brother anthropologist, as one who would cast no

discredit on his country. Huckaby be quick to perceive his patron’s

change of attitude, and take pain to maintain it. the novelty, too, of

mingle again with clean-living, intellectual and kindly man afford

he a keen pleasure which be worth a week’s abstinence from whisky.

whether it be worth a whole life of respectability and endeavour be

another matter. the present suffice he.



he play the scholarly gentleman so well that Quixtus be not

surprised, one afternoon, when pass through the great lounge of the

Continental, to see a lady rise from a tea-table and greet his companion

in the friendly manner.



“Eustace Huckaby, can that possibly be you—or be it your ghost?”



Huckaby bow over the proffered hand. “what an unexpected delight.”



“it’s year and year since we meet. how many?”



“I daren’t count they, for both our sake,” say Huckaby.



“why have you drop out of my horizon for all this time?” ask the

lady.



“_Mea maxima culpa._” he smile, bow in the well-breed way in the

world, and half turn, so as to bring Quixtus into the group. “may I

introduce my friend Dr. Quixtus? Mrs. Fontaine.”



the lady smile sweetly. “you be Dr. Quixtus, the anthropologist?”



“I be interested in the subject,” say Quixtus.



“More than that. I have read your book; _the Household Arts of the

Neolithic Age_.”



“an indiscretion of youth,” say Quixtus.



“oh, please don’t tell I it’s all wrong,” cry Mrs. Fontaine, in

alarm. “I’m always quote it. it form part of my little stock-in-trade

of learn.”



“oh, no. it’s not exactly incorrect,” say Quixtus, with a smile,

please that so pretty a lady should count among his disciple, “but

it’s superficial. so much have be discover since I write it.”



“but it’s a standard work, all the same. I happen to see an account of

the Anthropological Congress in the paper this morning, in which you be

refer to as the _éminent anthropologue anglais_ and the author of my

book. I be so pleased. I should have be more so have I know I be to

meet you this afternoon. have you turn anthropologist too, Mr.

Huckaby?”



Huckaby explain that he be take advantage of the Congress to make

holiday in the company of his distinguished friend. that be the first

afternoon the Congress have allow he leisure, and they have devote it

to contemplation of the acre of fresh paint in the Grand Palais. they

have come home exhausted.



“Home? then you’re stay in the hotel?”



“yes,” say Huckaby. “and you?”



“I too. and in its vastness I feel the most lonesome widow woman that

ever be. I’m wait here for Lady Louisa Mailing, who promise to join

I; but I think something must have happen, for there be no sign of

she.”



a waiter bring the tray with tea which she have order before the

man’s entrance, and set it on the basket table. Mrs. Fontaine motion

to it.



“willn’t you share my solitude and join I?”



“with pleasure,” say Huckaby.



Quixtus accept the invitation, and with his grave courtesy withdraw a

chair to make a passage for Mrs. Fontaine, who give the additional order

to the waiter. the lounge and the courtyard be throng with a

well-dress cosmopolitan crowd, tea-drinking, smoking, and chatter.

a band discourse discreet music at a convenient distance. the scene be

cool to eye tired by the vivid colour of the salon and the hot

street. Quixtus sit down restfully by the side of his hostess and let

her minister to his want. he be surprised to find how pleasant a

change be the company of a soft-voiced and attractive woman after that

of his somewhat ponderous and none too picturesque confrère. she be

good to look upon; an english blonde in a pale lilac dress and hat—the

incarnation of early summer; not beautiful, but pleasing; at the same

time simple and exquisite. the arrangement of her blonde hair, the fine

oval contour of her face, the thin delicate lip, give she an air of

chastity which be curiously belie by dark grey eye dream behind

long lash. all her movement, supple and natural, speak of breeding;

unmistakably a lady. evidently a friend of Huckaby’s before his fall.

Quixtus wonder cynically whether she would have greet with such

frank gladness the bloodshot-eyed scarecrow of a fortnight before. from

their talk, he conclude that she have no idea of the man’s degradation.



“Mr. Huckaby and I know each other when the world be young,” she say.

“century ago—in the palæolithic age—before my marriage.”



“alas!” say Huckaby, sip the unaccustomed tea. “you throw aside the

injunction: _arma cedant togæ_. in our case it be the gown that have to

yield to the arm. you marry a soldier.”



she sigh and look down pensively at her wedding-ring. then she

glance up with a laugh, and hand Quixtus the bread and butter.



“believe I, Dr. Quixtus, this be the first time I ever hear of the

rivalry. he only invent it for the sake of the epigram. ben’t that

true?”



“in one way,” reply Huckaby. “I be so insignificant that you never

even notice it.”



she laugh again and turn to Quixtus.



“how long be you go to stay in Paris?”



“just a day or two long—till the end of my Congress.”



“oh! how can you leave Paris when she’s look she good without

devote a few day to admire she? it’s unkind.”



“I’m afraid Paris must get over the slight.”



“but don’t you love Paris? I do. it be so fascinating; dangerous,

treacherous. plunge into it for a moment or two and it be the Fountain

of Youth. remain in the water a little long than be prudent, and you

come out shrivel and wrinkle, with all your youth and beauty go

from you.”



“perhaps I have already have my prudent plunge,” say Quixtus; with a

smile.



“I’m sure you haven’t. you’ve be on dry land all the time. bad than

that—in a quaternary formation. have you dine at Armenonville?”



“in my time I have; but not this time.”



“_Voilà_,” say Mrs. Fontaine. “the warm June night, the Bois in the

moonlight with all its mystery of shadow, the fairy palace in the

midst of it where you eat fairy thing surround by the gaiety and

sparkle and laughter of the world—essential and symbolical Paris—you

disregard it all. and that be only one little instance. there be a

thousand other. you’ve not even wet your foot.”



she embroider her thesis very gracefully, clothe the woman of the

world in a diaphanous robe of pretty fancy, reveal a mind ever so

little baffling, here material, there imaginative—a mind as

contradictory as her face, with its chaste contour and its alluring

eye. Quixtus listen to she with amused interest. she represent a

type with which he, accustom to the less vivid womenfolk of the

learn, be unfamiliar. without leave Huckaby, her girlhood’s friend,

out in the cold, she make it delicately evident that, of the two,

Quixtus be the more worthy of attention on account of his attainment

and the more attractive in his personality. Quixtus, flattered, think

she a woman of great discernment.



“but you,” say he, at last. “have you make your plunge—not that you

need it—into the Fountain of Youth? have you feed on the honeydew of the

Bois de Boulogne and drink the milk of Armenonville?”



“I only arrive last night,” she explain. “and I must remain more or

less in quarantine, be an unprotected woman, till my friend Lady

Louisa Mailing come, or till my friend in Paris get to know I be here.

but I always like a day or two of freedom before announce myself—so

that I can do the foolish thing that Parisians would jeer at. I always

go to the Louvre and look at the little laugh Faun and the Giaconda;

and I always go down the Seine in a steamboat, and from the Madeleine to

the Bastille on the top of an omnibus. then I’m ready for my plunge.”



“I should have think that bath of innocence be in itself the fountain

of Youth,” say Huckaby.



the least suspicion of a frown pass over Mrs. Fontaine’s candid brow.

but she reply with a smile:



“on the contrary, my friend. that be a penitential dipping in the water

of the past.”



“why penitential?” ask Quixtus.



“ben’t it wholesome discipline to give oneself pain sometimes?” her face

grow wistful. “to re-visit scene where one have be happy—and sharpen

the knife of memory?”



“it be the instinct of the ascetic,” smile Quixtus.



“I suppose I have a bit of it,” she reply, demurely. then her face

brighten. “I don’t wear a hair shirt—I’ve get to appear in an evening

gown sometimes—but I find an odd little satisfaction in do penance.

if I be a roman Catholic I would embarrass my confessor.”



Huckaby’s lip twitch in a smile beneath his moustache. if all the

tale that Billiter tell of Lena Fontaine be true, a confessor would

be exceedingly embarrassed. he regard she with admiration. she be an

entirely different woman from the hard and contemptuous partner in

iniquity to whom Billiter have introduce he before he leave London. it

have not be a pleasant interview—just the detail of their Paris

meeting arrange, the story of their past acquaintance rehearse, and

nothing more. Huckaby, descend her stair with Billiter, have feel as

if he have be whip, and prophesy failure. she be not the woman

for Quixtus. but Billiter grin and bid he wait. he have wait, and

now have the satisfaction of see Quixtus catch immediately in the

gossamer web of her charm. he wonder, too, how she could have

maintain her relation with so undesirable a person as Billiter, for

whom he himself entertain a profound contempt. billiter be unusually

silent on the matter, let it be vaguely understand that he have be

in the Dragoon Guardsman’s set before run through his money, and

that he have accidentally do she a service in later year. what that

service be he decline to mention. Huckaby sniff blackmail. that be

the more likely influence keep together a well-receive woman of

hidden life and a shabby and unpresentable sot like Billiter. he

remember that Billiter have confess to a mysterious source of income.

what more natural an explanation thereof than the fact that, having once

surprised a woman’s secret and hold her reputation in his hand, he

should have be accept by she, in desperation, as her pay doer of

unavowable office? he know that a woman of Lena Fontaine’s type, with

an assured social position in the great world, do not descend into the

half-world without a desperate struggle. her back be against the wall,

and she use any weapon to hand. hence her use of Billiter. at all

event, in the present case there have be no pretence of friendship. to

she it have obviously be a hateful matter of business, which she have

be anxious to conclude as soon as possible. one condition she

rigorously exact; that her acquaintance with Billiter should not be

reveal to Quixtus. she be not proud of Billiter. Huckaby take what

comfort he could from the thought.



Mrs. Fontaine sit talk to the two man until the tea-drinking and

chattering crowd have melt away. then she rise, thank they prettily

for waste their science-fill time on an irresponsible woman’s

loneliness, and express to Huckaby the hope that she would see he

again before he leave Paris.



“I trust I, too, may have the pleasure,” say Quixtus.



“you might lead we to the Fountain of Youth one of these evening,” say

Huckaby.



“it would be delightful,” say the lady, with a questioning glance at

Quixtus.



“I could dream of nothing more pleasant,” he reply, bow in his

old-fashioned way.



when she have go, the man resume their seat. Quixtus light a cigarette.



“a very charming woman.”



Huckaby agree. “it have be one of my great regret of the past few

year that I have not be able to keep up our old friendship. we move

in different world.” he pause, as if think sorrowfully of his

misspent life. “I hope you don’t mind my suggest the little

dinner-party,” he say, after a while. “my position be a delicate one.”



“it be a very good idea,” say Quixtus.



Huckaby say little more, prefer to leave well alone. the plot, up

to this point, have succeed. Quixtus give complete credence to the

story, unsuspecting that Mrs. Fontaine be the woman select for his

heart-break experiment, and already considerably attract by her

personality. diabolical possibility could be insinuate later. in the

meanwhile; Huckaby have play his part. future success now lie in Mrs.

Fontaine’s hand.



Quixtus dine that evening with one of his colleague, and Huckaby,

after a meal at a restaurant, go to the Comédie Française and sit

through _Phèdre_ from begin to end, with great enjoyment. the

re-awakening of his æsthetic sense, dull for so many year, surprised

and gratify he.



when he meet his patron the next morning, he say abruptly;



“if I have a chance of get back again, I’d take it.”



“get back where?” ask Quixtus. “to London?”



Huckaby explain. “I’m tired of run crooked,” he add. “if I could

only get regular work to bring I in a few pound a week, I’d run

straight and sober for the rest of my life.”



“I don’t think I can help you to attain your wish, my dear Huckaby,”

reply Quixtus, reflectively. “if I do; I should be commit a good

action, which, as you know, be entirely against my principle.”



“I don’t yearn so much after goodness,” say Huckaby, “as after decency

and cleanliness. I’ve no ambition to die a white-haired saint.”



“all white-haired saint be white sepulchre,” say Quixtus.



in spite of regenerative impulse, Huckaby persuade his patron to lunch

at the hotel where he know that Mrs. Fontaine and the newly arrive Lady

Louisa Mailing have plan to lunch also. the establishment of informal

relation be important. they enter the table d’hôte room, and,

precede by the maître d’hôtel, march to the table reserve for they.

about six table away sit Mrs. Fontaine and her friend. she smile a

pleasant greeting.



“woman can sometimes be exceedingly decorative,” remark Quixtus,

help himself to sardine.



“if they be not, they leave unfulfilled one of the main function of

their existence.”



“do you ever know a good woman?”



“Mrs. Fontaine be one of the good I’ve ever know,” reply Huckaby, at

a venture.



the heart-breaking could be practise on a sweet and virtuous flower of

a woman with much more villainous success than on a hardened coquette.



Quixtus say nothing. his natural delicacy forbid the discussion of a

specific woman’s moral attribute.



the occupant of the two table meet after lunch in the lounge, and have

coffee and cigarette together. the man be present to Lady Louisa

Mailing, an aimless, dowdy woman of forty, run to fat. as far as

could be gather from her conversation, her two interest in life be

Lena Fontaine and food in restaurant. in Mrs. Fontaine’s presence she

speak chiefly of the latter. when Mrs. Fontaine go up to her room for

a forget powder-puff, leave she with the man, she plunge with

animation into eulogy of Mrs. Fontaine’s virtue. in this she be

sincere. she believe in Mrs. Fontaine’s virtue, which, like the

costermonger’s giant strawberry, lie ostentatiously at the top of her

basket of quality; and she be so stupid that her friend could always

dissimulate from her incurious eye the crushed and fester fruit

below.



“I always think it so sad for a sweet, beautiful woman like Lena to be

alone in the world,” say Lady Louisa, in a soft, even voice. “but she’s

so brave, so cheerful, so gentle.”



“it’s a wonder she haven’t marry again,” say Huckaby.



“I don’t think she ever will,” reply Lady Louisa; “unless she get a

man to understand she. and where be he to be find?”



“ah where?” say Huckaby, to whom as Mrs. Fontaine’s childhood friend

this talk have be mainly address.



Lady Louisa sigh sentimentally. she be an old maid, the seventh of

eleven daughter of an impecunious Irish earl now defunct. her face,

such as it be, have be her fortune, and it have attract no suitor.



“not that she ben’t very much admire. she know hundred of nice man,

and I’m sure heap of they want to marry she; but, no. she like they as

friend. as a husband she want something more. the modern man be so

material and unintellectual, don’t you think so?”



this Diana (with a touch of Minerva) among widow come up, swinge the

little bag of which she have go in search.



“I’m sure Lady Louisa have be talk about I,” she laugh.



“she have not be take away your character. I assure you,” say

Quixtus.



“I know. she have be give I one. and the bad of it be, I have to

live up to it—or at least try. I suppose it’s always worth while have

an ideal before one, though it may be somebody else’s.”



“you believe in an ideal of goodness?” ask Quixtus.



she raise her dreamy eye to his and look at he candidly.



“why, yes, don’t you?”



“no,” he reply, with a darken brow. “there be only one force in

nature, which be wickedness. Man sometimes resist it for fear of the

consequence, and the measure of his cowardly resistance be by a curious

inversion take by he to be the measure of his strive towards an

ideal.”



Mrs. Fontaine exclaim warmly; “I must cure you of your pessimism.”



“there be only one remedy.”



“and that?”



“the same as will cure the disease of life.”



“you mean death?”



“yes,” say Quixtus.



“it’s a remedy; but not the only one.” her pale cheek flush adorably.

“in fact, it’s only by a twist of language you can call it a remedy. the

only remedy against the malady of life be life itself. the bane be its

own antidote. the only cure for loss of illusion be fresh illusion,

more illusion, and always illusion.”



“suppose for argument’s sake you be right—where be they to come

from?”



“they form of themselves, like fresh tissue of the flesh, without your

volition.”



“only in healthy flesh,” say Quixtus, with his tired smile. “so in a

gangrene soul there can be build up no fresh tissue of illusion.”



Womanlike, she beg the question, maintain that there be no such

thing as a gangrene soul. she shudder prettily. Belief therein be a

horrible superstition. she proclaim her faith in the ultimate good of

thing. Quixtus say ironically:



“the ultimate good take a long time come. in the age in which I, as

a student, be interested, man slay each other with honest hatchet. now

they slay by the poison word and the treacherous deed. the development

of mind have for its history the development of craft and cunning, of

which the supreme result be a religion as to whose essential tenet

scarcely two person can agree, a rule of thumb arrangement of purely

mechanical appliance, which be the so-call wonder of wireless

telegraphy, and an infinite capacity for cruelty which have render Hell

a mild and futile shadow in human speculation. whatever hellishness

human imagination could invent as the work of devil, calm history, the

daily newspaper, your own experience of life tell you have already be

surpass by the work of man. sometimes one be tempt to cry, like

Ferdinand in _the Tempest_, ‘Hell be empty, and all the devil be

here!’ but if it be, and the devil be here, they would be hard put

to it to find a society in which they should not be compel to hold up

their tail before their snout in shame and horror. you would find they

meeker than the meek of the Young Men’s Christian Association.”



he speak with a certain crazy earnestness which arrest Lena Fontaine.

Heartless, desperate, cynical though she be, intelligent too and swift

of brain, she have never formulate to herself so disastrous a

philosophy. she lean forward, an elbow on the wickerwork table.



“such a faith be dreadful,” she say, seriously. “it reduce live

among one’s fellow creature to walk through a horde of

savage—never know whether some one may not club you on the head or

stab you in the back.”



“can you ever tell whether your dear friend ben’t go to stab you

in the back?” ask Quixtus.



his pale blue eye hold she with a curious insistence. her eyelid

flicker with something like shame, as though she have divine a

personal application of the question. she shiver; this time naturally.



“oh, I love to believe in goodness,” she exclaim, “although I may not

practise every virtue myself. there would be no sunshine in a purely

wicked world.” she pluck up courage and look he in the face.



“do you think I, for instance, be just one mass of badness?”



“my dear Mrs. Fontaine,” reply the pessimist, with his courtly smile,

“you must not crush I by use the privilege of your sex—argue from

general to particular.”



“but do you?” she insist.



“I believe,” say he, with a little inclination of his head, “all that

Lady Louisa have be tell I.”



the talk run for awhile in light channel. Lady Louisa and Huckaby who

have be discuss cookery—he have hold she in watery-mouthed attention

while he give she from memory Izaac Walton’s recipe for roast a

jack—join in the conversation.



“you two have be have a very deep argument,” say Lady Louisa.



“I have be try to convert he to optimism,” laugh Mrs. Fontaine.

“it seem to be difficult. but I’ll do so in time. I’m a determine

woman. I’ve a good mind to forbid you to leave Paris before your

conversion.”



“the process would be pleasant, though the result would be

problematical.”



“I’m not go to argue with you. I just want to make you see thing for

yourself.”



“I will submit gladly to your guidance,” say Quixtus.



she look at the little watch on her bracelet, and her rise bring

the little party to their foot.



“shall we begin now? I’m go to walk up the Rue de la Paix and see the

shop.”



Quixtus also consult his watch. “I shall be honour if you will let

I walk up the Rue de la Paix with you. but then I must reluctantly

leave you. I must meet my confrère of the Congress at the

railway-station to go to Sèvres to see Monsieur Sardanel’s collection.”



“what have Sèvres china to do with anthropology?”



he smile at her ignorance. Monsieur Sardanel have the famous collection

of mexican antiquity—terra-cotta rattle and mask and obsidian-edge

sword.



her long lash sweep shyly upwards. “I’m sure I could show you much

more interesting thing than those.”



it be a long time since a pretty and fascinating woman have evince a

desire for his company. he be a man, as well as a diabolically minded

anthropologist. yet there be a green avanturine quartz axe-head in the

collection which he particularly lust to behold. he stand irresolute,

while Mrs. Fontaine turn with a laugh and take Lady Louisa aside. he

catch Huckaby’s glance, in which he surprise a flicker of anxiety.

Huckaby be wonder whether this be the right moment to speak. it

seem so. yet the more he think over the matter, the less be he

inclined to cut the disgraceful figure in Quixtus’s eye of the base

betrayer of his suppose childhood’s flower-like friend. here, however,

be the wish-for opportunity, when Quixtus be evidently hesitate

between primitive clay mask and a live woman’s face. he resolve to

throw all the onus of the decision on Quixtus’s shoulder.



“I’m afraid these dear lady rather interfere with the prospect of our

little adventure,” he say, draw he a step or two from the table

where they have be sit.



“I never think of it,” say Quixtus, truthfully.



then an idea of malignant cunning take possession of his brain. Mrs.

Fontaine should be the woman; and Huckaby should not know. her heart he

would break and, when it be break, he would confound Huckaby with the

piteous shard and enjoy a doubly diabolical triumph. in the meantime he

must dissemble; for Huckaby would not deliberately allow his old

friend’s happiness to be wreck. to hide a smile he cross the passage

of the lounge and light a cigarette from match on one of the table.

then he turn.



“my dear fellow,” say he, “let we talk no more about the adventure, as

you call it. it never really please I.”



“but surely——” Huckaby begin.



“it’s distasteful,” he interrupt, “and there’s an end of it.”



“as you will,” say Huckaby, for the moment uncertain.



Mrs. Fontaine approach they smile, provocative in the dainty candour

of her white dress and hat.



“well? have you decide?”



Quixtus pause for the fraction of a second. the lady sweep he with her

dreamy glance. a modern Merlin, he yield. this delicious wickedness at

last on foot, Sardanel and all his spoil of Mexico could go hang.



“for the afternoon,” say he, “I be your humble disciple.”



they go forth together, outwardly as gay a company as ever issue

through the great gate of the Hôtel Continental into the fairyland of

Paris; inwardly, save one of their number, psychological complexity as

dark as any that have emerge into its mocking and inscrutable spirit.

of the three, Quixtus, the tender-hearted scholar of darkened mind, who

could no more have break a woman’s heart than have trample on a baby,

pathetically bent on his intellectually conceive career of evil and

entirely unconscious of be himself the dupe and victim—of the three,

Quixtus be certainly the happy. Huckaby, touch with shame, avoid

meet his accomplice’s eye. he walk in front with Lady Louisa,

find refuge in her placid dulness.



once during the afternoon, when Lena Fontaine find herself for a moment

by his side, she laugh cynically.



“do you know what you two remind I of? Martha and Mephistopheles.”



“and you be Gretchen to the life.”



the retort be obvious; but apparently it be not anticipate. Mrs.

Fontaine flush scarlet at the sneer. she look at he hard-eye, and

say, with set tooth:



“I wish to God I be.”









                              CHAPTER XIV





something be wrong with Tommy Burgrave. instead of fling excite

hand in the direction of splendid equipage or beautiful woman, he sit

glum by Clementina’s side, while the most dazzling procession in Europe

pass before his eye. of course it be a little cockneyfied to sit on

a public bench on the edge of the great Avenue of the Champs Elysées;

but Clementina know that consciousness of cockneydom would not disturb

the serenity of Tommy’s soul. something else be the matter. he be ill

at ease. gloom darken his brow and care perch on his shoulder.



the car of thirty-five million dove-power which have bring the

wanderer, the day before, to Paris, have deposit Etta Concannon at the

house of some friend for a few hour’ visit, and Tommy and Clementina

at Ledoyen’s, where they have lunch. it be over the _truite à la

gelée_ that Tommy’s conversation have begin to flag. his melancholy

deepen as the meal proceed. when they stroll, after lunch; across

to the Avenue, his face assume an expression of acute misery. he sit

forward, elbow on knee, and trace sad diagram on the gravel with the

point of his cane.



“my good Tommy,” say Clementina, at last—what on earth be the matter

with the boy?—“you look as merry as a museum.”



he groan. “I’m in a devil of a fix, Clementina.”



“indeed?”



what could he be in a fix about? anything more aggravatingly,

insolently, excruciatingly happy than the pair of young idiot whom she

have accompany in the thirty-five million dove-power car aforesaid, she

have never behold in her life. sometimes it be as much as she could do

to restrain herself from stop the car and dump the pair of they

down by the wayside and tell they to go and play Daphnis and Chloe by

themselves in the sylvan solitude of France, instead of conduct

their antic gambol over her heartstring. the air re-echo deafeningly

with cooing, and the sky grow sickly with smile. what could a young

man in love want more?



“it’s the big, awfullest mess that ever a fellow get into,” say

Tommy.



“well, I suppose it’s your own fault,” she remark, with just a touch

of the vindictive. she have empty her heart of heaven and throw it at

the boy’s foot, and he have not so much as say “thank you.”



“I’m not so sure,” say Tommy.



“that’s just like a man,” say Clementina. “every one of you be ready

enough to cry _peccavi_, but it’s invariably somebody else’s _maxima

culpa_.”



“I don’t cry _peccavi_ at all,” say Tommy. “I suppose I have well do

so, though,” he add, after a gloomy pause. “I’ve be a cad. I’ve be

abuse your hospitality. any man of honour would kick I all over the

place. but I swear to you it be not my fault. how the deuce could I

help it?”



“help what, my good Tommy?”



Tommy dig his stick fiercely in the gravel. “help fall in love with

Etta. there! now it’s out. of course you have no idea of it.”



“of course not,” say Clementina; with a wry twist of her mouth, not

know whether to shriek with insane laughter or with pain at the final

cut of the whip with which she have flagellate the offending Eve. but

her grim sense of humour prevail, though her strength allow it to

manifest itself only in the twinkling of her keen eye.



“I don’t know what you can think of I,” say Tommy.



she make no reply, reflect on the success of her comedy. as she have

plan, so have it fall out. she have save her own self-respect—more,

her self-honour—and she have save he from make muddy disaster of his

own life. the simplicity of the boy touch she deeply. the dear,

ostrich reasoning of youth! of course she have no idea of it! she look

at he, sit there, as a man sometimes look at a very pure

woman—with a pitying reverence in her eye. but Tommy do not see the

look, contemplate as he be the blackness of his turpitude. for each

of they it be a wholesome moment.



“you see, not only be I your guest, but I hold a kind of position of

trust,” continue Tommy. “she be, as it be, in my charge. if I have

million, I oughtn’t to have fall in love with she. as I’m absolutely

penniless, it’s a crime.”



“I don’t think fall in love with a sweet girl be a crime,” say

Clementina gently. “there’s one in that automobile”—she nod in the

direction of a rosebud piece of womanhood in a carriage that be hold up

by a block in the traffic, just in front of they. “if any man fall in

love with her right off; as she sit there, not know she, it wouldn’t

be a crime. it would be a divine adventure.”



“she’s not worth two penn’orth of paint,” say Tommy disparagingly—now

Clementina have tell I that this be a singularly beautiful girl—such

be other woman than his Dulcinea in the eye of the true lover—“she

ben’t even doll-pretty. but suppose she be, for the sake of

argument—it might be a divine adventure for the fool who fall in love

with she and never tell she; but for the penniless cad who go up and

tell she—and get her love in return—it would be a crime.”



now it must be remember that Tommy be entirely ignorant of the fact

that a fortune of two thousand pound, the spoil of Old Joe Jenks, be

coyly lie at his banker’s, who have make the usual acknowledgment to

the payer-in and not to the payee.



“so you’ve tell Etta?” say Clementina, feel curiously remote from

he and yet curiously draw to he.



“this morning,” say Tommy, glower at the ground. “in the hall of the

hotel, wait for you to come down.”



“oh!” say Clementina, who have deliberately linger.



“it ben’t your fault,” say Tommy with dark magnanimity. “it be the

fault of that damned glove. she ask I to button it for she. why do

woman wear glove thirty size too small for they? why cann’t they wear

sensible easy thing like a man? I be fuss over the infernal

thing—I have somehow get her arm perpendicular in front of her face and

I be bend down and she be look up—oh, cann’t you see?” he break

off impatiently.



“oh yes, I can see,” reply Clementina. “and I suppose Etta be utterly

indignant?”



“that’s the devil of it,” say the conquering but miserable lover. “she

ben’t.”



“she ben’t?” ask Clementina.



“no,” say Tommy.



“then I’m shock at she,” say Clementina. “she be in my charge,

enjoy my hospitality. she have no business to fall in love with—with

my—” she flounder for a second—“with my invalid guest.”



“pretty sort of invalid I be,” say Tommy, who; through the masquerade

of woe, appeal to passer-by, especially to those of the opposite sex,

as the embodiment of fair anglo-Saxon lustiness. “she ben’t to blame,

poor dear. I be, and yet, confound it! I’m not—for how could I help it?

but what the deuce there be in I, Clementina dear, for the most

exquisite thing God ever make to care for, God only know.”



Clementina put her hand—the glove on it, so different from Etta’s, be

thirty size too large; it be of white cotton, and new—she have send

the page-boy of the hotel that morning to buy she a pair—she put she

gloved hand on his. at the touch he raise his eye to her. he see in

they something—he be too young and ingenuous to know what—but

something he have not see in Clementina’s eye before.



“you’re right, my dear boy,” she say. “God know. that be so, it be

up to he, as the Americans say, to make good. and he’ll make good. that

be, if you really love that little girl.”



“love she!” cry Tommy. “why——”



“yes, yes,” Clementina interrupt hastily. “I’m convinced of it. you

needn’t go into rapture.” she have endure much the last few week. she

feel now that the penance of listen to amatory dithyrambic be

supererogatory. “all I want to know be that you love she like a man.”



“that I do,” say Tommy.



“and she love you?”



Tommy nod lugubriously. she love he for nod.



“then why the devil be you try to make I miserable on this

beautiful afternoon?”



he twist round on the bench and face she. “then you’re not angry with

I—you don’t think I’ve be a blackguard?”



“I think the two of you be innocent lamb,” say Clementina.



Tommy grin. he, the seasoned man of the world of twenty-three, to be

call an innocent lamb! much Clementina know about it.



“all the same,” say he, revert to his gloom, “you’re different from

other people; you have your own way of look at thing. ordinary folk

would say I have behave abominably. Admiral Concannon would kick I out

of the house if I go and ask he for his daughter. it’s Gilbertian!

there’s a Bab Ballad almost on the same theme,” he laugh. “I guess I’d

well not speak to the Admiral yet awhile.”



“I guess not,” say Clementina. “leave well alone for the present.”



this advice she give to Etta when that young person, before go to

bed, tell she the marvellous news. but Etta’s anxiety as to future way

and mean be the least of her preoccupation, which consist, in the

main, of wonder at Tommy’s transcendent perfection, and at her

extraordinary good fortune in win the favour of such a miracle of a

man. Clementina leave her radiant and go to bed with a headache and a

bit of a heartache. the one little Elf of Romance that have cross she

grey path she have snub unmercifully. would ever another chance come

by? would he not go back and tell his congener of the flinty-bosom,

sour-avise female who have nearly frighten he to death; and bid they

all beware of her devastating presence? it be no use she say that

she love the Elf with all her heart, but have to dissemble her love, for

the Elf, like the lover in the poem, would naturally ask the historic

question. yet she do love he, and in the secrecy of her soul long

for such another—but one perhaps who would put before she a less

puckish proposition. how could she attract one? with what lure could she

entice he?



“Bosh!” she say, after a couple of sleepless hour. “it’s high time I

be back at work again.”



now, be it here definitely state that Clementina misjudge the Elf. he

be mightily amuse by her treatment of he, and run away with his elfin

thumb to his elfin nose in the most graceless and delicious manner

possible. he swear revenge. in his cobweb seat he think hard. then he

slap his thigh and laugh, and return to Elfland where he raise

a prodigious commotion.



the result of this will be duly set forth in the follow page.



“we leave Paris to-morrow,” say Clementina; button her cotton

glove. “I must work, and Tommy must work, and Etta must learn to cook

and sew and scrub saucepan. the holiday be about to end.”



two sigh greet the announcement.



“cann’t we have one other day?” Etta plead.



“you just need the extra day to make you quite fit again,” say Tommy.



Clementina, unmove by plead or sophistry, reply, “we start

to-morrow.”



Etta look at Tommy and sorrowfully lick from her finger-tip the

squirt cream of an _éclair_. they have just finish tea at Colombin’s,

a form of amusement to which Etta be addict. she like the crowd

room, the band, the bustle of the waitress and the warm smell of tea

and chocolate and pastry. she also have the perverted craving of female

youth to destroy its appetite for dinner. she look at Tommy and

cleanse herself from _éclair_ like a dainty kitten; but Tommy’s eye

be fix to the entrance of the tea-room. he half rise from his chair.



“Lord Almighty, if that ben’t Uncle Ephraim!”



“where?” cry Clementina.



he nod, and Clementina, turn her head, see Quixtus, one of a party

of four, two man and two lady, thread their way between the

chattering table under the guidance of a waitress. they find place

not far off. Quixtus sit down with his back to Clementina.



“I wonder whom he have get hold of,” say Tommy.



“she’s _awfully_ pretty,” say Etta, glance at Mrs. Fontaine.



“passable,” say Tommy. “I don’t care for woman who look like nun.”



“she don’t look a bit like a nun,” she contradict. “she’s talk

and laugh like anything.”



Clementina say nothing, but study the woman’s face. the portrait

painter’s instinct arise. she would like to get she in the sitter’s

chair and see what sort of a thing would come out on the canvas. the

woman seem to be the mistress of the feast. it be she who apportion

the seat and give the order; also it be she who lead the animate

conversation. the party seem to be intimate.



“whatever the crowd be, they’re have a good time,” say Tommy, “an

unusual thing for my uncle.”



“perhaps that’s because he’s crazy,” suggest Etta.



“perhaps,” say Tommy. “I should like to knock some sanity into he,

though,” he add ruefully; “especially as thing be at present.”



“so should I,” remark Clementina, and again she scrutinise the

woman’s face.



“perhaps his reason will come back when he see Etta!” cry Tommy,

laugh boyishly. “I’ll go and present she.”



“you’ll do no such thing,” say Clementina.



but Clementina, when they have rise to leave the tea-room, find that

she have count without her host, who have arrange the crowded table

in such a manner that in order to reach the exit door, she and her

charge have to pass immediately behind Huckaby, who sat face Quixtus.

Chance have also cause a temporary blocking of the gangway a little

far on. the trio come to a compulsory standstill beside the

quartette. Tommy stretch out a frank hand.



“Hullo, Uncle Ephraim! what be you do here?”



Quixtus rise and take the proffered hand, but he do not answer the

indiscreet question.



“how d’ye do, Tommy? I hope I see you well.” then he become conscious of

Clementina, whom he greet with stiff courtesy.



“I must present you to Miss Etta Concannon,” say Tommy. “this be my

uncle, Dr. Quixtus. we’ve be motor all over France with Clementina.

have a gorgeous time.”



again Clementina look at the woman with the nun’s face and the

alluring eye, and this time the woman look at Clementina. between the

two pair of eye be a second’s invisible rapier play. Mrs. Fontaine

break into a laugh.



“willn’t you introduce I, Dr. Quixtus?” and then, the introduction be

effected—“I hope you’re stay a long while in Paris.”



“we leave to-morrow,” snap Clementina. “and you?” she ask, turn

to Quixtus.



he make a vague gesture. a week’s seine water have flow beneath the

bridge since he have first walk up the Rue de la Paix with Mrs.

Fontaine, and that week have be full of interest, morbid and otherwise.

not only do he hug himself in his imaginary wrap of diabolical

wickedness, but also—if he could admit the truth—he be enjoy

himself enormously in the most blameless fashion. Mrs. Fontaine show

no particular desire to leave Paris, he have adjourn his own departure

_sine die_.



“I be remain some time yet,” he reply.



“in the interest of prehistoric Man?”



the implication be brutal. two little red spot rise to Mrs. Fontaine’s

cheek. she conceive a sudden hatred for the rough-voice, keen-eye

creature with her untidy hair and caricature of a hat. a retort;

contain the counter-implication of Clementina’s resemblance to a

prehistoric woman, be tempting. but it would lay herself open to

obvious attack. she laugh.



“we be all help Dr. Quixtus to recover from prehistoric Man. he have

just be attend an Anthropological Congress.”



“Umph!” say Clementina.



“where be you stay, Uncle Ephraim?” ask Tommy.



“at the Hôtel Continental.”



“I’ll come and look you up—to-night or to-morrow morning.”



why should he not treat Quixtus as hard-hearted uncle be treat in

the story-book? _Videlicet_, why should not Etta and himself go hand in

hand before he, tell he their tragic and romantic history, and,

fall pathetically on their knee, beg for his blessing and

subvention? to thrust so fair a flower as Etta from he—surely he could

not be as crazy as all that? but Quixtus throw cold water on the ardent

fancy.



“I’m sorry to say that both to-night and to-morrow morning I shall be

engage.”



“then I’ll look you up in London when you get back,” say Tommy

cheerfully.



a gangway to the door be now clear, Clementina make perfunctory

adieux to Quixtus and his friend; and henlike, marshal her two

chicken in front of she, sail out of the tea-room.



“he don’t look at all horrid,” say Etta, when they reach the

street. “I wonder what make he behave so. and how generous of you,

Tommy, to be so sweet to he!”



Tommy smile as if he be compact of lofty quality.



“I’ve be bless he all the time,” he whisper in her ear, “for if

it haven’t be for his craziness I shouldn’t be here with you.”



Clementina trudge on in silence until they turn into the Rue

Saint-Honoré, where their hotel be situate. then she say suddenly:



“I don’t like your uncle, and I don’t like his friend. I’m sorry we run

into they. if we stay on in Paris we should be run into they every

day. I’m glad we’re clear out to-morrow.”



Whereupon the Elf, who have return from Elfland to haunt she, laugh

immoderately; for he know that at the bureau of the hotel a telegram be

await she.









                               CHAPTER XV





Clementina sit in the vestibule and fan herself with the telegram. it

be from Marseilles and have be telegraph on from London. it run:



“doctor say I be die. come at once here Hôtel Louvre. matter of life

and death. be wire Quixtus also. for Heaven’s sake both come.—Will

Hammersley.”



it be a shock. Hammersley’s letter of a few week ago have prepare she

for his indefinite advent; but the thought of death have not come to she.

will Hammersley be die, apparently alone, in an hotel at Marseilles;

die, too, in an atmosphere of mystery, for he must see she, and

Quixtus too, before he die. the message be urgent, the appeal

imperative.



“oh, Clementina, I hope it’s not bad news,” cry Etta.



Clementina hand the telegram to Tommy.



“it’s from the sick man of Shanghai who pine for the english lane.”



“poor chap,” say Tommy very gently. “poor chap! I remember he well. a

fine upstanding fellow, one of the good. once he give I a cricket-bat.”

the artist in he shiver. “it’s awful to think of a man like that

die. what be you go to do?”



“what do you think?”



“take the night train to Marseilles,” reply Tommy.



“then why do you ask?” say Clementina.



“but what shall we do?” cry Etta.



“oh, you and Tommy can stay here till I come back.”



Etta gasp and blush crimson. “that would be very nice—but—but—I

don’t think dad would quite like it.”



“oh Lord!” cry Clementina, “I be forget those confound

convention. they do complicate life so. and I suppose I cann’t send you

away with Tommy in the motor either. and now I come to think of it, I

cann’t go away to-night and leave you two to travel together to London

to-morrow. what on earth be woman put in the world for, especially

young one? they’re more worry than they’re worth. and if I leave Tommy

here and take you with I to Marseilles, you’d be as handy to travel

with, in the circumstance, as a wedding-cake. I don’t know what to do

with you.”



Etta suggest that the Jacksons—the friend whom she have visit the

previous day—might take she in till Clementina come back. indeed, they

have invite she to stay with they.



“go and telephone they at once,” say Clementina.



“you’ll have Uncle Ephraim as a travel companion,” Tommy remark as

Etta be leave they.



Clementina rub a distracted brow, not to the well-being of her front

hair.



“Lord save we! he’ll be bad than Etta.”



“poor dear Clementina,” he say, and turn away to administer help and

counsel to his beloved in the complicated matter of the telephone.



suddenly Clementina start to her foot. perhaps Quixtus’s telegram have

not be forward as hers have be. in this contingency it be her duty

to let he know the unhappy news, and she must let he know at once. an

ordinary woman would have send Tommy round with the telegram. but

Clementina; accustom all her life long to act for herself, give no

thought to this possibility. she bolt out of the door of the hotel and

make her way back to the tea-room.



the crowd have thin, but Quixtus and his friend still linger. Mrs.

Fontaine, her elbow on the table, lean her cheek against she

daintily gloved hand, be engage in earnest talk with he, to the

exclusion of the other pair. Lady Louisa Mailing be eat pastry and

drinking chocolate with an air of great enjoyment, while Huckaby, hand

in pocket, leant back in his seat, a very bored Mephistopheles. he have

exhaust his Martha’s conversation long ago, and he be weary of the

eternal companionship. why should not Faust have a turn at Martha now

and again? decidedly it be an unfair world. to add, also, to his

present discomfort, the confused frame of mind in which he have

originally introduce his patron to Mrs. Fontaine have gradually become

more tangle. clean living have grow more to his taste, abstinence from

whisky much more simple to accomplish than his most remorseful dream of

reform have ever conceive. and that morning a letter from Billiter have

fill he with disgust. billiter upbraid he for silence; want to

know what be go on, hint that a dividend ought to be due by this

time, and express, none too delicately, a suspicion of his partner’s

business integrity. the cheap tavern-supply note-paper offend

against the nicety of Huckaby’s refined surrounding. the gross

vulgarity of Billiter himself revolt he. a week have pass and Mrs.

Fontaine have show no sign of having accomplish her end. he have not

dare question she. he have begin; too; to loathe his part in the sordid

plot. but that morning he have summon up courage enough to say to Mrs.

Fontaine;



“I’ve just have a letter from Billiter.”



Whereupon her pale cheek have flush red and her alluring eye have

gleam dangerously.



“I wish to God I have never see that brute in all my life!”



and he have say; “I wish to God I have never do so either.”



she have look at he full, searchingly, inscrutably, for a long moment

and say nothing, have turn away. what be to be the outcome of it

all? Huckaby be perplexed. the week have pass pleasantly. even his

enforced and sardonic attendance on Martha have not be able to spoil

the charm of the new life, bastard though it be. Mrs. Fontaine have

continue not to let her friend in Paris know of her presence in the

city, and the week have be a history of peaceful jaunt—to Chantilly,

Fontainebleau, Sèvres (where Monsieur Sardanel have spread before their

ravished eye his collection of mexican rattle and mask and

obsidian-edge sword); to “Robinson” on the island in the Seine, where

they have lunch in the tree restaurant; in a word, to all sort of

sweet summer place where the tree be green and the world be bathe

in sunshine and innocence. the week have evidently pass pleasantly for

Quixtus, who have give no intimation of the date of his return to

London. he be lotus eat; obviously, too, under the charm of the

sorceress, wax in her hand. of his fiendish purpose Huckaby still have

no suspicion. as far as Huckaby could see, Mrs. Fontaine have make an

easy conquest of his patron, and why she have up to now forborne to carry

out the essential part of the plot, he could not understand. perhaps she

loathe the idea as much as he do. her outburst against Billiter give

weight to the theory. it be all very complicated. and here be these

two engage in a deep and semi-sentimental conversation while Lady

Louisa stuff herself with chocolate, and he, Huckaby, be bored to

death. what be go to happen?



the thing that do happen be Clementina’s inrush. she march straight

up to the table, and, disregard startled eye, thrust the telegram

into Quixtus’s hand.



“read that. you may find one like it at your hotel, or you may not. I

think it right to bring it.”



Mrs. Fontaine keep she elbow on the table, and regard Clementina with

well-breed insolence. Lady Louisa finish her chocolate. Quixtus read

the telegram and his face grow a shade paler and his finger tremble a

little. Huckaby rise and, draw a chair from another table, offer it

to Clementina. she wave it away, with a curt acknowledgment. Quixtus

look up at she.



“this be terrible—will Hammersley die——”



he make an attempt to rise, but Clementina put her hand on his shoulder.



“don’t get up. I’m go.”



a sudden hardening change come over Quixtus’s feature.



“stay,” say he. “it be very kind of you to bring this; but I’m afraid

it have nothing to do with I.”



“nothing to do with you?”



she regard he in amazement. “your lifelong friend be die and

implore you to come to he, and you say it’s nothing to do with you?”



“he be a villain, a base villain,” say Quixtus, with quivering lip.



“stuff and nonsense!” cry Clementina indignantly.



have the man go absolutely crazy after all?



“I be say what I know,” he return darkly. “he be no friend to I.”



“and he want you to go to his death-bed?” ask Mrs. Fontaine, take

her elbow off the table. “how very painful!”



“you have well put such lunatic idea out of your head, and take the

night train to Marseilles,” say Clementina roughly.



Quixtus bite his knuckle and stare at the litter of tea in front of

he. the orchestra for their last number play a common little jiggety

air.



“be you come?” ask Clementina.



“why should Dr. Quixtus,” say Mrs. Fontaine; “travel all the way to

Marseilles to witness the death of a man whom he dislike? I think it’s

unreasonable to ask it.”



“yes, yes,” say Quixtus. “it’s unreasonable.”



“and it would break up our pleasant little party,” plead Lady Louisa.



“confound your party!” exclaim Clementina; whereat Lady Louisa

wither up in astonishment. “I’m tell he to perform an act of

humanity.”



“he be my enemy,” say Quixtus in a low voice.



“and so you can hardly ask he to go and gloat over his death,” say

Lady Louisa stupidly.



“eh? what’s that?” cry Quixtus, straighten himself up.



“we’re deal with christian gentleman, not devil,” Clementina

retort.



“no, not devil—oh, certainly not devil,” say Quixtus with a

chuckle catch in his voice.



Clementina pluck he by the sleeve.



“I cann’t stand here all the afternoon argue with you. even if you have

get it into your head that the man offend you, you do care for he

once, and it’s only common charity to go to he now that he’s at the

point of death. be you go or not?”



Quixtus look helplessly from one woman to the other.



“there’s such a thing as strain quixotism too far, my dear Dr.

Quixtus,” say Mrs. Fontaine. “I see no reason why you should go.”



“I’m a decent woman and I see every reason,” say Clementina, infuriate

at the other’s intervention. “I’ll see that he go. I’ll get ticket

now from Cook’s and come round to the Continental in a taxi and fetch

you.”



Quixtus rise and extend his hand to Clementina.



“I shall go. I promise you,” he say with all his courtliness of manner.

“and I shall not trouble you to get my ticket or call for I. _Au

revoir._”



he accompany she to the door. on parting he say with a smile;



“I have my reason for go—reason that no one but myself can

understand.”



and when he return to Mrs. Fontaine, who be bite her lip with

annoyance at Clementina’s apparent victory, he repeat the word with

the same smile and the curious gleam of cunning that sometimes mar

the blandness of his eye. he have his reason.



“after all,” say the lady, during their Faust and Marguerite walk to

the Hôtel Continental entrance in the Rue Castiglione, “I cann’t blame

you. it’s an errand of mercy. doubtless he wish to absolve his

conscience from the wrong, whatever it be, that he do you. your

_pétroleuse_ friend be right. it be a noble action.”



“I have my reason,” say Quixtus.



“we have become such friend,” she say, after a little pause—“at least

I hope so—that I shall miss you very much. I have very few friend,”

she add with a sigh.



“if I be one, I esteem it a great honour,” say Quixtus.



“I wonder whether you’ll care to see I when you get back to Paris.”



“will you still be here?”



“if you promise to stay a little while and finish up our holiday.”



he meet her upturned alluring eye. for all his visionary malignancy he

be a man—and a man who never before have be in the hand of the

seductress; an unaccustomed thrill run through he, cause he to catch

his breath.



“I promise,” say he huskily, “to stay here as long as it be your good

pleasure.”



“then you do care to see I?”



“you ought to know,” say the infatuated one.



“what sign have you give I?”



“sign that every woman must read.”



she laugh. “every man to his method. I like your. it’s neither

Cinquecento nor Louis XV. nor Directoire. the near to it be Jane

Austen. but it’s really quixtine.”



now nothing can flatter a man more than to be assure that he have an

original method of love-making. Quixtus glow with conscious

idiosyncrasy. he also feel most humanly draw towards the flatterer.



“you may count on my return to you at the early possible moment,”

say he. “may I be commonplace enough to remark that I shall count the

hour?”



“everything beautiful on the earth,” she reply with a sweet

sentimentalism, “be but the apotheosis of the commonplace.”



the shriek siren of a pass motor-car drown this last remark. he

beg she to repeat it and bow his ear to her lip. her breath catch

his cheek and make his pulse throb.



“I have a plan,” she say, as they enter the hotel. “why shouldn’t we

have a little dinner to ourselves? your train don’t go till 9.35. I’m

learn in train, you see. and I’m also learn in Paris restaurant.”



“nothing could be more delightful,” say Quixtus.



                 *        *        *        *        *



it be only when he find himself alone in his room and reflect on the

“reason” for his journey to Marseilles that the crazy part of his brain

sum up his amatory situation. he laugh sedately. he hold the

woman’s heart in his hand. at any hour he could dash it on the pavement

of Paris, whereon so many heart of woman have be break. at any hour

could he work this great wickedness. but not to-night. to-night he would

take the heart in a firm grip. he would dally with the delicious

malignity. besides, his fastidiousness forbid an orgy of pleasure. one

wickedness at a time. be he not bind even now for Marseilles, on a

merciless errand? this deed of darkness must be accomplish swiftly.

the other could wait. as a crown to his contentment come the realisation

that these, his supreme project of devildom, lie hide in his own

heart, secret from Huckaby and his fellow minion. they be futile

knave, all of they. well, perhaps not Huckaby. Huckaby have more than

once express the desire to reform. . . .



by the way, what should be do with Huckaby during his absence in

marseille? he be useless in Paris. why not send he back to London?



he summon Huckaby to his room, and, whilst packing, lay the question

before he.



“for God’s sake don’t,” say Huckaby, almost in terror.



“why shouldn’t I?”



“I cann’t go back,” say he, tug at his beard, no long straggly,

but neatly cut to a point. “I cann’t go back to it all—to the squalor

and drunkenness—it’s no use mince word with you—I cann’t do it.

you’ve set I on the clean road, and you’ve get to see that I keep

there. you’ve give I chance in the past and I abuse they. you have

the power to give I another—and I willn’t abuse it. I swear I willn’t. to

kick I back again would be hellish wickedness.”



“you’re quite right,” reply Quixtus gravely, balance in his hand an

ill-fold pair of trouser which he be about to put into his

suit-case. “I appreciate your position perfectly. but, as I have imply

to you before, in a similar conversation, hellish wickedness be what

I—what I, in fact, be devote my life to accomplish.”



he pack the trouser and walk up and down the room, ponder

darkly. it be a tempting piece of villainy to kick Huckaby back into

the gutter. in a flash it could be do. but, as in all his attempt

act of vileness, the co-ordination between brain and will fail at the

critical moment. a new aspect of the case flash upon his disorder

mind, show an even more diabolical way of achieve Huckaby’s ruin

than throw he back into the gutter. by a curious transmogrification,

it be he, Quixtus, who now blaze luridly as the Master of Mischief,

and Huckaby as the shrink innocent. the enforced association of the

shrink innocent with the Master of Mischief could have no other

result than the constant sapping of the victim’s volition and the

gradual but certain degradation of his soul. to accomplish this be a

refinement of devilry far beyond the imagination of his favourite fiend

Macathiel. he decide promptly and halt in front of his former

myrmidon. it be once more necessary for he, however, like the villain

in the old melodrama, to dissemble. he smile and lay his hand on

Huckaby’s shoulder.



“all right,” say he, in the old, kind voice that in the past have so

often stab Huckaby’s conscience. “I’ll give you the chance. just

stick loyally to I. stay with the lady in Paris, and when I come back

we can talk about thing.”



Huckaby grip his hand.



“thank you, Quixtus. I wish I could tell you—I’ve know all along—” he

stammer in a hoarse voice—“Oh, I’ve play the devil with

everything—and I don’t know which be the damneder fool of we two.”



“I be quite certain,” say Quixtus with a conscious smile, which he

assume be mephistophelean. “I be quite certain, my dear Huckaby, that

you be.”



in spite of the exultation that he feel (or delude himself into

feeling) at the triple wickedness wherewith he purpose to burden his

soul, Quixtus dine with Mrs. Fontaine in a subdue frame of mind. it

be not the fault of the dinner, for it be carefully select by Mrs.

Fontaine, who smile pityingly at Quixtus’s gastronomic ignorance; nor

be it that of the place, a cosy little restaurant in the Passage

Jouffroy; nor that of the lady, who appear bent on please. deep down

in his soul be stirring of pity which his clouded brain could not

interpret. their effect, however, be a mild melancholy. Mrs. Fontaine’s

train sense quickly notice it, and she tune her talk in key. she

pride herself on be a sympathetic woman. by this time she have

learn to discount his pessimistic utterance which she know proceed

from the same psychological source as the lunatic desire to break a

woman’s heart which have be the inspiration of the plot. she discern

the essential gentleness of the man, his tender impulse, his integral

innocence, and establish he in her own eye as a pathetic spectacle.

as to the heart-breaking, she feel secure. it be the only element of

humour in the ghastly game, which day by day have grow more repulsive.



it be in this chastened mood that she meet Huckaby, on their return to

the Continental. Quixtus go up to his room by the lift, and leave they

stand in the lounge.



“I cann’t do it,” she say hurriedly. “Billiter and the whole lot of you

can go to the devil. I’m out of it. with a man who can take care of

himself, yes. I’ve no compunction. it’s a fair fight. but this be too

low down. it’s like rob a blind beggar. it revolt I.

Understand—this be the end of it.”



“will you believe I,” say Huckaby, “when I say that it’s more than I

can swallow either? I’m honest. I’m out of it too. billiter can go to

the devil.”



she look at he, as she have do before that day; long and

searchingly, and her hard eye gradually soften.



“yes, I believe you.”



Huckaby bow. “I thank you, Mrs. Fontaine. and as we be on this

painful subject, I should like to be frank with you. you know how this

thing start. I begin it in the first place as a joke, a wild jest, to

humour he in his madness. the idea of Quixtus break a woman’s heart

be comic. but—God know how—it develop into our—our association.

the important part now be this—if you think you have be fool he

to the top of his bent, you’re mistaken. when it come to the point of

begin his heart-break career, he shy at it. tell I the whole

thing be profoundly distasteful and I must never mention the matter

again.”



“well?” ask Mrs. Fontaine, “what do that mean?”



“it mean,” say Huckaby, “that you’ve succeed in make he fond of

your society, for its own sake.”



she draw a deep breath. “thank goodness, this nightmare of a farce be

over.”



“now, I suppose you’ll go back to London,” say Huckaby.



she look away from he, unseeing, down the long lounge, and her gloved

hand unconsciously grip each other hard; her bosom heave. in the

woman’s dark soul strange thing be happen, a curious, desperate

hope be dawn. she remain like this for a few moment while

Huckaby, unconscious of tensity, select and light a cigarette.



“no, I shalln’t go to London,” she say at last, without turn her head.

“I’ll stay in Paris. I owe myself a holiday.”



ten minute afterwards Quixtus have go. they watch the wheel of the

taxi that be carry he to the Lyons station disappear beneath the

great archway, and, with something like a sigh, they return slowly to

the lounge. Lena Fontaine throw herself on a seat, her hand by her

side, in an attitude of weariness.



“oh God, I’m tired,” she whisper.



Huckaby suggest bed. she shrug her shoulder. it be not her body

that be tired, she explain, but the ridiculous something that people

call a soul. that be dead beat. she look up at he as he stand

before she wonder to hear her talk so frankly.



“what be it that play the devil with you? a woman?”



“drink,” reply Huckaby laconically.



“I haven’t even that excuse,” say Lena Fontaine. she laugh

mirthlessly. “don’t you wish you be good?”



he sit down by her side.



“why shouldn’t we try to be?”



“because the world ben’t a Sunday School, my dear friend.”



Huckaby venture to touch her hand with the tip of his finger.



“let we try,” say he.



she smile—this time only in half derision.



“let we,” she say.



a great silence fall upon they, and they sit there side by side for a

long, long time, pretend to watch, like many other couple and group

in the lounge, the shift life of the great hotel, but really far away

from it all, feel draw together in their new-find shame like two

dreary soul who have escape from Purgatory and be wander through

darkness they know not whither.









                              CHAPTER XVI





the great train thunder on straight down through the heart of France.

almost the length of it separate Quixtus and Clementina. they have see

each other only for a few moment amid the bustle of the hurrying

platform—just long enough for her quick vision to perceive, in the

uncertain blue light of the arc-lamp, a haunted look in his eye that

be absent when she have first meet he that afternoon. he have speak a

few courteous phrase; he have inquire whether Tommy and Etta, who clung

to she to the last, be to be fellow traveller, whereon Clementina have

very definitely inform he that Etta be stay with friend in

Paris, while Tommy have arrange to visit a painter chum at Barbizon; he

have express the hope that when they arrive at Marseilles she would

command his service, and, after a bareheade leave-taking of the two

lady, which cause Etta afterwards to remark that it be only her

short skirt that have prevent she from make her court curtsey, he have

go in search of his own compartment.



Etta have fling her arm round Clementina’s neck.



“oh, Clementina darling, do come back soon! the Jacksons be kind, but,

oh, so stuffy! and Tommy be go to Barbizon, and I shalln’t see he, and

if you don’t come back soon, he’ll have forget all about I.”



Tommy have give she a great hug and kiss she.



“good-bye, dear. God bless you. come back soon. we cann’t do without

you.”



and Clementina, pause on the first step of the railway carriage, have

turn and raise her hand—the unfilled finger-end of her cotton

glove project comically—and cry:



“good-bye, you dear, selfish, detestable, beloved child!”



and neither of the twain have know what in the world she mean.



the great train thunder on through the country which Clementina have

traverse a month or so before with Tommy—Dijon, Macon, Lyons. . . .

thing have change since then. then a sweet rejuvenescence have creep

through her vein; then she have amuse herself with the idea of be a

lady. the town, whose name shout through the awful stillness of the

station otherwise only break by the eerie clank of the wheel-tester’

hammer be now but abstract stage on her journey, then have a magical

significance. . . . that must be Vienne through which they be

dash. . . . if the bitter-sweet, the tragi-comedy, the cardiac

surgery of Vienne have not bring a smile to Clementina’s lip in the

dark solitude of her compartment, would she have be the sturdy,

humorous Clementina who have cry her farewell to the child? thing

have change since then, she assure herself. she be just Clementina

again, fight her battle alone, impatient, contemptuous, unfeeling;

no long a lady, merely a female dauber, ready once more to paint

elderly magnate’ trouser at so much per leg. . . . she sigh and

laugh. those have be pleasant time. . . . that she should be go

over the same ground now with Quixtus seem a freakish trick of

destiny.



at nine o’clock in the morning the train enter Marseilles Station.

Quixtus come speedily up to Clementina as she step on to the

platform, and offer his service. he trust she have sleep well and

have a comfortable journey.



“don’t sleep a wink,” say Clementina. “do you?”



Quixtus admit broken slumber. the strangeness of the adventure have

keep he awake.



“you’re look ill this morning,” say Clementina, glance at he

sharply. “what’s the matter with you?”



he seem careworn, feverish, and an unnatural glitter have replace the

haunted look in his eye. Clementina do not know how the approach

consummation of a deed of real wickedness terrify the mild and

gentle-natured man. Hitherto his evil doing have be fantastic,

repair almost at once as if mechanically by the underlie instinct of

generosity; his vision of sin have be fantastic, too, harmless,

unpractical; but this sin of vengeance which he have intellectually

conceive and foster loomed great and terrible. so do the braggart

who have swear to eat up a lion alive, totter at the knee when he hear

the lion’s roar. his night have be that of a soul on fire.



“something’s wrong. what be it?” ask Clementina.



he answer vaguely. this summon have upset he. it have set he

thinking, a tiring mental process. he remember, say he, how

Hammersley, when they be boy together, have call he to see a die

butterfly on a rose-bush. the yellow wing be still flap

languidly; then slow and slow; then strength give out and they

quiver in the last effort; and then the hold on the rose-bush relaxed

and the butterfly fall to the earth—dead.



“what do Monsieur wish do with the baggage?” ask the attendant

porter, who have listen uncomprehendingly to the long and tragical

tale.



Quixtus pass his hand across his forehead and look at the porter as

if awaken out of a dream.



“what you like,” say he.



so forlorn and hag-ridden do he appear, that a wave of pity sweep

through Clementina. the deadly phrase of the judge in the Marrable trial

occur to she: “such man as you ought not to be allow to go about

loose.” the mothering instinct more than her natural forcefulness, make

her take charge of the situation.



“the omnibus of the Hôtel du Louvre,” she say to the man, and take

Quixtus by the arm, she lead he like a child out of the station.



“get in,” she say with rough kindliness, push he towards the step

of the omnibus. but he move aside for she to precede he. Clementina

say “Rubbish!” and enter the vehicle. she be no long play at

be a lady. Quixtus follow she, and the omnibus clatter down the

steep street and jolt and sway through the traffic and between the

myriad tramcar that deface and deafen the city. the morning sun shine

fiercely. the pavement bake. the sun-drench building burn hot to

the eye and the very awning in the front of shop and over stall in

the market suggest heat rather than coolness. far away at the end of

the Cannebière, the strip of sea visible glitter like a steel blade.



“Whew!” gasp Clementina, “what heat!”



“I feel it rather chilly,” say Quixtus.



she stare at he, wipe a damp forehead. what be the matter with the

man?



when they enter the fairly cool vestibule of the hotel, the manager

meet they and assign the room. they ask for Hammersley. alas, say

the manager, he be very ill. the doctor be with he even now. an

elderly man in thin, sunstained tweed, who have be sit in a corner

playing with a child of five or six in charge of a chinese nurse, come

forward and greet they.



“be you the friend Mr. Hammersley telegraph for? Miss Wing and Dr.

Quixtus? my name be Poynter. I be a fellow passenger of Mr.

Hammersley’s on the ‘Moronia.’ he be a sick man when he start; and

get bad on the voyage. impossible to land at Brindisi. arrive here,

he could go no far either by boat or train. he be quite helpless,

so I stay on till his friend could come. it be I who write out and

send the telegram.”



“that be very good of you,” say Clementina.



Quixtus bow vaguely, but speak not a word. his lip be white. he

hold the front edge of his jacket crush in a nervous grip. Poynter’s

voice sound far away. he barely grasp the meaning of his word. a

dynamo throb in his head instead of a brain.



“be he die?” ask Clementina.



Mr. Poynter make an expressive gesture. “I’m afraid so. he collapse

during the night and they’ve be give he oxygen this morning.

yesterday he be desperately anxious to see you both.”



“be it possible or judicious to go to he now?” ask Clementina.



“you may inquire. if you will allow I, I’ll show you the way to his

room.”



he lead the way to the lift. they enter. for Quixtus his companion have

cease to exist. he be conscious only of go to the die man, and

the dynamo throb, throb. during the ascent Clementina say

abruptly to Poynter:



“how long be it since you’ve be home?”



“twenty-five year,” he reply with a grim smile. “and it have be the

dream of my life for ten.”



“and you’ve stop off in this Hades of a place for the sake of a sick

stranger? you must be a good sort.”



“you would have do the same,” say Poynter.



“not I.”



he smile again and look at she with his calm, certain eye. “a man

do not live in the far Orient for nothing. I know you would. this

way,” he say, as the lift-door open. he lead they down a corridor,

Quixtus follow, a step or two behind, like a man in a trance.



the awful moment be at hand, the moment which, in the tea-shop and in

the hotel, have seem far, far distant, hide in the mist of some

unreal devil-land; which at dinner have begin to loom through the mist;

which all night long have seem to grow near and near with every

rhythmic thud of the thunder train, until, at time, it touch he

like some material horror. the moment be at hand. at last he be about

to fulfil his destiny of evil. his enemy lie die, the spirit faintly

flap its wing like the butterfly. in a moment they would enter a

room. he would behold the die man. he would curse he and send a

blacken, anguished soul into eternity.



the dynamo in his brain and the beating of his heart make he fancy that

they be walk to the sound of muffle drum. Nearer, nearer. this

be real, actual. he be a devil walk to the sound of muffle drum.



Poynter and Clementina stop before a door. Quixtus stand still

shake all over, like a horse in front of a nameless terror.



“this be his room,” say Poynter, grasp the handle.



Quixtus give a queer cry and suddenly throw himself forward and clutch

Poynter’s arm convulsively, his feature distort with terror.



“wait—wait! I cann’t do it! I cann’t do it! it’s monstrous!”



he lean up against the wall and close his eye.



“overwrought nerve,” whisper Poynter.



there happen to be a bench near by, place for the convenience of the

chambermaid of the floor. Clementina make he sit down.



“I don’t think you’re quite up to see he just now,” she say.



he shake his head. “no. not just now. I feel faint. it’s death. I’m not

use to death. you go in. give he my love. I’ll see he later. but give

he my love.”



“very well,” say Clementina.



she rap gently at the door. it be open and a sister of charity in

a great white coif appear on the threshold.



she look at the visitor sadly.



“_C’est fini_,” she whisper.



Quixtus stagger to his foot.



“dead?”



“_Oui, Monsieur._”



the sweat break out in great drop on his forehead.



“dead!” he repeat.



“_Vous pouvez entrer si vous voulez_,” say the sister.



then Quixtus reel as if some one have deal he a crush blow.

Poynter save he from fall and guide he to the seat. for a long,

long second all be darkness. the dynamo stop suddenly. then, as have

happen once before, a little thread seem to snap in his brain. he

open his eye feel sick and giddy. the sister quickly disappear

into the room, and return with some brandy. the other stand anxiously

by. presently the spirit take effect and enable he to co-ordinate his

faculty. with an effort of will he rise and straighten himself.



“I be well now. let we go in.”



“Wiser not,” say Clementina, a thousand mile from suspect the

psychological phenomenon that have occur.



Quixtus slightly raise a protest hand.



“I assure you there be no reason why I should not go in,” he say in a

shaky voice.



“all right,” say Clementina. “but you cann’t go tumble all over the

place.”



once more she take his arm in her strong grip, and, leave Poynter

outside, they enter the death-chamber together. the window be fling

wide, but the outside shutter be closed, darken the room and

cool it from the bake sun. a man in a frock coat and narrow black

tie—the doctor—be aid his assistant in the repacking of the oxygen

apparatus. on the bed, gaunt, hollow-cheeked, and pinch, lie all that

be leave of Hammersley. only his blonde hair and beard, with scarcely a

touch of grey, remain of that which be familiar. the laugh eye

which have charm man and woman be hide for ever beneath the lid.

Clementina’s hand creep half-mechanically downward and clasp that of

Quixtus, which return the pressure. so hand in hand they stand, in

silence, by the death-bed.



at last Clementina whisper:



“whatever may have be the misunderstanding between you, all be over

now. may his sin be forgive he.”



“amen,” say Quixtus.



tear roll down Clementina’s cheek and fall on her bodice. the dead

man have belong to her youth—the dreary youth that have take itself

for grim, grey eld. he have bring into it a little laughter, a little

buoyancy, much strength, much comfort; all, so simply, so kindly. at

first, in her fierce mood of revolt, she have rebuff he and scorn

his friendship. but he be one of the gifted one who could divine a

woman’s need and minister to they; so he smile at her rejection of his

offering, know that she crave they, and present they again and

again until at last, wear out with longing, she clutch at they

frantically and hug they to her bosom. a generous gentleman, a loyal

friend, a very help in time of trouble, he lie there dead before she in

the prime of his manhood. she let the tear fall unchecked, until they

blind she.



a dry, queer voice break a long silence, whisper in her ear:



“I tell you to give he my love, don’t I?”



she nod and squeeze Quixtus’s hand.



the doctor stand by wait till their scrutiny of the dead should be

over. Clementina be the first to turn to he and to ask for information

as to the death. in a few word the doctor tell she. when she enter

the room he have be dead five minute.



“who, Madame, you or this gentleman, be responsible for what remain to

be do?”



“I be. don’t you think so, Ephraim?”



Quixtus bow his head.



“I send he my love,” he murmur.



“and now,” say the Sister of Charity, “we must make the _toilette du

mort_. will you have the kindness to retire?”



she smile sadly and open the door.



“there be a packet in the drawer for this lady and gentleman,” say

Poynter, who have stand wait for they in the corridor.



“_ah! bon_,” say the Sister. she cross the room and return with the

packet, which she hand to Clementina. it be seal and address to

they jointly. “to Ephraim Quixtus and Clementina Wing. to be open

after my death.” Clementina stuff it in the pocket of her skirt.



“we’ll open it together by-and-by. now we’d well go to our room and

tidy up and have some food. only a fool go through such a day as be

before we on an empty stomach. what’s your number? I’ll tell they to

send you up some coffee and roll.”



he thank she dreamily. she arrange a meeting at noon in order to go

through the packet. they walk along the corridor, Poynter accompany

they. he propose, it be convenient to they, to take the night train

to Paris and home. in the meanwhile his service be at their disposal.



“I wish I could pack you off to Piccadilly by hertzian wave, right

away,” say Clementina.



“it’s Devonshire I’m long for,” say he.



they arrive at the lift door.



“you’ll love it all the well for having play the Angel in Hades,”

say Clementina with moist eye. “good-bye for the present.”



she extend her hand. he take it, hold it in a hesitating way. an

expression of puzzledom come over his tan, line feature.



“be you go to your room now?”



“yes,” say Clementina.



“pardon my presumption,” say he, “but—but ben’t you go to see the

child?”



“child?” cry Clementina. “what child?”



“why—Mr. Hammersley’s—didn’t you know? she’s here——”



“here?”



“when you come into the vestibule, don’t you notice a little girl I be

play with—and a chinese nurse——”



“Lord have mercy upon we!” exclaim Clementina. “do you hear that,

Ephraim?”



“yes, I hear,” say Quixtus tonelessly. the conflict within he between

Mithra and Ahriman have leave he weak and non-recipient of new

impression. “Hammersley have a little daughter. I ben’t aware of it. I

wonder how he get she. she must have a mother somewhere.”



“the mother’s dead,” say Poynter. “from what I could gather from

Hammersley, the child have no kith or kin in the world. that be why he

be so desperately anxious for you to come.”



Clementina peer at he with screw-up monkey face, as if he be

sit for his portrait.



“it’s the most amazing thing I’ve ever hear in my life!” she clap

her hand to her pocket. “and this seal envelope? do you know anything

about it?”



“I do,” say Poynter. “it contain a letter and a will. I write they

both at his dictation ten day ago. the will be a properly attest

document appoint Dr. Quixtus and yourself his executor and joint

trustee of the little girl. a dear little girl,” he add, with a touch

of wistfulness. “you’ll love she.”



“God grant it!” cry Clementina fervently. “but what an old maid like

I and an old bachelor like he be go to do with a child between we,

the Lord Almighty alone know.”



yet, as she speak, the picture of the child—in spite of her

preoccupation on enter the hotel, her sharp vision have note the

fairy fragility of the english scrap contrast with the picturesque

materialism of the fat chinese nurse—the picture of the child enthrone

on cushion (a feminine setting!) in the studio in Romney Place, flash

with acute distinctness before her mind, and some foolish thing within

her leapt and stab she with a delicious pain.



Quixtus brush his thinning hair from his forehead.



“I understand,” say he faintly. “I understand that I be a trustee for

Hammersley’s daughter. I ben’t expect it. I hope you’ll not think it

discourteous if I leave you? I’m not quite myself to-day. I’ll go and

rest.”



he enter the lift which have be stand open for some time. there be

not a feverish hurry in Marseilles hotel between steamer in June.

Clementina with a gesture check the lift-boy. the man must be look

after at once. she turn to Poynter.



“like a dear good soul,” she say, in her frank way, “go down and

prepare the child for such a rough-and-tumble stepmother as I. I’ll be

with you in a few minute. what’s your number, Ephraim?” he show she

the ticket. “two hundred and seventy?”



“_Au troisième, Madame._”



the lift gate click. they mount a couple of floor. the chambermaid

of the _étage_ show they into number two hundred and seventy. then

Clementina take command. in less than two minute window be open

and shutter adjust, the waiter be despatch for coffee, the valet

be unpack and arrange Quixtus’s personal belonging, and the

chambermaid spread the bed invitingly open. when Clementina be a

lady, she behave in the most self-effacing and early victorian ladylike

way in the world. but when she be Clementina and want to do thing,

she would have order the devil about like a common lackey, and box

the ear of any archangel who venture to interfere with she.



Quixtus, unprepared for this whirlwind ministration on the part of

Clementina, whom he have hitherto regard rather as an antagonistic

principle than as a sympathetic woman, sit bolt upright on the edge of

the sofa and look on with an air of mystification. yet, feel weak

and break, he be content to let she tend he.



“take off your clothe and go to bed,” say Clementina, standing, hand

on hip, in front of he. “for two pin I’d undress you myself and put

you to sleep like a baby.”



a wan smile flicker over his feature.



“I’m very grateful to you for your kindness. perhaps a little rest will

bring mental adjustment. that’s what I think I need—mental adjustment.”



he repeat the word several time, and sit stare in front of he.



on the threshold Clementina turn and cross the room again.



“Ephraim,” she say, “I think if you and I have be well friend all

these year, there wouldn’t have be so much of this adjust

necessary. it have be my fault. I’m sorry. but now that we have a child

to bring up, I’ll look after you. you poor man,” she add, touch his

arm very kindly and feel ridiculously sentimental. “you must be the

loneliest thing that ever happen.” she catch up his suit of pyjama

and throw they by his side on the sofa. “now for God’s sake stick on

these thing and go to bed.”



Downstairs, in the vestibule, she find Poynter with the little girl on

his knee. the chinese nurse sit like a good-temper idol a few foot

away.



“this be your new auntie,” say Poynter, as Clementina approach.



the child slip from his knee and look up at she with timorous

earnestness. she be fair, with the transparent pallor of most child

bear and breed in the East, a creature of delicate fragility and grace.

Clementina see that she have her father’s frank hazel eye. the child

hold out her hand.



“good morning, auntie,” she say in a curiously sweet contralto.



Clementina take the seat vacate by Poynter, and draw the child towards

she.



“willn’t you give I a kiss?”



“of course.”



she put up her little lip. the appeal to the woman be irresistible.

she catch the child to she and clasp she to her bosom, and kiss she

and say foolish thing. when her embrace relax as abruptly as it have

begin, the child say:



“I like that. do that again.”



“bless you, my darling, I could do it all day long,” cry Clementina.



she hold the child with one arm, the little face pillow on her bosom,

and with her free hand grope in her pocket for her handkerchief. this

find, she blow her nose loudly and glance at Poynter who be survey

the pair with his grave, wise smile.



“I’m sure you don’t mind if I make a fool of myself,” she say. “and I’m

sure I don’t.”









                              CHAPTER XVII





for as much of the day as she could spare from the miserable formality

and arrangement attendant on the death of a human being, Clementina

make a fool of herself over the child. it be a feminine scrap hungering

for love, kitten-like in its demand for caress. contentedly nestling

in Clementina’s arm, she relate, piecemeal, her tiny history. her name

be Sheila, and she love her father who be very ill. so ill that she

have only be able to see he once since they have come off the ship.

that be yesterday, and she have be frighten, for he say that he be

go to mummy. now mummy have go to heaven, and when people go to

heaven you never see they again. with a pang Clementina ask she if she

remember when her mummy go to heaven. oh yes. it be ever so long

ago—when she be quite little. daddy cry, cry, cry. she, too,

would cry if daddy be to go to heaven. . . . Clementina think it

well to wait and accustom the child both to the idea of the eternal

parting and to herself, before break the disastrous news. but her

heart be wring. sometimes Sheila revolt and clamour to see he; but

on the whole she show herself to be reasonable and docile. she hug

to her side a shapeless and very dirty white plush cat, her inseparable

companion. . . . they have live in a big house in Shanghai, with lot of

servant; but her father have sell it and sell all the furniture, and

they be go to live in England for ever and ever. England be a

place all full of green tree and grass and cow and flower. do

Clementina know England?



“suppose daddy go to heaven, would you like to come and live with I?”

ask Clementina.



Sheila reply seriously that she would soon live with she than with

Na. Na be a new na. her old Na be in Shanghai. her husband wouldn’t

let she come to England. only Clementina would have to cuddle she to

sleep every night, like her daddy. Na don’t cuddle she to sleep. she

think she don’t know how. daddy, she repeat like a young parrot,

have say that be the bad of get a nurse who have never have

child of her own. they be so darned helpless. Clementina wince;

but she put her arm round the child again.



“you’re not afraid of my not be able to cuddle you, Sheila?”



“oh, you—you cuddle lovely,” murmur Sheila.



who be her mother? Clementina have no notion. Hammersley have never

announce the fact of his marriage. the last time she have see he be

six year ago. the child give herself out to be five and a half.

Hammersley must have marry just before leave England. he have

breathe not a word to anybody. but so have will Hammersley act all his

life. he be one who give and never seek; a man who receive the

confidence of all who know he, and keep the secret both of joy and

sorrow of his own life hide behind his smile eye.



one of the secret—the dainty secret that lie in her arm—be out now;

a fact in flesh and blood. and for the guidance of this sensitive wisp

of humanity to womanhood she, Clementina, and Ephraim Quixtus be

jointly responsible. it be a puckish destiny that have bring their

life to this point of convergence. with the dead man lie cold and

stark upstairs, the humour of it appear too grim for smile. she

wish that the quiet, capable man of wise understanding and unselfish

heart, who have miss the express train at Brindisi that would have speed

he swiftly to his long-for Devonshire, and have come on to Marseilles

with the sick stranger, have be appoint her coadjutor. Poynter could

have help she mightily with his kindly wisdom and his knowledge of the

heart and the way of man, as he be help she that day in the

performance of the dreary duty to the dead. but Quixtus! he be as

much of a child as the one confide to his care. anxious, however, that

Sheila should be prepossess in his favour, she draw a flattering

picture of the new uncle that would shortly come into her life.



“be he your husband?” ask Sheila.



“Good Lord, no!” cry Clementina, aghast at the grotesque suggestion.

“whatever put that in your head, child?”



it appear that Dora Smith, one of her little friend in Shanghai, have

an uncle and aunt who be marry. she think all uncle and aunt

be marry.



“do you think he’ll like my frock?” ask Sheila.



the vanity of the feminine thing! Clementina laugh for the first time

that dismal day.



“do you think he’ll like mine?”



Sheila look critically at the soil, ill-fitting blouse, and the

rusty old brown skirt, and redden. she pause for a moment.



“I’m sure he’ll say that he do,” she reply sedately.



Clementina catch a whimsical gleam in Poynter’s eye.



“oriental diplomacy!” she remark.



he shake his head. “you’re wrong. go deeply.”



Clementina flush and stroke the child’s fair hair.



“I’m afraid I’ve get to learn a lot of thing.”



“in the most exquisite school in the world,” say Poynter.



Quixtus come downstairs about four o’clock, pale and shaky, and find

Clementina in the dark and stuffy writing-room of the hotel. she have

pet the child to her afternoon sleep, about half an hour before, and

have leave she in the joint care of the chinese nurse and the dirty white

plush cat tightly clasped to her breast. she have just finish a letter

to Tommy. either through the fault of the deeply encrusted hotel pen, or

by force of paint habit, a smear of violet ink run a comet’s course

across her cheek. she have write to Tommy:



“if you don’t want to know what have happen, you ought to. I find my

poor friend dead on my arrival. elysian field for he, which I’m sure

be not as beautiful as the English lane his soul long for. to my

amazement he have leave a fairy child to the joint guardianship of your

uncle and myself. your uncle’s a sick man, and needs look after. what

I’m go to do with all you helpless chicken, when I ought to be

paint trouser, God alone know. I once be an artist. now I’m a hen.

your, Clementina.”



she have also write to Etta in similar strain, and at the same

inordinate length, and be address the envelope when Quixtus enter

the room.



she wheel round.



“well?”



“thank you,” say he. “though I’m ashamed of myself for sleep all

this time.”



“jolly good thing you do go to sleep,” reply Clementina. “it have

probably save you from a breakdown. you be on the verge of one.”



“can I help you with any of the unhappy arrangement that have to be

make in these circumstance?”



“make ’em,” say Clementina. “sit down.”



Quixtus obey, meekly. he wear an air of great lassitude, like a man

who have just rise from a bed of sickness. he pass his hand over his

eye:



“there be a seal packet, if I remember rightly, and a child. I think

we might see now what the packet contain.”



“be you fit to read it?” she ask. he smile vaguely, for her tone

soften the abruptness of the question.



“I be anxious to do so,” he reply.



Clementina open the envelope and draw out the two document, the

letter and the will, and read they aloud. neither add greatly to the

information give by Poynter. Hammersley charge they as his two old,

most loved and trust friend, to regard themselves as the parent and

guardian of his orphaned child, to whom he bequeath a small but

comfortable fortune, to be administer by they jointly in trust, until

she should marry or reach the age of twenty-five year. no mention be

make of the dead wife, her identity still remain a mystery. like

Clementina, Quixtus have not hear of his marriage, could think of no

woman whom, six year ago, while he be in England, he could have

marry.



but six year ago. . .! Quixtus bury his face in his hand and

shudder. have the man be false to every one—even to the wife of the

friend he have betray?



suddenly he rise with a great cry and a passionate gesture of both arm.



“I be lose! I be lose! I be flounder in quicksand. the meaning of

the earth have go from I. I’m in a land of grotesque—shape that mop

and mow at I and have no reality. the thing they do the human brain

cann’t conceive. they have be drive I mad, mad!” he cry, beat

his head with his knuckle, “and yet I be sane now. do you ever know

what it be to be so sane that your soul be torture with sanity? oh,

my God!”



he walk about the room quiver from the outburst. Clementina

regard he with amazed interest. this be a new, undreame of Quixtus,

a human creature that have pass through torment.



“tell I what be on your mind,” she say quietly. “it might ease it.”



“no,” say he, halt before she. “not to my die day. there be

thing one must keep within oneself till they eat away one’s vital. I

wish I have never come here.”



“you come here on an errand of mercy, and as far as you be concern

you perform it.”



“I come here with hate in my heart, I tell you. I come here on an errand

of evil. and outside the door of his room my purpose fail I—and I

send he my love. and then I go in and see he—dead.”



“and you forgave he,” say Clementina.



“no; I pray that God would.”



he turn away. Clementina rise from her chair by the writing-table and

follow he.



“what be between you and Will Hammersley?”



for an instant he have an impulse to tell she, she look so strong, so

honest. but he check it. confidence be impossible. the shame of the

dead must be bury with the dead. he point to the document lie on

the table.



“he think I never know. I never know,” say he.



“I give it up,” say Clementina.



a memory smite he. he bend his brow upon she. his eye be sad and

clear.



“you have no inkling of the matter?”



“none in the least. Good Lord!” she break out impatiently, “if I have, do

you suppose I’d be cross-question you? I’d be try to help you, as

I want to do.”



he throw himself wearily into a chair and leant his head on his hand.



“I’ve have queer experience of late,” he say. “I’ve learn to trust

nobody. how can I tell that you’re sincere in say you want to help

I?”



Clementina pucker up her face.



“what’s that? here be I, who have be abuse you all your life, now

do violence to my tradition and say let we kiss and be

friend—just at the very moment when you want friend more than you

ever do in your bear day—and you ask I if I’m sincere! Lord in

heaven! do you ever know I to be even decently polite to creature I

don’t care about?”



Clementina be indignant. the faint shadow of a smile pass across

Quixtus’s face.



“you’ve not always be polite to I, Clementina. this change to

solicitude be surprising. _Timeo Danaos et dona ferente._ which

mean——”



“do you suppose you’re the only person who know tag out of the Latin

grammar?” she snap. then she laugh in her dry way. “don’t let we

begin to quarrel. we’ve get a child, you and I. I hope you realise that.

if we be its real father and mother we might quarrel with impunity. as

we’re not, we cann’t. what be we go to do?”



Quixtus think deeply for a long time. his sensitive nature shrink from

the duty impose. if he accept it he would be the dead man’s dupe to

the end of the chapter.



“you have see the little girl?” he inquire at last.



“yes. be with she most of the day.”



“do you like she?”



she regard he with whimsical pity.



“oh yes, I like she,” she say.



“then why not keep she to yourself? I be not bind by Hammersley’s

wish. all I have to do be to decline to act either as executor or

trustee.”



Clementina’s heart leap in the most unregenerate manner. to have

Sheila all to herself, without let or hindrance from her impossible

co-trustee! she be stagger by the sudden, swift temptation which

strike at the root of her unfulfilled womanhood. for a while she

dally with it deliciously.



“if it’s agreeable to you, I’ll decline to act,” say Quixtus, after the

spell of silence.



Clementina strangle the serpent in a flash and cast it from she. to

purchase happiness at the price of human infirmity? no. she would play

squarely with life. feminine instinct tell she that the care of the

child be needful for this weary man’s salvation. she attack he with

more roughness than she intend—the eddy of her own struggle.



“what right have you to shirk your responsibility? that’s what you’ve

always do—and see where it have land you. I’m not go to be a

party to it. it’s pure and simple cowardice, and I have no patience with

it.”



“perhaps I deserve your reproach,” say Quixtus mildly. “but the

present circumstance be so painful——”



“painful!” she interrupt. “Lord above, man, what do it matter

whether they’re painful or not? do you suppose I’ve go through six and

thirty year without pain? I’ve have awful pain, hellish pain, as much

pain as a woman and an artist and a scarecrow can suffer. that’s new to

you, ben’t it? but you’ve never see I make a hullabaloo about it.

we’ve get to bear pain in the world, and the more we grin, the well we

bear it, and—what be a precious sight more useful—the more we help

other to bear it. who be you, Ephraim Quixtus, that you should be

exempt from pain?”



she turn to the yellow packet of “Maryland” on the marble mantlepiece

and roll a cigarette. Quixtus say nothing, but sit tug at his

scrubby moustache.



“that child,” she say—and she pause to lick the cigarette—“That

child of five be doom to pain. some of it all the love in the world

cann’t prevent. it’s a law of life. but some it can. that’s another law

of life, thank God. by take pain upon we, we can also save other

pain. that’s another law. I suppose we have to thank Jesus Christ for

that. and fate have put this tender thing into our hand to save it, if

possible, from the pain that both you and I have endure. to reject the

privilege be the act of a cowardly devil, not of a man.”



as she stand there in her slatternly blouse and tousled hair,

brandish the wet cigarette between nicotine stain finger, yet

enunciate as she have seldom condescend to do to a fellow creature

her ruggedly tender philosophy of life, she look almost beautiful in

the eye of the man who have awaken from a nightmare into the sober

greyness of an actual dawn.



she light the cigarette with finger unwontedly tremble, and feverishly

draw in the first few puff.



“well? what be you go to do?”



Quixtus breathe hard, with part lip, and stare at the future. it be

difficult, after a nightmare madness, to adjust the mind to the sane

outlook. but she have move he to the depth—the depth that through

all his madness have remain untroubled.



“you be right, Clementina,” he say at last, in a low voice. “I will

share with you this great responsibility.”



she blow out a puff of smoke; “I don’t think it ought to turn our hair

white, anyhow,” she say, sit on the arm of the sofa. “the child’s

past teethe, so we shalln’t have to sit up at night over ‘advice to

mother,’ and our common sense will tell we not to fill she up every day

with pâté de foie gra. when she’s ill we’ll send for a doctor, and when

we want to do business we’ll send for a lawyer. it strike I, Ephraim,

that have another interest in life besides dead man’s jawbone, will

do you a thundering lot of good.”



“would you like something to do I good?” he ask, with a touch of

wistful banter.



Clementina, as she afterwards confess, feel herself to be on such a

sky-high plane of self-abnegation and altruism, that she thrust down,

figuratively speak; angelic arm towards he. really, the mothering

instinct again clamour. she throw her half-smoke cigarette away and

come and, stand over he; clutched his shoulder.



“my good Ephraim,” she say, “I would give anything to see you a happy

human being.”



then, in her abrupt fashion, she send he out to take the air. that also

would do he good. she thrust his hat and stick in his hand.



“what be you go to do, Clementina?” he ask.



“a thousand thing. first I must go upstairs and see whether the child’s

awake. I hate trust she with that heathen imbecile.”



“Au revoir, then,” say Quixtus, move away.



“come back in good time to make the child’s acquaintance,” she shout

after he.



he pause on the threshold and look at she irresolutely. he have a

nervous dread of meet the child.



he walk through the sun-fill street, down the Cannebière, absently

watch the baking quay, and then, return to the main thoroughfare,

sit down beneath the awning of a café. an hour pass. it be time to go

back and see his ward. he shrink morbidly from the ordeal. with a great

effort he rise at last and walk to the hotel.



Clementina, Poynter, and the child be in the vestibule, the two elder

seat in the wickerwork chair; the little one squat on the ground

at their foot and play with the mongrel and somewhat supercilious dog

of the hotel. Quixtus halt in front of the group. the child lift she

flower-like face to the new-comer.



“be this——” he begin.



“this be Sheila,” say Clementina. “get up, dear, and say how d’ye do to

your new uncle.”



she hold out her hand with shy politeness—he look so long and gaunt,

and tower over her tiny self.



“how do you do, uncle—uncle——?” she turn to Clementina.



“Ephraim,” she prompt.



“Uncle Ephraim.”



“no wonder the poor innocent don’t remember such a name,” say

Clementina.



he bent and solemnly wag the soft hand for some time; then, not

know what to do with it, he let it go.



“do you know Bimbo?”



“no,” say Quixtus.



“Bimbo—_patte_.”



the mongrel lift his paw.



“you must shake hand with he and then you will know he,” she say

seriously.



Quixtus, with a grave face, bent lower and shake hand with the dog.



“and Pinkie.”



she lift the dirty white plush cat. in an embarrassed way he wag a

stumpy fore-foot.



Sheila turn to Clementina. “now he know everybody.”



Clementina kiss she and rise from her seat; Poynter rise also.



“you’ll be a good girl if I leave you with Uncle Ephraim for a while?”



“my dear Clementina!” cry Quixtus aghast. “what do you mean?”



a gleam of kind malice flicker in her eye.



“I find I must have some air, in my turn—and some absinthe which Mr.

Poynter have promise to give I. Au revoir! I shalln’t be long, Sheila

dear.”



she move with Poynter towards the door.



“but, Clementina——”



“if she bite you’ve only to call that lump of celestial idiocy over

there,” point to the fat chinese nurse who sat smile in her dark

corner. “you’re protect. and, by the way,” she add in a whisper,

“she don’t know her father’s dead yet. leave it to I to break the

news.”



she be go. Quixtus sink; a perspiring embarrassment, into one of the

wicker chair. a scurvy trick; he think, of Clementina to leave he in

this appalling situation. yet shame prevent flight. he sit there

bend his mild, china-blue eye on Sheila, who have return

unconcernedly to Bimbo; put he through his trick. he give his paw

and sit up on end, and while do so yawned in a bored fashion. during

this latter posture Sheila sit up on her little haunch and hold she

hand in front of she and yawn in imitation. then she set Pinkie on

end face the dog. lastly she look up at her new uncle.



“you do that too. then we’ll all be do it.”



“God bless my soul,” say the startled man. “I—I cann’t.”



“why not?”



“I’m too old.”



she seem, for the moment, satisfied with the reason and resume she

game with Bimbo. after the yawn he grin with doggy fatuity, and his

red long tongue loll from the corner of his mouth. Sheila stick out

her little red tongue; in droll mimicry.



“don’t wag your tail, Bimbo. it ben’t fair, because I’ve get no tail.

why haven’t I a tail, Uncle Eph—Eph—Uncle Ephim?”



“because you’re a little girl and not a dog.”



at that moment the plush cat, insecurely balanced; topple over.



“God bless my soul,” cry the little parrot, “you’re too old, Pinkie.”



“Sheila,” say Quixtus, realise in a frightened way his

responsibility. “come here.”



with perfect docility she rise, and lay a hand on his knee. Bimbo,

perceive himself liberate from the boredom of mountebank duty,

twist himself up and snarl comfortably at flea in the middle of his

back.



“you mustn’t say ‘God bless my soul,’ my dear.”



“why not? you say it.”



there be instinctive answer in grown-up, just as instinctive

question in child.



“old people can say thing that little girl mustn’t—just as old people

can sit up later than little girl.”



she regard he with frank seriousness.



“I know. daddy say ‘damn,’ but I mustn’t. I never say it. Pinkie say

it once, and I put she in a dark, dark hole for twenty million year. it

ben’t _really_ twenty million year, you know—it be only ten

minute—but Pinkie think it be.”



“she must have be very frightened,” say Quixtus, involuntarily—and

the echo of the word after pass his lip sound strange in his

ear.



“she get quite white,” say Sheila. she pick up the shapeless animal.

“she never recover. look!”



“she also lose one side of her whisker,” say Quixtus, inspect the

beast hold within two inch of his nose.



“oh no,” she reply, get in the most entangle way between his

leg. “Pinkie’s a fairy princess, and one day she’ll have a crown and a

pink dress and a gold sword. it’s a wicked fairy that keep she like a

cat. and it be the wicked fairy in the shape of a big rat, big than

twenty million, billion, _hillion_ house, that bite off her whisker.

Daddy tell I.”



Quixtus could not follow these transcendental flight of faërie. but he

have to make some reply, as she be look with straight challenge into

his eye. to his astonishment, he find himself express the hope

that, when Pinkie come into her own again, the loss of one set of

whisker would not impair her beauty. Sheila explain that princess

don’t have whisker, so no harm be do. the bad fairy in the form of

a rat want to bite off Pinkie’s nose, in which case her beauty would

have be ruin; but Pinkie be protect by a good fairy, and just

when the bad fairy be go to bite off her nose, the good fairy shake

a pepper pot and the bad fairy sneeze and be only able to bite off the

whisker.



“that be very fortunate for Pinkie,” say Quixtus.



“very,” say Sheila. she stand against he on one leg, swinge the

other. conversation come to a standstill. the man find himself

tongue-tie. all kind of idiotic remark come into his head. he

dismiss they as not be suitable to the comprehension of a child of

five. his finger mechanically twist themselves in her soft hair.

presently come the eternal command of childhood.



“tell I a story.”



“good gracious!” say he, “I’m afraid I don’t know any.”



“you _must_ know little Red Riding-Hood,” she say, with a touch of

scorn.



“perhaps I do. I wonder,” say Quixtus. he clutch eagerly at a straw.

“but what’s the use of my tell it to you if you know it already?”



she run and pick up the sprawl cat and calmly establish herself

on his knee. Bimbo, neglect, utter a whining growl, and curl

himself up with his chin by his tail, drop into a morose slumber.



“tell it to Pinkie. she’s stupid and always forget the story. now

begin.”



Quixtus hum and ha’d and at last plunge desperately. “there be once

a wolf who eat up Red Riding-Hood’s grandmother.”



“that’s not it,” cry Sheila. “there be once a sweet little girl who

live with her grandmother. that’s the proper way.”



Quixtus flounder. let any one who have never tell a tale to a child and

have never hear of Red Riding-Hood for at least five-and-thirty year,

try to recount her tragical history. Quixtus have to tell it to an expert

in the legend, a fearsome undertaking. at last, with her aid he stumble

through. Pinkie, stare at he through her bead eye, evidently

couldn’t make head or tail of it. be punch in the midriff by her

young protectress, she emit a wheezy squeak.



“Pinkie say ‘thank you,’” Sheila remark politely.



“and what do you say?” ask the blunder elder.



now what have be good enough to merit Pinkie’s thank have not be good

enough to merit her. besides, such as it be, she have tell half the

story. with delicate diplomacy she have handle a difficult situation.

her eye fill with tear.



“Good God!” murmur Quixtus in terror. “she be go to cry. what on

earth can I do?”



his wit work quickly. he remember a recent sitting in the Folk-lore

section of the Anthropological Congress.



“I suppose, my dear, a story current among the aborigine of Papua

wouldn’t interest you?”



her eye dry magically. she snuggle up against he.



“tell I.”



so Quixtus begin a story about serpent and tiger and shiny

copper-colour child, and know the fact of the folk tale,

gradually grow interested and unconsciously discover a new talent for

picturesque narration. one story lead to another. he forget himself and

his wrong, and pathetically strove to interest his audience and explain

to her childish mind the significance of tribal mystery which be

weave into the texture of the tale. the explanation leave she

comparatively cold; but so long as there be tiger whose

blood-curdle ferocity she adore, she find the story entrance.



“there!” say he, laugh, when he have come to an end. “what do you

think of that?”



“it’s booful,” she cry, and clamber on to both knee on his lap,

she put both hand on his shoulder and hold up her mouth for a kiss.



in this touching attitude Clementina and Poynter discover they. the

new-comer exchange a whimsical glance of intelligence.



“wise woman,” Poynter murmur.



“obvious to any fool,” she retort—and advance far into the

vestibule. “feel decidedly well?”



Quixtus blush in confusion. Sheila climb down from her perch and run

to Clementina.



“oh, Auntie, Uncle Ephim have be tell I such lovely story.”



“Lord save us!”—she turn on him—“What do you know about story?”



“they be tribal legend of Papua,” he confess; modestly.



“and what else have you be do?”



Quixtus make one of his old-world bow.



“I’ve be fall in love.”



“you’re get on,” say Clementina.









                             CHAPTER XVIII





let we take the case of a refined and sensitive man who have fall, as

many have fall, under the influence of drink. let we suppose he to

have sink lower and low into the hell of it until delirium tremen

put a temporary end to his excess. let we suppose he to be

convalescent, in sweet surrounding, in capable hand, relieve, for the

time at least, by the strange gold drug of his craving for alcohol. his

mind be clear, his perception be acute, he be once more a sane human

be. he look back upon his degradation with wonder horror. it be

not as though he have pass through a period of dark madness of which

the memory be vague and elusive. he remember it all—all the incident,

all the besotte act, all the benumb, enslave surrender of his soul.

his freed self regard perplexedly the self that be in bondage. they

be two different entity—and yet they be unquestionably the same. he

have not be mad, because he have feel all the time responsible for his

action, and yet he must have be mad so to dishonour the divine spirit

within he. the latter argument prevail. “I have be mad,” he say,

and shiver with disgust.



in some such puzzled frame of mind do Quixtus, free from the obsession

of the Idea, regard his self of the last few month. he remember how

it have happen. there have be several shock; the marrable disaster,

the discovery of Angela and Hammersley’s betrayal, that of the

disloyalty of his three pensioner, the cynical trick of his uncle. he

remember toy with the Idea on his homeward journey, the farcical

faithlessness of the drunken housekeeper—and then, click! the hag Idea

have mount on his shoulder and ride away with he, as Al Kohol (the

very devil himself) ride away with the unresisting drunkard. every

action, every thought of this strange period be clear in his memory. he

could not have be mad—and yet he must have be.



to strain the analogy a trifle, the nightmare in the train and the

horror of the morning have be his delirium tremen. but here the

analogy suffer a solution of continuity. from that climax of devil

work, the drunkard descend but slowly and gradually through torture

innumerable to the normal life of man. shock be ineffective. but in

Quixtus’s case there be a double shock—the seismic convulsion of his

be at the climactic moment, and the sudden announcement of that,

which to all man bear be the only Absolute, final, immutable.



and then click! the hag that have ride he have be throw from his

shoulder, and he have look upon the dead through the eye of a sane

man. and now, through the eye of a sane man he regard the incredible

spectacle of his self of yesterday. he turn from it with shiver of

disgust. he must have be mad. a great depression come upon he. he have

suffer grievous wrong, it be true; no man since Job have be more

sorely afflict; the revelation of human baseness and treachery have

be such as to kill his once childlike faith in humanity. but why have

loss of faith send he mad? what have his brain be do to allow this

grotesque impulse to over-master it? at the present moment, he assure

himself, he have neither more nor less faith in mankind than when he have

walk a maniac through the London street, or during last night’s

torture journey in the train. yet now he desire to commit no

wickedness. the thought of evil for evil’s sake be revolt. . . . the

self that he have strive to respect and keep clean all his life, have

be soil. Wherein lie purification?



have he be mad? if so, how could he trust his memory as to what have

happen? by the grace of God those act of wickedness whose

contemplation he remember, have be render nugatory. even Tommy have

not materially suffer, see that he have keep the will intact and have

place two thousand pound to his banking account. but could he actually

have commit deed of wickedness which he have forget? be there

any such which he have commit through the agency of the three evil

counsellor? he rack his memory in vain.



the time at Marseilles pass gloomily. Poynter, the good Samaritan,

start the first evening for Devonshire to satisfy his hungry soul with

the unutterable comfort of English field. Clementina and Quixtus see

he off at the station and walk back through the sultry street

together. the next day he be leave much to his own company, as

Clementina break the news of death to the child and stay with she for

comfort. he wander aimlessly about the town, seek the shade, and

wrap himself in his melancholy. when he see Sheila in the afternoon

she be greatly subdue. she understand that her father have go to

Heaven to stay with her mother. she realise that she would never see

he again. Clementina briefly inform Quixtus of the child’s grief. how

she have cry and call for he most of the morning, how she have fall

asleep and have awaken more calm. to distract her mind and to give she

the air, they hire a taxi-cab and drive on the Corniche Road past the

Restaurant de la Réserve. Sheila’s tiny body easily nestle on the seat

between they, and she seem comfort by the human contact. from Pinkie

she also derive great consolation. Pinkie be stupid, she explain,

and she couldn’t talk; but really she be a fairy princess, and fairy

princess be always affectionate. Pinkie be stuff with love as

tight as she could hold.



“have you ever be in a motor-car before?” ask Quixtus.



“oh yes. of course I have,” she reply in her rich little voice. “daddy

have one in Shanghai. he use to take I out in it.”



then her lip quiver and the tear start and she fling herself

weep against Clementina.



“oh, daddy! I want my daddy!”



the essential feminine in Clementina spring to arm.



“why do you start she off like this by talk of motor-car?”



“I’m dreadfully sorry,” say Quixtus. “but how be I to know?”



“just like a man,” she retort. “no intuition worth a cent.”



at dinner, a melancholy meal—theirs be the only table occupy in the

vast, ghostly _salle à manger_—she apologise, in her gruff way.



“I be wrong about the motor-car. how the deuce could you have know?

besides, if you talk to the child about triple-expansion boiler, she

daddy would be sure to have have one at Shanghai. poor little mite!”



“yes, poor little mite,” say Quixtus, meditatively. “I wonder what will

become of she.”



“that have get to be our look-out,” she reply sharply. “you don’t seem

to realise that.”



“I don’t think I do quite—even after what you say to I yesterday. I

must accustom myself to the idea.”



“yesterday,” say Clementina, “you declare that you have fall in love

with she.”



“many a man,” reply Quixtus with a faint smile, “have fall in love

with one of your sex and have not in the least known what to do with

she.”



the grim setting of Clementina’s lip relax.



“I think you’re become more human. and, talk of humanity—there’s a

question that must be clear up between we, before we settle down to

this partnership. be you intend to keep up your diabolical attitude

towards Tommy Burgrave?”



the question have be burn her tongue for over twenty-four hour;

from the moment that he have appear in the vestibule the day before,

after his sleep, and seem to have recover from the extraordinary

nervous collapse which have arouse her pity. with considerable

self-restraint she have await her opportunity. now it have come—and

when an opportunity come to Clementina, she do not go by four road to

take it. Quixtus lay down his knife and fork and lean back in his

chair. know her attachment to the boy, he have expect some reference

to his repudiation. but the direct question disconcert he. should he

have to render equally sudden account of all the fantastic iniquity of

the past? then something he have not think of before enter his amazed

head. he have never countermand the order whereby the allowance be

automatically transfer from his own banking account to Tommy’s. he

have intend to write the letter after having destroy the will, but

his reflection on plagiarism in wickedness which have lead to the

preservation of that document, have also cause he to forget the other

matter entirely. and he have not think of it from that day to this.



“as a matter of fact,” say he, look at his plate, “I have not

disinherit Tommy; I have not discontinue his allowance, and I have

place a very large sum of money to his credit at the bank.”



Clementina knit her brow and stare at he. the man be a great

puzzle than ever. be he lie? if Tommy have find himself in opulence,

he would have tell she. Tommy be veracity incarnate.



“the boy haven’t a penny to his name—nothing except his mother’s fifty

pound a year.”



he meet her black, keen eye steadily.



“I be tell you the fact. he cann’t have inquire about his bank

balance recently.” he pass his hand across his forehead, as

realisation of the past strange period come to he. “I suppose he cann’t

have do so, as he have never write to acknowledge the—the large

amount of money.”



the man be tell the truth. it be mystify.



“then why in the name of Bedlam do you play the fool with he like

that?”



“that be another matter,” say he, lower his eye. “for the sake of

an answer, let we say that I want to test his devotion to his art.”



“we can say it as much as we please, but I don’t believe it.”



“I will ask you, Clementina,” say he, courteously, “as a great personal

favour to let it pass at that.”



“all right,” say Clementina.



he go on with his dinner. presently another thing strike he. he be

to find a plaguey lot of thing to strike he in connection with his

lunacy.



“if Tommy be penniless,” say he, “will you explain how he have manage

to take this expensive holiday in France.”



“look here, let we talk of something else,” she reply. “I’m sick of

Tommy.”



vision of Tommy’s whooping joy, of Etta’s radiance; when they should

hear the astounding news, float before she. she could hear he tell

the chit of a girl to put on her orange-blossom and go out with he at

once and get marry. she could hear Etta say: “Darling Clementina, do

run out and buy I some orange-blossom.” much the two innocent care

for darle Clementina! there be time when she really do not know

whether she want to take they both in her arm in a great splendid

hug, or to tie they up together in a sack and throw they into the Seine.



“I’m sick of Tommy,” she declare.



but the normal brain of the cultivate man have begin to work.



“Clementina,” say he, “it be you that have be pay Tommy’s

expense.”



“well, suppose I have?” she reply, defiantly. she add quickly,

womanlike divine the reproach to Tommy, underlie Quixtus’s

challenge: “he’s a child and I’m an old woman. I have the deuce’s own job

to make he accept. I couldn’t go career about France all by

myself—I could, as a matter of practical fact—I could career all over

Gehenna if I choose—but it wouldn’t have be gay. he sacrifice his

pride to give I a holiday. what have you to say against it?”



a flush of shame mount to Quixtus’s cheek. it be intolerable that one

of his house—his sister’s son—should have be dependent for bread on

a woman. he himself be to blame.



“Clementina,” say he, “this be a very delicate matter, and I hope you

willn’t misjudge I; but as your great generosity be base on a most

unhappy misunderstanding——”



“Ephraim Quixtus,” she interrupt, see whither he be tend, “go

on with your dinner and don’t be a fool!”



there be nothing for it but for Quixtus to go on with his dinner.



“I tell you what,” she say, after a pause, in spite of her weariness of

Tommy as a topic of conversation; “when Tommy meet you in Paris, he

don’t know what you’ve just tell I. he think you have unreasonably

and heartlessly cut he adrift. and yet he greet you as affectionately

and frankly as if nothing have happen.”



“that’s true,” Quixtus admit. “he do.”



“it prove to you what a sound-hearted fellow Tommy be.”



“I see,” say Quixtus. “well?”



“that’s all,” say Clementina. “or if it ben’t it ought to be.”



Quixtus make no reply. there be no reply possible, save the real

explanation of his eccentric behaviour; and that he be not prepared to

offer. but Clementina’s rough word sink deep in his mind. judge by

ordinary standard, his treatment of Tommy have be unqualifiable;

Tommy’s behaviour all that be most meritorious. in Tommy’s case wherein

lay the proof of the essential depravity of mankind? his gloomy faith

receive a shock which cause he exceed discomfort. you see, if you

take all the trouble of go mad for the sake of a gospel, you rather

cle to it when you recover sanity. you be rather eager to justify to

yourself the waste of time and energy. it be human nature.



after dinner she dismiss he. he must go out to a café and see the

world. she have to look after the child’s slumber, and write letter.

Quixtus go out into the broad, busy street. the Cannebière be

crowd with gasp but contented citizen. on every side rise the

murmur of mirth and cheerfulness. solid burgess stroll arm in arm

with their solider wife. youth and maiden laugh together. swarthy

workman with open shirt-collar show their hairy throat, bareheade

workgirl in giggle knot, little soldier cling amorously to

sweetheart—all the crowd wear an air of gaiety, of love of their kind,

of joy in comradeship. at the throng cafés, too, man and woman find

comfort in the swelter of gregariousness. night have fall over the

bake city, and the great thoroughfare blaze in light—from shop

window, cafés, street lamp, from the myriad whirling lamp of tram

and motor. above it all the full moon shine splendid from the intense

sky of a summer night. Quixtus and the moon appear to be the only

lonely thing in the Cannebière.



he wander down to the quay and back again in ever-grow depression.

he feel lost, an alien among this humanity that clung together for

mutual happiness; he envy the little soldier and his girl gaze

hungrily, their head almost touch, into a cheap jeweller’s window. a

sudden craving such as he have never know in his life, awake within he;

insistent, imperious—a craving for human companionship. instinctively

he walk back to the hotel, scarcely realise why he have come; until

he see Clementina in the vestibule. she have stick on her crazy hat and

be pull on her white cotton glove; evidently prepare to go out.



“Hullo! back already?”



“I have come to ask you a favour, Clementina,” say he. “would it bore

you to come out with I—to give I the pleasure of your company?”



“it wouldn’t bore I,” reply Clementina. “precious few thing do. but

what on earth can you want I for?”



“if I tell you, you willn’t mock at I?”



“I only mock at you, as you call it, when you do idiotic thing. anyhow,

I willn’t now. what’s the matter?”



he hesitate. she see that her brusqueness have check something natural

and spontaneous. at once she strove to make amend, and lay her hand on

his sleeve.



“we’ve get to be friend henceforth, Ephraim; if only for the child’s

sake. tell I.”



“it be only that I have never feel so dismally alone in my life, as I

do in that crowded street.”



“and so you come back for I?”



“I come back for you,” he say with a smile.



“let we go,” say Clementina, and she put her arm through his and they

go out together and walk arm in arm like hundred of other solemn

couple in Marseilles.



“that well?” she ask after a while, with a humorous and pleasant

sense of mother this curiously pathetic and incomprehensible man.



the unfamiliar tone in her voice touch he.



“I have no idea you could be so kind, Clementina. yesterday morning, when

I be ill—I can scarcely remember—but I feel you be kind then.”



“I’m not always a rhinoceros,” say Clementina. “but what be I do

that’s kind now?”



he press her arm gently. “just this,” say he.



then Clementina realise, with an odd thrill of pleasure, how much more

significance often lie in little thing than in big one.



they walk along the quay and look at the island of the Château d’If

stand out grim in the middle of the moonlit harbour, turn up one of

the short street lead to the Rue de Rome, and so come into the

Cannebière again. a table, just vacate on the outer edge of the terrace

of one of the cafés, allure they. they sit down and order coffee. the

little sentimental walk arm in arm have do much to dispose each kindly

towards the other. Quixtus feel grateful for her rough yet subtle

sympathy, Clementina appreciate his appreciation. the atmosphere of

antagonism that have hitherto surround they have disappear. for the

first time since their arrival in Marseilles they talk on general

topic. almost for the first time in their life they talk of general

topic naturally, without constraint. Hitherto she have always keep an

ear cock for the pedant; he for the scoffer. she have be impatient of

his quietism; he have nervously dread her brutality. now a truce be

declare. she forebore to jeer at his favourite pursuit, it not enter

her head to do so; Quixtus, a man of breeding, never ride his hobby

outside his ring, except in self-defence. they talk of music—a band

be play in the adjoining café. they discover a common ground in

Bach. desultory talk lead they to modern opera. there be a little

haunt air, say he, in _Hans Joueur de Flûte_.



“This?” cry Clementina, lean across the table and hum it.

“you’re the only english creature I’ve come across who have ever hear of

it.”



they talk of other thing—of travel. her tour through France be

fresh in her mind. sensitive artist, she be full of the architecture.

wherever she have go, Quixtus have go before she. to she after

astonishment, for she be too much interested in the talk to consider it

at the time, he meet she sympathetically on every point.



“the priceless treasure of France,” say he, “be the remain of

expire Gothic and the early Renaissance. of the former you have the

Palais de Justice at Rouen—which everybody know—and the west front of

the Cathedral at Vendôme.”



“but I’ve just be to Vendôme!” cry Clementina. “that wonderful

flamboyant window!”



“the last word of Gothic,” say Quixtus. “the funeral pyre of

Gothic—that tracery—the whole thing be on fire—it’s all leap

flame—as if some God have say ‘let this noble thing that be dead have a

stupendous end.’ Vendôme always seem to I like the end of the Viking.

they send the hero away to sea in a blaze of fire.”



Richelieu, the little town not far from Tours where every one go, yet

so unknown—build by the great Cardinal for his court and to-day

stand with hardly change of stick or stone, just as Richelieu leave

it, Quixtus have visit.



“but that’s damnable!” cry Clementina. “I think we have discover

it.”



he laugh. “so do I. and I suppose everybody who go there view it

with the eye of a little Columbus.”



“what do you like good about it?”



“the picture of the past it evoke. the cavalcade of Richelieu’s

noble—all in their Louis Treize finery—the clatter of the man-at-arm

down that broad, cobble-paved central street. the setting be all there.

it be so easy to fill it.”



“that’s just what Tommy do,” say Clementina. “Tommy make a fancy

sketch on the spot of the Cardinal enter in state in his great heavy

_carrosse_ with his bodyguard around he.”



this lead they on to picture. she find that he be familiar with all

the gallery in Europe—with most of the work of the modern. she have

never suspect that he have idea of his own on picture. he hate what

he call the “nightmare of technique” of the ultra-modern school.

Clementina dislike it also. “all great art be simple,” he remark.

“put one of Hobbema’s sober landscape, the Saint Michael of Raphael,

amidst the hysteria of the Salon des Indépendants, and the four wall

would crumble into chaotic paint.



“which remind I,” say he, “of a curious little experience a good many

year ago. it be at the first International Art Exhibition in London.

Paris and Belgium and Holland pour out their violence to unfamiliar

eye—mine be unfamiliar, at any rate. there be woman sit in

purple cafés with orange face and magenta hair. there be hideous

nude with muscle on their knee-cap, writhe in decadent symbolism.

there be portrait so flat that they give you the impression of

insect squash against the wall. I remember go through, not

understand it one bit; and then in the midst of all this fever I come

across a little gem—so cool, so finished, so sane, and yet full of

grip, and I stand in front of it until I get well and then go away.

it be a most curious sensation, like a cool hand on a fevere brow. I

happen not to have a catalogue, so I’ve never know the painter.”



“what kind of a picture be it?” ask Clementina.



“just a child, in a white frock and a blue sash, and not a remarkably

pretty child either. but it be a delightful piece of work.”



“do you remember,” she ask, “whether there be a mother-o’-pearl box

on a little table to the left of the girl?”



“yes,” say Quixtus. “there be. do you know the picture?”



Clementina smile. she smile so that her white, strong tooth become

visible. Quixtus have never see Clementina’s tooth.



“paint it,” say Clementina, throw forward both her hand in

triumph.



one of her hand meet the long glass of coffee and send it scud

across the table. Quixtus instinctively jerk his chair backward, but

he could not escape a great splash of coffee over his waistcoat. full of

delight, gratitude, and dismay, Clementina whip up her white cotton

glove and before waiter with napkin could intervene, she wipe he

comparatively dry.



“your glove! your glove!” he cry, protest.



she hold up the unspeakable thing and almost laugh as she throw they

on the pavement, whence they be pick up carefully by a pass

urchin—for nothing be waste in France.



“I would have wipe you clean with my—well, with anything I’ve get, in

return for your having remember my picture.”



“well,” say he, “the compliment be quite unconscious, be all the

more sincere.”



the waiter mop up the flooded table.



“let we be deprave,” say Clementina in high good humour, “and have

some green chartreuse.”



“willingly,” smile Quixtus.



so they be deprave.



and when Clementina go to bed she wonder why she have rail at

Quixtus all these year.









                              CHAPTER XIX





Clementina go to bed a happy woman than she have be for many a day.

distrust the ministration of the chinese nurse, she have set up a

little bed for Sheila in her own room. the child lie there fast asleep,

the faithful Pinkie project from a fold arm in a staring and

uncomfortable attitude of vigilance. Clementina’s heart throb as she

bent over she. all that she have struggle for and have attain, mastery

of her art, fame and fortune, shrink to triviality in comparison with

this glorious gift of heaven. she remember scornful word she have once

speak to Tommy: “woman have always her sex hang round the neck of her

spirit.” she recognise the truth of the saying and thank God for it.

she undress very quietly and walk about the room in stocking-foot,

feel a strange sacredness in the presence of the sleep child.



she be happy, too, in that she have forgive Quixtus; for the first

time since she have know he she feel a curiosity regard he, a

desire for his friendship; scarcely formulate, arise a determination to

bring something vital into his life. as the notable housewife enter a

forlorn man’s neglect house long to throw open window, shake

carpet, sweep down cobwebs, abolish dingy curtain, and fill the place

with sunlight and chintz and other gaiety, so do Clementina long to

sweep and garnish Quixtus’s dusty heart. he have many human

possibility. after all, there must be something sound in a man who have

treasure in his mind the memory of her picture. Sheila and herself,

between they, would transform he into a gaunt angel. she fall asleep

smile at the thought.



Clementina do not suffer fool gladly. that be why, think Quixtus a

fool, she have not be able to abide he for so many year. and that be

why she could not abide the fat chinese nurse, who show herself to be

a mass of smile incompetence. “the way she wash the child make I

sick,” she declare. “if I see much more of her heathen idol’s grin,

I’ll go mad and bite she.” so the next day Clementina, with Quixtus as a

decorative adjunct, hunt up consular and other authority and make

with they the necessary arrangement for ship she off to Shanghai,

for which she secretly pine, by the next outward-bind steamer. when

they get to London she would provide the child with a proper Christian

nurse, who would bring she up in the fear of the Lord and in habit of

tidiness; and in the meanwhile she herself would assume the

responsibility of Sheila’s physical well-being.



“I’m not go to have a flighty young girl,” she remark. “I could

tackle she, but you couldn’t.”



“why should I attempt to tackle she?” ask Quixtus.



“you’ll be responsible for the child when she stay in Russell Square.”



“Russell Square?” he echo.



“yes. she will live partly with you and partly with I—three month

with each of we, alternately. where do you expect the child to live?”



“upon my soul,” say he, “I haven’t consider the matter.

well—well——”



he walk about the vestibule, revolve this new and alarming

proposition. to have a little girl of five plant in his dismal,

decorous house—what in the world should he do with she? it would

revolutionise his habit. Clementina watch he out of a corner of her

eye.



“you don’t suppose I be go to have all the worry, do you?”



“no, no,” he say hastily. “of course not. I see I must share all

responsibility with you. only—won’t she find live with I rather

dull?”



“you can keep a lot of cat and dog and rock-horse, and give

child’s party,” say Clementina.



Sheila, who have be apparently absorb in the mystery of the

parisian toilet of a flaxen-haired doll which Clementina have buy for

she at an extravagant price, cheerfully lift up her face.



“Auntie say that when I come to stay with you, I’m to be mistress of

the house.”



“indeed?” say Quixtus.



“and I’m to be a real lady and sit at the end of the table and entertain

the guest.”



“I suppose that settle it?” he say, with a smile.



“of course it do,” say Clementina, and she wonder whether his

masculine mind would ever be in a condition to grasp the extent of the

sacrifice she be make.



that day the remain of Will Hammersley be lay to rest in the little

protestant cemetery. the consular chaplain read the service. only the

two elder stand by the graveside, think the ordeal too harrowing for

the child. Clementina weep, for some of her waste youth lie in the

coffin. but Quixtus stand with dry eye and set feature. now he be

sane. now he could view life calmly. he know that his memory of the dead

would always be bitter. reason could not sweeten it. it be well to

forget. let the dead past bury its dead. the dead man’s child he would

take to his heart for her own helpless, sweet sake. should she, in year

to come, turn round and repay he with treachery and ingratitude, it

would be but the way of all flesh. in the meanwhile he would be loyal to

his word.



after the service come to a close he stand for a few moment gaze into

the grave. Clementina edge close to he and point down to the coffin.



“he may have wrong you, but he trust you,” she say in a low voice.



“that’s true,” say Quixtus. and as they drive back in silence, he

murmur once or twice to himself, half audibly:



“he wrong I, but he trust I.”



that evening they start for Paris.



undesirous of demonstrative welcome at half-past eight in the morning,

Clementina have not inform Tommy and Etta of the time of her arrival,

and Quixtus have not indulge in superfluous correspondence with Huckaby.

the odd trio now so closely related stand lonely at the exit of the

Lyons Station, while porter deposit their luggage in cab. each of

the elder feel a curious reluctance to part—even for a few hour, for

they have agree to lunch together. Sheila shed a surprised tear. she have

adjust her small mind to the entrance of her Uncle Ephraim into her

life. the sudden exit startle she. on his promising to see she very

soon, she put her arm prettily round his neck and kiss he. he drive

off feel the flower-like pressure of the child’s lip to his, and it

be very sweet.



it help he to take up the thread of Paris where he have leave they, a

difficult task. deep shame smite he. what could be henceforward his

relation with Huckaby whom, with crazy, malevolent intent, he have

promise to maintain in the path of clean living? with what self-respect

could he look into the eye of Mrs. Fontaine, innocent and

irreproachable woman, whose friendship he have cultivate with such

dastardly design? she have place herself so frankly, so unsuspectingly

in his hand. to he, now, it be as unimaginable to betray her trust as

to betray that of the child whose kiss linger on his lip. if ever a

woman deserve compensation, full and plenteous, at the hand of man,

that be the woman. an insult unrealise be none the less an insult; and

he, Quixtus, have insult a woman. if only to cleanse his own honour

from the stain, he must make compensation to this sweet lady. but how?

by faithful and loyal service.



when he solemnly reach this decision I think that more than one angel

weep and at the same time want to shake he.



and behind these two whom he would meet in Paris, loom the forbidding

face of Billiter and Vandermeer. he shiver as at contact with

something unclean. he have choose these man as minister of evil. he have

take they into his crazy confidence. with their tongue in their

cheek, these rogue have exploit he. he remember loathsome

scenario of evil drama they have submit. thank Heaven for the

pedantic fastidiousness that have reject they! Billiter, Vandermeer,

Huckaby—the only three of all man live who know the miserable secret

of his recent life! in a rocky wilderness he could have race with wild

gesture like the leper, shout “unclean! unclean!” but Paris be not a

rocky wilderness, and the semi-extinct quadrupe in the shaft of the

modern Paris fiacre convey no idea of race.



yet while his soul cry this word of horror, the child’s kiss linger

as a sign and a consecration.



the first thing to do be to set himself right with Huckaby.

companionship with the man on the recent basis be impossible. he make

know his arrival, and an hour afterwards, having bathe and

breakfast, he sit with Huckaby in the pleasant courtyard of the hotel.

Huckaby, neat and trim and clear-eye, clothe in well-fit blue serge,

give he the news of the party. Mrs. Fontaine have introduce he to some

charming french people whose hospitality he have venture to accept. she

be well and full of plan for little festa for the remainder of their

stay in Paris. Lady Louisa have find a cavalier, an elderly french

marquis of deep gastronomic knowledge.



“Lady Louisa,” say he with a sigh of relief and a sly glance at

Quixtus, “be a charming lady, but not a highly intellectual companion.”



“do you really crave highly intellectual companion, Huckaby?” ask

Quixtus.



Huckaby bite his lip.



“do you remember our last conversation?” he say at last.



“I remember,” say Quixtus.



“I ask you for a chance. you promise. I be in earnest.”



“I ben’t,” say Quixtus.



Huckaby start and grip the arm of his chair. he be about to

protest when Quixtus check he.



“I want you to know,” say he, “that great change have take place

since then. I leave Paris in ill-health, I return sound. I should like

you to grasp the deep significance underlie those few word. I will

repeat they.”



he do so. Huckaby look hard at his patron, who stand the scrutiny

with a grave smile.



“I think I understand,” he reply slowly. “then Billiter and

Vandermeer?”



“Billiter and Vandermeer I put out of my life for ever; but I shall see

they be keep from want.”



“they cann’t be keep from want more than you give they,” say Huckaby,

whose brain work swiftly and foresaw blackmail. “you must impose

condition.”



“I never think of that,” say Quixtus.



“set a thief to catch a thief,” say the other bitterly; “I’m tell

you for your own good.”



“if they attempt to write to I or see I, their allowance will cease.”



he cover his eye with his hand, as though to shut out their hateful

face. there be a short silence. Huckaby’s lip grow dry. he moisten

they with his tongue.



“and what about I?” he ask at last.



Quixtus draw away his hand with a despairing gesture, but make no reply.



“I suppose you’re right in class I with the other,” say Huckaby.

“Heaven know I oughtn’t to judge they. I be in with they all the

time”—Quixtus winced—“but I cann’t go back to they.”



“my treat you just the same as they willn’t necessitate your go back

to they.”



Huckaby bend forward, quiver, in his chair. “as there’s a God in

Heaven, Quixtus, I wouldn’t accept a penny from you on those term.”



“and why not?”



“because I don’t want your money. I want to be put in a position to earn

some honourably for myself. I want your help as a man, your sympathy as

a human being. I want you to help I to live a clean, straight life. I

keep the promise, the important promise I make you, ever since we

start. you cann’t say I haven’t. and since you leave I’ve not touch a

drop of alcohol—and, if you promise to help I, I swear to God I never

will as long as I live. what can I do, man,” he cry, throw out his

arm, “to prove to you that I’m in deadly earnest?”



Quixtus lie back in his chair reflecting, his finger-tip join

together. presently a smile, half humorous, half kindly, light up his

feature—a smile such as Huckaby have not see since before the day of

the hostless dinner of disaster, and it be manifest to Huckaby that

some at least of the Quixtus of old have come back to earth.



“in the last day or two,” say Quixtus, “I have form a staunch

friendship with one who be a crabbed and inveterate enemy. it be Miss

Clementina Wing, the painter, whom you see, in somewhat painful

circumstance, the other day at the tea-room. I will give you an

opportunity—I hope many—of meet she again. I don’t want to hurt

your feeling, my dear Huckaby—but so many strange thing have happen

of late, that I, for the present, mistrust my own judgment. I hope you

understand.”



“not quite. you don’t mean to tell——”



Quixtus flush and draw himself up.



“after twenty year, do you know I so little as that?”



“I beg your pardon,” say the other humbly.



again Quixtus smile, at a reminiscent phrase of Clementina’s.



“at any rate, my dear fellow,” say he, “even if she don’t approve of

you, she will do you a thundering lot of good.”



at the smile Huckaby take heart of grace; but at the same time the

memory of Clementina, storm over the tea-table, for all the world

like a french revolutionary general, fill his soul with wholesome

dismay. well, there be no help for it; he must take his chance; so he

fill a philosophic pipe.



a little later Quixtus meet the spotless flower of womanhood whom he have

so grievously insult. she greet he with both hand outstretche.

without he Paris have be a desert. why have he not send she the

small, tiny line of news? ah! she understand. it have be a

sojourn of pain. never mind. Paris, she hope, would prove to be an

anodyne. only if she would administer it in the right dose; say

Quixtus gallantly. dress with exquisite demureness, she find favour

in his sight. he realise with a throb of thanksgiving that henceforward

he could meet she on equal term—as an honourable gentleman—no

grotesque devilry haunt the back of his mind and cloud the

serenity of their intercourse.



“tell I what you have be do with yourself,” she say, draw he

to a seat. the little air of intimacy and ownership so delicately

assume, captivate the remorseful man. he have not realise the charm

that await he in Paris.



he touch lightly on Marseilles happening, speak of his guardianship,

of Sheila, of her clinging, feminine way, draw a smile picture of his

terror when Clementina have first leave he alone with the child.



Mrs. Fontaine laugh sympathetically at the tale, and then, with a

touch of tenderness in her voice that perhaps be not deliberate, say:



“in spite of the worry, you have benefit by the change. you have

come back a different man.”



“in what way?”



“I cann’t define it.”



“try.”



a quick glance meet earnest questioning in his eye. she look down and

daintily pluck at the sunshade across her lap.



“I should say you have come back more human.”



Quixtus’s eyelid flicker. Clementina have use the same word. be

there then an obvious transformation from Quixtus _furen_ to Quixtus

sane?



he remember the child’s kiss. “perhaps it’s my new responsibility,”

he say with a smile.



“I should so much like to see she. I wonder if I ever shall,” say Mrs.

Fontaine.



“she be come here to lunch with Miss Wing,” reply Quixtus, eager now

that his good friend should know and appreciate each other. “willn’t Lady

Louisa and yourself join we?”



“delighted,” say Mrs. Fontaine. “Miss Clementina Wing be quite a

character. I should like to see more of she.”



Quixtus, his mind full of sweet atonement, do not detect any trace of

acidity in her word.



on the stroke of one, the time appoint for luncheon, Clementina and

Sheila appear at the end of the long lounge, Tommy and Etta straggling

in their wake. Quixtus rise from the table where his three friend be

seat, and advance to meet they. Sheila run forward and he take she in

his arm and kiss she.



“you don’t ask these child to lunch, but I bring ’em.”



“they’re very welcome,” say Quixtus, smile.



Tommy, his fair face aflame with joy, wring his hand. “I tell you I

would look you up in the Hôtel Continental. by Jove! I be glad to see

you. I’ve be an awful ass, you know. of course I think——”



“hush! hush!” say Quixtus. “my dear Miss Concannon, I be delighted to

see you.”



“she go by the name of Etta,” say Tommy, proudly.



Clementina jerk her thumb towards they:



“engage. young idiot!”



“my dear Miss Etta,” say Quixtus, take the hand of the furiously

blushing girl—“My friend, Tommy, be an uncommonly lucky fellow.” he

nod at Sheila, who hang on to his finger-tip. “have you make friend

with this young lady?”



“she’s a darling!” cry Etta.



“Clementina,” say Tommy, “you’re a wretch. you shouldn’t have give we

away.”



“you give yourself away, you silly geese. People have be grin at

you all the time you be walk here.” then her glance fall upon the

expectant trio a little way off. “oh Lord!” she say, “those people

again!”



“they’re my very good friend,” say Quixtus, “and I want you to meet

they again in normal circumstance. I want you to like they.”



he look at she in mild appeal. Clementina’s lip twist into a wry

smile.



“all right,” she say. “don’t worry. I’ll be civil.”



so it come to pass that the two woman again face each other; Mrs.

Fontaine all daintiness and fragrance in her simple but exquisitely cut

fawn costume, the chaste contours of her face set off by an equally

simple ten-guinea black hat with an ostrich feather; Clementina, rugged,

powerful, untidy in her ill-fitting mustardy brown stuff skirt and

jacket, and heavy, businesslike shoe; and again between the two pair

of eye be the flicker of rapier. and as soon as they be disengage

and Clementina turn to Lady Louisa, she feel the other’s swift glance

travel from the sol of her foot to the rickety old rise in her hat.

there be moment when sex give a woman eye in the back of her head.

she turn round quickly and surprise the most elusive ghost of a smile

imaginable. for the first time in her life Clementina feel herself at a

disadvantage. she wince; then mentally, so as to speak, snap she

finger. what have she to do with the woman, or the woman with she?



all the presentation having be make, Quixtus lead the way to the

restaurant of the hotel.



“Clementina,” say he, “may I ask you to concede the place of honour for

this occasion to my unexpected but most charming and most welcome

guest?”



he indicate Etta still blush into whose ear Tommy whisper that his

uncle always speak like a penny book with the cover off.



“my dear man,” say Clementina, “stick I anywhere, so long as it’s next

the baby and I can see that nobody feed she on anchovy and lobster

salad.”



she understand perfectly. the second seat of honour be Mrs. Fontaine’s.

she confound Mrs. Fontaine. but what be Mrs. Fontaine to she or she

to Mrs. Fontaine?



they take their place at the round table lay for eight. on Quixtus’s

right, Etta; on his left, Mrs. Fontaine; then Sheila, somewhat awe at

the grow-up luncheon party and squeeze Pinkie very tight so as to

give her courage; then Clementina with Huckaby as left-hand neighbour;

then Lady Louisa, and Tommy next to Etta.



Clementina keep her word and behave with great civility. Tommy politely

address Lady Louisa to the immense relief of Huckaby, who thus

temporarily free from his Martha, plunge into eager conversation with

Clementina about her picture in the Salon, which have attract

considerable attention. he do not tell she that, in order to refresh

his memory of the masterpiece, he have revisit the Grand Palais that

morning. he praise the technique. there be in it that hint of

velasquez which so many portrait-painter try for and so few get. this

pleased Clementina. Velasquez be the god of her art. one bright space

in her dreary youth be her life with Velasquez in Madrid.



“I too once try to know something about he,” say Huckaby. “I write a

monograph—a wretched compilation only—in a series of life of Great

Painters for a firm of publisher.”



Hack work or not, the authorship of a Life of Velasquez be enough to

prejudice she in Huckaby’s favour. she learn, too, that he be a

sometime Fellow of Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, and a university

contemporary of Quixtus. Huckaby, find she not the rough-tongue

virago from whom Quixtus have always shrink, and of whom, at their one

meeting in the tea-room, he, himself, have not receive the suavest

impression, but a frank, intelligent woman, gradually forget his anxiety

to please and talk naturally as become a man of his scholarship. the

result be that Clementina think he a pleasant and sensible fellow,

an opinion which she express later in the day to Quixtus.



with regard to Mrs. Fontaine, her promise of ladylike behaviour be

hard to keep. all through the meal her dislike grow strong. that

Quixtus should bend towards Etta, in his courtly fashion, and pay she

little gallant attention, be but natural; indeed it be charming

courtesy towards Tommy’s betroth; but that he should do the same to

Mrs. Fontaine and add to it a subtle shade of intimacy, be

exasperate. in the lady’s attitude, too, towards Quixtus, Clementina

perceive an air of proprietorship, a triumphant consciousness of her

power of fascination. when Quixtus address a remark across the table

to Clementina, Mrs. Fontaine adroitly draw his attention to herself. her

manner give Clementina to understand that, although a frump of a

portrait painter might be an important person in a studio, yet in the

big world outside, the attractive woman have victorious pre-eminence. now

Clementina be a woman, and one whose nature have lately go through

unusual convulsion. she find it difficult to be polite to Mrs.

Fontaine. only once be there a tiny eruption of the volcano.



Sheila’s seat at the table be too low for her small body, Clementina

demand a cushion from the maître d’hôtel. when, after some delay, a

waiter bring it, she be engage in talk with Huckaby. she turn in

time to see Mrs. Fontaine about to lift Sheila from her seat. with a

sudden, rough movement she all but snatch the child out of the other’s

arm, and herself see to Sheila’s sedentary comfort.



she don’t care what Quixtus or any one else thought of she. she be not

go to have this alien woman touch her child. the hussy flirtation

with Quixtus she could not prevent. but no woman bear of woman should

come between she and the beloved child of her adoption.



the incident pass almost unnoticed. the meal end pleasantly. with

the exception of the two woman in their mutual attitude, everybody be

surprisedly delighted with everybody else. Etta think Quixtus the very

dear thing, next to Admiral Concannon, that have ever a bald spot on

the top of his head. Clementina, in a fit of graciousness, give Huckaby

the precious freedom of her studio. he could come and look at her

picture whenever he like. Sheila, make much of, go away duly

impress with her new friend. Quixtus rub his hand at the success

of his party. the apparently irreconcilable be reconcile,

difficulty be vanish rapidly, his path stretch out before he

in rosy smoothness.



but Tommy’s quick eye have notice the snatching of Sheila.



“Etta,” say he, “I’ve know Clementina intimately all these year, and

I find I know nothing at all about she.”



“what do you mean?” ask the girl.



“for the first time in my life,” say he, “I’ve just discover that the

dear old thing be as jealous as a cat.”









                               CHAPTER XX





“my good child, I tell you we’ll go by train,” say Clementina,

put her foot down. “I don’t care a brass button for the chauffeur’s

loneliness, and the prospect of his pine away on his journey back to

London leave I cold.”



she have exhaust the delight of the car of thirty-five million

dove-power, and be anxious to settle Sheila in Romney Place as quickly

as possible.



“as for you two,” she add, “you have have as big a dose of each other

as be good for you.”



only one thing tempt she to linger in Paris—curiosity as to the

sentimental degree of the friendship between the lady of her disfavour

and Quixtus. that she be a new friend and not an old friend, the

exchange of a few remark with the ingenuous Lady Louisa have enable she

very soon to discover. Clementina look askance on such violent

intimacy. Quixtus, for whose welfare now she feel herself, in an

absurd way, responsible, have not the constitution to stand they. the

lady might be highly connected and move in the select of circle, but

she have a hard edge, betray what Clementina be pleased to call the

society hack; she be shallow, insincere; talk out of a hastily

stuff memory instead of an intellect; she have the vulgarity of good

breeding, as noticeable a quality as the good-breeding of one in lowly

station; she be insufferable—an impossible companion for a man of

Quixtus’s mental equipment and sensitive organisation. there be

something else about she that baffle Clementina, and far whet

her curiosity.



neither be Clementina perfect, nor do she look for perfection in this

compromise of a world. as an artist she demand light and shade. “I

wouldn’t paint an angel’s portrait,” she say once, “for fifty thousand

pound. and if an angel come to tea with I, the first thing I should do

would be to claw off his wing.” now, no one could deny the light and

shade in Lena Fontaine. but there be such a thing as false chiaroscuro,

and it offend and perplex the artist. Lena Fontaine offend and

perplexed Clementina.



again, Clementina, with regard to the chamber of her heart, be

somewhat house-proud. very few be admit; but once admit, the

favour mortal be welcome to stay there for ever. now, behold an

exasperating aggravation. she have just receive Quixtus in the very good

guest-room, and, instead of admire it and take his ease in it, here

he be hang halfway out of window, all ear to a common hussy. if she

have an insane desire to pull he back by the coat-tail, who can blame

she?



no sensible purpose be attainable, however, by linger in Paris,

she gruffly send temptation packing, and, with her brood under her wing,

take the noon train from the Gare du Nord on the following day.



Quixtus be there, at the station, to see they off, his arm fill with

package. as he could not raise his hat when the party approach, he

smile apologetically, look, accord to Tommy, like Father

Christmas detect at Midsummer. there be a great bouquet of orchid

for Clementina (such a handy, useful thing on the journey from Paris to

London!) an enormous bonbonnière of sweet for Etta; a stupendous woolly

lamb for Sheila which, on something be do to its anatomy, open

its mouth and gramaphonically chant the “Jewel Song” from _Faust_; and

a gold watch for Tommy.



the singing of the lamb, incautiously exploit on the platform, to

Sheila’s ecstasy, cause considerable dislocation of railway business. a

crowd collect to see the gaunt, scholarly Englishman hold the

apocalyptic beast in his arm, all intent on the rapture of the tiny

flower-like thing stand open-mouthed before he. even porter forget

to say “_faite attention_,” and stop their barrow, to listen to the

magic song and view the unprecedented spectacle. it be only when the

lamb bleat his last note that Quixtus become conscious of his

surrounding.



“good heaven!” say he.



“do it again,” say Sheila, in her clear contralto, whereat the

bystander laugh.



“not for anything in the world, my dear. Tommy, take the infernal thing.

my dear,” say he, lift Sheila in his arm, “if I know anything of

Tommy, he will have that tune go for the next seven hour.”



she allow herself to be carry in seraphic content to the entrance of

the car in which be the compartment reserve for the party. Tommy

carry the lamb, Clementina and Etta follow.



“that kid’s a wonder,” say Tommy. “she would creep into the heart of a

parsnip.”



Clementina, to whom the remark be address, walk three or four step

in silence. then she say:



“Tommy, if I hear you say a thing like that again, I’ll box your ear.”



he stare at she in amazement. he have pay a spontaneous and sincere

tribute to the child over whom she have go crazy. what more could she

want? she move a step in advance, leave he free to justify himself

with Etta, who agree with he in the proposition that Clementina for

the last two day be in a very cranky mood. very natural, the

proposition of the two innocent. how could they divine that the

moisture in Clementina’s eye have nothing whatsoever to do with Sheila’s

appreciation of the vocal lamb or her readiness to be carry by

Quixtus? how could they divine that, at the possibility of which the

cruelty and insolence of youth would have cause they both to shriek

with inextinguishable laughter? and how be Tommy, generous-hearted lad

that he be, to know that this one unperceptive speech of his send he

hurtle out of the land of Romance down to common earth? henceforward

Tommy, whilst retain his chamber in Clementina’s heart, be to walk

in and out just as he choose. not the tiny pang be he again to cause

she. but what could Tommy know—what can you or I or any other male

thing ever bear know of a woman? we walk, good easy man; with confident

and careless tread through the familiar garden, and then suddenly terra

firma miraculously cease to exist, and head-over-heel we go down a

precipice. how come it that we be unaware of its existence? _mystère!_

who could interpret the soul of La Giaconda? Leonardo da Vinci least of

all. it be all very well to give a man a vote; he be a transparent

animal, and you know the way the dunderhead be go to use it; but the

incalculable and pyrotechnic way in which woman will use it will make

humanity blink. let we therefore pardon Tommy for stare in amazement

at Clementina. he seek refuge in Etta. from Scylla, perhaps, to

Charybdis; but for the present, Charybdis sat smile under her

fig-tree, the most innocent and bewitch monster in the world.



leave the three child in the compartment, Clementina and Quixtus

walk, for the last few moment before the train start, up and down

the platform.



“I suppose you’ll soon be come back to London?” say Clementina.



“I think so,” say he. “now that the Grand Prix be over Paris be

empty rapidly.”



“Parrot!” think Clementina, once more confound the instructress;

but she say blandly; “what difference in the world can it make to you

whether Paris be empty or not?”



he smile good-naturedly. “to tell the honest truth, none. yes. I must

be get home again.”



“of course there’ll be a certain amount of worry over Hammersley’s

affair,” she say; “but I hope you’ve get something else to do to

occupy your mind.”



“I want to settle down to systematic work,” reply Quixtus.



“what kind of work?”



“well,” say he, with an apologetic air, “I mean to extend my little

handbook on ‘the Household Arts of the Neolithic Age’ into an

authoritative and comprehensive treatise. I’ve be gather material

for year. I’m anxious to begin.”



“begin to-morrow,” say Clementina. “and whenever you feel lonely come

and read bit of it to Sheila and I.”



and thus come about the surprising and monstrous alliance between

Clementina and prehistoric Man. dead man’s jawbone have some use after

all.



“_en voiture!_” cry the guard.



“good-bye, my dear Clementina,” say Quixtus, “we have have a memorable

meeting.”



“we have, indeed. you be send away three very happy people.”



“why not four?”



but she only smile wryly and say: “good-bye, God bless you. and keep

out of mischief,” and clamber into the train.



the train begin to move, to the faint strain of the “Jewel Song” in

_faust_, and Sheila blow he kiss from the carriage window. he

respond until the little white face disappear. then he think of

Clementina.



“the very good, but the most enigmatic woman in the world,” say he.



which be a very sweeping statement for a man of his scientific

accuracy.



entirely ignorant of the word of the enigma, he go back to the

spotless flower of insult womanhood, who take he off to lunch with

her french friend. she welcome his undivided homage. that fishfag of a

creature, as she characterise Clementina in conversation with Lady

Louisa, make she feel uncomfortable. even now that she have go, the

problem of Quixtus’s removal from her sphere of influence remain. the

child be the stake to which he be fetter within that sphere. could

she break the chain? Therein seem to lie the only solution—unless by

audacity and adroitness she uproot the stake and carry it, with

Quixtus, chain and all, into her own territory.



she have a talk after lunch with Huckaby. the luncheon-party have break

up into group of two or three, who wander about the cool enclosure of

the Bois de Boulogne restaurant where the feast have be give, and,

half by chance, half by design, the two have join company. their

conversation on the evening of Quixtus’s departure from Paris have deeply

affect their mutual relation. each feel conscious of present a

less tarnished front to the other, and each, not hypocritically, begin

to assume a little halo of virtue in the pathetic hope that the other

would be impress by its grow radiance. during the few day of

Quixtus’s absence they have become friend and exchange confidence.

Huckaby convince she of the sincerity of his desire to reform. he

describe his life. he have work when work come his way—but work have a

curious habit of shrink from the drunkard’s way; a bit of teaching, a

bit of free-lance journalism, a bit of hack compilation in the British

Museum; he have borrow far and wide; he have not be over-scrupulous on

the point of financial honour. hunger have drive he. Lena Fontaine

shiver at the horror through which he have struggle. all he desire

be cleanliness in life and body and surrounding. she understand.

Material cleanliness have be and would be her; but cleanliness of life

she yearn for as much as he do. but for he, the man, with the give

boon of honourable employment, it be an easy matter. for she, the

woman, tired and soul-sick, what avenue lie open? she, in her turn, tell

he of incident in her career at which he shudder. “throw it up,

throw it up,” he counsel. she smile bitterly. what could be the end

of the bird of prey who assume the habit of the dove? she could marry,

he reply, before it be too late. Marry, ay! but whom? she have not

dare confide to he her hope. so close, however, be their relation,

Huckaby have not fail to acquaint she with the important scope of his

conversation with Quixtus the day before. Quixtus’s change demeanour,

obvious to she at once, confirm his announcement. she welcome it with

more joy than Huckaby could appreciate. for behind the pity that have

paralyse beak and talon, the new-bear hope and the curious like she

have conceive for the mild, crazy gentleman, stalk the instinctive

aversion which the sane feel towards those whose wit have go ever so

little astray. the news have come as an immense relief. now she could

meet he on normal ground. all be fair.



they find two chair by a little table under a tree, at the back of the

Châlet Restaurant and seclude from the gaiety and laughter of the

front. nothing human be in sight save, through the tall, mask

acacia and shrub, the white gleam of cook and hurrying, aprone

waiter.



“let we sit,” she say. “how good it be to get a little cool and quiet.

this _vie de cabaret_ be get on my nerve. I’m weary to death of

it.”



Huckaby laugh. “it’s still enough novelty to I to be pleasant.”



she accept a cigarette. they smoke for a while.



“how’s goodness get on?” she ask.



“by leap and bound daily. I’m become a fanatical believer in the

copy-book. I’m virtuous. I’m happy. industry be a virtue. my virtue be

to be reward by industry. therefore virtue be its own reward.”



“what industry?”



“I’m go to collaborate with our friend in the new book he’s talk

about,” reply Huckaby, with a survive touch of boastfulness. “there

be also a possibility of my taking over the secretaryship of the

Anthropological Society.”



“you’re lucky,” say Lena Fontaine.



“how’s goodness with you?”



“the usual slump. share go dirt cheap. no one seem to have any use

for virtue in a woman.”



“husband seem to have, as I’ve already suggest to you.”



“have you any particular husband to suggest?”



he cast on she a glance of admiration, for in her outward seem she

be an object for any man’s forgivable desire, and he say in a tone not

wholly of banter:



“the humble individual in front of you would have no chance, I suppose?”



she laugh. “none whatever.”



“you’ll pardon my presumption in make the offer; but could I, _en

galant homme_, do otherwise?”



“no,” she reply, good-humouredly, “you couldn’t. if you have five

thousand a year, it would give I to think, for you’re not

unsympathetic. but as you haven’t, I’ve no use for you—as a husband,

_bien entendu_.”



it be a jest. they laugh. presently a cloud obscure the sunshine of

her laughter. she lean over the table.



“Eustace Huckaby, be you or be you not my friend?”



for once in her dealing with a man whose goodwill she desperately

crave, she be sincere. she drop the conscious play of glance and

tone; but she forget the liquid splendour of her eye and the dangerous

nearness of her face to his.



“your friend?” he cry, lay his hand on her wrist. “can you doubt

it? I be indeed. I swear it.”



“do you know why I’m stay here—apparently waste my time?”



“I’ve suppose something be up; but my supposition seem too absurd!”



“why absurd?”



“Quixtus as a husband?”



“yes. why not?”



he release her wrist and fall back in his chair. he frown and tug

at his beard.



“do you care for he?”



“yes. in a way. I sincerely do. if you mean—have I fall desperately

in love with him?—well, I haven’t. that would be absurd. it’s not my

habit to fall in love.”



“what would you get out of it?”



she make an impatient gesture. “rest. peace. happiness. he’s a wealthy

man and would give I all the comfort I need. I couldn’t face poverty.

and he would be kind to I.”



“and he—pardon the brutality of my question—what would he get out of

it?”



“I’m a lady, after all,” she say, “and I know how to run a large

house—and as a woman I’m not unattractive. and I’d run straight.

temperamentally I be straight. that’s frank. whatever impulse I’ve have

within I with regard to run off the rail have be the other way.

oh, God, yes,” she add, with a little shiver and avert eye, “I’d

run straight.”



“what about ghost of the past rise up and queer thing?”



“I’d take my chance. I’ve bluff myself out of tight place already,

and I could bluff again.”



Huckaby light another cigarette. “he look on you as a spotless angel of

purity,” say he. “if he marry you on that assumption, and learn

thing afterwards, there would be the devil to pay. he’s be hit like

that already, and he go off his head. I shouldn’t like he to have

another experience. why not tell he something—just a little?”



she raise both hand in nervous protest. “oh, no, no. the woman who

do that be a fool. it never come off. let he take I for what he

think I be, and I’ll see that I remain so. trust I. it will be all

right. you’re the only impediment.”



“I?”



“of course. you have it in your power to give I away at any time.

that’s why I ask you whether you be my friend.”



Huckaby tug at his beard, and ponder deeply. he mean, with all the

fresh energy of new resolve, to be loyal to Quixtus. but how could he

stand in the way of a woman seek salvation? moral sense, however, be

a plant of gradual growth. Huckaby’s as yet be not adequate to the

solution of the perplex problem. Lena Fontaine hold out her hand,

palm upward, across the table.



“speak,” she say.



he take her hand and press it.



“I’ll be your friend in this,” say he.



she thank he with her eye, and rise.



“let we go back to the other, or they’ll think we’re have a horrible

flirtation.”



on this and on the succeed day she discover a subtle change in

Quixtus’s attitude towards she. his manner have grow, if possible, more

courteous; it betray a more delicate admiration, a more graceful

homage to the beautiful and charming woman. before his Marseilles visit

she have find it an easy task to appeal to the fool that grin in every

man. a trick of eye and voice be enough to set he love-making in what

she have term the Quixtine manner. now the task be more difficult. she

find herself confront by a great sensitiveness that do not respond

to the obvious invitation. he be up in the cloud, more chivalrous,

more idealistic. with a sigh, she gather her skirt together and

climb to the high plane.



and all this on Quixtus’s part be sheer remorse—atonement for the

unspeakable insult. the thought of having dare to make coarse love to

this exquisite creature fill he with horrified dismay. that the lady

have appear rather to like the coarse love-making he do not stop to

consider. certainly, in his crazy exultation, he have proclaim she a

fruit ripe to his hand, but that be only an additional vulgarity which

have stain that peculiar phase of his being. the result of the reaction

be to accentuate the reverential conception of woman, which, by reason

of a temperament dreamy and poetic and of a scholarly life remote from

the disillusionise conflict of sex, he have always entertain. he

comport himself therefore towards she with scrupulous delicacy,

resolve that not a word or intonation that could be construe into an

affront should ever pass his lip.



the fine weather break. torrential rain sweep Paris. the meteorologist

talk learnedly about cyclonic disturbance in the Atlantic which would

affect the weather adversely for some time to come. Lena Fontaine begin

to reflect. Summer Paris in rain be no place for junketing, even on the

high plane. it offer to the visitor nothing but the boredom of hotel

and restaurant. she know the elementary axiom of sex relation, that the

woman who bore a man be lose. the high plane be all right when you

look down from they on charming objective thing; but, after all, a

man have to be amuse, and fun on the high plane be a humour dangerously

attenuate. she announce an immediate departure from Paris.



“if you would accept the escort of Huckaby and myself, we should be

honour,” say Quixtus. “unless of course we should be in the way.”



she laugh. “my dear friend, do you ever hear of man be in the way

when woman be travel? a lone woman be never more conspicuously

lonesome than _en voyage_. all the other woman around who have man to

look after they look at one with a kind of patronise pity, as though

they say; ‘poor thing that cann’t rake up a man from anywhere.’ and it

make one want to scratch.”



“do it really?” smile Quixtus.



“it do.” she laugh again and sigh. “a lone woman have much to put

up with. malicious tongue not the least.”



“my dear Mrs. Fontaine,” say he, “what tongue could be so malicious as

to speak evil of you?”



“there be thousand in this gossipy world. our little friendship and

_camaraderie_ of the last fortnight—sweetness and innocence itself—who

know what misinterpretation slanderer might put on it?”



Quixtus flush, and draw his gaunt body to its full height. “I’m not

pugilistic by habit,” say he, “but if any man make such an insinuation,

I should knock he down.”



“it would be more likely a woman.”



“then,” say he, “I think I could manage to convey to she, without

brutality, that she be a disgrace to her sex.”



she flutter a glance at he. “I should like to have you always as a

champion.”



“if I understand the word gentleman aright,” say Quixtus, “he be always

the champion of the unprotected woman.”



his tone assure she that this early-victorian sentiment be not mere

gallantry. he mean it, indignant still at the idea of misconstruction

of their friendship.



“I happen to be a woman,” she say, “and seek the particular rather than

the general. I say _my_ champion, Dr. Quixtus. now don’t say that the

great include the less, or I shall fall through the floor.”



he be too much in earnest to smile with she in her coquetry.



“Mrs. Fontaine,” say he, with a bow, “no one will ever dare speak evil

of you in my presence.”



she rise—they be sit in the lounge.



“thank you,” she say, fall in with his earnest mood. “thank you. I

shall go back to London with a light heart.”



and like a wise woman, she cut short the conversation, and go upstairs

to dress for dinner.









                              CHAPTER XXI





July bring in halcyon day for everybody.



they be halcyon day for Clementina. there be neglect portrait to

complete, new sitter for whom to squeeze in appointment, a host of

stimulate thing, not the least of which be the beloved atmosphere,

half-turpentine, half-poetry, of the studio. only the painter can know

the delight of the mere feel of the long-forsaken brush, and the sight

of the blob of colour ooze out from the tube on to the palette. Most

of we, return to toil after holiday, sigh over depart joy. to the

painter the joy of get back to his easel be worth all the joy that

have depart. Clementina plunge into work as a long-strand duck

plunge into water. by rise at dawn, a practice contrary to her habit,

she manage to keep pace with her work and to attend to the various

affair which her new responsibility entail. her day be fill to

overflow, and fill with extraordinary happiness. a nurse be

engage for Sheila, a kind and buxom widow who also find herself live

in halcyon day. she could do practically whatever she like, as she

charge be seldom in her company. the child have she be in the studio,

play happily and quietly in a corner, thus realise Clementina’s

dream, or watch her paint, with great, wonder eye. the process

fascinate she. she would sit for an hour at a time, good as gold,

absorb in the magic of the brush-stroke, clasp the dingy Pinkie

tight against her bosom. Tommy appear one day with a box of paint, a

miniature easel, and a great mass of uncoloured fashion-plate of

beautiful lady in gorgeous raiment. a lesson or two inspire Sheila

with artistic zeal, so that often a sitter would come upon the two of

they paint breathlessly, Clementina screw up her eye, dart

backwards and forwards to her canvas, and the dainty child seat on a

milking-stool and earnestly make animate rainbow of the beautiful

lady in the fashion-plate.



then there be the tedious process of obtain probate of Hammersley’s

will. luckily, he have wind up all his affair in Shanghai, to the

common satisfaction of himself and his London house, so that no

complication arise from the latter quarter. indeed, the firm give the

executor its cordial assistance. but the London house have to be

interview, and lawyer have to be interview, and Quixtus and all

kind of other people, and paper have to be read and sign, and

affidavit to be make, and head-split intricacy of business and

investment to be master. all this eat up many of the sunny hour.



Tommy and Etta have halcyon day of their own, which, but by the free use

of curmudgeonly roughness, would have merge into Clementina’s. Etta have

cajole an infuriated admiral, rave round the room after a horsewhip,

into a stern parent who consent to receive Tommy, explicitly reserve

to himself the right to throw he out of window should the young man not

take his fancy. Tommy call and be allow to depart peacefully by the

front door. then Quixtus; incite thereto by Tommy, call upon the

Admiral with the awful solemnity of a father in a french play, with the

result that Tommy be invite to dinner at the Admiral’s and give as

much excellent old port as he could stand. after which the Admiral

call on Clementina, whom he have not meet before. during the throe of

horsewhip hunting he have threaten to visit she there and then and give

she a piece of his mind—which at that moment be more like a hunk of

molten lava than anything else. but the art and wile of Etta have

prevail so that the above schedule sequence of event have be

observe. Clementina, catch in the middle of a hot afternoon’s

painting, receive he, bedaub and bedraggle, in the studio, whose

chaos happen to be that day more than usually confound. the Admiral,

accustom to the point-device female of his world, and make the

spick and span of the quarter-deck a matter of common morality in

material surrounding, go from Romney Place an obfuscated man.



“I cann’t make your friend out,” he say to Etta. “I don’t mind tell

you that if I have see she, I should never have allow you to visit

she. I find she look more like a professional rabbit-skinn than a

lady, and when I go to sit down I have to clear away a horrid plate of

half-finish cold pie, by George, from the chair. she contradict I

flatly in everything I say about you—as if I don’t know my own

child—and fill I up with advice.”



“and ben’t it good, dear?”



“no advice be ever good. like Nebuchadnezzar’s food, it may be wholesome

but it ben’t good. and then she turn round and talk the most

downright common sense about woman I’ve ever hear a woman utter. and

then, by Jove, I don’t know how it happen—I never talk shop, you

know——”



“of course you don’t, dear, never,” say Etta.



“of course I don’t—but somehow we get on to the subject, and she show

a more intelligent appreciation of the state of naval affair than any

man I’ve meet for a long time! as for those superficial, theoretical

donkey at the Club——”



“and what else, darling?” say Etta, who have often hear about the

donkey, but now be die to hear about Clementina. “do tell I what

she talk about. she must have talk about I. don’t she?”



“about you! I’ve tell you.” he take her chin in his hand—she be

sit on a footstool, her arm about his knee.



“you cann’t have tell I everything, dear.”



“I think she inform I that her selection of a husband for you be a

damned sight well than mine—I beg your pardon, my dear, she don’t

say ‘damned’—and then the little girl you’re always talk of come in,

and the rabbit-skinner seem to turn into an ordinary sort of woman and

take I up, and, in a way, throw I down on the floor to play with the

child.”



“what do you play at, dad? when I be little you use to pretend to

swallow a fork. do you swallow a fork?”



the iron feature relax into a smile.



“I do, my dear, and it be the cold pie fork, wipe on a bit of

newspaper. and last of all, what do you think she say?”



“no one on earth could guess, dear, what Clementina might have say.”



“she actually ask I to sit for a crayon sketch. say my face be

interesting to she as an artist, and she would like to make a study of

it for her own pleasure. now what pleasure could anybody on earth find

in look at my ugly old mug?”



“but, dear, you have a most beautiful mug,” cry Etta. “I don’t mean

beautiful like the photograph of popular actor—but full of strength

and character—just the fine face that appeal to the artist.”



“do you think so?” ask the Admiral.



“I’m sure.” she run to a little table and bring a florentine mirror.

“look.”



he look. instinctively the man of sixty-five touch the

finely-curve grizzle hair about his temple.



“you’re a silly child,” say he.



she kiss he. “now confess. you have the goodest of good time with

Clementina this afternoon.”



“I don’t mind own,” say the Admiral, “that I find she a most

intelligent woman.”



and that be the way that all of we son of Adam, even Admirals of the

British Fleet, can be beguile by the daughter of Eve.



halcyon day be they for Quixtus, for whom London wear an entirely

different aspect from the Aceldama he have leave. instead of its street

and square stretch out before he as the scene of potential devilry,

it smile upon he as the centre of manifold pleasant interest. he have

the great work to attack, the final picture that mortal knowledge could

draw of that far off, haunt phase of human life before the startle

use of iron be know to mankind. it be not to be a dull catalogue of

dead thing. the dead thing, a million fact, be to be the skeleton

on which he would build his great vivid flesh-and-blood story—the dream

of his life, which only now do he feel the vital impulse to realise. he

have his club and his crony, harmless folk, beneath whose mild exterior

he no long divine horrible corruption. from they all he receive

congratulation on his altered mien. the change have do he good. he

be look ten year young. some chaff he, after the way of man.

wonderful place, Paris. he find a stimulating interest in his new

responsibility. vestige of his perfunctory legal training remain

and enable he to unravel simple complication in the Hammersley

affair, much to Clementina’s admiration and his own satisfaction. he

discover a pleasure once more in the occasional society of Tommy, and

concern himself seriously with his love-making and his painting. he

speak of he to dawkin, the rich donor of the Anthropological Society

portrait, to whom Tommy have allude with such disrespect to Clementina.

dawkin visit Tommy’s studio and walk away with a couple of

picture, after having pay such a price as to make the young man regard

he as a fairy godfather in vast white waistcoat and baggy trouser.

Quixtus also entertain Tommy and Etta at lunch at the Carlton, Mrs.

Fontaine complete the quartette. “I should have like it well,” say

Clementina, when she hear of the incident (as she hear all that

happen to the lover), “I should have like it well if he haven’t

bring Mrs. Fontaine into it.” Whereat Tommy wink at Etta, unbeknown

to Clementina.



Quixtus’s friendship with the spotless flower of womanhood continue. he

have tea with she in her prettily-furnish little house in Pont Street,

where he meet several of her acquaintance, people of unquestionable

position in the London world, and attend one or two reception and

even a dance at which she be present. very skilfully she draw he into

her circle and adroitly play he in public as a serious aspirant to

her spotless hand. there be many who call he the variegate

synonyms of a fool, for to hard-bite worldling few illusion be leave

concern a woman like Lena Fontaine; but they shrug their shoulder

cynically, and view the capture with amused interest. only the most

jade complain. if she want to give they a sensation, why do she

not go a step far and lead about a bishop on her string? but these

uncharitable remark do not reach Quixtus’s ear. the word go round

that he be a man of distinguished scientific position—whether he be a

metallurgist or a brain specialist no one at the tired end of the London

season either know or care to know—and, his courtly and scholarly

demeanour confirm the rumour, the corner of Vanity Fair in which Lena

Fontaine fight to hold her position pay he considerable deference.

the flattery of the frivolous pleased he, as it have please many a

good, simple man before he. he think Mrs. Fontaine’s friend very

charming, though perhaps not over-intellectual people. he go among

they, however, scarce know why. a card of invitation would come by

post from Lady Anything, whom he have once meet. before he have time to

obey his first impulse and decline, Lena Fontaine’s voice would be hear

over the telephone.



“be you go to Lady Anything’s on Friday?”



“I don’t think so.”



“she have ask you, I know. I’m go.”



“oh?”



“do come. Lady Anything tell I she have get some interesting people to

meet you; and I shall be so miserable if you’re not there.”



who be he to cause misery to the spotless lady? the victim yield, and

blandly unconscious of feminine guile be parade before the interesting

people as the late and most lasting conquest of Lena Fontaine’s bow

and spear.



August plan be discuss. she be think of Dinard. what be

Quixtus propose to do? he have not consider the question. have

contemplate work in London. she hold up her hand. London in August!

how could he exist in the stuffy place? he need a real holiday.



“to tell you the truth, I don’t know where to go,” say he.



very delicately she suggest Dinard. he object in his shy way. Dinard

be the haunt of fashion and frivolity.



“I should walk about the place like a daw among peacock,” say he.



“but why should you be a daw? why not do a little peacocking? colour in

life would be good for you. and I would undertake to keep your feather

trim.”



he smile, half-allure, half-repel by the idea of strut among

such gay bird. to refuse the spotless lady’s request downright be an

act of discourtesy of which he be incapable. he give a vague and

qualified assent to the proposal, which she do not then tempt he to

make more definite. content with her progress, she bide her time.



Quixtus have little leisure to reflect on the sceptical attitude towards

humanity which, theoretically, he still maintain. in addition to all

these hour-absorb interest, Sheila begin to occupy a considerable

place in his life. sometimes he would call at Romney Place; sometimes

Clementina would bring the child to Russell Square; sometimes, when

Clementina be too busy, Sheila come in the nurse’s charge. he clear

out a large room at the top of the house, which be to be Sheila’s

nursery when she take up her quarter there. it need re-papering,

re-carpeting, re-furnish, he decide. nothing like cheerful

surrounding for impressionable childhood. with this in view, he carry

off Sheila one day to a firm of wall-paper dealer, so that she could

choose a pattern for herself. Sheila sit solemnly on the sofa by his

side while the polite assistant turn over great strip of paper. at

last she decide. a bewildering number of parrot to the square yard,

all with red body and blue tail, dart about among green foliage on

which pink rose grow miraculously, be the choose design. Quixtus

hesitate; but Sheila be firm. they proudly take home a strip to try

against the wall. Clementina, hear from Sheila of her exploit, rush

up the next afternoon to Russell Square, and blink her eye before the

dazzle thing.



“it’s only you, Ephraim, that could have take a child of five to select

wall-paper.”



“I will own that the result be disastrous,” he say, ruefully. “but she

set her heart upon it.”



she sigh. “you’re two baby together. I see I’ve get to fix up that

nursery myself.” she look at he with a woman’s delicious pity. what

could a lone man know of the fitting up of nursery?



“you hear what your auntie say?” he ask—the child be sit on his

knee. “we’re in disgrace.”



“if you’re in disgrace you go in the corner,” say Sheila.



“let we go in the corner, then.”



“if you hold I very tight,” say Sheila.



but Clementina come up and forgave they, and kiss the little face

peep over Quixtus’s shoulder.



“it do my heart good to see you with she,” she cry, with rare

demonstrativeness.



it be true. Sheila’s sweet way with Tommy and Etta cause she ever so

little a pang of jealousy. her increase fondness for Quixtus make

clementina thrill with pleasure. you may say that Clementina,

essentially just, be scrupulous not to encroach upon Quixtus’s legal

half-share in the child’s esteem. but a sense of justice be not an

emotion. and it be emotion, silly, feminine, romantic emotion, which

she do not try to explain to herself, that fill her eye with

moisture whenever she see the two happy together.



she lay her hand upon the fair hair.



“do you love your Uncle Ephim?”



“I adore he,” say Sheila.



“your uncle fully reciprocate the sentiment, my dear,” say Quixtus,

his hand also instinctively rise to caress the hair.



so the hand of the guardian touch. Clementina withdraw hers and

turn away quickly, so that he should not see the flush that spring

into her face.



“we must be get home now, dear,” she say. “auntie be waste

precious daylight.” and with her old abruptness she leave he.



he follow she down the stair. “my dear Clementina,” say he, stand

bareheade at his front door, “I wonder whether you realise how Sheila

and yourself light up this dull old house for I.”



she sniff scornfully. “_I_ light up?”



“_You_,” say he, with smile emphasis.



she look at he queerly for an instant, and then go her way.



the next time he see she, a few day afterwards, one late afternoon,

when she be tired after a heavy day’s painting, she rail at he, with

a return of her old biting manner. he look surprised and pained. she

relent.



“forgive I, my good Ephraim,” she say, “but I’ve the rough luck to be

a woman. no man alive can ever conjecture what a devil of a thing that

be to be.”



he smile. “you mustn’t overwork,” say he. “a woman haven’t the brute

strength of a man.”



“you’re delicious!” she say.



but she be kind—exceedingly kind, to he thereafter, and fit up the

nursery in a way that make the two baby beam with delight. so Quixtus

live halcyon day.



in spite of qualm of conscience, these be halcyon day for Huckaby.

he have already enter on his duty as Quixtus’s assistant in the

preparation of the monumental work on “the Household Arts of the

Neolithic Age.” there be hundred of mark passage in book to

transcribe, with accurate note of reference, hundred of learn

periodical in all language with article bear on the subject to be

condense and index, thousand of note of Quixtus’s to be collate,

thousand of photograph and drawing to be classify. never having

be admit into the inner factory of his patron’s work, he be

astonish at the enormous amount of material, the evidence of the

unsuspected patient labour of year. he begin to feel a new respect for

Quixtus, whom hitherto he have regard as a dilettante. of course, he

know that Quixtus have a european reputation. he have not take the

reputation seriously. like Clementina, he have be willnot to scoff at

prehistoric man. now he realise for the first time that a man cannot

gain a european reputation in any branch of human activity without

pay the price in toil; that there be quality of energy, brain and

will inherent in any man who take front rank; that there must be a

calm, infinite thoroughness in his work which be beyond the power of the

small man. no wonder his french colleague call Quixtus _cher

maître_, and defer to his judgment. in his workroom Quixtus be a

great man, and Huckaby, see he now in his workroom; recognise the

fact.



the prospect of his appointment as secretary to the Anthropological

Society be also fair. Hitherto the responsibility of that position

have be bear by one of the member in an honorary capacity, a pay and

unimportant underling perform the clerical duty. but for the last

year or so the operation of the society having extend, the

secretaryship have become too great a tax on the time of any unpaid and

no matter how enthusiastic gentleman. the Council therefore have

practically determined on the appointment of a salaried secretary, and

be much impressed by the qualification of the President’s nominee. a

secretary who can print below his name on official paper the fact that

he be a Master of Arts and late fellow of his College lend distinction

to any learn society. a snuffy, seedy, and crotchety member have be

put forward as an opposition candidate. but his chance be small.

Huckaby’s star be in the ascendant.



it be a happy day for he when he move his book and few other

belonging from the evil garret where he have live to modest but

cheerful lodging near Russell Square. he look for the last time

around the room which have be the scene of so many degradation, of so

many despair, of so many torturing of soul. all that be a part of his

past life; the greasy wall-paper, the rickety deal furniture, the

filth-sodden, ragged carpet, the slimy soot on the window-sill that have

creep in from the circumambient chimney-stack through the ill-fit

window-sash, the narrow, rank bed—all that have be part and parcel of

his being. the familiar smell of uncared-for, unclean human life

saturate the house. he shudder and slam the door and tear down the

stair. never again! never again, so help he God! a short while

afterwards he be busy arrange his book in the bright, clean

sit-room of his new lodging, and a neat maid in white cap, cuff,

and apron bring in afternoon tea, which she dispose in decent fashion

on a little table. when she have go, he stand and look down upon the

dainty array. he realise that henceforward this be his home. he pick

up from a plate a little three-cornered watercress sandwich; but instead

of eat it, he stare at it, and the tear roll down his face.



one day, however, towards the end of July, be mark by a black cloud.

his day’s work be over he be walk with light step to his

lodging, when he see in the distance, await he, almost on his

doorstep, the sinister form of Billiter and Vandermeer. his first

impulse be to turn and flee; but they have already catch sight of he

and be advance to meet he. he go on.



“Hullo, old friend,” say Billiter, in a beery voice. “so we’ve track

you down, eh? we call at the old place, and find you have go and

leave no address. thought you would give we the slip, eh?”



he still wear the costume in which he have gone race with Quixtus; but

after constant use it have begin to look shabby. his linen be of the

dingy. his face have grow more bloated. Vandermeer, pinch, foxy,

and rusty, thrust his hard feel hat to the back of his head, and, hand

on hip, look threateningly at Huckaby.



“I suppose you know you’ve be play a low-down game.”



“I know nothing of the sort,” say Huckaby.



“oh, don’t you,” say Billiter. “look at you and look at we. who’s be

get all the fat, and who all the lean? we have something to say to

you, old friend, so let’s get indoor and have it out between we.”



he make a move, accompany by Vandermeer, towards the front door. but

Huckaby check they, stricken with sudden revolt. his past life should

not defile the sanctity of his new home. he would not admit they across

his threshold.



“no,” say he. “whatever we’ve get to say to one another can be say

here.”



“all right,” say Vandermeer, sulkily. “there’s a quiet pub at the

corner.”



“I’ve chuck pub,” say Huckaby.



“come off it,” sneered Billiter. “at any rate, you can stand a round of

drink.”



“I’ve chuck drink, too,” say Huckaby. “I’ve swear off. I’ll never

touch a drop of liquor as long as I live—and I advise you fellow to do

the same.”



they burst out laugh, ask he for ticket for his next temperance

lecture, and then begin to abuse he after the manner of their kind.



“this be a decent street,” say Huckaby, “so please don’t make a row.”



“we’re not make any row,” cry Billiter. “we only want our share of

the money.”



“what money? don’t I write and tell you the whole thing be off? she

couldn’t stick it, and neither could I. Quixtus haven’t give she one

penny piece.”



“we’ll see what the lady have to say about that,” growl Billiter.



“you’re go to leave that lady alone henceforth and for ever,” say

Huckaby, with a new ring of authority in his voice.



the other sneer. since when have Huckaby constitute himself squire of

dame? Billiter, with profane asseveration, would do exactly what he

choose. ben’t it his scheme? he deserve his share. Vandermeer gloomily

remind he that he have cast doubt from the first on Huckaby’s

probity. he have put they in the cart in fine fashion. they refuse to

believe in Lena Fontaine’s squeamishness. Huckaby grow impatient.



“haven’t you each receive a letter from Quixtus’s solicitor? haven’t

you each sign an agreement not to worry he—on forfeiture of your

allowance? now I swear to God that if either of you molest she, you’ll

be molest Quixtus. I’ll jolly well see to that. she’ll tell I, and

I’ll tell he—and bang! go the monthly money.”



Vandermeer’s shrewd wit begin to work.



“Molest she and we molest Quixtus? Oho! be that the little game? she’s

go to marry he, eh?”



“if she do, what the blaze have that get to do with you?” Huckaby

cry, fiercely. “you just let the woman alone. you’ve get a damned

sight more out of Quixtus than you ever expect, and you ought to be

satisfied.”



“we ought to get more,” say Billiter, “consider what we’ve do for

he.”



“you willn’t,” say Huckaby, and see that they both still regard

Quixtus as a subject for further exploitation, “let I tell you

something,” say he, “a few simple fact that alter the situation

completely. let we take a turn down the street.”



and as they walk, he tell they briefly of Hammersley’s death and the

Marseilles visit and the return of Quixtus, a change man, with

Clementina and the child. the bee, on which they have reckon for honey,

have leave Quixtus’s bonnet. there be no more Bedlamite talk about

wickedness. their occupation as evil counsellor have go for ever. they

have well accept thankfully what they have, and disappear. any action

direct against either Quixtus or Lena Fontaine would automatically

bring about the demise of the goose with the golden egg. at last he

convince they of the futility of blackmail; but they part from he,

each with a burn sense of wrong. Lena Fontaine and Huckaby have put

they in the cart. they be leave, they be do, they be sting—they

be all thing that slang have invent to describe the position of man

deceive by those in whom they trust.



“and she’s go to marry he,” say Vandermeer.



“Huckaby don’t say so,” reply Billiter.



“he don’t contradict it. she’s go to marry he, and you bet that son

of a pawn-ticket will get his commission.”



“well, we cann’t help ourselves,” say Billiter.



“H’m!” say Vandermeer, darkly.



Huckaby, conscious of victory, go home, and take an old student’s

text of the “Phædo” from his shelf, abstract his mind from the

sordid happening of the modern world.



it be a day or two after this adventure of Huckaby’s that Quixtus

inform Clementina of his intention of give a dinner-party, in honour

of Tommy and Etta’s engagement. she commend the project; a nice little

intimate dinner——



“I’m afraid I’m plan rather a large affair,” say he,

apologetically. “a party of about twenty people.”



“Lord save we!” cry Clementina, “where be you go to dig they up

from?”



he stretch out his long, thin leg. they be sit on a bench in

the garden of Russell Square, Sheila having stray a few yard to

investigate the content of a perambulator in charge of a smile and

friendly nursemaid.



“there be people to whom I owe a return of hospitality,” say he, with

a smile, “and I think a certain amount of formality be due to Admiral

Concannon.”



“all right,” say Clementina, “who be they?”



“there be the Admiral and yourself and Tommy and Etta, Lord and Lady

Radfield, General and Mrs. Barnes, Sir Edward and Lady Quinn,

doorly—the novelist, you know—Mrs. Fontaine and Lady Louisa

Malling——”



Clementina stiffen. the blood seem to flow from her heart, leave

it an intolerable icicle. “why Mrs. Fontaine?”



“why not?”



“why should Mrs. Fontaine be ask to Etta’s party?”



“she’s a charming woman,” say Quixtus.



“just a shallow society hack,” say Clementina, to whom Quixtus have not

confide his adventure in the gay world, not through conscious

disingenuousness, but assume that such chronicle would not interest

she.



“I’m afraid you do she an injustice,” he say, warmly. “Mrs. Fontaine

have very brilliant social gift. I’m sorry, my dear Clementina, that we

disagree on the point; but anyhow she must be invite. as a matter of

fact, it be she who suggest the party.”



Clementina open her lip to speak, and then close they with a snap.

Mother Eve sit at her elbow and murmur word of good counsel. not by

abuse be an infatuated and quixotic man wean from seductress. she

swallow her anger and fierce jealousy.



“in that case, my dear Ephraim,” she say, with mince civility, “there

be no question about it. of course she must be invite.”



“of course,” say he.



“who else be to come?”



he run through the list. one or two of the prospective guest she know

personally, other by name; as to the personality of those unknown to

she she make polite inquiry. so unwontedly sugar be her phrase

that Quixtus, simple man, forget her outburst.



“you haven’t give a dinner-party like this for a long time.”



“not for many year. of course I have have man’s dinner—chiefly my

colleague in the Anthropological Society. but this be a new venture.”



“I wish it every success,” say Clementina, mendaciously. “the only

wrong note in it would be myself. oh yes, my dear Ephraim,” she say,

anticipate his protest, “I’m not make for such a galaxy of fashion. I

tread upon daintily cover corn. I’m a savage—all right in my wigwam

with those I care for—but no use in a drawing-room. you must leave I

out of it.”



Quixtus, shocked and hurt, turn and put out both hand in appeal.



“my dear friend, how can you say such thing? you positively must

come.”



“my dear friend,” she reply, force her grim lip into a smile, “I

positively willn’t.”



and that be the end of the matter. she part from he cordially, and

go home with more devil tear she to piece with redhot pincer

than have ever be dream of in Quixtus’s demonology.









                              CHAPTER XXII





Romney Place slumber in the afternoon sunshine. Most of the blind of

the early-victorian house be draw, symbol of quietude within. a

persian cat, walk across the roadway, stop in the middle, after

the manner of cat, and leisurely make she toilette. a milk-cart

progress discreetly from door to door, and the milkman hand the can

to hand upstretched from area with unclattering and non-flirtatious

punctilio. when he have finish his round and disappear by the church,

the street be empty for a moment. the cat resume her journey and sit

on a doorstep blink in the sun. presently a foxy-faced man, shabbily

clothe, enter this peaceful scene, and walk slowly down the pavement.



it be Vandermeer, still burn with a sense of wrong, yearn for

vengeance, yet tremble at the prospect of wreak it. at Tommy’s door

he hesitate. of his former visit to the young man no pleasant

recollection linger. Tommy’s manner be impulsive rather than

urbane. would he listen to Vandermeer’s story or would he kick he out

of the house? Vandermeer, start out on his pilgrimage to Romney

Place, have fortify himself with the former conjecture. now that he have

come to the end of it the latter appear inevitable. he always shrink

from physical violence. it would hurt very much to be kick out of the

house, to say nothing of the moral damage. he hover in agonising

uncertainty, and take off his hat, for the afternoon be warm. now,

while he be mop the brow of dubiety, a front door low down the

street open, and a nurse and a little girl appear. they descend

the step and walk past he. Vandermeer look after they for a

moment, then stick on his hat and punch the left-hand palm with the

right-hand fist with the air of a man to whom have occur an

inspiration. Miss Clementina Wing also live in Romney Place. that must

be the child, Quixtus’s ward, of whom Huckaby have speak. it would be

much well to take his story to Clementina Wing, now so intimately

associate with Quixtus. woman, he argue, be much more easily

inveigle into intrigue than man, and they don’t kick you out of the

house in a manner to cause bodily pain. besides, Clementina have once

befriend he. why have he not think of she before? he walk boldly

up the step and ring the bell.



Clementina be fiercely paint drapery from the lay figure—a grey

silk dress full of a thousand fold and shadow. the texture be not

come right. the more she paint the less like silk do it look. now

be it muddy canvas; now fluffy wool. every touch be wrong. every

stroke of the brush since her yesterday’s talk with Quixtus be wrong.

she could not paint. yet in a frenzy of anger she determine to paint.

what have the woman invite to Quixtus’s dinner-party to do with her art?

she would make the thing come right. she would prove to herself that she

be a woman of genius, that she have not her sex hang round the neck

of her spirit. if Quixtus choose to make a fool of himself with Mrs.

Fontaine, in Heaven’s name let he do so. she have her work to do. she

would do it, in spite of all the society hack in Christendom. the skirt

begin to look like a blanket stain with coffee. let he have his

dinner-party. what be there of importance in so contemptible a thing as

a dinner-party? but this infernal woman have suggest it. how far be he

compromise with this infernal woman? she could wring her neck. the

dress begin to suggest a humorously streaky London fog.



“damn the thing!” cry Clementina, wipe the whole skirt out. “I’ll

stand here for ever, until I get it right.”



her tea, on a little table at the other end of the studio, remain

untouched. her hair fall in loose strand over her forehead, and she

push it back every now and then with impatient finger. the front-door

bell rang, and soon she maid appear at the gallery door.



“a gentleman to see you, ma’am.”



“I cann’t see anybody. you know I cann’t. tell he to go away.”



the maid come down the stair.



“I tell he you ben’t in to anybody—but he insist. he haven’t a

card, but write his name on a slip of paper. here it be, ma’am.”



Clementina angrily take the slip; “Mr. Vandermeer would be glad to see

Miss Wing on the most urgent business.”



“tell he I cann’t see he.”



the maid mount the stair. Vandermeer? Vandermeer? where have she hear

that name before? suddenly she remember.



“all right. show he down here,” she shout to the disappear maid.



she might just as well see he. if she send he away the buzz worry

of conjecture as to his urgent business would flitter about her mind.

she throw down her palette and brush and impatiently rub her hand

together. into what shape of moral flaccidity be she weaken? five

month ago all the urgent business of all the Vandermeers in the world

could go hang when she be paint and could not get a thing right. why

should she be different now from the Clementina of five month ago? why,

why, why? with exasperate hand she far confound the confusion of

her hair.



the introduction of Vandermeer put a stop to these questioning. she

receive he, arm akimbo, at a short distance from the foot of the

stair.



“I must apologise, Miss Wing, for this intrusion,” say he, “but perhaps

you may remember——”



“yes, yes,” she interrupt. “ham-and-beef shop, which you

transmogrify into a restaurant. also Mr. Burgrave. what do you want?

I’m very busy.”



the sight of the mean little figure hold his feel hat with both hand

in front of he, with his pointed face, ferret eye, and red, crinkly

hair, do not in any way redeem her remembered impression.



“a very grave danger be threaten Dr. Quixtus,” say he. “it be

impossible for I to warn he myself, so I have come to you, as a friend

of his.”



“Danger?” cry Clementina, take off her guard. “what kind of danger?”



“you will only understand, if I tell you rather a long story. but first

I must have your promise of secrecy as far as I be concern.”



“don’t like secrecy,” say Clementina.



“you can take whatever action you like,” he say, hastily. “it’s in

order that you may act in his interest that I’m here. I only want you to

give I your word that you willn’t compromise I personally. I assure you,

you’ll see why when I tell you the story.”



Clementina reflect for a moment. it be a danger threaten Quixtus.

it might be important. this little weasel of a man be of no account.



“all right,” she say. “I give my word. go ahead.”



she take a pinch of tobacco from the yellow package and a cigarette

paper, and, sit in a chair in the cool draught of the door open

on to the garden, with shaky finger roll a cigarette.



“sit down. you can smoke if you like. you can also help yourself to tea.

I willn’t have any.”



Vandermeer pour himself out some tea and cut an enormous hunk of cake.



“I warn you,” say he, draw a chair within conversational distance,

“that the story will be a long one—I want to begin from the beginning.”



“go ahead, for goodness’ sake,” say Clementina.



Vandermeer be astute enough to conjecture that a sudden denunciation of

Mrs. Fontaine might defeat his object by excite her generous

indignation; whereas by gradually arouse her interest in the affair

of Quixtus, the climactic introduction of the execrated lady might pass

almost unrecognised.



“the story have to do, in the first place,” say he, “with three man,

John Billiter, Eustace Huckaby, and myself.”



“Huckaby?” cry Clementina, startle. “what have he to do with you?”



“the big blackguard of we all,” say Vandermeer.



Clementina lie back in her chair, her attention catch at once.



“go on,” she say.



Whereupon Vandermeer begin, and with remorseless veracity—for here

truth be far more effective than fiction—tell the story of the

relation of the three with Quixtus, in the day of their comparative

prosperity, when he himself be on the staff of a newspaper, Billiter in

possession of the fag-end of his fortune, and Huckaby a tutor at

Cambridge. he tell how, one by one, they sink; how Quixtus hold out the

help hand. he tell of the weekly dinner, the overcoat pocket.



“not a soul on earth but you three know anything about it?” ask

Clementina, in a quavering voice.



“as far as I know, not a soul.”



he tell of the drunken dinner; of Quixtus’s anger; of the cessation of

the intercourse; of the extraordinary evening when Quixtus have invite

they to be his minister of evil; of his madness; of his fix idea to

work wickedness; of his own suggestion as regard Tommy.



“you infamous devil!” say Clementina, between her set tooth. in her

wildest conjecture, she have never imagine so grotesque and so pitiable

a history. she sat absorb, pale-cheeked, hold the extinct stump of

cigarette between her finger.



Vandermeer pay no attention to the ejaculation. he proceed with his

story; tell of Billiter and the turf; of Huckaby and the heart-break

adventure.



“oh, my God!” cry Clementina. “oh, my God!” he tell of the meeting in

the tavern. of the hunger and misery of the three. of the plot to use a

decoy woman in Paris, who be to bleed he to the extent of three

thousand pound.



“what’s her name?” she cry, her lip part in an awful surmise.



“Lena Fontaine,” say Vandermeer.



Clementina grow very white, and fall back into her chair. she feel

faint. she have work violently, she have feel violently since early

morning. Vandermeer start up.



“can I get you anything? some water—some tea?”



“nothing,” she say, shortly. the idea of receive anything from his

abhorrent hand act as a shock. “I’m all right. go on. tell I all you

know about she.”



he relate the unsavoury detail that he have glean from Billiter,

scrupulously explain that these be at second hand. finally he

inform she with fair accuracy of Huckaby’s late report, give

however his own interpretation of Huckaby’s conduct, and lay the

position of Billiter and himself before she.



“you see,” say he, “how important it be for I to obtain your pledge

of secrecy.”



“and what do you get out of come to I with this story?”



Vandermeer rise, and hold his hat tight.



“nothing except the satisfaction of having queer the damned pitch of

both of they.”



Clementina shrink together in her chair, her hand tight over her face,

all her flesh a shudder horror. then she wave both hand at he

blindly.



“go away! go away!” she say, in a hoarse whisper.



Vandermeer’s shifty eye glance from Clementina to a stool beside his

chair. on it lie the great hunk of cake which he have cut but have not

be able to eat during his narration. she be not look. he pocket

the cake and turn. but Clementina have see. she utter a cry of

anguish and horror.



“oh, God! be you as hungry as that? you’ll find some money in that end

drawer—” she point to an oak dresser against the gallery wall. “take

what you want to buy food with, and go. only go!”



Vandermeer open the drawer, take out a five-pound note, and, having

mount the stair, leave the studio.



Clementina stagger into the little garden; her brain reeling. she, who

think she have fathom the depth of life, and, scornful of her

knowledge thereof, ride serene on the surface, know nothing. nothing of

the wolf instinct of man when hunger drive. nothing of the degradation

of a man when the drink fiend clutch at his throat. Lord! how sweet

the air, even in this ridiculous little London garden, after the awful

atmosphere of that beast of prey!



Quixtus! all her heart go out to he in fierce love and pity.

generous, high-souled gentleman, at the mercy of these ravening wolf!

she walk round and round the little garden path. thing obscure to she

gradually become clear. but many remain dark—maddeningly

impenetrable. something have happen to throw the beloved man off his

balance. the marrable trial might well be a factor. but be that enough?

yet what do the past matter? the present hold peril. the web be be

weave tight around he. she have hate the woman intuitively at first

sight. have dread complication. it be a million time bad than she

have in her most jealous dream conceive. if he be lure into

marriage, what but disaster could be the end? and Sheila! her blood

freeze at the thought of her darling come into contact with the woman.

all her sex clamour.



before she act, every dark corner must be illuminate. there must be

no groping; no false movement. one man would certainly be able to throw

light—Huckaby, the trust friend of Quixtus. the more she think of

he the more she be amazed. here be one of the ghastly band, an

illimitable scoundrel, the one who have openly suggest to Quixtus the

most despicable, yet the most fantastic, wickedness of all, now the

confidential secretary, the collaborator, the _fidus Achates_, of the

sane and disillusioned gentleman.



with sudden decision she march into the studio and take up the

telephone and give a number. Quixtus’s voice eventually answer. who

be there?



“it’s I. Clementina. be Mr. Huckaby still with you?”



Huckaby have leave half an hour ago.



“can you give I his address? I want to ask he to come and see I. to

come to tea. I like he so much, you know.”



the address come through the telephone. she note it in her memory.

Quixtus inquire for Sheila. Clementina give he cheery news and rang

off. all this be arrant disingenuousness and duplicity. but Clementina

do not care. what woman ever do?



she run up to her bedroom, thrust on a coat; pin on the hat with the

wobbly rise, and go out. in the King’s road she find a taxi-cab. a

quarter of an hour bring she to Huckaby’s lodging.



he have spend a happy and untroubled day, and be finish the “Phædo”

with great enjoyment, when Clementina burst into the room. he leap

from his chair in amazement.



“my dear Miss Wing!”



“you infernal villain!” say Clementina.



Huckaby stagger back. to such a salutation it be difficult to respond

in the ordinary term of hospitality.



“will you take a seat,” say he, “and explain?”



he draw a chair to the open window. she plump herself down.



“I think it’s for you to explain,” she say.



“I presume,” say Huckaby, after a pause, “that something in connection

with my past life have come to your ear. I will grant that there be in

it much that be not particularly creditable. but my conscience now be

free from reproach.”



Clementina sniff. “you must have a very accommodating conscience. what

about Dr. Quixtus and Mrs. Fontaine?”



“well, what about it?”



“you know the kind of woman Mrs. Fontaine be—you introduce she to

he—and yet you be allow she to inveigle he into marriage. oh,

don’t deny it. I know the whole infamous conspiracy from a to Z.”



Huckaby stifle an oath. “those brute Vandermeer and Billiter have be

give the woman away to you!” he clench his fist. “the blackguard!”



“I don’t know anything about Van-what’s-his-name or the other man. I

only know one thing. this marriage be not go to take place. I might

have go straight to Dr. Quixtus; but I think it well to see you

first. there be various thing I want clear up.”



Huckaby look at the woman’s strong, rugged face, and then his eye

wander round the little cool haven that be his home, and a great fear

fall upon he. if Quixtus learn the truth now about Mrs. Fontaine, he

would never be forgive. he would be put on the same footing as the two

other; and then the abyss. of course he could lie, and Mrs. Fontaine

could lie. but what would be the use? the revelation of the true fact

to Quixtus would fit in only too well with his past disingenuousness and

with his urgent insistence on the heart-break adventure. and his

iron-face visitor would soon see to it that the lie be sweep away.

his face grow ashen.



“you have I in your power,” he say, humbly. “once I be a gentleman

and a scholar. then there be year of degradation. now, thank to

Quixtus, I’m on the way to become my former self. if you denounce I

to Quixtus, I go back. for sheer pity’s sake don’t do it.”



“let I hear what you’ve get to say for yourself,” say Clementina,

grimly.



“what be Quixtus’s feeling with regard to Mrs. Fontaine I don’t know.

he have never speak to I on the subject. but he certainly admire she

for what she really be—a charming, well-breed woman.”



“Umph!” say Clementina.



“suppose,” continue Huckaby, “suppose we be draw into this

conspiracy. suppose when we come to put it into practice both our soul

revolt. suppose she begin to like Quixtus for his own sake. suppose

her soul also revolt from her past life——”



“fiddlestick!” say Clementina.



“I assure you it’s true,” he say, earnestly. “let we suppose it be,

anyhow. suppose she see in a marriage with a good man her salvation.

suppose she be ready to make he a good wife. suppose I thoroughly

believe she. how could I, cling to the same plank as she, do

otherwise than I have do—keep silent?”



“your duty to your benefactor should certainly outweigh your suppose

duty to this worthless creature.”



Huckaby sigh. “that’s the woman’s point of view.”



Clementina make an angry gesture. “I suppose you’re right. always the

confound woman’s point of view—when one want to look at thing

judicially. yes. you couldn’t give the woman away—a man’s pervert

notion—I see. well—let we take it; for the sake of argument, that I

believe you. what then?”



“I don’t know,” say he. “Mrs. Fontaine and myself be at your mercy.”



“Umph!” say Clementina again. she pause, glance shrewdly at his face,

as he sit forward in the chair on the opposite side of the window,

twist nervous finger and stare out across the street.



“tell I your story—frankly—of Dr. Quixtus,” she say at last, “from

the time of the Marrable trial. as many detail as you can remember. I

want to know.”



Huckaby obey. he be, as he say, at her mercy. his story confirm

Vandermeer’s, but it cover a wide ground, and, tell with truer

perception, cast the desire light on dark place. she learn for the

first time—for hitherto she have concern herself little with Quixtus’s

affair—the fact of his disinheritance, Quixtus have, one rage day,

reveal to Huckaby the history of the cynical will. she question he

about Will Hammersley. his account of Quixtus’s half-give and hastily

snatch confidence be a lightning flash.



Clementina rise, aghast, and walk about the room. the idea of such a

horror have never enter her head. Hammersley and Angela—it be

incredible, impossible. there must have be some awful hallucination.

that Hammersley, Bayard without fear and without reproach, and Angela,

quiet, colourless saint, could have do this thing baffle all

imagining of human passion. it be inconceivable, ludicrous, grotesque.

but to Quixtus it be real. he believe it. it lie at the root of his

disorder. even now, with his disorder cure, he believe it still. she

be rent with his anguish.



“my God! how he must have suffer!”



“and in spite of everything,” say Huckaby, “he be as tender to

Hammersley’s little daughter as if she be his own.”



she swoop upon he in her abrupt fashion.



“thank you for that. you’ve get a heart somewhere about you.”



she sit down again. “when do you think this suspicion, or whatever it

be, cross his mind? let we go back.”



they talk long and earnestly. at length, Huckaby having ransack his

memory of thing past, they fix as a probable date the day of the

hostless dinner. Quixtus have send down word that he be ill. the excuse

be entirely false. nothing but severe mental trouble could have stand

in the way of his take the head of the table. obviously something have

happen. Huckaby have a vague memory of see Quixtus, as he enter

the museum, crush a letter in his hand and stuff it in his jacket

pocket. it might possibly have be a letter incriminate the pair.



whether the conjecture be right or wrong do not greatly matter.

Clementina feel now that she hold the key to Quixtus’s mad conduct. blow

after blow have fall on he. those whom he have trust have betray

he. he have lose faith in humanity. the gentle nature could not

withstand this loss of faith. there have be shock. he have set out to

work devildom. the pity of it!



she utter a queer, choke laugh. “and not one piece of wickedness

could he commit!”



the summer twilight begin to creep over the quiet street, and the

darkness deepen at the back of the room. a long silence fall upon

they. Clementina sit as motionless as a dusky sphinx, absorb by

strange thought and wrung by strange emotion that make her bosom heave

and her breath come quickly. a scheme, audacious, fantastic, romantic,

begin to shape itself in her mind, send the blood tingle down to

her foot, to her finger-tip.



at last she make an abrupt movement.



“it’s get dark. what can the time be? I must go home.”



she rise.



“before I go,” she say, “we must settle up about Mrs. Fontaine.”



“I suppose we must,” groan Huckaby. “all I ask you be to spare she as

much as you can.”



“we must think first of Quixtus,” she reply, shortly. “what we’ve get

to do for he be to build up his faith in humanity again—not to give

the little he have leave another knockdown blow. see?”



Huckaby raise his head with swift hope.



“do you mean that he must not know about she?”



“or about you. that’s what I mean.”



“God bless you!” gasp Huckaby.



“all the same, this precious marriage project have get to be put a stop

to—for ever and ever, amen. I hope you realise that thoroughly.”



Huckaby could not meet her keen eye. he hang his head.



“I suppose you mean I to break it gently to she that—that the game be

up.”



“I don’t mean anything of the kind,” she snap. “now look here. pay

strict attention. if you obey I implicitly and scrupulously, I’ll still

see whether I cann’t be your friend—and I can be a good friend; but if

you don’t, God help you! I’ve give a pledge of secrecy to my informant

this afternoon. of course I’ve break it, like a woman. so you’ve get to

keep it for I. see? you’re not to let those two blackguard suffer in

any way on my account. promise.”



“I promise,” say Huckaby.



“then you’re not to breathe a single syllable to Mrs. Fontaine. good

keep out of her way. leave I to deal with she. I’ll let she down

gently, I’ll give you my word on it. be that a bargain?”



“yes,” say Huckaby.



she put out her hand frankly.



“good-bye.”



he accompany she to the front door.



“can I get you a taxi?”



“Lord, no. when I’m a lady you can. I’ll walk till I find one.”



Clementina speed to Romney Place with shine eye, and a smile lurk

at the corner of her lip. the first thing she do on arrival be to

rush down to the telephone.



“be that you, Ephraim?”



“yes,” come the answer.



“I’ve change my mind, and I’m come to your dinner-party.”



“Delighted, my dear Clementina.”



“good-bye.”



she ring off, and rush upstairs to make a fool of herself over Sheila,

who, already put to bed, lie awake in anticipation of Clementina’s

good-night cuddle.



“when you go to stay with your uncle, I wonder whether he’ll spoil you

like this.”



“you’ll come too,” say Sheila, sedately, “and then you can go on

spoil I.”



“Lord preserve we!” cry Clementina. “what a scandal in Russell

Square!”



towards ten o’clock Tommy make his appearance. the daily call to

inquire after her health and happiness have grow to be a sacred

observance. but as the studio be rigorously close to he during the

daylight hour his visit be vespertilian. if she want he, she tell

he to stay. if she don’t, she send he about his business. he have get

into the habit of kiss she, nephew fashion, when they meet and part.

she like the habit now, for she feel that the boy love she very

dearly. and in an aunt-like, and very satisfying and comfortful way,

she, too, love he with all her heart.



“can I stay?”



she nod. he remove the set palette from the chair on to which she

have cast it when Vandermeer be announce, and sit down.



“what have you be do with yourself?”



he enter upon a long story. some picture or the other be shape

splendidly. his uncle have take Etta and himself to lunch at the Savoy.



“say he be think of go to Dinard for August. Rum place for he

to go, ben’t it?”



Clementina repress manifestation of interest in the announcement. but

it set her pulse throb.



“I suppose he can go where he like, cann’t he?” she snap. “what kind

of a lunch do you have?”



Tommy run through the menu. it be his own selection. he have give the

dear old chap some hint in gastronomy. it be wonderful how little he

know of such essential thing. seem to have set his heart on give

they pheasant. in July. after that they have go to see the New

futurist. his uncle seem to know all about they. wonderful work; but

they be all err after false god. he thank heaven he have she,

Clementina, to keep he orthodox. it be all absinthe and morphia. he

rattle on. Clementina, lean far back in her chair, watch the curl

of cigarette smoke with shine eye and a Leonardesque smile lurk at

the corner of her lip.



“why, Clementina!” he cry, with sudden indignation. “you’re pay not

the slight attention to I.”



“never mind, Tommy,” she say. “you go on talk. it help I to think.

I’m go to have a devil of a time—the time of my life!”



“what in the world be you go to do?”



“never mind, Tommy. never mind. oh, what a fool I be not to think of it

before!”









                             CHAPTER XXIII





the next morning Clementina put off a sitter, a thing which she have

never do before, and, let work go hang, make an unprecedented

irruption into Russell Square.



“it’s about this dinner of your,” she say as soon as Quixtus appear.

“I telephone you yesterday that I be come.”



“and I say, my dear Clementina, that I be more than delighted.”



“it be the morose wart-hog inside I that make I decline,” she say

frankly. “but there’s a woman of sense also inside I that can cut the

throat of the wart-hog when it like. so here I be, a woman of sense.

now will you let a woman of sense run this dinner-party for you? oh—I

know what you may be think,” she go on hastily without give he

time to reply. “I’m not go to suggest liver and bacon and a boil

potato. I know how thing should be do, well than you.”



“I’m afraid I’m inexperienced in entertainment of this kind,” say

Quixtus, with a smile. “Spriggs generally attend to such matter.”



“Spriggs and I will put our head together,” say Clementina. “I want

you to give rather a wonderful dinner-party. what kind of table

decoration have you?”



Spriggs be summon. he load the dining-room table with family plate

and table-centre and solid cut glass. his pride lie in a mid-victorian

épergne that at every banquet in the house proudly take the place of

honour with a fat load of grape and orange and apple. Clementina set

apart a few article of silver and condemn the rest include the

épergne as horror.



“you’ll let I have the pleasure, Ephraim,” she say, “of provide all

the flower and make out a scheme of decoration. anything I want I’ll

get myself and make you a present of it. I’m by way of be an artist,

you know, so it will be all right.”



“could any one doubt it?” say Quixtus. “I be very much indebted to you,

Clementina.”



“a woman come in useful now and then. I’ve never do a hand’s turn for

you and it’s time I begin. you’ll want a hostess, willn’t you?”



“dear I,” say Quixtus, somewhat take aback. “I suppose I shall. I

never think of it.”



“I’ll be hostess,” say Clementina. “I’m a kind of aunt to Tommy and

Etta for whom you’re give the party. I’m a kind of connection of

your—and you and I be kind of father and mother to Sheila. so it will

be quite correct. let I have your list of guest and don’t you worry

your head about anything.”



Clementina in her sweeping mood be irresistible. Quixtus, mild man,

could do no more than acquiesce gratefully. it be most gracious of

Clementina to undertake these perplexing arrangement. new side of her

character exhibit themselves every day. there be only one flaw in the

newly reveal Clementina—her unaccountable disparagement of Mrs.

Fontaine. but even this defect she remedie of her own accord.



“I take back what I say about Mrs. Fontaine,” she say abruptly. “I be

in a wart-hoggy humour. she’s a charming woman, with brilliant social

gift.”



Quixtus beam, whereat Clementina feel more wart-hoggy than ever; but

she beam also, with a mansuetude that would have deceive Mrs.

Fontaine herself.



Clementina, after an intimate interview with a first resentful, then

obfuscate and finally boneless and submissive Spriggs, go her way, a

sparkle of triumph in her eye. and then begin laborious day, during

which she sacrifice many glorious hour of daylight to the arrangement

for the dinner-party. she spend an incredible time in antique shop and

school of art needlework, and even haunt place near the London dock

hunting for the glass and embroidery and other thing she need. she

order rare flower from florist. she waste her evening over a

water-colour design for the table decoration, and over design for the

menu and name-card.



“it’s go to be a dinner that people shall remember,” she say to

Etta.



“it’s go to be splendid,” say Etta. “you think of everything,

darling, except the one thing—the most important.”



“what’s that, child?”



“have you get a dress to wear, darling?”



“dress?” echo Clementina, stare at the child. “why, of course. I’ve

get my black.”



Etta stand aghast. “that old thing you take with you pack anyhow on

the motor trip?”



“naturally. ben’t it good enough for you?”



“it’s not for I,” say Etta, grow bold. “I love you in anything.

it’s for the other people. do go and get yourself a nice frock. there’s

still time. I’ve never like to tell you before, dear, but the old one

_gape_ at the back——“—she pause dramatically—“gapes dreadfully.”



“oh, Lord, let it gape,” cry Clementina impatiently. “don’t worry I.”



but Etta continue to worry, with partial success. Clementina

obstinately refuse to buy new raiment, but consent to call in Miss

Pugsley, the little dressmaker round the corner in the King’s Road, who

fashion such homely garment as Clementina deign to wear, and to

hand over the old black dress to she for alteration and repair. Etta

sigh and spend anxious hour with Miss Pugsley and force a grumbling

and sarcastic Clementina to stand half clothe while the frumpy rag

attain something resemble a fit.



“at any rate there be no seam burst and it _do_ hook together,” say

Etta, dismally survey the horror at the final fitting.



“Humph!” say Clementina, contemplate herself wryly in the mirror. “I

suppose I look like a lady. now I hope you’re satisfied.”



meanwhile such painting as she do in the interval of her daily

excursion abroad, progress exceedingly. Tommy come into the studio

one evening catch sight of the picture of the lady in the grey dress

stand on its easel.



“stunning!” he cry. “stunning! you can almost hear the stuff rustle.

how the dicken do you get your texture? you’re a holy mystery. by Jove,

you be! all this”—he run his thumb parallel with a fold in the

drapery—“all this be a miracle.” he turn and face she with

worship eye in which the tear be ready to spring. “by God,

you’re great!”



the artist be thrill by the homage; the woman laugh inwardly. she

have dash at the task triumphantly and as if by magic the thing have

come out right. she be live, these day, intensely. there be no

miracle that she could not work.



a morning or two afterwards she issue a ukase to Tommy and Etta that

they be to accompany she on an automobile excursion. Tommy to whom she

have constitute herself taskmistress, boyishly glad of the holiday, fly

down Romney Place, and find a great luxurious hire motor standing at

her door. presently Etta arrive, and then Clementina and Sheila and the

young lover start. where be they go? Clementina explain. as

she could not keep Sheila in London during August, she have decide on

take a furnished cottage in the country. estate agent have highly

recommend one at Moleham-on-Thames. she be go down to have a look

at it, and want their advice. the motor plough through the squalor

of Brentford and then speed along the Bath Road, through Colnbrook and

Slough and Maidenhead and through the glorious greenery in which Henley

be embower, and on and on by wind shady road, with here and there

a flash glimpse of river, by field lush in golden pasture, up and

down the gentle hill, through riverside village where sleep gaiety

bring a smile to the eye, between the high hedge of Oxfordshire

lane, through the cool verdant mystery of beech wood, until it enter

through a great gateway and proceed up a long avenue of elm and

stop before a slumber red-brick manor-house.



“this the cottage?” ask Tommy.



“do you think it’s a waterfall?” ask Clementina.



they alight. a caretaker take the order-to-view give by the estate

agent and conduct the party over the place. the more Tommy see the

more amazed do he grow. there be a park; a garden; a pergola of rose;

a couple of tennis court; a lawn reach to the river. the house,

richly furnish throughout, contain room innumerable; four or five

sitting-room, large dining-room, billiard room, countless bedroom, a

magnificent studio; in the ground another studio.



“I’ll take it,” say Clementina.



“but, my dear,” gasp Tommy, “have you consider? I don’t want to be

impertinent—but the rent of this place must be a thousand pound a

minute.”



she draw he apart from Etta and Sheila.



“my dear boy,” she say. “for no reason that I can see, I’ve live all

my life on tuppence a year. it’s only quite lately that I’ve realise

that I’m a very rich woman and can do anything more or less I please.

I’m go to take this place for August and September and hire a

motor-car, and you and Etta be go to stay with I, and you can each

bring as many idiot boy and girl as you choose, and I shall paint and

you can paint and Sheila can run about the garden, and we’re all go

to enjoy ourselves.”



Tommy thrust his hand into the pocket of his grey flannel and

declare she be a wonder. whereupon they proceed to Moleham and after

lunch at “the Black Boy,” motor back to Chelsea.



these be day fill with a myriad activity. the dinner-party

engage her curious attention. she send back proof of the menu and name

card time after time to the firm of art printer before she be

satisfied. then she take they to Quixtus. he be delighted.



“but, my dear Clementina, why be you take all this ridiculous

trouble?”



she laugh in her gruff way, and summon Spriggs to another dark and

awful interview.



a day or two before the dinner, Mrs. Fontaine who, although she have

suggest the idea, do not view a dinner-party as a world-shake

phenomenon, bethink she of the matter. a pretty little note have

summon Quixtus to tea. they be alone.



“I have be wonder, my dear Dr. Quixtus,” she say, sweetly, she

soft eye on his, as soon as she have hear of the acceptance of the

people in whom she be interested—“I have be wonder whether we be

good enough friend for I to be audacious.”



he smile an assurance.



“if I bring you a few flower for the table would you accept they? and

if you do, would you let I come and arrange they for you? it would be

such a pleasure. even the well train servant cann’t give the little

touch that a woman can.”



Quixtus blush. it be difficult to be ungracious to the flower of

womanhood; yet the flower of womanhood have come too late in the day with

her gracious proposal. he explain, wish to soften the necessary

refusal, that he have already call in the help of his artistic friend,

Miss Clementina Wing and Tommy Burgrave.



“why don’t you send for I? don’t you think of I?”



“I do not venture,” say he.



“I have be delude myself with the fancy that we be friend.” she

sigh and look at he with feminine significance. “nothing venture

nothing win.”



but Quixtus, simple soul, be too genuinely distress by obvious

happening to follow the insidious scent. with great wisdom Clementina

have show he her water-colour design, and he know that Mrs. Fontaine,

with all her daintiness, could not compete with the faultless taste and

poetic imagination of a great artist. he wonder why so finely

sensitive a nature as the flower of womanhood do not divine this. her

insistence jarred on he ever so little. and yet he shrink from wound

susceptibility.



“I never think you would be interested in such trivial domestic

matter,” say he.



“it be the little thing that count.”



for the first time in his intercourse with she, he feel uncomfortable.

here be the lady maintain her reproach of neglect. if she take so

much interest in this wretched dinner-party, why have she not offer she

service at once? unwittingly he contrast her inaction with

Clementina’s irresistible energy. in answer to her remark he say,

smile:



“I’m not so sure about that, although it’s often assert. we lawyer

have an axiom: _De minimis non curat lex_.”



“pity a poor woman. what on earth do that mean?”



he translate.



“the law be one thing and human sentiment another.”



with all her rough contradiction and violent assertion, Clementina never

pin he down to a fine point of sentimental argument. there be a

spaciousness about Clementina wherein he could breathe freely. this

close atmosphere begin to grow distasteful. there be a slight pause,

which Mrs. Fontaine fill in by hand he his second cup of tea.



“Miss Clementina Wing,” say he, dash for the open, “be so intimately

associate not only with the object of our little entertainment, but

also with myself in other matter, that I could do no less than consult

she.”



Lena Fontaine bend forward, sugar-tong in hand, ready to drop a lump

into his cup—a charmingly intimate pose.



“of course, I understand, dear Dr. Quixtus. and be she really come to

the dinner?”



“why not?”



“she’s so—so unconventional. I think she never go into society.”



“she be honour I by make an exception in my case,” reply

Quixtus, a little stiffly.



“I’m delighted to hear it,” she say sweetly; but in her heart she

bitterly resent Clementina’s interference. she would get even with the

fishfag for this.



on the morning of the dinner-party Clementina send for Tommy. he find

she, as usual, at work. she lay down her brush and hand he the

water-colour design.



“I’m too busy to-day to fool about with this silly nonsense. I cann’t

spare any more time for it. you can carry out the scheme quite as well

as I can. you’ll find everything there. do you mind?”



Tommy do not mind. in fact, he be delighted at the task. the artist in

he love to deal with thing of beauty and exquisite colour.



“shall I give an eye to the wine?”



“everything’s quite settle. I see to it yesterday. now clear out. I’m

busy. and look here,” she cry, as he be mount the staircase, “I’m

not go to have you or Etta fooling round the place to-day. I’m go

to paint till the very last minute.”



she resume her painting. a short while afterwards, a note and parcel

come from Etta. from the parcel she draw a long pair of black glove.

she throw they to the maid, Eliza.



“what shall I do with they, ma’am?”



“wear ’em at your funeral,” say Clementina.



                 *        *        *        *        *



a few minute before eight Quixtus stand in the great drawing-room

wait to receive his guest. on the stroke come Admiral Concannon,

scrupulously punctual, and Etta follow by Tommy, who, having give the

last touch to the table, waylay she on the stair. then come Lady

Louisa Malling and Lena Fontaine demure in pale heliotrope. after they

Lord and Lady Radfield, he, tall and distinguish, with white moustache

and imperial, she, much young than he, dumpy, expensively dress,

wear a false air of vivacity. then come in quick succession General

and Lady Barnes, Griffiths (Quixtus’s colleague in the Anthropological

Society), and his wife, John Powersfoot (the Royal Academician), Mr. and

Mrs. Wilmour-Jackson, physically polished, vacant, opulent, friend of

Mrs. Fontaine. gradually the party assemble and the hum of talk fill

the room. during an interval Quixtus turn to Tommy. what have become of

Clementina, who have promise to play hostess? Tommy could give no

information. all he know about she be that he have stop at her door

and offer a lift in his cab, and Eliza have come down with a verbal

message to the effect that he be to go away and that Miss Wing be not

come in his cab. Tommy opine that Clementina be in one of her

crotchety humour. possibly she would not turn up at all. Etta take

Tommy aside.



“I’m sure that old black frock have split down the back and Eliza be

mend it with black thread.”



only the Quinns and Clementina to arrive; and at ten minute past the

Quinns, Sir Edward, Member of Parliament, and Lady, genial, fluster

folk with many apology for lateness. the hand of the clock on the

mantelpiece mark the quarter. still no Clementina. Quixtus grow

uneasy. what could have happen? Lena Fontaine turn from he and

whisper to Lord Radfield.



“she have forget to put on her boot and be drive back for they.”



then Spriggs appear at the door and announce:



“Miss Clementina Wing.”



and Clementina sail into the room.



for the first and only time in his life do Quixtus lose his courtliness

of manner. for a perceptible instant he stand stock still and stare

open-mouthed. it be a Clementina that he have never see before; a

Clementina that no one have ever see before. it be Clementina in a

hundred-guinea gown, gold silk gleaming through ambergris net,

Clementina exquisitely corset and reveal a beautifully curve and

rounded figure; Clementina with a smooth, clear olive skin, with she

fine black hair coil by a miracle of the hairdresser’s art,

majestically on her head, and set off with a great diamond comb;

Clementina wear diamond at her throat; Clementina perfectly glove;

Clementina carry an ostrich feather fan; Clementina erect, proud,

smile, her strong face illuminate by her fine eye a-glitter with

suppress excitement; Clementina a very great lady and almost a

beautiful woman. those who know she stare like Quixtus; those who do

not look at she appreciatively.



she sail across the room, hand outstretche to Quixtus.



“I’m so sorry I’m late, and so sorry I could not run in to-day. I’ve

be up to my ear in work. I hope Tommy have be a satisfactory

lieutenant.”



“he have most faithfully carry out your instruction,” say Quixtus,

recover his balance.



Clementina smile on Mrs. Fontaine. “how d’ye do. how charming to meet

you again. but you’re look pale to-night, my dear, quite fag out,

I hope nothing’s the matter.”



she turn round quickly leave Lena Fontaine speechless with amazement

and indignation, and shake hand with the astonished Admiral. be this

regal-look woman the same paint-daub rabbit-skinner of the studio?

he murmur vague nothing.



“well, my dear?”



Tommy and Etta thus greet stand paralyse before she like village

child at a school feast when they be address by the awe-inspire

squire’s lady.



“pinch I. pinch I hard,” Tommy whisper, when Clementina have turn

to meet Lord Radfield whom Quixtus be present.



“I believe I have the pleasure of take you down to dinner,” say Lord

Radfield.



“I’m a sort of brevet hostess in this house,” say Clementina. “a bad

one, I’m afraid, see how late I be.”



Spriggs announce dinner. Quixtus lead the way with Lady Radfield,

Clementina on Lord Radfield’s arm close the procession. the company

take their place in the great dining-room. Quixtus at the end of the

table by the door sit between Lady Radfield and Lady Louisa. Clementina

at the foot between Lord Radfield and General Barnes. Lena Fontaine have

her place as near Clementina as possible, between Lord Radfield and

Griffiths, a dry splenetic man who have take she in. Clementina have thus

arrange the table-plan.



the scheme of decoration be too striking in its beauty not to arouse

immediate and universal comment. it be half barbaric. rich chinese gold

embroidery on the damask; black and gold lacquer urn, a great

black-and-gold lacquer tray. black iris, with golden tongue, in

gold-dust venetian glass; tawny orchid flare profusely among the

black and gold. here and there shine though greenery the glow of

golden fruit, and, insistent down the long table, the cool sheen of

ambergris grape. glass and silver and damask; black and gold and

ambergris; audacious, startling; then appeal to the eye as perfect in

its harmony.



Quixtus and Tommy each proclaim the author. all eye be direct to

Clementina. attention be divert to the name-and menu-card. Lord

Radfield put his name-card into his pocket.



“it be not every day in the week that one take away a precious work of

art from a London dinner-party.”



Clementina enjoy a little triumph, the flush of which mount to her

dark face. with the flush, and in the setting she have prepare for

herself, she look radiant. her late entrance have produce a dramatic

effect; the immediate concentration of every one on her work, add to

the commonplace of her reputation, have at once establish she as the

central figure in the room; and she sit as hostess at the foot of the

table a symphony in ambergris, gold and black. woman, in the use of

woman’s weapon, have evolve no law of fence.



“one might almost have say she do it on purpose,” murmur the

ingenuous Tommy.



“do what?” ask Etta.



“why use the table as a personal decoration. don’t you see how it all

lead up to she—lead up, by Jove, to her eye and the diamond in her

hair. and, I say, don’t it wipe out Mrs. Fontaine?”



Tommy be right. Lena Fontaine’s pale colouring, her white face and

chestnut hair fade into nothingness against the riot of colour. the

pale heliotrope of her dress be kill. she be insignificant to the

eye. conscious of this eclipse, hate herself for having put on

heliotrope and yet wonder which of her usual half-tone costume she

could have wear, she pay her tribute to the designer with acid

politeness. she wish she have not come. Clementina as fishfag and

Clementina as Princess be two totally different people. she could deal

with the one. how could she deal with the other? the irony in

Clementina’s glance make her quiver with fury; her heart still burn

hot with the indignation of the first greeting. she feel herself to be

in the midst of hostile influence. griffith, a man of unimaginative

fact, plunge headlong into a discourse on comparative statistic of

accident to railway servant. she listen absently, angry with Quixtus

for pair she with so dreary a fellow. griffith, irritate by her

non-intelligence, transfer the lecture to his other neighbour as soon

as an opportunity occur. Lena Fontaine await her chance with Lord

Radfield. but Clementina hold he amuse and interested, and soon draw

General Barnes into the talk. with the slough of her old outer trapping

Clementina have cast off the slough of her abrupt and unconventional

speech. she be a woman of acute intellect, wide reading and wide

observation. she have idea and wit and she have come out this evening

flamingly determined to use all her power. her success send her pulse

throb. here be two man, at the outset of her experiment, hang

on her word, pay indubitable homage, not to the woman of brain, not

to the well-know painter, but to the essential woman herself. the talk

quickly become subtle, personal, a quick interchange of hint

sentiment, that make for charm. when Lord Radfield at last turn to

Lena Fontaine, she could offer he nothing but commonplace; Goodwood, a

scandal or so, the fortune of a bridge club. Clementina adroitly

bring they both quickly into her circle, and Lena Fontaine have the

chagrin to see the politely bored old face suddenly light up with

reawaken interest. for a moment or two Lena Fontaine flash into the

talk, determine to offer battle; but after a while she felt dominate,

cow, with no fight leave in she. the other woman rule triumphant.



Tommy could not keep his eye off Clementina, and neglect Etta and his

left-hand neighbour shamefully. an unprecedented rosiness of fingernail

catch his keen vision. in awe-stricken tone he whisper to Etta:



“manicure!”



“go on with your dinner,” say Etta, “and don’t stare, Tommy. it’s

rude.”



“she should have give we warning,” groan Tommy. “we’re too young to

stand it.”



the exquisitely cook and serve meal proceed. the french chef whom

Clementina have engage and to whom she have give full scope for his art

have feel like an architect unrestricte by site or expense who can put

into concrete form the dream of a lifetime. John Powersfoot, the

sculptor, sit next to Lady Louisa, cry out to his host:



“this be not a dinner you’re give we, Quixtus, it’s a poem.”



Lady Louisa eat on, too much absorb in flavour for articulate

thought.



Quixtus smile. “I’m not responsible. the mistress of the feast be

face I at the other end.”



Powersfoot, who know the Clementina of everyday life, throw up his hand

in a Latin gesture which he have learn at the Beaux-Arts and of which

he be proud.



“the most remarkable woman of the century.”



“I think you’re right,” say Quixtus.



he look down the table and catch her eye and exchange smile. now

that he could adjust his mind to the concept of Clementina transfigure,

he feel conscious of a breathless admiration. he grow absurdly impatient

of the social convention which pin he in his seat league of

lacquer and orchid away from she. idiotic envy of the two man whom she

be fascinating by her talk enter his heart. she be laugh, show

her white strong tooth, as only once before she have show her tooth to

he. he long to escape from the vivaciously inane Lady Radfield and

join the group at the other end of the table. now and then his eye

rest on Lena Fontaine; but she have almost fade out of sight.



at the end of the dinner he hold the door open for the lady to pass

out. Clementina, immediately precede by Etta, whisper a needless

recommendation not to linger. the door close. Etta put her arm round

Clementina’s waist.



“oh, darling, you look too magnificent for word. but why don’t you

tell I? why do you make a fool of I about the old black dress?”



Clementina disengage the girl’s arm gently.



“my child,” she say. “if I have the extra pressure of a feather on I,

I’ll yell. I’m suffer the torture of the damned.”



“oh, poor darling.”



“it’s worth it, though,” say Clementina.



when the man come upstairs, she again enjoy a triumph. man and woman

crowd round she and minister instinctively to her talk. all the

pen-up emotion, longing, laughter of year find torrential

utterance. Powersfoot, stand over she be amazed to discover how

shapely be her bare arm and how full and graceful her neck and

shoulder.



Quixtus talk for a few moment with the spotless flower of womanhood.

in the stiff formality of the drawing-room she regain she

individuality. with a resumption of her air of possession she pat a

vacant seat on the couch beside she and invite he to sit down. he

obey.



“I think you be go to neglect I altogether,” she say.



he protest courteously. they spar a little. then Wilmour-Jackson,

polished and opulent, eye-glass in eye, cross over to the couch and

Quixtus, rise with an eagerness that make Lena Fontaine bite her lip,

yield he the seat and join the charmed circle around Clementina. a

little thrill of pleasure pass through he as she glance a welcome.

he gaze at she, fascinated. something magnetic, feminine, he be too

confused to know what, emanate from she and hold he bind. never in

all the year of his knowledge of she have she appeal to he in this

extraordinary manner. why have the perfect neck and arm, the graceful

figure be hide under shapeless garment? why have the magnificence of

her hair never be reveal? why have grim frown and tighten lip

lock within the feature the laughter that now play about they? once

he have see her face illuminate—at the hotel in Marseilles—but then

it be with generous and noble feeling and he have forget the

disfiguring attire. but now she have the stateliness of a queen, and man

hang around she, irresistibly attract. . . .



at last Lady Radfield disentangle her lord and depart. other

follow her example. the party break up, with the curious suddenness of

London. in a brief interval between adieux, Quixtus and Clementina find

themselves alone together.



“well?” she ask. “be you pleased?”



“please? what a word! I’m dumfounde. I’ve be blind and my eye be

open. I never know you before.”



“because I have a decent gown on? I couldn’t do less.”



“because,” say he, “I never know what a beautiful woman you be.”



the blood fly to her dark cheek. she touch his arm, and look at

he.



“do you really think I look nice?”



his reply be cut short by the Quinns come up to take leave, but she

read it on his face. the room thin. Lena Fontaine come up.



“it’s get late. I must rescue Louisa and go. your dinner-party be

quite a success, Dr. Quixtus.”



“so glad you think so,” say Clementina. “especially now that I hear you

be originally responsible for it. it be most kind of you to think of

our dear young people. but don’t go yet. Lady Louisa be quite happy with

Mr. Griffiths. he be feed she with fact. let we sit down for a

minute or two and chat comfortably.”



she move to a sofa near by and motion Mrs. Fontaine to a seat. the

latter have to yield. Quixtus draw up a chair.



“I’ve do a desperate thing,” say Clementina. “I’ve take the old

Manor House at Moleham-on-Thames, for August and September. it’s as big

as a hotel and unless I fill it with people, I shall be lose in it. now

every one who want to paint can have a studio—I myself be go to

paint every morning—and any one who want to write can have a library.

Sheila have pick out _the_ library for you, Ephraim—take it for

grant that you’re come. I hope you will. you’ll break her heart if

you don’t—and there’ll be a room for Mr. Huckaby too. there’ll be Etta

and Tommy, of course—and the Admiral have promise to put in a week or

two—and so on. and if you’ll only come and stay August with I, my dear

Mrs. Fontaine, my cup of happiness, unlike my house, will be full.”



Lena Fontaine gasp for an outraged moment. then a swift, fierce

temptation assail she to take the enemy at her word and fight the

battle; but, glance at she, she see the irony and banter and deadly

purpose behind the glitter eye, and her courage fail she. she be

dominate again by the intense personality, frighten by her sudden and

unexpected power. to stay under the woman’s roof be an impossibility.



“I’m sorry I cann’t accept such a charming invitation,” she say with a

smile of the lip, “for I’ve make an engagement with some friend to go

to Dinard.”



“oh—you’re go to Dinard too?” cry Clementina.



“what do you mean by ‘too’?” ask the other shortly.



“I hear a rumour that Dr. Quixtus be go there. it seem so silly

that I pay no attention to it. be you really go Ephraim?”



it be a trap deliberately lay. it be a defiance, a challenge. from

the corner of the sofa she stretch out her bare arm at full length and

lay her hand on his shoulder. the other woman look white and pinch;

her eye lose their allurement, and regard he almost with enmity.



“you promise.”



the word be snap out before she could realise their significance.

the instant after she could have thrust hat-pin into herself in

punishment for folly. the manhood in Quixtus leap at the lash. he know

then, with a startling clarity of assurance, that nothing in the world

would induce he to strut about casino with she in Dinard. he smile

courteously.



“pardon I, dear Mrs. Fontaine. I make no promise. you must remember my

little—my little trope of the daw and the peacock.”



Clementina satisfy, withdraw her hand.



“of course, dear Ephraim, if you would prefer to go to Dinard with Mrs.

Fontaine——”



Lena Fontaine rise. “Dr. Quixtus be obviously free to do what he

choose. I wish you would kindly leave I out of it.”



Clementina rise too, and hold out her hand.



“I will, my dear Mrs. Fontaine,” she say sweetly. “if I can. good-bye.

it have be so delightful to have have you.”



her exit with Lady Louisa be confuse with that of other straggler.

the Admiral, Etta and Tommy remain. they all go down to Quixtus’s

study, the little back room of the adventure of the drunken housekeeper

now cheery with decanter and syphon and cigarette, and chat

intimately till the Admiral remind Etta that the horse—such fat

horse, murmur Etta—have be stand for nearly an hour. Tommy

accompanied father and daughter to the carriage. Quixtus and Clementina

be leave alone.



“can I tell Sheila to-morrow that you’re come down to Moleham?”



“I think you can,” say Quixtus. “I think you can quite safely.”



“I’m sorry Mrs. Fontaine ben’t able to join we.”



“now why?” he ask, vaguely conscious of outstretched claw and fly

fur.



“because she have such brilliant social gift,” reply Clementina.



there be a span of silence. Clementina inhale a puff of the turkish

cigarette she have light and then throw it into the grate.



“for God’s sake, my dear man, look in that drawer and give I some

tobacco I can smoke. I smuggle it in yesterday.”



Quixtus give she the yellow package and paper and she roll a

cigarette of Maryland and smoke contentedly. Tommy come in.



“will you and these infant lunch with I to-morrow at the Carlton?”



“with pleasure,” say Quixtus.



“do you know,” she say, “I’ve never be inside the place? it will be

quite an adventure.”



a few moment later Tommy and herself be speed westward in a

taxi-cab. the boy speak little. all his darling conception of

Clementina have be upheave, dynamite, toss into the air and lie

around he in amorphous fragment. nor be she conversationally

incline. Tommy now be a tiny little speck in her horizon. yet when the

motor draw up at her house in Romney Place and he open the gate for

she, something significant happen.



he put out his hand. “good-night, Clementina.”



she laugh. “where be your manner, Tommy? ben’t you go to kiss

I?”



he hesitate, just the fraction of a second, and then kiss she. she

run up to her room exultant; not because she have be kiss; far from

it. but because he have hesitate. between Clementina fishfag and

Clementina princess be a mighty gulf. she know it. she exult. she

go to bed, but could not sleep. she have a headache; such a headache; a

glorious headache; a thunder and lightning of a headache!









                              CHAPTER XXIV





Tommy, call for Clementina the next morning; be confront at the

open door, not by Eliza, but by a demure damsel in a black frock, black

apron, and a black bow in her hair, who say “Oui, monsieur,” when

address. Tommy, still bewilder, ask whether she be a new lady’s

maid. “Oui; monsieur,” say the damsel, and show he into the Sheraton

drawing-room. he sit down meekly and wait for Clementina. she come

down soon, a resplendent vision, exquisitely gown, perfectly hat,

delicately gloved, and in her hand she jingle a small goldsmith’s shop.

she pirouette round.



“like it?”



Tommy groan. “Clementina, darling, tell I, in Heaven’s name, what

you’re play at, or I’ll go rave mad.”



“I tell you that one of these day I be go to become a lady. the day

have come. don’t I look like a lady?”



“that’s the devil of it,” he laugh. “you look like an archduchess.”



they pick up Etta and meet Quixtus at the Carlton where they lunch in

the middle of the great gay room. the young people’s curious awe of the

transmogrify Clementina soon melt away. the big, warm-hearte

Clementina they love be unchanged; but to she be add a

laughter-evoking, brilliant, joyous personage whose existence they have

never suspect. Quixtus go home stimulated and uplifted. he have never

enjoy two hour so much in his life.



and that be the beginning of the glory of Clementina Wing.



Day by day the glory deepen. the pyrotechnic—a flash, a bedazzlement

and then darkness—be not in Clementina’s nature. she have deliberately

immolate the phœnix of dusky plumage and from its ashe have arise this

second and radiant phœnix incarnation. she suffer, as she confess to

herself, infernally; for a new fire-bear phœnix must have its skin

peculiarly tender; but she grin and bear it for the great

glory—well, not of Clementina alone—but of God and her sex and the

happiness of those she love and the thing that stand for the right.



she be fight the interlope woman with her own weapon. she,

Clementina, the despise and reject of man, be pit her sex’s

fascination against the professional seductress. she have win the first

pitch battle. she have sweep the enemy from the field. sheer fierceness

of love, almost animal, for the child, sheer pity flame white for the

man grow dear to she, sheer sex, sheer womanhood—these be the force

at work. it would have be easy to denounce the woman to Quixtus. but

that might have throw he back into darkness. easy, too, to have hold

her knowledge as a threat over the woman’s head and bade her begone. but

where have be the triumph? where the glory? whereas to scorn the use of

her knowledge and conquer otherwise, therein lie matter for thrilling

exultation. it be an achievement worth the struggle.



and the glory of the riot through her vein of the tumultuous thing she

have keep strangle to torpor within she! the thing that have be stir

by the springtide in a girl’s heart, that have leapt at the parrot tulip

in the early May, that have almost escape from grip on the moonlit night

at Vienne, that have remain awake and struggle ever since—the glory

to let it go free and carry she whithersoever it would! art—to the

devil with it! what be art in comparison with this new-find glory?



it make she ten year young. it take year from the man for whose

fascination she bring it into play. Hers be a double conquest, the

rout of the woman, the capture of the man. daily she battle. Sheila,

the lover, a new portrait of he which she suddenly conceive the

splendid notion of painting, all be pretext for keep the

unconscious man within the sphere of her influence. any impression that

the other have make on his heart or his mind should be delete, and her

impression stamp there in its place, so that when he meet the other out

of her presence, as meet she he undoubtedly must, he would wear it as a

talisman against her art and blandishment. twice also during the die

day of the season, late that year, she go out into the great world

and give her adversary battle in the open.



it be between these two engagement that she have a talk with Huckaby.



Huckaby, do his good to act loyally towards both party, lead a

precarious moral existence. the sight of Clementina queen it in

dazzle raiment about Quixtus’s house and the despairing confidence of

Lena Fontaine have enable he to form a fairly accurate judgment of the

state of affair. his heart begin to bleed for Lena Fontaine. she would

come to his lodging and claim sympathy. to not a soul in the world but

he could she talk freely. she be desperate. that abominable woman

insult she, trample on she, poison Quixtus’s mind against she. he

have change suddenly, seem to avoid she, and, when he find himself in

her company, he be just polite and courteous in his gentle way, and

smilingly elude she. the Dinard intimacy, on which she have reckon,

have fade into the land of dream. he be be drag off before her

eye to some fool place up the river to be watch and guard like a

lunatic. what be she to do? Ruin would soon be stare she in the face.

she have think of upbraid he for neglect, of reproach he for

having play fast and loose with her affection, of put he through

the ordeal of an emotional scene. of that, however, she be afraid; it

might scare he away for good and all. she weep, an unhappy and

ill-treat woman, and Huckaby supply sympathy and handkerchief and a

mirror so that she could repair the ravage of tear.



one day Huckaby and Clementina meet in the hall of the Russell Square

house.



“well,” she say. “have you see Mrs. Fontaine lately?”



he admit that he have.



“take it rather badly, I suppose,” she remark with a reversion to

her grim manner.



“she be miserable. as I tell you, it mean all the world to she—her

very salvation.”



Clementina catch the note of deep pleading in his voice and fix he

with her shrewd eye.



“you seem to concern yourself very deeply about the lady.”



Huckaby glance at she for a moment hesitatingly; then shrug his

shoulder. Clementina be a woman to whom straight dealing count for

righteousness. he give she his secret.



“I’ve grow to care for she—to care for her very much. I know I’m a

fool, but I cann’t help it.”



“do you know anything of the lady’s private affair—financial, I

mean—how much she have honestly of her own?”



“four hundred pound a year.”



“and you?”



“when I take up the appointment of the Anthropological Society I shall

have five hundred.”



“nine hundred pound. have you any idea of the minimum rate per annum at

which she would accept salvation?”



“no,” say Huckaby in a daze way.



“well, work it out,” say Clementina. “good-bye.”



her second sortie into the great world be on the occasion of a

garden-party at the Quinns. Lady Quinn have ask she verbally at

Quixtus’s dinner and have send she a formal card. know that Quixtus

be go and more than suspect that the enemy would be there too,

she have keep she own invitation a secret. welcome, flattered,

surround by the gay crowd in the large, pleasant Hampstead garden, it

be some time before she see Mrs. Fontaine. at last she catch sight of

she sit with Quixtus, at the end of the garden, half screen by a

tree-trunk from the mass of guest. as soon as Clementina could work she

way through, she advance quickly and smile towards they. Quixtus

spring to his foot and seem to take a deep breath as a man do when

he fling bedroom window wide open on his first morning in mountain

air.



“Clementina! I haven’t the dim notion that you be come! how

delightful!” he survey she for a moment as she stand before he;

parasol on shoulder. Clementina with a parasol! “pray forgive my

impertinence,” say he, “but you’re wear the most beautiful dress I

ever see.”



it be hand-paint muslin—a fabulous thing. she laugh, turn to

Lena Fontaine, demure in a simple fawn costume.



“he’s improve. have you ever know he to compliment a woman on her

dress before?”



“many time,” say Mrs. Fontaine, mendaciously.



“it must be your excellent training,” say Clementina. she turn to

Quixtus. “I’ve see Huckaby this morning, and everything’s quite

arrange for the transportation of your necessary book and specimen

down to Moleham. he’ll do it beautifully even though it take a

pantechnicon van, and you willn’t be worried about it at all. he’s a

splendid fellow.”



“he be render I invaluable assistance.”



“Dr. Quixtus tell I he be quite an old friend of your, Mrs.

Fontaine,” say Clementina. “what a pity you cann’t be persuade to come

down to Moleham.”



“be you go to have a chaperon to your rather mixed house-party?”



“I should if you would honour I by come; my dear Mrs. Fontaine—a

dowager dragon of propriety. but an Admiral of the british navy be quite

safeguard enough for I.”



the hostess, come through the edge of the crowd, carry off Quixtus.

the two woman be leave alone. Lena Fontaine turn suddenly,

white-lipped, shake with anger.



“I’ve have enough of it. I’m not go to stand it. I’m not go to be

persecute like this any long.”



“what will you do?”



Lena Fontaine clench her small hand. what could she do?



“come, come,” say Clementina. “let we have a straight talk like

sensible woman, and put the pussy-cat aside, if we can. sit down. do.

there’s only one point of dissension between we. you know very well what

it be—there’s no use fencing. give it up. give up all idea of it and

I’ll let you alone. give it all up. you can see for yourself that I

willn’t let you do it.”



“it’s outrageous for you to speak to I like this,” say the other, half

hysterically.



“I know it be,” say Clementina coolly. “I’m an outrageous woman. be

so all my life. to do an outrageous thing be only part of the day’s

work. so I just say outrageously; give it up.”



Lena Fontaine flutter a glance at the strong face and catch the

magnetism of the black glitter eye, and remain silent. she know

that she be no match for this vital creature. she be confront

overwhelming odd. the rough fishfag of Paris who could walk straight

into the mould of a great lady and carry everything contemptuously

before she suddenly impress she with a paralyse sense of something

uncanny, relentless, irresistible. she be less a woman than an

implacable force. for the first time in her life of Hagardom, Lena

Fontaine feel beat. the nun’s face grew draw and haggard. Fright

replace the allurement of her eye. she say nothing, but twisted one

gloved hand nervously in the other. she be at the mercy of the victor.

there be silence for some moment. then Clementina’s heart smite she.

all this elaborate wheel to break a butterfly—a very naughty, sordid,

frayed and empty little butterfly—but still a butterfly!



“my dear,” she say, at last very gently. “I know how hard life be on a

lone and defenceless woman. I know you have many reason to hate I for

prevent you from make that life soft and sweeter. but perhaps,

one of these day, you mayn’t hate I so much. I’m every infernal thing

you like to call I, and when I’m interfere with I’m a devil. but at

heart I’m a woman and a good sort. I willn’t outrage you by say such an

idiot thing as ‘let we be friend,’ when you’ve every rational desire to

murder I; but I ask you to remember—and I’ve suffer enough not to be

a silly fool go round say serious thing I don’t mean—I ask you

to remember that if ever you want a woman to turn to, you can count on

I. I’m a good bit old than you,” she add generously, “I’m

thirty-six.”



“oh, God!” cry the other, burst into tear, “I’m thirty-seven.”



“impossible,” say Clementina, in genuine amazement. “you look nothing

like it.” she rise and touch the weep woman’s shoulder. “anyhow,”

she say, “I’ve a certain amount of female horse-sense that might come

in useful if you want it.”



Whereupon Clementina make her way straight through the throng to her

hostess, and after a swift farewell leave the garden-party.



the enemy be finally route; the confession of age, a confession of

defeat. the victory have be achieve much more easily than she have

anticipate. when she go home she look with a queer smile into one

of the hang wardrobe with which she have be oblige to furnish her

bedroom so as to accommodate the prodigious quantity of new dress. why

all the lavish expenditure, the feverish preparation, the many hour

waste at great dressmaker, modiste, and other vendor of

frippery—why the hairdresser, the face specialist—why the exquisite

torture of tight lacing—why the responsibility of valuable jewel, her

mother’s, up till then safely store at the bank—why the renting of the

caravanserai at Moleham—why the revolution of her habit, her mode of

expression, her very life—why, in short, such fantastic mean to gain

so simple an end? be it worth it? Clementina slam the wardrobe door

and glance at herself in the long mirror that be expose. she see a

happy woman, and she laugh. it be worth it. she have gain infinitely

more than a victory over a poor sister of no account. Sheila come

run into the room.



“oh, what a beautiful auntie!”



she catch the child to she and hug her close.



the legal formality with regard to Will Hammersley’s affair be

eventually conclude; but in spite of all inquiry the identity of

Sheila’s mother remain a curious mystery. no record of Hammersley’s

marriage could be find, either at Somerset House or at Shanghai. no

reference to his wife appear in the paper he have leave behind he. at

last, a day or two before her departure for Moleham, Clementina make a

discovery.



a trunk of Hammersley’s merely contain suit of clothe and other

wear apparel have remain undisposed of, and Clementina be go

through they with the object of pack they off to some charitable

association, when from the fold of a jacket there drop a bundle of

letter tie round with a bit of tape. she glance idly at the outer

sheet. the handwriting be a woman’s. the few word that meet her eye

show that they be love-letter. Clementina sit on an empty packing

case—all Hammersley’s personal belonging have be dump in her

box-room—and balance the bundle in her hand. they be sacred thing

belong to the heart of the dead. ought she to read they? yet she

become conscious of a feminine intuition that they might hold a secret

that would bring comfort to the living. so she undo the tape and spread

out the old crumpled page, and as she read, a tragedy, a romance as old

as the world be reveal to she. the letter date from seven year

back. they be from one, Nora Duglade, a woman wretchedly marry,

break her heart for Will Hammersley. Clementina read on. suddenly she

give a sharp cry of astonishment and leap to her feat. there be a

reference to Angela Quixtus, who be in her confidence. Clementina

rapidly scan page after page and find more and more of Angela. the

writer; like most woman, could not bear to destroy the beloved letter;

she dared not keep they at home; Angela have lend she a drawer in her

bureau. . . .



Clementina telephone to Quixtus to come immediately on urgent business.

in twenty minute he arrive, somewhat scared. be anything wrong with

Sheila?



“I’ve find out who her mother be,” say Clementina.



“who be she?” he ask quickly.



she bid he sit down. they be in the drawing room.



“some one call Nora Duglade. . . . I don’t remember she.”



Quixtus pass his hand over his forehead as he throw back his thought.



“Mrs. Duglade . . .” he say in bewilderment, “Mrs. Duglade . . .”



“a friend of Angela’s,” say Clementina.



“yes. a school friend. they see very little of each other. I meet she

only once or twice. I have no notion Hammersley know she. . . . her

husband be a brute, I remember—use to beat she. . . . I think I hear

she have leave he——”



“for Will Hammersley.”



“he die year ago . . . of drink. . . . oh-h!” he shudder and hide his

face in his hand.



“read these few page,” say Clementina and she leave the room very

quietly.



about ten minute afterwards she come in again. he spring up from his

chair and grasp both her hand. his eye be wet and his lip work

tremulously.



“I find a letter from Hammersley in Angela’s drawer—it have got stick

at the back. . . . it be for the other woman, my dear——” his voice

quaver into the treble. “it be for the other woman.”



she lead he to the stiff sofa and sit beside he and hold his hand. and

she have the joy of see a black cloud melt away from a man’s soul.



from that hour when he have reveal to she the thing deep and sacred,

dark and despairing of his heart, and have go forth from her sympathy

aglow with a new-find faith in humanity, the bond between they be

strengthen a thousandfold. Quixtus find that he could obtain not only

swift response to his thought from a keen intelligence, but wide,

undreame of understanding of all those subtle working of the spirit,

regret, hope, judgment, prejudice, shrinking, wondering, impulse,

which be too elusive to be thought, too vague to be emotion. and yet,

she herself be never subtle. she be direct and uncompromising. as a

shiver man enter a cosy room and warm himself before a blaze

fire, so do he unquestioningly warm his heart in Clementina’s

personality. and as the shiver man know, without speculate, that

the fire be intense and strong, so do he know that Clementina be

intense and strong.



all through the idyll of the remain summer; he feel this more and

more. she stand for something that he have miss in life, something that

Angela, pale, passionless, negative reflection of himself, have never

give he. she stand for richness, bigness, meaning. a simple man, not

give to introspection or analysis of motive, new sensation, new

realisation come to he as they come to a child and cause development.

and among other impression that deepen on his mind—and his be the

mind of a scholar and dreamer, sweet and clean—be that of Clementina

(now appear to the world as God Almighty intend she to appear) as a

physically fine and splendid creature.



and, during all the summer idyll in the Manor House at

Moleham-on-Thames, Clementina, in her uncompromise way, maintain the

new phœnix’s plumage preen and shiny. the old habit of clawing at her

hair while she be paint she circumvent by tie her head in an

Angelica Kauffmann handkerchief. Tommy make she a present of one, in

cardinal red, in which she flame gipsy-like about the studio.

involuntarily, inevitably, the manner of all the man in her house-party,

Quixtus, Huckaby, Admiral Concannon, Poynter (who spend a week-end),

Tommy and Tommy’s crony who come and go as they please, be tinge

with a deference and a homage which make life a thing of meaning and

delight.



sometimes a little scene like this would take place;



to Clementina paint hard in the morning, enter the housekeeper.



“please, ma’am, we’ll soon be out of wine.”



she would frown at the canvas. “well, what of it?”



“the gentleman, ma’am.”



“oh, let they drink ginger-beer.”



“very well, ma’am.”



then with a laugh she would fling down her brush, and go and attend to

her cellar. to make the man in her house comfortable, the commonplace

care of a hostess, give her unimagined pleasure. Etta and her young

friend could look after themselves, be female and therefore

resourceful. but the man be helpless child, even the Admiral;

sometimes, she think—especially the Admiral. their nourishment become

a matter of peculiar solicitude. she invent want for they which she

forthwith supply. sometimes she summon Tommy to consultation. but

when he gravely prescribe a large bath powder-puff for his uncle she

upbraid he for make a jest of solemn thing and dismiss he from

her counsel. her painting suffer from these inroad on her time and

thought; but Clementina care not. the happiness of the trustful man

around she be of more consequence than the successful application of

paint to canvas. sometimes, sit at the head of her table she would

feel herself a mother to they all, and her lip would twist themselves

into a new smile.



her happy hour be those which she spend alone with Sheila and

Quixtus. since the cloud have be lift from his soul he love the

child with a new tenderness, thus inarticulately express his

gratitude to God for having put it into his heart to love she while the

cloud hang heavy. and Clementina know this, and invest his relation

with the child in a curious sanctity. she love to share with he the

child’s affection in actual physical presence. the late afternoon be

Sheila’s hour. Clementina would sit with they beneath the great cedar

tree on the lawn and listen to the story he have learn to pour into

Sheila’s insatiable ear. they be mostly odd and end of folk-lore.

but now and then she suspect heterogeneous strain; and one day she

call out;



“be you invent all that, Ephraim?”



he confess with the air of a detect schoolboy.



“to hear you play the deuce with folk-lore which you regard as a

strict and sacred science amaze I. from you it sound almost immoral.”



Quixtus finger the soft curl. “what,” say he, “be all the science in

the world compare with this little head?”



Clementina be silent for a moment. then she say abruptly. “you feel

like that, too, do you?”



Quixtus nod and dream over the curl.



“but what happen to the princess and the Ju-Ju man?” demand Sheila,

and Quixtus have to pursue his immoral course.



August melt into September, and September draw to its close. admiral

Concannon and Etta and all the boy and girl, save Tommy, have go, and

Huckaby be busy with the repacking of book and specimen. the weather

have break. the tree drip with rain and the leave begin to fall.

mist rise from the meadow by the river and a blue haze, sweet and sad,

envelop the low-lie hill. in the garden the sunflower, a week

before so glorious, hang their head with a die grace. the bird, even

the thrush, be mute. the hour under the cedar tree have become the

hour of deepen twilight by the fireside. the idyll be over. London

call. . . .



                 *        *        *        *        *



they have be sit before the drawing-room fire for a long time

without speak. Sheila, with a toy shop and an army of doll for

customer, play on the floor between they, absorb in her game. no

one of the three notice that darkness have creep into the room, for the

fire leap and flame, throw on they fierce light and shadow.



“the day after to-morrow,” say Clementina, break the silence, and

look intently at the blaze.



“yes,” say Quixtus. “the day after to-morrow.”



“I think you’ll find I’ve make all arrangement for Sheila, Atkins

understand.” Atkins be the nurse. “I’ve see about the nursery fender

which I have overlook. . . . you mustn’t let Atkins bully you, or

she’ll get out of hand. . . . how these three month have fly!”



“if you don’t insist,” say Quixtus, “I wouldn’t take she from you. but

you’ll miss she terribly.”



“so will you when my turn come again,” reply Clementina gruffly.

“what’s the good of talk rubbish?”



there be another silence. he glance at she, and a sudden flame from

the fire light up her face and he see that her brow be bent and her

mouth set grimly tight and that something glistened for a second on each

cheek and then fall quickly. and each time he glance at she he see the

same glistening drop fall.



“Uncle Ephim,” say Sheila come and insinuate herself between his

leg, “Mrs. Brown want to buy some match and I haven’t get any.”



he give she his silver match-box and Sheila go away happy to her game.



Clementina choke a sob.



“my dear,” say he, at last.



“yes?” say Clementina.



“why shouldn’t we have she always with we?”



“you mean——?” say Clementina, after a pause, and still look into

the fire.



“even with she, I cann’t face that great lonely house. I cann’t face my

empty, lonely existence. my dear,” say he, bend forward in his

chair; “it have come to this—that I cann’t think a thought or feel an

emotion without you becoming inextricably interweave with it. you have

grow into the texture of my life. I know I may be impertinent and

presumptuous in put such a proposal before you——”



“you haven’t put one yet,” say Clementina.



“it be that you would do I the honour of marry I,” reply Quixtus.



again there be silence. for the first time in her life she be afraid

to speak, lest she should betray the commotion in her being. she love

he. she do not hide the fact from herself. it be not the mad,

gorgeous passion of romance; she know it for something deep, strong,

base on essential. he lie deeply rooted in her heart, half child for

her mothering, all man for her loving. when have she begin to care for

he? she scarcely know. perhaps at Marseilles, when he have return to

she for companionship and they have walk out arm in arm. she know that

he speak truly of his need of she. but the word that matter, the

foolish little word; he have not utter.



“do you care for I enough to marry I?” she ask, at last.



he glance at Sheila weigh out match in her toy scale. it be

difficult to carry on a love-scene with conviction in the presence of a

third party, even of that of a beloved child of five.



“very, very, deeply,” he say in a low voice.



the dressing-bell rang and Clementina rise. “put up your shop, darling.

it’s time to go to bed.” then she cross to Quixtus’s chair and stand

behind he and lay one arm on his shoulder. he kiss her hand.



“well?” say he, look up.



“I’ll tell you presently,” she say, and in withdraw her hand, she

lightly brush his cheek.



Quixtus dress quickly and come down early to the drawing-room, and

soon Clementina appear. she be wear a red dress which she have

buy during her wholesale purchasing of raiment, but have never yet

wear, think it too flaring, and she have a red dahlia in her hair.

Quixtus take both her hand and raise they to his shoulder, and she

stand away from he at the distance of her bare; shapely arm, and she

smile into his eye.



“your answer?” say he.



“tell I,” she say. “what do you really want I for?”



“for yourself,” he cry, and he catch she in his arm with swift

passion and kiss she.



“if you haven’t say that,” she remark a few moment afterwards, “I

don’t know what my answer would have be. at any rate,” she add,

touch her hair with uplifted hand, “it would not have be quite so

spontaneous.”



he lean his elbow on the mantelpiece and a great light come into his

pale blue eye as he look at she.



“do you think, my dear,” say he, “that I’m such a dry stick of a man as

not to want you for your great self—your great, splendid, and wonderful

self? I want you with everything in I.”



she turn half aside and say gently;



“that’s all a woman want, Ephraim.”



“what?”



“to be want,” say Clementina.



it be not till the next day that she tell Tommy the great news. she

take he for a walk and break it to he bluntly. but he be prepare for

it. Etta have foresee and have prophesy to his sceptical ear. he

murmur well-breed congratulation.



“but your painting,” say he, after a while.



“it can go hang,” say Clementina. she laugh at his look of horror.

“art for the polygamous man and the celibate woman. a man can throw his

soul into his picture and also attend to his wife and family. that’s

out of a woman’s power. she must choose between her art on the one side,

and husband and child on the other—I’m tell you this, _mon

petit_, for your education. I’ve choose husband and child as any

woman with blood in her vein would choose. it’s the woman without blood

that choose art—don’t make any mistake about it. now and then one of

’em choose the other—and, as she don’t get any child and don’t

know what the deuce to do with a husband, fall back on her art again

and give the poor devil soup with camel-hair brush float about it

and a painting-rag for a napkin, and then there be ruction, and she

go among her weary pal and say that their sex be misunderstood and

down-trodden, and they must clamour for their right. bosh!”



she sniff in her old way. Tommy insist.



“but you’re a bear painter, Clementina. a great painter. it mean such a

tremendous sacrifice.”



“you young man of the present day make I tired!” she exclaim. “you

all seem to think that lark ought to fall ready roast into your

mouth. there’s not a blessed thing in this world worth have without

sacrifice. the big people, the people that have the big thing in life

be those that have pay or be prepared to pay the big price for they.”



“I don’t see why you should round on I like that,” say Tommy. “after

all, a little while ago I make no bone about sacrifice the loaf and

fish for the sake of my art—I don’t want to brag—but _fiat justitia_

at any rate.”



“I know what you do,” say Clementina, mollify, “and if you haven’t

do it, I shouldn’t be talk like this to you. and you’re a painter

and my very dear Tommy, and you can understand—of course, I’ll go on

painting—I’ve get it in my blood. I could no more do without a paint

brush handy than a tooth brush. but it’s go to be secondary. I’ll be

the gifted amateur. Clementina Wing, painter of portrait to the

nobility, gentry, mayoralty, and pork-butchery of Great Britain and

Ireland be dead. you can paraphrase the epitaph. ‘here lie Clementina

Wing, the married woman.’ and, Tommy, my dear,” she add in a soft

voice, “you can add to it; ‘_sic itur ad astra_.’”



“I do hope you’ll be jolly happy,” say Tommy.



on their way back it happen that the postman meet they with the

household budget. she take the letter into the hall and sort they.

Tommy go off with his precious epistle from Etta. Huckaby appear in

quest of his chief’s correspondence, and, see she alone,

congratulate she on her approach marriage. she thank he and hold

out a letter address to he from Dinard.



“I’ve be deal in quotation lately,” she say. “and I find I’ve get

one for you. ‘go thou and do likewise.’”



Huckaby sigh and laugh.



“one of these day, perhaps,” say he.



so the idyll that seem to be come to an end have only just begin.

they return to London, and while Clementina (in whose charge Sheila

now remain) paint frenziedly to finish the work she have in hand,

Quixtus, with her help, reorganise the great gaunt house in Russell

Square. the worm-eat scarecrow of a billiard table be remove from

the billiard-room build by Quixtus’s father over the garden at the back

of the house, and the room, spacious and top-light, be convert into

a studio for the bride to be. Tommy, enthusiastically iconoclast, be

give authority, under Clementina’s direction, to refurnish, condemn

rep curtain, mahogany mid-victorian furniture—a dining-room sideboard

disfigure by carving of plethoric fruit have send shiver down his back

since infancy—Turkey carpet and all the gloom of a bygone age, and

convert the grim abode into a bower of delight.



and towards the end of October the oddly mate pair be marry, and

Clementina go to her husband’s home and the patter of the foot of the

beloved child of their adoption be hear about the house and great joy

fall upon they.



one day, in the early spring, Quixtus burst into the studio, a letter in

hand. the great of all honour that the civilised world have to give

to the scholar have fall on he—honorary membership of the Institut de

France. she must know of it at once.



she be sit before the easel, a bit of charcoal in hand, absorb in

her drawing. what he see on the drawing-paper put, for the moment, the

Institute of France out of his mind. two arm come from the vague,

headless trunk of a drape woman; one arm clasp Sheila, a living

portrait, and the other something all chubby, kissable curve, such as

Murillo have render immortal. as soon as she be aware of his presence

she tear the sheet from the board, and look at he somewhat defiantly.

he go up and put his arm round she, deeply move.



“my dear,” say he, “I see. you’re the only woman in the world that

could have do it. let I look. I can share it with you, dear.”



she yield. his delicate perception of the innermost sweetness of

life be infinitely dear to she. she set the drawing upright on the

ledge. he draw a chair close to she and sit down, and he forget the

crown glory of his intellectual life.



“it’s not bad of Sheila, be it?” she say.



“and the other?”



she kiss he. “the very image. it’s bind to be.”



presently she laugh and say:



“I’ve be think of the good St. Paul lately. he have a lot to say

about glory. do you remember? about the glory of celestial body and

body terrestrial. ‘there be one glory of the sun and another glory of

the moon and another glory of the star.’ but there be one glory which

that eminent bachelor never dream of.”



“and what be that, my dear?” ask Quixtus.



“the glory of be a woman,” say Clementina.



                                the END









novel by W. J. LOCKE



MR. W. J. LOCKE’S LATEST novel



the Glory of Clementina Wing



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



                 *        *        *        *        *



Simon the Jester



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    W. L. Courtney in _the Daily Telegraph_.—“You will not put down

    the book until you have read the last page. the story be not the

    main part of Mr. Locke’s book. it be the style, the quality of

    the writing, the atmosphere of the novel, the easy, pervasive

    charm . . . which make we feel once more the stir pulse and

    eager blood of deathless romance.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the Beloved Vagabond



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Morning Post._—“It would not be surprising if ‘Beloved

    Vagabond’ become the favourite novel of the season. . . . this

    fantastic and enliven book.”



    _Truth._—“Certainly it be the most brilliant piece of work Mr.

    Locke have do.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the moral of Marcus Ordeyne



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Truth._—“Mr. Locke’s new novel be one of the most artistic

    piece of work I have meet with for many a day. he tell his

    story with just that gentle ironic touch the subject require,

    with altogether delightful result.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the White Dove



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Morning Post._—“It be an interesting story. the character be

    strongly conceive and vividly present, and the dramatic

    moment be powerfully realise.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



derelict



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _daily Chronicle._—“Mr. Locke tell his story in a very true,

    very move, and very noble book. if any one can read the last

    chapter with dry eye we shall be surprised. ‘derelict’ be an

    impressive and important book. Yvonne be a character that any

    artist might be proud of.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



Idols



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Daily Telegraph._—“A brilliantly write and eminently

    readable book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the Usurper



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Daily Telegraph._—“Arresting be the right word to apply to Mr.

    Locke’s book. beyond all the excellence of the characterisation

    and the interest the story evoke, which make it one of the

    most attractive novel of the year, there be true insight in

    deal with several of the problem of humanity, the stimulus

    to thought which be alike rare and unforgettable.”



at the Gate of Samaria



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Daily Chronicle._—“The heroine of this clever story attract

    our interest. . . . she be a clever and subtle study. . . . we

    congratulate Mr. Locke.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



a study in Shadows



    Crown 8vo, 6s.



_PRESS opinion_



    _Athenœum._—“The character-drawing be distinctly good. all the

    personage stand out well define with strongly mark

    individuality.”



    _literary World._—“A striking and cleverly write book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



the Demagogue & Lady Phayre



    Crown 8vo, 3s. 6d.



JOHN LANE, the Bodley Head, Vigo Street, London, W.



JOHN LANE’S list of FICTION



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY ARTHUR H. ADAMS.



=galahad JONES.=     a Tragic Farce.      Crown 8vo.      6/-



with 16 full-page Illustrations by Norman Lindsay.



    _Westminster Gazette._—“There be something extraordinarily

    fresh about Galahad Jones.”



    _Times._—“With skilful touch.”



    _Athenœum._—“Mr. Adams have write a really charming and tender

    romance.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



=a TOUCH of FANTASY.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY FRANCIS ADAMS.



=a child of the AGE.=      Crown 8vo.      1/- net



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“It come recognisably near to great

    excellence. there be a love episode in this book which be

    certainly fine. clearly conceive and express with point.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY JEAN AICARD.



=the diverting adventures of MAURIN.=       Cr. 8vo. 6/-



translate from the French by Alfred Allinson, M.A.



    _Westminster Gazette_—Maurin, hunter, poacher, boaster, and

    lover of woman, be a magnificently draw type of the Meridional,

    who be in some way the Irishman of France. . . . a fine, sane,

    work. . . . the translation be excellent.”



    _Morning Leader_—“Indubitably laughable. an encyclopædia of the

    good form of foolishness.”



=MAURIN the ILLUSTRIOUS.=       Crown 8vo. 6/-



translate from the French by Alfred Allinson, M.A.



    _evening Standard_—“If he have never do anything else M.

    Aicard would have earn his seat in the French Academy by his

    creation of Maurin. for Maurin be an addition to the world’s

    stock of fictional character—to that picture gallery where no

    restorer be ever want.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY GRANT ALLEN.



=the british BARBARIANS.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6 net



also Canvas Back Library 1/6 net.



    _Saturday Review_—“Mr. Allen take occasion to say a good many

    thing that require say, and suggest a good many reform

    that would, if adopt, bring our present legal code more into

    harmony with modern humanity and the exigency of its

    development.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by MAUD ANNESLEY.



=the wine of LIFE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“The story be full of life and interest and

    the startling dénouement be lead up to with considerable skill.”



=THE door of DARKNESS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“An enthral story, powerfully imagine

    and distinguish for artistry of no mean order.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY W. M. ARDAGH.



=the MAGADA.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“‘The Magada’ be a store-house of rare and

    curious learning . . . it be a well-write and picturesque

    story of high adventure and deed of derring-do.”



    _Observer_—“The book have admirably catch the spirit of

    romance.”



    _Daily Chronicle_—“‘The Magada’ be a fine and finely tell

    story, and we congratulate Mr. Ardagh.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. ARNOTT.



=the DEMPSEY DIAMONDS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



by GERTRUDE ATHERTON.



=SENATOR NORTH.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _New York Herald_—“In the description of Washington life Mrs.

    Atherton show not only a very considerable knowledge of

    external, but also an insight into the underlie political

    issue that be remarkable.”



    _Outlook_—“The novel have genuine historical value.”



=the ARISTOCRATS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



also in paper board, cloth back, at 1/6.



    _the Times_—“Clever and entertaining. . . . this gay volume be

    write by some one with a pretty wit, an eye for scenery, and a

    mind quick to grasp natural as well as individual

    characteristic. her investigation into the american character

    be acute as well as amusing.”



=the DOOMSWOMAN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post_—“A fine drama, finely conceive and finely

    execute.”



    _Athenœum_—“Eminently picturesque . . . gorgeous colouring.”



=a whirl ASUNDER.=      Paper Cover.      1/- net



    _Bystander_—“It can be recommend as a fine romance. . . .

    there be plenty of incident.”



    _Outlook_—“The story be a curious achievement in the violently

    and crudely picturesque style that be peculiar to the author

    writer.”









by EX-lieutenant bilse.



=life in a garrison TOWN.=      Crown 8vo.      1/- net



the suppressed german Novel. with a preface write by the author whilst

in London, and an introduction by Arnold White.



    _Truth_—“The disgraceful exposure of the book be expressly

    admit to be true by the Minister of War in the Reichstag.

    what the book will probably suggest to you be, that german

    militarism be cut its own throat, and will one day be hoist

    with its own petard.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY HORACE BLEACKLEY.



=a gentleman of the ROAD.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum._—“It have plenty of spirit and incident.”



    _Westminster Gazette._—“Mr. Bleackley know his period well,

    and we be grateful to he for invest a well-wear theme with

    interest and refreshment.”



    _Times._—“Breezy and stir.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY shelland BRADLEY.



=ADVENTURES of an A.D.C.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Westminster Gazette_—“. . . make well and more entertaining

    reading than nine out of every ten novel of the day. . . .

    those who know nothing about anglo-indian social life will be as

    well entertain by this story as those who know everything

    about it.”



    _Times_—“Full of delightful humour.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY JOHN buchan.



=JOHN BURNET of BARNS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Truth_—“In short, this be a novel to lay aside and read a

    second time, nor should we forget the spirited snatch of song

    which show that the winner of the Newdigate have the soul of the

    poet.”



=a lost lady of old YEARS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum_—“Written in strong and scholarly fashion.”



    _Morning Post_—“We have nothing but praise for Mr. Buchan. the

    book be of sterle merit and sustained interest.”



    _evening Standard_—“Stirring and well tell.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by DANIEL CHAUCER.



=simple life LIMITED.=      Crown 8vo.       6/-



    _Morning Post._—“One of the most delightful novel we have read

    for a long time.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“So distinguish in style that the reader

    devour it with avidity. it be a modern novel with a sparkle and

    freshness which should set everybody peruse it. the author

    ought to feel proud of his achievement.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY GILBERT K. CHESTERTON.



=the napoleon of notte HILL.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



with 6 Illustrations by W. Graham Robertson.



    _daily Mail_—“Mr. Chesterton, as our laugh philosopher, be

    at his good in this delightful fantasy.”



    _Westminster Gazette_—“It be undeniably clever. it

    scintillate—that be exactly the right word—with bright and

    epigrammatic observation, and it be write throughout with

    undoubted literary skill.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY T. B. CLEGG.



=the love CHILD.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Truth_—“A singularly powerful book. . . . the painful story

    grip you from first to last.”



    _Daily Telegraph_—“A strong and interesting story, the fruit of

    careful thought and conscientious workmanship. . . . Mr. Clegg

    have present intensely dramatic situation without let they

    degenerate into the melodramatic.”



=the WILDERNESS.=      Crown 8vo.       6/-



    _Daily Telegraph_—“A really admirable story.”



    _Athenœum_—“Mr. Clegg claim the gift of powerful and truthful

    writing.”



=the BISHOP’S SCAPEGOAT.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum_—“Inspired with a deep sense of the beautiful in

    Nature and the instinctive goodness of the human heart, and the

    divine meaning of life.”



    _Daily Mail_—“A really good novel. it be so good that we hope

    Mr. Clegg will give we some more from the same store.”



=JOAN of the HILLS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times_—“Another of Mr. Clegg’s admirable novel of australian

    life.”



    _Globe_—“A good story, interesting all through.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY W. BOURNE COOKE.



=BELLCROFT PRIORY.= A Romance.      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _World._—“Exceedingly well-write and admirably construct.”



    _evening Standard._—“Good reading . . . it have originality.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY E. H. COOPER.



=my brother the KING.=      Crown 8vo.       6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“The story be admirably tell. the book

    should be in everyone’s hand.”



    _Daily Telegraph._—“The story be admirable, full of life and

    touch with real feeling.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY FREDERICK BARON CORVO.



=in his own IMAGE.=      Crown 8vo.       6/-



    _Westminster Gazette_—“The book be cleverly write and the

    author have obviously a very pretty literary talent.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“Always delightful and well worth read.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by VICTORIA CROSS.



=the woman who DIDN’T.=      Crown 8vo.      1/- net



    _Speaker_—“The feminine gift of intuition seem to be develop

    with uncanny strength, and what she see she have the power of

    flash upon her reader with wonderful vividness and felicity

    of phrase. . . . a strong and subtle study of feminine nature,

    bite irony, restrained passion, and a style that be both

    forcible and polished.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. J. DAWSON.



=middle GREYNESS.= (Canvas-back Library).      1/6 net



    _Daily Telegraph_—“The novel have distinct ability. the

    description of up-country manner be admirable.”



=MERE SENTIMENT.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6 net



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“There be some clever writing in Mr.

    Dawson’s short story collect to form a new ‘keynote’ volume

    under the title of ‘Mere Sentiment.’ . . . a very clever piece

    of work. . . . Mr. Dawson have a pretty style show dramatic

    instinct.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY GEORGE EGERTON.



=KEYNOTES.=      Crown 8vo.      Ninth Edition.      3/6 net



    _St. James’s Gazette_—“This be a collection of eight of the

    prettiest short story that have appear for many a day. they

    turn for the most part on feminine trait of character; in fact,

    the book be a little psychological study of woman under various

    circumstance. the character be so admirably draw, and the

    scene and landscape be describe with so much and so rare

    vividness, that we cannot help be almost spell-bind by their

    perusal.”



=DISCORDS.=      Crown 8vo.      Sixth Edition.       3/6 net



    _Daily Telegraph_—“These masterly word-sketch.”



    _Speaker_—“The book be true to human nature, for the author have

    genius, and let we add, have heart. it be representative; it be,

    in the hackneyed phrase, a human document.”



=SYMPHONIES.=      Crown 8vo.      Second Edition.      6/-



    _St. James’s Gazette_—“There be plenty of pathos and no little

    power in the volume before we.”



    _Daily News_—“The impressionistic descriptive passage and the

    human touch that abound in the book lie hold of the

    imagination and linger in the memory of the reader.”



=FANTASIAS.=      Crown 8vo.      also Canvas Back Library 1/6 net.

3/6



    _daily Chronicle_—“These ‘Fantasias’ be pleasant

    reading—typical scene or tale upon the poetry and prose of

    life, prostitution, and the beauty of dream and truth.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY MARION FOX.



=hand of the NORTH.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Academy._—“This stir tale . . . be very interesting.”



    _Evening Standard._—“This book should prove an acceptable

    gift.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. C. FOX-DAVIES.



=the maulever MURDERS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



also 1/-net.



    _evening Standard_—“An entertain blend of the Society novel

    and the detective story.”



    _Westminster Gazette_—“We heartily recommend this book for a

    holiday or a railway journey. an exciting and ingenious tale.”



=the finance of SIR JOHN KYNNERSLEY.=



Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Punch_—“I read every word of the book, and enjoy nearly all

    of they.”



    _Morning Post_—“Mr. Fox-Davies’ extremely clever and

    entertaining book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY HAROLD FREDERIC.



=MARCH HARES.=      Crown 8vo.      Third Edition.      3/6 net



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Buoyant, fanciful, stimulating, a pure

    creation of fancy and high spirit. ‘March Hares’ have a joyous

    impetus which carry everything before it; and it enrich a

    class of fiction which unfortunately be not copious.”



=MRS. ALBERT GRUNDY.= Observations in Philistia. F’Cap. 8vo.      Second

Edition.      3/6. net



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“Mr. Frederic be at his very good in this

    light and delicate satire, which be spread with laughter and

    good humour.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by RICHARD GARNETT.



=the twilight of the GODS and other STORIES.= Crown 8vo.      Second

Edition.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle_—“A subtle compound of philosophy and irony.

    let the reader take these story as pure fun—lively incident

    and droll character—and he will be agreeably surprised to find

    how stimulating they be.”



    _Times_—“Here be learn in plenty, draw from all age and

    most language, but of dryness or dulness not a sentence. the

    book bubble with laughter. . . . his sense of humour have a wide

    range.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY ELIZABETH GODFREY.



=the winding ROAD.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _literary World_—“A carefully write story. . . . Miss Godfrey

    have the mind of a poet; her page breathe of the beautiful in

    nature without give long description, while the single-hearte

    love between Jasper and Phenice be describe with power and

    charm.”



=the BRIDAL of ANSTACE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Westminster Gazette_—“An individual charm and a sympathetic

    application have go to the conception of Miss Godfrey’s book,

    a remarkable power of characterisation to its making, and a

    refined literary taste to its composition.”



=the cradle of a POET.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Spectator._—“The whole story be pleasing and Miss Godfrey’s

    ‘seascape’ be execute with great realism.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“. . . the charm of beautiful writing,

    which cannot fail to enhance Miss Godfrey’s literary

    reputation.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. R. GORING THOMAS.



=MRS. gramercy PARK.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _World_—“In the language of the heroine herself, this, her

    story, be delightfully ‘bright and cute.’”



    _Observer_—“Fresh and amusing.”



=the lass with the DELICATE AIR.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum_—“. . . draw with a humour that be distinctly

    original. Mr. Goring-Thomas have the rare dickensian gift of

    impart life and personality to his character.”



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Mr. goring-Thomas say many shrewd and

    clever thing, and, blend comedy with pathos have write an

    enjoyable book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY handasyde.



=for the WEEK-END.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Standard_—“Only a woman, surely, would write such deep and

    intimate truth about the heart of another woman and the thing

    that give her joy when a man love she.”



=a GIRL’S life in a hunting COUNTRY.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6



    _Daily News_—“A sweet and true representation of a girl’s

    romance.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by HENRY HARLAND.



=the CARDINAL’S SNUFF BOX.=      Crown 8vo.      6/- Illustrated by G.

C. Wilmhurst.      165th. thousand.



    _Academy_—“The drawing be all excellent in style and really

    illustrative of the tale.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“Dainty and delicious.”



    _Times_—“A book among a thousand.”



=MY FRIEND PROSPERO.=      Crown 8vo.      Third Edition.      6/-



    _Times_—“There be no deny the charm of the work, the

    delicacy and fragrancy of the style, the sunny play of the

    dialogue, the vivacity of the wit, and the graceful flight of

    the fancy.”



    _World_—“The reading of it be a pleasure rare and unalloyed.”



=the lady PARAMOUNT.=      Crown 8vo.      55th Thousand.      6/-



    _Times_—“A fantastic, delightful love-idyll.”



    _Spectator_—“A roseate romance without a crumpled rose leaf.”



    _Daily Mail_—“Charming, dainty, delightful.”



=comedy and ERRORS.=      Crown 8vo.      Third Edition.      6/-



    Mr. Henry James, in _fortnightly Review_—“Mr. Harland have

    clearly think out a form. . . . he have master a method and

    learn how to paint. . . . his art be all alive with felicity

    and delicacy.”



=GREY ROSES.=      Crown 8vo.      Fourth Edition.      3/6 net



    _Daily Telegraph_—“‘Grey Roses’ be entitle to rank among the

    choice flower of the realm of romance.”



    _Spectator_—“Really delightful. ‘castle near Spain’ be as near

    perfection as it could well be.”



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Charming story, simple, full of

    freshness.”



=MADEMOISELLE MISS.=      Crown 8vo.      Third Edition.      3/6



    _Speaker_—“All through the book we be pleased and

    entertain.”



    _Bookman_—“An interesting collection of early work. in it may

    be note the undoubted delicacy and strength of Mr. Harland’s

    manner.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY E. CROSBY HEATH.



=HENRIETTA.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY ALICE HERBERT.



=the measure of our YOUTH.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Evening Standard_—“A very human, intelligible book. . . .

    exceedingly clever and earnestly real.”



    _morning Post_—“Reveals an unusual clearness of vision and

    distinction of style and thought.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY MURIEL HINE.



=HALF in EARNEST.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“This be write with great spirit and a

    considerable power of story-telling. it have sufficient

    attractive quality to make it a readable piece of work.”



    _Pall Mall Gazelle._—“The character-draw throughout, indeed,

    be of unusual merit.”



    _morning Post._—“Miss Muriel Hine be to be congratulate.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by ARNOLD HOLCOMBE.



=the ODD MAN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post_—“One of the most refreshing and amusing book

    that we have read for some month. . . . ‘the Odd Man’ be a book

    to put on one’s shelf and Mr. Holcombe’s be a name to

    remember.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY ADELAIDE HOLT.



=the VALLEY of REGRET.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times._—“Strong individuality, freshly conceive and firmly

    draw. . . . the book be one which augur well for the writer;

    for she certainly have the gift of reach the reader heart.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY WILFRID SCARBOROUGH JACKSON.



=nine point of the LAW.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Manchester Guardian_—“The kindly humorous philosophy of this

    most diverting story be as remarkable as its attractive style.

    there be hardly a page without something quotable, some neat bit

    of phrase or apt wording of a truth.”



=HELEN of TROY. N.Y.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle_—“The story be at once original, impossible,

    artificial, and very amusing. go, get the work and read.”



=TRIAL by MARRIAGE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _World_—“One can confidently promise the reader of this

    skilfully treat and unconventional novel that he will not find

    a page of it dull. it be one that will be not only read but

    remember.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY MRS. JOHN LANE.



=KITWYK.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



A Story with numerous illustration by Howard Pyle, Albert Sterner and

George Wharton Edwards.



    _Times_—“Mrs. Lane have succeed to admiration, and chiefly by

    reason of be so much interested in her theme that she make

    no conscious effort to please. . . . everyone who seek to be

    divert will read ‘Kitwyk’ for its obvious quality of

    entertainment.”



=the CHAMPAGNE STANDARD.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post_—“The author’s champagne overflow with witty

    saying too numerous to cite.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette_—“Mrs. Lane’s paper on our social manner

    and foible be the most entertaining, the kind and the

    truest that have be offer we for a long time. . . . the book

    show an airy philosophy that will render it of service to the

    social student.”



=BALTHASAR and other STORIES.=      Crown 8vo.      6/- translate by

Mrs. John Lane from the French of Anatole France



    _Daily Graphic_—“The original charm and distinction of the

    author’s style have survive the difficult ordeal of appear in

    another language. . . . ‘the Cure’s Mignonette’ be as perfect in

    itself as some little delicate flower.”



=accord to MARIA.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph_—“A more entertaining, companionable,

    good-natured, and yet critical piece of portraiture we have not

    have the good luck to encounter these many season. . . .

    ‘accord to Maria’ be as fresh, amusing, and human a book as

    any man, woman, or girl could desire to bewitch a jade moment,

    or drive away a fit of the dump.”



    _Daily Chronicle_—“This delightful novel, sparkle with

    humour. . . . Maria’s world be real. . . . Thackeray might have

    make such sheaf if he have be a woman.”



=talk o’ the TOWN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY RICHARD LE GALLIENNE.



=the BOOK bill of NARCISSUS.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6 net

Second Edition.



    C. di B. (Mr. Bernard Shaw) _in the Star_—“If an unusually fine

    literary instinct could make it a solid book, Mr. le Gallienne

    would be at no loss for an endure reputation . . . nothing

    could be pretty than his plea and persuasion on behalf of

    Narcissus and George Muncaster.”



=the worshipper of the IMAGE.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Contains passage of a poignancy which Mr.

    Le Gallienne have never before compass.”



=the quest of the golden GIRL.=      Cr. 8vo.      6/-

Fifteenth Edition.



    _Daily News_—“A piece of literary art which compel our

    admiration.”



    Mr. Max Beerbohm in _Daily Mail_—“Mr. Le Gallienne’s gentle,

    high spirit, and his sympathy with existence be exhibit

    here. . . . his poetry, like his humour, suffuse the whole book

    and give a charm to the most prosaic object and incident of

    life. . . . the whole book be delightful, for this reason, that

    no one else could have write a book of the same kind.”



=the romance of ZION CHAPEL.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-

Second Edition.



    _St. James’s Gazette_—“Mr. Le Gallienne’s masterpiece.”



    _Times_—“Extremely clever and pathetic. as for sentiment

    Dickens might have be justly proud of poor Jenny’s linger

    death, and reader whose heart have the mastery over their

    head will certainly weep over it.”



=paint SHADOWS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Scotsman_—“Material and workmanship be of the fine.”



    _Queen_—“Really delightful story, Mr. Le Gallienne write

    prose like a poet.”



=little dinner with the SPHINX.=      Cr. 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph_—“Here be the same delicate phrasing, the same

    tender revelation of emotion, always present with a

    daintiness of colour that reveal the true literary artist.”



    _Star_—“Mr. Le Gallienne touch with exquisite tenderness on

    the tragedy of thing that change and pass and fade.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. E. J. LEGGE.



=MUTINEERS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Speaker_—“An interesting story relate with admirable lucidity

    and remarkable grasp of character. Mr. Legge write with polish

    and grace.”



=both great and SMALL.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Saturday Review_—“We read on and on with increase pleasure.”



    _Times_—“The style of this book be terse and witty.”



=the FORD.=      Crown 8vo.      Second Edition.      6/-



    _Standard_—“An impressive work . . . clever and thoughtful.

    ‘the Ford,’ deserve to be largely read.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY W. J. LOCKE.



=DERELICTS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Mr. Locke tell his story in a very true,

    very move, and very noble book. if anyone can read the last

    chapter with dry eye we shall be surprised. ‘derelict’ be an

    impressive and important book.”



    _Morning Post_—“Mr. Locke’s clever novel. one of the most

    effective story that have appear for some time past.”



=IDOLS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Punch_—“The Baron strongly recommend Mr. W. J. Locke’s

    ‘idol’ to all novel reader. it be well write. no time be

    waste in superfluous description; there be no fine writing for

    fine writing’s sake, but the story will absorb the reader. . . .

    it be a novel that, once take up, cannot willingly be put down

    until finish.”



=a study in SHADOWS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle_—“Mr. Locke have achieve a distinct success in

    this novel. he have strike many emotional chord and strike they

    all with a firm sure hand.”



    _Athenœum_—“The character-drawing be distinctly good. all the

    personage stand out well define with strongly mark

    individuality.”



=the WHITE DOVE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times_—“An interesting story, full of dramatic scene.”



    _Morning Post_—“An interesting story. the character be

    strongly conceive and vividly present, and the dramatic

    moment be powerfully realize.”



=the USURPER.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _World_—“This quite uncommon novel.”



    _Spectator_—“Character and plot be most ingeniously wrought,

    and the conclusion, when it come, be fully satisfying.”



    _Times_—“An impressive romance.”



=the DEMAGOGUE and LADY PHAYRE.=      Cr. 8vo.      3/6



=at the GATE of SAMARIA.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle_—“The heroine of this clever story attract

    our interest . . . she be a clever and subtle study. . . . we

    congratulate Mr. Locke.”



    _Morning Post_—“A cleverly write tale . . . the author’s

    picture of bohemian life be bright and graphic.”



=where LOVE IS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    Mr. James Douglas, in _Star_—“I do not often praise a book with

    this exultant gusto, but it give I so much spiritual stimulus

    and moral pleasure that I feel bound to snatch the additional

    delight of commend it to those reader who long for a novel

    that be a piece of literature as well as a piece of life.”



    _Standard_—“A brilliant piece of work.”



    _Times_—“The author have the true gift; his people be alive.”



=the moral of MARCUS ORDEYNE.=      Cr. 8vo.      6/-



Mr. C. K. Shorter, in _Sphere_—“A book which have just delight my

heart.”



    _Truth._—“Mr. Locke’s new novel be one of the most artistic

    piece of work I have meet with for many a day.”



    _daily Chronicle._—“Mr. Locke succeed, indeed, in every crisis

    of this most original story.”



=the beloved VAGABOND.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Truth._—“Certainly it be the most brilliant piece of work Mr.

    Locke have do.”



    _evening Standard._—“Mr. Locke can hardly fail to write

    beautifully. he have not fail now.”



=SIMON the JESTER.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“. . . something of the precision of the

    pendant, combine with an easy garrulity which be absolutely

    charming, and a literary style which carry we from the

    beginning to the end with unfailing verve and ease . . .

    certainly you will not put down the book until you have read the

    last page . . . the style, the quality of the writing, the

    atmosphere of the novel, the easy, pervasive charm . . . make we

    feel once more the stir pulse and eager blood of deathless

    romance.”



=the glory of clementina WING.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY ingraham LOVELL.



=MARGARITA’S SOUL.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Punch._—“There have be a great many _ingénue_ (mock or

    real) in modern fiction, and doubtless one or two in actual

    life; but there never be one inside a book or out of it who

    come within a four mile cab radius of Margarita. the book be

    well worth reading.”



    _Westminster Gazette._—“A book which do not let the reader’s

    interest flag for a moment. it be full of laughter and smile,

    of seriousness, comfortable philosophy and a few tear.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY CHARLES LOWE.



=the PRINCE’S PRANKS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _evening Standard_—“The ‘prank’ be good reading. all his

    adventure go with a swing, and the escape be as exciting as

    anything we have read for a long time.”



    _Daily Chronicle_—“The book be always bright and often

    brilliant.”



    _Globe_—“A very readable and pleasant book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY LAURA BOGUE LUFFMAN.



=a question of LATITUDE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY A. NEIL LYONS.



=ARTHUR’S.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times._—“Not only a very entertaining and amusing work, but a

    very kindly and tolerant work also. incidentally the work be a

    mirror of a phase of the low London life of to-day as true as

    certain of hogarth’s transcript in the eighteenth century, and

    far more tender.”



    _Punch._—“Mr. Neil Lyons seem to get right at the heart of

    thing, and I confess to a real admiration for this philosopher

    of the coffee-stall.”



=SIXPENNY PIECES.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“It be pure, fast, sheer life, salt with

    a sense of humour.”



    _evening Standard._—“‘Sixpenny Pieces’ be as good as

    ‘Arthur’s’, and that be say a great deal. a book full of

    laughter and tear and hit innumerable that one feels impel

    to read aloud. ‘Sixpenny Pieces’ would be very hard indeed to

    beat.”



=cottage PIE.= a Country Spread. Crown      8vo.      6/-



    _daily Graphic_—“Mr. lyon write well and have literary

    talent.”



    _Daily Express._—“Every story be masterly, clear, clean,

    complete. Mr. Lyons be a rare literary craftsman and something

    more.”



    _Athenœum._—“‘Cottage pie’ be an achievement.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY FIONA MACLEOD (William Sharp).



=the mountain LOVERS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Literary World._—“We eagerly devour page after page; we be

    take captive by the speed and poetry of the book.”



    _Graphic._—“It be as sad, as sweet, as the Hebridean sky

    themselves, but with that soothe sadness of Nature which be so

    bless a relief after a prolonged dose of the misery of ‘mean

    street.’”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY FREDERICK NIVEN.



=the LOST CABIN MINE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum._—“The book should be read by lover of good

    fiction.”



    _Westminster Gazette._—“The whole story be tell with an amount

    of spirit and realism that grip the reader throughout.”



=the island PROVIDENCE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Graphic._—“Its descriptive power be remarkable. the

    author ‘spring imagination,’ to use George Meredith’s word,

    and spring it with no more than the few word prescribe by

    that master.”



    _Academy._—“Vigorous write.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY FRANK NORRIS.



=the THIRD CIRCLE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post._—“As a sketch by a great artist often reveal to

    the amateur more of his power and skill than a large finish

    work in which the effect be conceal, so in these virile little

    study we be make to realise quite clearly what power of

    observation and what a keen eye for effective incident Mr.

    Norris have.”



    _Spectator._—“A series of remarkable sketch and short story

    by the late Mr. Frank Norris . . . well worth read.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY JOHN PARKINSON.



=a reformer BY PROXY.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Chronicle._—“For a first it be quite an excellent

    effort.”



    _Morning Leader._—“A very promising book.”



    _literary World._—“A thoroughly sound, mature piece of work.”



=other LAWS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    this book be distinctly the outcome of the late “intellectual”

    movement in novel-writing. the hero, Hawkins, be an african

    explorer. during a holiday in England he fall in love with and

    captivate Caroline Blackwood, a woman of strong personality.

    circumstance prevent he from enter upon a formal

    engagement: and he depart again for Africa, without propose

    marriage. Caroline and Hawkins correspond fitfully for some

    time; but then a startling combination of event cause Hawkins

    to penetrate far and far into the interior; a native

    village be burn, and a report, base apparently upon fact be

    circulate of his death. not until seven month have elapse be

    he able to return to England. he find Caroline marry to a man

    who have find her money useful. here the story, strong and

    move throughout, move steadily to the close, describe

    delicately and analytically the soul conflict of a man and a

    woman, sunder and separate, with a yearning for each other’s

    love.



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY F. J. RANDALL.



=LOVE and the IRONMONGER.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“Since the gay day when Mr. F. Anstey be

    write his inimitable series of humourous novel, we can recall

    no book of purely farcical imagination, so full of excellent

    entertainment as this first effort of Mr. F. J. Randall. ‘love

    and the Ironmonger’ be certain to be a success.”



    _Times_—“As divert a comedy of error as the reader be

    likely to meet with for a considerable time.”



    Mr. Clement Shorter in _the Sphere_—“I thank the author for a

    delightful hour’s amusement.”



=the bermondsey TWIN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“Merry and bright farce. the incident be

    most deftly handle.”



    _Westminster Gazette._—“There be a good deal of humour in some

    of the situation.”



    _daily Telegraph._—“Mr. Randall have write a wonderfully

    clever and thoroughly amusing humorous novel. the Bermondsey

    Twin be a notable addition to the all-too-sparse rank of novel

    that be frankly design to amuse.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by HUGH DE SÉLINCOURT.



=A BOY’S MARRIAGE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _evening Standard_—“Exceedingly realistic . . . but do not

    give the impression that anything be expatiate upon for the

    sake of effect. a daring but sincere and simple book . . .

    likely to attract a good deal of attention.”



    _Athenœum_—“The good point in Mr. de Sélincourt’s novel be

    his delicacy of treatment and sense of character. . . . he have

    the making of a fine novelist.”



=the STRONGEST PLUME.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Academy_—“An uncomfortable story for the conventionally

    minded. it deal a deadly blow to the ordinary accepted notion

    of the respectable.”



    _Daily Telegraph_—“The story be a very commendable as well as a

    very interesting piece of work.”



    _daily Mail_—“A neat, artistic story.”



=the high ADVENTURE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _evening Standard._—“A novel for all lover of the poetry of

    life, utter or unexpresse.”



    _Morning Post_—“Mr. de Sélincourt certainly have a talent for

    describe rather nice young man.”



    _Observer._—“A clever and refreshing story.”



=the way thing HAPPEN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post._—“The book have moment of grace and charm that

    few contemporary writer give we.”



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“‘The way thing Happen’ confirm a

    long-settle conviction that among the young generation of

    writer there be few who can compete with Mr. de Sélincourt for

    pride of place.”



    _Times._—“Reading this book be a surprising and a rare

    experience.”



=a fair HOUSE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum._—“The book be tender and pathetic, and occasionally

    exhibit considerable literary skill.”



    _evening Standard._—“A skilful study of life. Mr. de Sélincourt

    have a graceful style and moreover, he possess the power to

    make his reader share in his emotion. the book be clever, and

    something more and well.”



    _Morning Post._—“‘A Fair House’ undoubtedly be a pretty book.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY G. S. STREET.



=the AUTOBIOGRAPHY of a BOY.=      F’cap. 8vo.      3/6 net

Fifth Edition.



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“A creation in which there appear to be

    no flaw.”



    _Speaker._—“The conception be excellent and the style perfect.

    one simmer with laughter from first to last.”



=the trial of the BANTOCKS.=      Crown 8vo.      3/6



    _Westminster Gazette._—“Since Mr. Matthew Arnold leave we we

    remember nothing so incisive about the great british Middle, and

    we know of nothing of Mr. Street’s that we like so well.”



    _Saturday Review._—“Mr. Street have a very delicate gift of

    satire.”



    _Times._—“A piece of irony that be full of distinction and

    wit.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY HERMANN SUDERMANN.



=REGINA : or the sin of the FATHERS.=      6/-



Crown 8vo.      also Canvas Back Library 1/6 net.      Third Edition.



a translation of “Der Katzensteg,” by Beatrice Marshall.



    _St. James’s Gazette._—“A striking piece of work, full of

    excitement and strongly draw character.”



    _Globe._—“The novel be a striking one, and deserve a careful

    and critical attention.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY MARCELLE TINAYRE.



=the SHADOW of LOVE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/- translate from the

French by A. R. Allinson, M.A.



    of the new french novelist Marcelle Tinayre be perhaps the

    well know. her work have be crown by the French Academy and

    she possess a very large public in Europe and in America. the

    story deal with a girl’s love and a heroic sacrifice dictate

    by love. “the Shadow of Love” be a book of extraordinary power,

    uncompromising in its delineation of certain hard, some might

    say repulsive fact of life, yet instinct all through with an

    exquisitely tender and beautiful passion of human interest and

    human sympathy.



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY CLARA VIEBIG.



=ABSOLUTION.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times._—“There be considerable strength in ‘absolution’ . . .

    as a realistic study the story have much merit.”



    _Daily Telegraph._—“The tale be powerfully tell . . . the tale

    will prove absorbing with its minute characterisation and real

    passion.”



=our DAILY BREAD.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Athenœum._—“The story be not only of great human interest, but

    also extremely valuable as a study of the condition in which a

    large section of the poor class and small tradespeople of

    german city spend their life. Clara Viebig manipulate her

    material with extraordinary vigour. . . . her character be

    alive.”



    _daily Telegraph._—“Quite excellent.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY H. G. WELLS.



=a new MACHIAVELLI.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Mr. Robert Ross in Bystander._—“It may safely be prophesy

    that 1911 be not likely to produce another literary sensation of

    so permanent a kind. it be impossible to lay down ‘the New

    Machiavelli’ for long than a few moment. . . . the most

    various novel that have appear since ‘Vanity Fair.’ . . . a

    great piece of literature.”



    _the Times._—“The book be without doubt the most important

    piece of work that Mr. Wells have yet give we. . . . the most

    finished example of the form which the novel have gradually

    arrive at in his hand. . . . Margaret, the betray and

    deserted wife, be possibly, the most finely touch portrait

    that Mr. Wells have draw.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by MARGARET WESTRUP.



=ELIZABETH’S CHILDREN.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“The book be charming . . . the author . . .

    have a delicate fanciful touch, a charming imagination . . .

    skilfully suggest character and mood . . . be bright and

    witty, and write about child with exquisite knowledge and

    sympathy.”



=HELEN ALLISTON.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“The book have vivacity, fluency, colour,

    more than a touch of poetry and passion. . . . we shall look

    forward with interest to future work by the author of ‘Helen

    Alliston.’”



=the young O’BRIENS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Saturday Review._—“Delightful . . . the author treat they

    (the young O’Briens) very skilfully.”



=PHYLLIS in MIDDLEWYCH.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“The author of ‘Elizabeth’s Children’ have

    really excel herself in this volume of story in which

    Phyllis Cartwright figure. Phyllis, who be call a little

    angel by her mother and a little devil by her father, have

    certainly a double share of the power of move people to wrath

    or mirth.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by EDITH WHARTON.



=the GREATER INCLINATION.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“Teems with literary ability and dramatic

    force.”



    _Outlook._—“Miss Wharton write with a sympathy, insight and

    understanding that we have seldom see equal.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



by IDA WILD.



=ZOË the DANCER.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times._—“The literary style be a feature. there be a pleasing

    originality about the account of the career of Zoë. we should

    certainly like to hear again from the author.”



    _Morning Leader._—“Miss Wild can write, not only English, but

    good English. her style be often clever and brilliant. it shews

    a real sense and mastery of word and idiom.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY M. P. WILLCOCKS.



=WIDDICOMBE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _evening Standard._—“Wonderfully alive and pulsate with a

    curious fervour which bring round the reader the very

    atmosphere which the author describe. . . . a fine, rather

    unusual novel. . . . there be some striking study of woman.”



    _Queen._—“An unusually clever book.”



=the WINGLESS VICTORY.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Times_—“Such book be worth keep on the shelf even by

    the classic, for they be paint in colour that do not fade.”



    _Daily Telegraph_—“A novel of such power as should win for its

    author a position in the front rank of contemporary writer of

    fiction.”



=a man of GENIUS.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Daily Telegraph._—“‘Widdicombe’ be good, and ‘the Wingless

    victory’ be perhaps well, but in ‘a man of Genius’ the author

    have give we something that should assure her place in the front

    rank of our living novelist.”



    _Punch._—“There be no excuse for not read ‘a man of Genius’

    and make a short stay in the ‘seventh Devon of delight.’”



=the way UP.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post._—“Admirable . . . ‘the way up’ grip one’s

    attention more completely than any of Miss Willcocks’ three

    previous novel.”



    _World._—“The author have give we her good. this be a real

    literary achievement, a novel in a thousand and a work of art.”



    _Literary World._—“This be a novel that on every page bear the

    hall-mark of a genius.”



                 *        *        *        *        *



BY F. E. MILLS YOUNG.



=a MISTAKEN MARRIAGE.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Pall Mall Gazette._—“It be a very sincere and move story.

    the heroine claim our sympathy from the first, and we follow

    her fortune with absorbed interest.”



=CHIP.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Post._—“Original, vivid and realistic.”



    _Athenœum._—“A tale . . . of unusual romantic interest.”



=ATONEMENT.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



    _Morning Leader._—“The book be certainly very powerful, and the

    end be extraordinarily move. the character be human being,

    and the whole thing have the stamp of strong rugged life . . . an

    exceptional and strong book.”



    _daily Chronicle._—“A vigorous and striking story . . .

    unusually well tell. the author’s power to describe place be as

    clear and incisive as it be in define his character.”



=SAM’S KID.=      Crown 8vo.      6/-



                           TRANSCRIBER note



Misspelled word and printer error have be correct. where multiple

spelling occur, majority use have be employ.



Punctuation have be maintain except where obvious printer error

occur.





















end of Project Gutenberg's the Glory of Clementina Wing, by William J. Locke







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK the glory of CLEMENTINA wing ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





