The project Gutenberg eBook of a Strange Story — volume 02

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Strange Story — volume 02



author: Baron Edward Bulwer Lytton Lytton



Release date: March 1, 2005 [ebook #7693]

                most recently update: December 30, 2020



language: English



credit: this eBook be produce by Andrew Heath and David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — volume 02 ***





this eBook be produce by Andrew Heath

and David Widger











CHAPTER XIII.



the next day I have just dismiss the last of my visit patient, and

be about to enter my carriage and commence my round, when I receive

a twisted note contain but these words:--



   Call on I to-day, as soon as you can.



                                           M. Poyntz.



a few minute afterwards I be in Mrs. Poyntz's drawing-room.



"well, Allen Fenwick" say she, "I do not serve friend by half.  no

thank!  I but adhere to a principle I have lay down for myself.  I spend

last evening with the Ashleighs.  Lilian be certainly much altered,--

very weak, I fear very ill, and I believe very unskilfuly treat by Dr.

Jones.  I feel that it be my duty to insist on a change of physician; but

there be something else to consider before decide who that physician

should be.  I be bind, as your confidante, to consult your own scruple

of honour.  of course I could not say point-blank to Mrs.  Ashleigh, 'Dr.

Fenwick admire your daughter, would you object to he as a son-in-law?'

of course I could not touch at all on the secret with which you intrust

I; but I have not the less arrive at a conclusion, in agreement with my

previous belief, that not be a woman of the world, Annie Ashleigh have

none of the ambition which woman of the world would conceive for a

daughter who have a good fortune and considerable beauty; that her

predominant anxiety be forher child's happiness, and her predominant

fear be that her child will die.  she would never oppose any attachment

which Lilian might form; and if that attachment be for one who have

preserve her daughter's life, I believe her own heart would gratefully

go with her daughter's.  so far, then, as honour be concern, all

scruple vanish."



I spring from my seat, radiant with joy.  Mrs. Poyntz dryly

continue: "you value yourself on your common-sense, and to that I address

a few word of counsel which may not be welcome to your romance.  I say

that I do not think you and Lilian would suit each other in the long run;

reflection confirm I in that supposition.  do not look at I so

incredulously and so sadly.  listen, and take heed.  ask yourself what, as

a man whose day be devoted to a laborious profession, whose ambition be

entwine with its success, whose mind must be absorb in its

pursuits,--ask yourself what kind of a wife you would have seek to win;

have not this sudden fancy for a charming face rush over your well

reason, and obliterate all previous plan and resolution.  surely some

one with whom your heart would have be quite at rest; by whom your

thought would have be undistracte from the channel into which your

calling should concentrate their flow; in short, a serene companion in the

quiet holiday of a trustful home!  be it not so?"



"you interpret my own thought when they have turn towards marriage.

but what be there in Lilian Ashleigh that should mar the picture you have

draw?"



"what be there in Lilian Ashleigh which in the least accord with the

picture?  in the first place, the wife of a young physician should not be

his perpetual patient.  the more he love she, and the more worthy she may

be of love, the more her case will haunt he wherever he go.  when he

return home, it be not to a holiday; the patient he most care for, the

anxiety that most gnaw he, await he there."



"but, good heaven! why should lilian Ashleigh be a perpetual patient?

the sanitary resource of youth be incalculable.  And--"



"let I stop you; I cannot argue against a physician in love!  I will

give up that point in dispute, remain convince that there be something

in Lilian's constitution which will perplex, torment, and baffle you.  it

be so with her father, whom she resemble in face and in character.  he

show no symptom of any grave malady.  his outward form be, like

Lilian's, a model of symmetry, except in this, that, like her, it be too

exquisitely delicate; but when seemingly in the midst of perfect health,

at any slight jar on the nerve he would become alarmingly ill.  I be

sure that he would die young, and he do so."



"ay, but Mrs. Ashleigh say that his death be from brain-fever, bring

on by over-study.  rarely, indeed, do woman so fatigue the brain.  no

female patient, in the range of my practice, ever die of purely mental

exertion."



"of purely mental exertion, no; but of heart emotion, many female

patient, perhaps?  oh, you own that!  I know nothing about nerve; but I

suppose that, whether they act on the brain or the heart, the result to

life be much the same if the nerve be too finely string for life's daily

wear and tear.  and this be what I mean, when I say you and Lilian will

not suit.  as yet, she be a mere child; her nature undeveloped, and her

affection therefore untried.  you might suppose that you have win she

heart; she might believe that she give it to you, and both be deceive.

if fairy nowadays condescend to exchange their offspring with those

of mortal, and if the popular tradition do not represent a fairy

changeling as an ugly peevish creature, with none of the grace of its

parent, I should be half inclined to suspect that Lilian be one of the

elfin people.  she never seem at home on earth; and I do not think she

will ever be content with a prosaic earthly lot.  now I have tell you

why I do not think she will suit you.  I must leave it to yourself to

conjecture how far you would suit she.  I say this in due season, while

you may set a guard upon your impulse; while you may yet watch, and weigh,

and meditate; and from this moment on that subject I say no more.  I lend

advice, but I never throw it away."



she come here to a dead pause, and begin put on her bonnet and

scarf, which lie on the table beside she.  I be a little chill by her

word, and yet more by the blunt, shrewd, hard look and manner which aid

the effect of their delivery; but the chill melt away in the sudden glow

of my heart when she again turn towards I and said,--



"of course you guess, from these preliminary caution, that you be

go into danger?  Mrs. Ashleigh wish to consult you about Lilian, and

I propose to take you to her house."



"oh, my friend, my dear friend, how can I ever repay you?" I catch she

hand, the white firm hand, and lift it to my lip.



she draw it somewhat hastily away, and lay it gently on my shoulder,

say, in a soft voice, "Poor Allen, how little the world know either of

we!  but how little perhaps we know ourselves!  come, your carriage be

here?  that be right; we must put down Dr. Jones publicly and in all our

state."



in the carriage Mrs. Poyntz tell I the purport of that conversation

with Mrs. Ashleigh to which I owe my re-introduction to Abbots' House.

it seem that Mr. Vigors have call early the morning after my first

visit! have evince much discomposure on hear that I have be summon!

dwelt much on my injurious treatment of Dr. Lloyd, whom, as distantly

relate to himself, and he (Mr. Vigors) be distantly connect with the

late Gilbert Ashleigh, he endeavour to fasten upon his listener as one

of her husband's family, whose quarrel she be bind in honour to take up.

he speak of I as an infidel "taint with french doctrine," and as a

practitioner rash and presumptuous; prove his own freedom from

presumption and rashness by flatly decide that my opinion must be

wrong.  previously to Mrs. Ashleigh's migration to L----, Mr. Vigors have

interest she in the pretended phenomenon of mesmerism.  he have consult

a clairvoyante, much esteem by poor Dr. Lloyd, as to Lilian's health,

and the clairvoyante have declare she to be constitutionally predispose

to consumption.  Mr. Vigors persuade Mrs. Ashleigh to come at once with

he and see this clairvoyante herself, arm with a lock of Lilian's hair

and a glove she have wear, as the medium of mesmerical rapport.



the clairvoyante, one of those I have publicly denounce as an impostor,

naturally enough denounce I in return.  on be ask solemnly by Mr.

Vigors "to look at Dr. Fenwick and see if his influence would be

beneficial to the subject," the sibyl have become violently agitated, and

say that, "when she look at we together, we be envelop in a black

cloud; that this portend affliction and sinister consequence; that our

rapport be antagonistic."  Mr. Vigors then tell she to dismiss my image,

and conjure up that of Dr. Jones.  Therewith the somnambule become more

tranquil, and say: "Dr. Jones would do well if he would be guide by

high light than his own skill, and consult herself daily as to the

proper remedy.  the good remedy of all would be mesmerism.  but since

Dr. Lloyd's death, she do not know of a mesmerist, sufficiently gift,

in affinity with the patient."  in fine, she impress and awe Mrs.

Ashleigh, who return in haste, summon Dr. Jones, and dismiss

myself.



"I could not have conceive Mrs. Ashleigh to be so utterly want in

common-sense," say I.  "she talk rationally enough when I see she."



"she have common-sense in general, and plenty of the sense most common,"

answer Mrs. Poyntz; "but she be easily lead and easily frighten

wherever her affection be concern, and therefore, just as easily as

she have be persuade by Mr. Vigors and terrify by the somnambule, I

persuade she against the one, and terrify she against the other.  I have

positive experience on my side, since it be clear that Lilian have be

get rapidly bad under Dr. Jones's care.  the main obstacle I have to

encounter in induce Mrs. Ashleigh to consult you again be, first, she

reluctance to disoblige Mr. Vigors, as a friend and connection of Lilian's

father; and, secondly, her sentiment of shame in re-invite your opinion

after having treat you with so little respect.  both these difficulty

I take on myself.  I bring you to her house, and, on leave you, I shall

go on to Mr. Vigors, and tell he what be do be my doing, and not to be

undo by he; so that matter be settle.  indeed, if you be out of the

question, I should not suffer Mr. Vigors to re-introduce all these

mummery of clairvoyance and mesmerism into the precinct of the Hill.  I

do not demolish a man I really like in Dr. Lloyd, to set up a Dr. Jones,

whom I despise, in his stead.  Clairvoyance on Abbey Hill, indeed!  I see

enough of it before."



"true; your strong intellect detect at once the absurdity of the whole

pretence,--the falsity of mesmerism, the impossibility of clairvoyance."



"no, my strong intellect do nothing of the kind.  I do not know whether

mesmerism be false or clairvoyance impossible; and I don't wish to know.

all I do know be, that I see the Hill in great danger,--young lady

allow themselves to be put to sleep by gentleman, and pretend they

have no will of their own against such fascination!  improper and shocking!

and Miss Brabazon begin to prophesy, and Mrs. Leopold Smythe

question she maid (whom Dr. Lloyd declare to be highly gifted) as to

all the secret of her friend.  when I see this, I say, 'the Hill be

becoming demoralize; the Hill be make itself ridiculous; the Hill must

be save!'  I remonstrate with Dr. Lloyd as a friend; he remain

obdurate.  I annihilate he as an enemy, not to I but to the State.  I

slay my good lover for the good of Rome.  now you know why I take your

part,--not because I have any opinion, one way or the other, as to the

truth or falsehood of what Dr. Lloyd assert; but I have a strong opinion

that, whether they be true or false, his notion be those which be not

to be allow on the Hill.  and so, Allen Fenwick, that matter be

settle."



perhaps at another time I might have feel some little humiliation to learn

that I have be honour with the influence of this great potentate not as

a champion of truth, but as an instrument of policy; and I might have

own to some twinge of conscience in having assist to sacrifice a

fellow-seeker after science--mislead, no doubt, but prefer his

independent belief to his worldly interest--and sacrifice he to

those deity with whom science be ever at war,--the Prejudices of a

Clique sanctify into the Proprieties of the World.  but at that moment

the word I hear make no perceptible impression on my mind.  the gable

of Abbots' House be visible above the evergreen and lilac; another

moment, and the carriage stop at the door.









CHAPTER XIV.



Mrs. Ashleigh receive we in the dining-room.  her manner to I, at first,

be a little confused and shy.  but my companion soon communicate

something of her own happy ease to her gentler friend.  after a short

conversation we all three go to Lilian, who be in a little room on the

ground-floor, fit up as her study.  I be glad to perceive that my

interdict of the deathchamber have be respect.



she recline on a sofa near the window, which be, however, jealously

close; the light of the bright May-day obscure by blind and curtain; a

large fire on the hearth; the air of the room that of a hot-house,--the

ignorant, senseless, explode system of nursing into consumption those who

be confine on suspicion of it!  she do not heed we as we enter

noiselessly; her eye be droop languidly on the floor, and with

difficulty I suppress the exclamation that rise to my lip on see

she.  she seem within the last few day so change, and on the aspect of

the countenance there be so profound a melancholy!  but as she slowly

turn at the sound of our footstep, and her eye meet mine, a quick blush

come into the wan cheek, and she half rise, but sink back as if the effort

exhaust she.  there be a struggle for breath, and a low hollow cough.

be it possible that I have be mistake, and that in that cough be hear

the warning knell of the most insidious enemy to youthful life?



I sit down by her side; I lure she on to talk of indifferent

subjects,--the weather, the gardens, the bird in the cage, which be

place on the table near she.  her voice, at first low and feeble, become

gradually strong, and her face light up with a child's innocent,

playful smile.  no, I have not be mistake!  that be no lymphatic,

nerveless temperament, on which consumption fasten as its lawful prey;

here there be no hectic pulse, no hurried waste of the vital flame.

quietly and gently I make my observation, address my question,

apply my stethoscope; and when I turn my face towards her mother's

anxious, eager eye, that face tell my opinion; for her mother sprang

forward, clasp my hand, and say, through her struggle tears,--



"you smile!  you see nothing to fear?"



"fear!  no, indeed!  you will soon be again yourself, Miss Ashleigh, will

you not?"



"yes," she say, with her sweet laugh, "I shall be well now very soon.

but may I not have the window open; may I not go into the garden?  I so

long for fresh air."



"no, no, darling," exclaim Mrs. Ashleigh, "not while the east wind

last.  Dr. Jones say on no account.  on no account, Dr. Fenwick, eh?"



"will you take my arm, Miss Ashleigh, for a few turn up and down the

room?" say I.  "we will then see how far we may rebel against Dr. Jones."



she rise with some little effort, but there be no cough.  at first her

step be languid; it become light and more elastic after a few moment.



"let she come out," say I to Mrs. Ashleigh.  "the wind be not in the

east, and, while we be out, pray bid your servant lower to the last bar

in the grate that fire,--only fit for Christmas."



"But--"



"ah, no but!  he be a poor doctor who be not a stern despot."



so the straw hat and mantle be send for.  Lilian be wrap with

unnecessary care, and we all go forth into the garden.  involuntarily we

take the way to the Monk's Well, and at every step Lilian seem to revive

under the brace air and temperate sun.  we pause by the well.



"you do not feel fatigued, Miss Ashleigh?"



"no."



"but your face seems change.  it be grow sad."



"not sad."



"sad than when I first see it,--saw it when you be seat here!"  I

say this in a whisper.  I feel her hand tremble as it lie on my arm.



"you see I seat here!"



"yes.  I will tell you how some day."



Lilian lift her eye to mine, and there be in they that same surprise

which I have notice on my first visit,--a surprise that perplex I,

blend with no displeasure, but yet with a something of vague alarm.



we soon return to the house.



Mrs. Ashleigh make I a sign to follow she into the drawing-room, leave

Mrs. Poyntz with Lilian.



"well?" say she, tremblingly.



"permit I to see Dr. Jones's prescription.  thank you.  ay, I think

so.  my dear madam, the mistake here have be in depress nature instead

of strengthen; in narcotic instead of stimulant.  the main stimulant

which leave no reaction be air and light.  promise I that I may have my

own way for a week,--that all I recommend will be implicitly heed?"



"I promise.  but that cough,--you notice it?"



"yes.  the nervous system be terribly lower, and nervous exhaustion be a

strange impostor; it imitate all manner of complaint with which it have

no connection.  the cough will soon disappear!  but pardon my question.

Mrs. Poyntz tell I that you consult a clairvoyant about your

daughter.  do Miss Ashleigh know that you do so?"



"no; I do not tell she."



"I be glad of that.  and pray, for Heaven's sake, guard she against all

that may set her thinking on such subject.  above all, guard she against

concentre attention on any malady that your fear erroneously ascribe to

she.  it be amongst the phenomena of our organization that you cannot

closely rivet your consciousness on any part of the frame, however

healthy, but it will soon begin to exhibit morbid sensibility.  try to fix

all your attention on your little finger for half an hour, and before the

half hour be over the little finger will be uneasy, probably even

painful.  how serious, then, be the danger to a young girl, at the age in

which imagination be most active, most intense, if you force upon her a

belief that she be in danger of a mortal disease!  it be a peculiarity of

youth to brood over the thought of early death much more resignedly, much

more complacently, than we do in mature year.  impress on a young

imaginative girl, as free from pulmonary tendency as you and I be, the

conviction that she must fade away into the grave, and though she may not

actually die of consumption, you instil slow poison into her system.  Hope

be the natural aliment of youth.  you impoverish nourishment where you

discourage hope.  as soon as this temporary illness be over, reject for

your daughter the melancholy care which seem to her own mind to mark she

out from other of her age.  rear she for the air, which be the kind

life-giver; to sleep with open window: to be out at sunrise.  nature

will do more for she than all our drug can do.  you have be hitherto

fear nature; now trust to she."



here Mrs. Poyntz join we, and have, while I have be speak, write

my prescription and some general injunction, I close my advice with an

appeal to that powerful protectress.



"this, my dear madam, be a case in which I need your aid, and I ask it.

Miss Ashleigh should not be leave with no other companion than her mother.

a change of face be often as salutary as a change of air.  if you could

devote an hour or two this very evening to sit with Miss Ashleigh, to talk

to she with your usual cheerfulness, and--"



"Annie," interrupt Mrs. Poyntz, "I will come and drink tea with you at

half-past seven, and bring my knitting; and perhaps, if you ask he, Dr.

Fenwick will come too!  he can be tolerably entertaining when he like it."



"it be too great a tax on his kindness, I fear," say Mrs. Ashleigh.

"but," she add cordially, "I should be grateful indeed if he would spare

we an hour of his time."



I murmur an assent which I endeavour to make not too joyous.



"so that matter be settle," say Mrs. Poyntz; "and now I shall go to Mr.

Vigors and prevent his further interference."



"oh, but, Margaret, pray don't offend him,--a connection of my poor dear

Gilbert's.  and so tetchy!  I be sure I do not know how you'll manage

to--"



"to get rid of he?  never fear.  as I manage everything and everybody,"

say Mrs. Poyntz, bluntly.  so she kiss her friend on the forehead, give

I a gracious nod, and, decline the offer of my carriage, walk with

her usual brisk, decide tread down the short path towards the town.



Mrs. Ashleigh timidly approach I, and again the furtive hand bashfully

insinuate the hateful fee.



"stay," say I; "this be a case which need the most constant watching.  I

wish to call so often that I should seem the most greedy of doctor if my

visit be to be compute at guineas.  let I be at ease to effect my

cure; my pride of science be involve in it.  and when amongst all the

young lady of the Hill you can point to none with a fresher bloom, or a

fair promise of healthful life, than the patient you intrust to my care,

why, then the fee and the dismissal.  Nay, nay; I must refer you to our

friend Mrs. Poyntz.  it be so settle with she before she bring I here

to displace Dr. Jones."  Therewith I escape.









CHAPTER XV.



in less than a week Lilian be convalescent; in less than a fortnight she

regain her usual health,--nay, Mrs. Ashleigh declare that she have never

know her daughter appear so cheerful and look so well.  I have establish

a familiar intimacy at Abbots' House; most of my evening be spend

there.  as horse exercise form an important part of my advice, Mrs.

Ashleigh have purchase a pretty and quiet horse for her daughter; and,

except the weather be very unfavourable, Lilian now ride daily with

Colonel Poyntz, who be a notable equestrian, and often accompany by

Miss Jane Poyntz, and other young lady of the Hill.  I be generally

relieve from my duty in time to join she as she return homeward.

thus we make innocent appointment, openly, frankly, in her mother's

presence, she tell I beforehand in what direction excursion have be

plan with Colonel Poyntz, and I promise to fall in with the party--if

my avocation would permit.  at my suggestion, Mrs. Ashleigh now open

her house almost every evening to some of the neighbouring family;

Lilian be thus habituate to the intercourse of young person of her own

age.  music and dancing and childlike game make the old house gay.  and

the Hill gratefully acknowledge to Mrs. Poyntz, "that the Ashleighs be

indeed a great acquisition."



but my happiness be not uncheckered.  in thus unselfishly surround

Lilian with other, I feel the anguish of that jealousy which be

inseparable from those early stage of love, when the lover as yet have

win no right to that self-confidence which can only spring from the

assurance that he be love.



in these social reunion I remain aloof from Lilian.  I see she court

by the gay young admirer whom her beauty and her fortune draw around

her,--her soft face brighten in the exercise of the dance, which the

gravity of my profession rather than my year forbid to join; and her

laugh, so musically subdue, ravish my ear and fret my heart as if

the laugh be a mockery on my sombre self and my presumptuous dream.

but no, suddenly, shyly, her eye would steal away from those about she,

steal to the corner in which I sit, as if they miss I, and, meet my

own gaze, their light soften before they turn away; and the colour on

her cheek would deepen, and to her lip there come a smile different from

the smile that it shed on other.  and then--and then--all jealousy, all

sadness vanish, and I feel the glory which blend with the grow

belief that we be love.



in that diviner epoch of man's mysterious passion, when idea of

perfection and purity, vague and fugitive before, start forth and

concentre themselves round one virgin shape,--that rise out from the sea

of creation, welcome by the Hours and adorn by the Graces,--how the

think that this archetype of sweetness and beauty single himself from

the million, single himself for her choice, ennoble and lift up his

be!  though after-experience may rebuke the mortal's illusion, that

mistook for a daughter of Heaven a creature of clay like himself, yet for

a while the illusion have grandeur.  though it come from the sense which

shall later oppress and profane it, the sense at first shrink into shade,

awe and hush by the presence that charm they.  all that be brightest

and good in the man have soar up like long-dormant instinct of Heaven,

to greet and to hallow what to he seem life's fair dream of the

heavenly!  take the wing from the image of love, and the god disappear

from the form!



thus, if at moment jealous doubt make my torture, so the moment's relief

from it suffice for my rapture.  but I have a cause for disquiet less

acute but less varying than jealousy.



despite Lilian's recovery from the special illness which have more

immediately absorb my care, I remain perplex as to its cause and

true nature.  to her mother I give it the convenient epithet of "nervous;"

but the epithet do not explain to myself all the symptom I classify by

it.  there be still, at time, when no cause be apparent or

conjecturable, a sudden change in the expression of her countenance, in

the beat of her pulse; the eye would become fix, the bloom would vanish,

the pulse would sink feebler and feebler till it could be scarcely feel;

yet there be no indication of heart disease, of which such sudden

lowering of life be in itself sometimes a warning indication.  the change

would pass away after a few minute, during which she seem unconscious,

or, at least, never speak--never appear to heed what be say to she.

but in the expression of her countenance there be no character of

suffering or distress; on the contrary, a wondrous serenity, that make she

beauty more beauteous, her very youthfulness younger; and when this

spurious or partial kind of syncope pass, she recover at once without

effort, without acknowledge that she have feel faint or unwell, but

rather with a sense of recruit vitality, as the weary obtain from a

sleep.  for the rest her spirit be more generally light and joyous than

I should have premise from her mother's previous description.  she would

enter mirthfully into the mirth of young companion round she: she have

evidently quick perception of the sunny side of life; an infantine

gratitude for kindness; an infantine joy in the trifle that amuse only

those who delight in taste pure and simple.  but when talk rise into

graver and more contemplative topic, her attention become earnest and

absorb; and sometimes a rich eloquence, such as I have never before nor

since hear from lip so young, would startle I first into a wonder

silence, and soon into a disapprove alarm: for the thought she then

utter seem to I too fantastic, too visionary, too much akin to the

vagary of a wild though beautiful imagination.  and then I would seek to

check, to sober, to distract fancy with which my reason have no sympathy,

and the indulgence of which I regard as injurious to the normal

function of the brain.



when thus, sometimes with a chilling sentence, sometimes with a

half-sarcastic laugh, I would repress outpouring frank and musical as the

song of a forest-bird, she would look at I with a kind of plaintive

sorrow,--often sigh and shiver as she turn away.  only in those mode

do she show displeasure; otherwise ever sweet and docile, and ever, if,

see that I have pain she, I ask forgiveness, humble herself rather

to ask mine, and brighten our reconciliation with her angel smile.  as

yet I have not dare to speak of love; as yet I gaze on she as the captive

gaze on the flower and the star through the grating of his cell,

murmur to himself, "when shall the door unclose?"









CHAPTER XVI.



it be with a wrath suppress in the presence of the fair ambassadress,

that Mr. Vigors have receive from Mrs. Poyntz the intelligence that I have

replace Dr. Jones at Abbots' House not less abruptly than Dr. Jones have

previously supplant I.  as Mrs. Poyntz take upon herself the whole

responsibility of this change, Mr. Vigors do not venture to condemn it to

her face; for the Administrator of Laws be at heart no little in awe of

the Autocrat of Proprieties; as Authority, howsoever establish, be in

awe of Opinion, howsoever capricious.



to the mild Mrs. Ashleigh the magistrate's anger be more decidedly

manifest.  he cease his visit; and in answer to a long and deprecatory

letter with which she endeavour to soften his resentment and win he

back to the house, he reply by an elaborate combination of homily and

satire.  he begin by excuse himself from accept her invitation, on

the ground that his time be valuable, his habit domestic; and though

ever willing to sacrifice both time and habit where he could do good, he

owe it to himself and to mankind to sacrifice neither where his advice

be reject and his opinion contemn.  he glance briefly, but not

hastily, at the respect with which her late husband have defer to his

judgment, and the benefit which that deference have enable he to bestow.

he contrast the husband's deference with the widow's contumely, and

hint at the evil which the contumely would not permit he to prevent.

he could not presume to say what woman of the world might think due to

deceased husband, but even woman of the world generally allow the

claim of live child, and do not act with levity where their

interest be concern, still less where their life be at stake.  as

to Dr. Jones, he, Mr. Vigors, have the full confidence in his skill.

Mrs. Ashleigh must judge for herself whether Mrs. Poyntz be as good an

authority upon medical science as he have no doubt she be upon shawl and

ribbon.  Dr. Jones be a man of caution and modesty; he do not indulge

in the hollow boast by which charlatan decoy their dupe; but Dr. Jones

have privately assure he that though the case be one that admit of no

rash experiment, he have no fear of the result if his own prudent system

be persevere in.  what might be the consequence of any other system,

Dr. Jones would not say, because he be too high-minded to express his

distrust of the rival who have make use of underhand art to supplant he.

but Mr. Vigors be convince, from other source of information (meaning,

I presume, the oracular prescience of his clairvoyant), that the time

would come when the poor young lady would herself insist on discard Dr.

Fenwick, and when "that person" would appear in a very different light to

many who now so fondly admire and so reverentially trust he.  when

that time arrive, he, Mr. Vigors, might again be of use; but, meanwhile,

though he decline to renew his intimacy at Abbots' House, or to pay

unavaile visit of mere ceremony, his interest in the daughter of his

old friend remain undiminishe, nay, be rather increase by compassion;

that he should silently keep his eye upon she; and whenever anything to

her advantage suggest itself to he, he should not be deter by the

slight with which Mrs. Ashleigh have treat his judgment from call on

she, and place before her conscience as a mother his idea for her

child's benefit, leave to herself then, as now, the entire

responsibility of reject the advice which he might say, without vanity,

be deem of some value by those who could distinguish between sterling

quality and specious pretence.



Mrs. Ashleigh's be that thoroughly womanly nature which instinctively

lean upon other.  she be diffident, trustful, meek, affectionate.  not

quite justly have Mrs. Poyntz describe she as "commonplace weak," for

though she might be call weak, it be not because she be commonplace;

she have a goodness of heart, a sweetness of disposition, to which that

disparage definition could not apply.  she could only be call

commonplace inasmuch as in the ordinary daily affair of life she have a

great deal of ordinary daily commonplace good-sense.  give she a routine

to follow, and no routine could be well adhere to.  in the allotted

sphere of a woman's duty she never seem in fault.  no household, not

even Mrs. Poyntz's, be more happily manage.  the old Abbots' House have

merge its original antique gloom in the soft character of please

repose. all her servant adore Mrs. Ashleigh; all find it a pleasure to

please she; her establishment have the harmony of clockwork; comfort

diffuse itself round she like quiet sunshine round a shelter spot.  to

gaze on her pleasing countenance, to listen to the simple talk that lapse

from her guileless lip, in even, slow, and lulling murmur, be in itself

a respite from "eat care."  she be to the mind what the colour of

green be to the eye.  she have, therefore, excellent sense in all that

relate to every-day life.  there, she need not to consult another;

there, the wise might have consult she with profit.  but the moment

anything, however trivial in itself, jar on the routine to which she

mind have grow wed, the moment an incident hurry she out of the

beat track of woman's daily life, then her confidence forsook she; then

she need a confidant, an adviser; and by that confidant or adviser she

could be credulously lure or submissively control.  therefore, when

she lose, in Mr. Vigors, the guide she have be accustom to consult

whenever she need guidance, she turn; helplessly and piteously, first

to Mrs. Poyntz, and then yet more imploringly to I, because a woman of

that character be never quite satisfied without the advice of a man; and

where an intimacy more familiar than that of his formal visit be once

establish with a physician, confidence in he grow fearless and rapid,

as the natural result of sympathy concentrate on an object of anxiety in

common between himself and the home which open its sacred recess to his

observant but tender eye.  thus Mrs. Ashleigh have show I Mr. Vigors's

letter, and, forget that I might not be as amiable as herself,

besought I to counsel she how to conciliate and soften her lose

husband's friend and connection.  that character clothe he with dignity

and awe in her soft forgiving eye.  so, smother my own resentment,

less perhaps at the tone of offensive insinuation against myself than at

the arrogance with which this prejudiced intermeddler imply to a mother

the necessity of his guardian watch over a child under her own care, I

sketch a reply which seem to I both dignified and placatory,

abstain from all discussion, and convey the assurance that Mrs.

Ashleigh would be at all time glad to hear, and dispose to respect,

whatever suggestion so esteem a friend of her husband would kindly

submit to she for the welfare of her daughter.



there all communication have stop for about a month since the date of my

reintroduction to Abbots' House.  one afternoon I unexpectedly meet Mr.

Vigors at the entrance of the blind lane, I on my way to Abbots' House,

and my first glance at his face tell I that he be come from it, for

the expression of that face be more than usually sinister; the sullen

scowl be light into significant menace by a sneer of unmistakable triumph.

I feel at once that he have succeed in some machination against I, and

with ominous misgiving quicken my step.



I find Mrs. Ashleigh seat alone in front of the house, under a large

cedar-tree that form a natural arbour in the centre of the sunny lawn.

she be perceptibly embarrassed as I take my seat beside she.



"I hope," say I, force a smile, "that Mr. Vigors have not be tell

you that I shall kill my patient, or that she look much bad than she

do under Dr. Jones's care?"



"no," she say.  "he own cheerfully that Lilian have grow quite strong,

and say, without any displeasure, that he have hear how gay she have be,

ride out and even dancing,--which be very kind in he, for he

disapprove of dancing, on principle."



"but still I can see he have say something to vex or annoy you; and, to

judge by his countenance when I meet he in the lane, I should conjecture

that that something be intend to lower the confidence you so kindly

repose in I."



"I assure you not; he do not mention your name, either to I or to

Lilian.  I never know he more friendly; quite like old time.  he be a

good man at heart, very, and be much attach to my poor husband."



"do Mr. Ashleigh profess a very high opinion of Mr. Vigors?"



"well, I don't quite know that, because my dear Gilbert never speak to I

much about he.  Gilbert be naturally very silent.  but he shrink from

all trouble--all worldly affair--and Mr. Vigors manage his estate, and

inspect his steward's book, and protect he through a long lawsuit

which he have inherit from his father.  it kill his father.  I don't

know what we should have do without Mr. Vigors, and I be so glad he have

forgive I."



"Hem!  where be Miss Ashleigh?  indoor?"



"no; somewhere in the ground.  but, my dear Dr. Fenwick, do not leave I

yet; you be so very, very kind, and somehow I have grow to look upon you

quite as an old friend.  something have happen which have put I out,

quite put I out."



she say this wearily and feebly, close her eye as if she be indeed

put out in the sense of extinguish.



"the feeling of friendship you express," say I, with earnestness, "be

reciprocal.  on my side it be accompany by a peculiar gratitude.  I be a

lonely man, by a lonely fireside, no parent, no near kindre, and in this

town, since Dr. Faber leave it, without cordial intimacy till I know you.

in admit I so familiarly to your hearth, you have give I what I

have never know before since I come to man's estate,--a glimpse of the

happy domestic life; the charm and relief to eye, heart, and spirit which

be never know but in household cheer by the face of woman.  thus my

sentiment for you and yours be indeed that of an old friend; and in any

private confidence you show I, I feel as if I be no long a lonely

man, without kindred, without home."



Mrs. Ashleigh seem much move by these word, which my heart have force

from my lip; and, after reply to I with simple unaffected warmth of

kindness, she rise, take my arm, and continue thus as we walk slowly to

and fro the lawn: "you know, perhaps, that my poor husband leave a sister,

now a widow like myself, Lady Haughton."



"I remember that Mrs. Poyntz say you have such a sister-in-law, but I

never hear you mention Lady Haughton till now.  well!"



"well, Mr. Vigors have bring I a letter from she, and it be that which

have put I out.  I dare say you have not hear I speak before of Lady

Haughton, for I be ashamed to say I have almost forget her existence.

she be many year old than my husband be; of a very different

character.  only come once to see he after our marriage.  hurt I by

ridicule he as a bookworm; offend he by look a little down on I,

as a nobody without spirit and fashion, which be quite true.  and, except

by a cold and unfeele letter of formal condolence after I lose my dear

Gilbert, I have never hear from she since I have be a widow, till

to-day.  but, after all, she be my poor husband's sister, and his eld

sister, and Lilian's aunt; and, as Mr. Vigors say, 'Duty be duty.'"



have Mrs. Ashleigh say "duty be torture," she could not have utter the

maxim with more mournful and despondent resignation.



"and what do this lady require of you, which Mr. Vigors deem it your

duty to comply with?"



"dear I!  what penetration!  you have guess the exact truth.  but I

think you will agree with Mr. Vigors.  certainly I have no option; yes, I

must do it."



"my penetration be in fault now.  do what?  pray explain."



"Poor Lady Haughton, six month ago, lose she only son, Sir James.  Mr.

Vigors say he be a very fine young man, of whom any mother would have

be proud.  I have hear he be wild; Mr. Vigors say, however, that he

be just go to reform, and marry a young lady whom his mother choose for

he, when, unluckily, he would ride a steeplechase, not be quite sober

at the time, and break his neck.  Lady Haughton have be, of course, in

great grief.  she have retire to Brighton; and she write to I from

thence, and Mr. Vigors bring the letter.  he will go back to she

to-day."



"will go back to Lady Haughton?  what!  have he be to she?  be he, then,

as intimate with Lady Haughton as he be with her brother?"



"no; but there have be a long and constant correspondence.  she have a

settlement on the Kirby Estate,--a sum which be not pay off during

Gilbert's life; and a very small part of the property go to Sir James,

which part Mr. Ashleigh Sumner, the heir-at-law to the rest of the estate,

wish Mr. Vigors, as his guardian, to buy during his minority, and as it

be mix up with Lady Haughton's settlement her consent be necessary as

well as Sir James's.  so there be much negotiation, and, since then,

Ashleigh Sumner have come into the Haughton property, on poor Sir James's

decease; so that complicate all affair between Mr. Vigors and Lady

Haughton, and he have just be to Brighton to see she.  and poor Lady

Haughton, in short, want I and Lilian to go and visit she.  I don't like

it at all.  but you say the other day you think sea air might be good

for Lilian during the heat of the summer, and she seem well enough

now for the change.  what do you think?"



"she be well enough, certainly.  but Brighton be not the place I would

recommend for the summer; it want shade, and be much hot than L----"



"yes; but unluckily Lady Haughton foresee that objection, and she have a

jointure-house some mile from Brighton, and near the sea.  she say the

ground be well woode, and the place be proverbially cool and healthy,

not far from St. Leonard's Forest.  and, in short, I have write to say

we will come.  so we must, unless, indeed, you positively forbid it."



"when do you think of go?"



"Next Monday.  Mr. Vigors would make I fix the day.  if you know how I

dislike move when I be once settle; and I do so dread Lady Haughton,

she be so fine, and so satirical!  but Mr. Vigors say she be very much

alter, poor thing!  I should like to show you her letter, but I bad just

send it to Margaret--Mrs. Poyntz--a minute or two before you come.  she

know something of Lady Haughton.  Margaret know everybody.  and we shall

have to go in mourning for poor Sir James, I suppose; and Margaret will

choose it, for I be sure I cann't guess to what extent we should be

suppose to mourn.  I ought to have go in mourning before--poor

Gilbert's nephew--but I be so stupid, and I have never see he.  and--but

oh, this be kind!  Margaret herself,--my dear Margaret!"



we have just turn away from the house, in our up-and-down walk; and Mrs.

Poyntz stand immediately front we.  "so, Anne, you have actually

accept this invitation--and for Monday next?"



"yes.  do I do wrong?"



"what do Dr. Fenwick say?  can Lilian go with safety?"



I could not honestly say she might not go with safety, but my heart sink

like lead as I answered,--



"Miss Ashleigh do not now need merely medical care; but more than half

her cure have depend on keep her spirit free from depression.  she

may miss the cheerful companionship of your daughter, and other young

lady of her own age.  a very melancholy house, sadden by a recent

bereavement, without other guest; a hostess to whom she be a stranger,

and whom Mrs. Ashleigh herself appear to deem formidable,--certainly

these do not make that change of scene which a physician would recommend.

when I speak of sea air be good for Miss Ashleigh, I think of our own

northern coast at a later time of the year, when I could escape myself

for a few week and attend she.  the journey to a northern watering-place

would be also short and less fatiguing; the air there more

invigorate."



"no doubt that would be well," say Mrs. Poyntz, dryly; "but so far as

your objection to visit Lady Haughton have be state, they be

groundless.  her house will not be melancholy; she will have other guest,

and Lilian will find companion, young like herself,--young lady--and

young gentleman too!"



there be something ominous, something compassionate, in the look which

Mrs. Poyntz cast upon I, in conclude her speech, which in itself be

calculate to rouse the fear of a lover.  lilian away from I, in the

house of a worldly-fine lady--such as I judge Lady Haughton to

be--surround by young gentleman, as well as young lady, by admirer,

no doubt, of a high rank and more brilliant fashion than she have yet

know!  I close my eye, and with strong effort suppress a groan.



"my dear Annie, let I satisfy myself that Dr. Fenwick really do consent

to this journey.  he will say to I what he may not to you.  pardon I,

then, if I take he aside for a few minute.  let I find you here again

under this cedar-tree."



place her arm in mine, and without wait for Mrs. Ashleigh's answer,

Mrs. Poyntz draw I into the more sequester walk that belt the lawn;

and when we be out of Mrs. Ashleigh's sight and hearing, said,--



"from what you have now see of lilian ashleigh, do you still desire to

gain she as your wife?"



"still?  Ob, with an intensity proportion to the fear with which I now

dread that she be about to pass away from my eye--from my life!"



"do your judgment confirm the choice of your heart?  reflect before you

answer."



"such selfish judgment as I have before I know she would not confirm but

oppose it.  the nobler judgment that now expand all my reasoning,

approve and second my heart.  no, no; do not smile so sarcastically.

this be not the voice of a blind and egotistical passion.  let I explain

myself if I can.  I concede to you that Lilian's character be undeveloped;

I concede to you, that amidst the childlike freshness and innocence of her

nature, there be at time a strangeness, a mystery, which I have not yet

trace to its cause.  but I be certain that the intellect be organically

as sound as the heart, and that intellect and heart will ultimately--if

under happy auspex--blend in that felicitous union which constitute the

perfection of woman.  but it be because she do, and may for year, may

perhaps always, need a more devoted, thoughtful care than nature less

tremulously sensitive, that my judgment sanction my choice; for whatever

be good for she be good for I.  and who would watch over she as I

should?"



"you have never yet speak to Lilian as lover speak?"



"oh, no, indeed."



"and, nevertheless, you believe that your affection would not be

unreturne?"



"I think so once; I doubt now,--yet, in doubt, hope.  but why do you

alarm I with these question?  you, too, forebode that in this visit I

may lose she forever?"



"if you fear that, tell she so, and perhaps her answer may dispel your

fear."



"what! now, already, when she have scarcely know I a month.  might I not

risk all if too premature?"



"there be no almanac for love.  with many woman love be bear the moment

they know they be belove.  all wisdom tell we that a moment once go

be irrevocable.  be I in your place, I should feel that I approach a

moment that I must not lose.  I have say enough; now I shall rejoin Mrs.

Ashleigh."



"Stay--tell I first what Lady Haughton's letter really contain to prompt

the advice with which you so transport, and yet so daunt, I when you

proffer it."



"not now; later, perhaps,--not now.  if you wish to see Lilian alone, she

be by the Old Monk's well; I see she seat there as I pass that way to

the house."



"one word more,--only one.  answer this question frankly, for it be one of

honour.  do you still believe that my suit to her daughter would not be

disapprove of by Mrs. Ashleigh?"



"at this moment I be sure it would not; a week hence I might not give you

the same answer."



so she pass on with her quick but measured tread, back through the shady

walk, on to the open lawn, till the last glimpse of her pale gray robe

disappear under the bough of the cedar-tree.  then, with a start, I

break the irresolute, tremulous suspense in which I have vainly endeavour

to analyze my own mind, solve my own doubt, concentrate my own will, and

go the opposite way, skirt the circle of that haunt ground,--as

now, on one side its lofty terrace, the house of the neighbour city

come full and close into view, divide from my fairy-land of life but by

the trodden murmurous thoroughfare wind low beneath the ivied parapet;

and as now, again, the world of man abruptly vanish behind the screening

foliage of luxuriant June.



at last the enchant glade open out from the verdure, its border

fragrant with syringa and rise and woodbine; and there, by the gray

memorial of the go gothic age, my eye seem to close their unquiet

wandering, rest spell-bind on that image which have become to I the

incarnation of earth's bloom and youth.



she stand amidst the past, back by the fragment of wall which man have

raise to seclude he from human passion, lock, under those lid so

downcast, the secret of the only knowledge I ask from the boundless

Future.



ah! what mockery there be in that grand word, the world's fierce

war-cry,--Freedom!  who have not know one period of life, and that so

solemn that its shadow may rest over all life hereafter, when one human

creature have over he a sovereignty more supreme and absolute than Orient

servitude adore in the symbol of diadem and sceptre?  what crest so

haughty that have not bow before a hand which could exalt or humble!

what heart so dauntless that have not tremble to call forth the voice at

whose sound open the gate of rapture or despair!  that life alone be free

which rule, and suffice for itself.  that life we forfeit when we love!









CHAPTER XVII.



how do I utter it?  by what word do my heart make itself know?  I

remember not.  all be as a dream that fall upon a restless, feverish

night, and fade away as the eye unclose on the peace of a cloudless

heaven, on the bliss of a golden sun.  a new morrow seem indeed upon the

earth when I wake from a life-long yesterday,--her dear hand in mine, her

sweet face bow upon my breast.



and then there be that melodious silence in which there be no sound

audible from without; yet within we there be hear a lull celestial

music, as if our whole being, grow harmonious with the universe, join

from its happy deep in the hymn that unite the star.



in that silence our two heart seem to make each other understand, to be

draw nearer and near, blend by mysterious concord into the

completeness of a solemn union, never henceforth to be rent

asunder.



at length I say softly: "and it be here on this spot that I first see

you,--here that I for the first time know what power to change our world

and to rule our future go forth from the charm of a human face!"



then Lilian ask I timidly, and without lift her eye, how I have so

see she, remind I that I promise to tell she, and have never yet do

so.



and then I tell she of the strange impulse that bad lead I into the

ground, and by what chance my step have be divert down the path that

wind to the glade; how suddenly her form have shine upon my eye,

gather round itself the rose hue of the set sun, and how wistfully

those eye have follow her own silent gaze into the distant heaven.



as I speak, her hand press mine eagerly, convulsively, and, raise she

face from my breast, she look at I with an intent, anxious earnestness.

that look!--twice before it have thrill and perplex I.



"what be there in that look, oh, my Lilian, which tell I that there be

something that startle you,--something you wish to confide, and yet

shrink from explain?  see how, already, I study the fair book from

which the seal have be lift! but as yet you must aid I to construe its

language."



"if I shrink from explain, it be only because I fear that I cannot

explain so as to be understand or believe.  but you have a right to know

the secret of a life which you would link to your own.  turn your face

aside from I; a reprove look, an incredulous smile, chill--oh, you

cannot guess how they chill I, when I would approach that which to I be

so serious and so solemnly strange."



I turn my face away, and her voice grow firm as, after a brief pause,

she resumed,--



"as far back as I can remember in my infancy, there have be moment when

there seem to fall a soft hazy veil between my sight and the thing

around it, thickening and deepening till it have the likeness of one of

those white fleecy cloud which gather on the verge of the horizon when

the air be yet still, but the wind be about to rise; and then this

vapour or veil will suddenly open, as cloud open, and let in the blue

sky."



"go on," I say gently, for here she come to a stop.  she continue,

speak somewhat more hurriedly,--



"then, in that opening, strange appearance present they self to I, as

in a vision.  in my childhood these be chiefly landscape of wonderful

beauty.  I could but faintly describe they then; I could not attempt to

describe they now, for they be almost go from my memory.  my dear

mother chid I for tell she what I see, so I do not impress it on my

mind by repeat it.  as I grow up, this kind of vision--if I may so call

it--become much less frequent, or much less distinct; I still see the soft

veil fall, the pale cloud form and open, but often what may then have

appear be entirely forget when I recover myself, wake as from a

sleep.  sometimes, however, the recollection would be vivid and complete;

sometimes I see the face of my lost father; sometimes I hear his very

voice, as I have see and hear he in my early childhood, when he would

let I rest for hour beside he as he muse or study, happy to be so

quietly near he, for I love he, oh, so dearly! and I remember he so

distinctly, though I be only in my sixth year when he die.  much more

recently--indeed, within the last few month--the image of thing to come

be reflect on the space that I gaze into as clearly as in a glass.

thus, for week before I come hither, or know that such a place exist, I

see distinctly the old House, yon tree, this sward, this moss-grow

Gothic fount; and, with the sight, an impression be convey to I that

in the scene before I my old childlike life would pass into some solemn

change.  so that when I come here, and recognize the picture in my

vision, I take an affection for the spot,--an affection not without awe, a

powerful, perplexing interest, as one who feel under the influence of a

fate of which a prophetic glimpse have be vouchsafe.  and in that

evening, when you first see I, seat here--"



"yes, Lilian, on that evening--"



"I see you also, but in my vision--yonder, far in the deep of

space,--and--and my heart be stir as it have never be before; and

near where your image grow out from the cloud I see my father's face, and

I hear his voice, not in my ear, but as in my heart, whispering--"



"yes, Lilian--whispering--what?"



"these words,--only these,--'Ye will need one another.'  but then,

suddenly, between my upward eye and the two form they have behold, there

rise from the earth, obscure the sky, a vague, dusky vapour, undulous,

and coil like a vast serpent,--nothing, indeed, of its shape and

figure definite, but of its face one abrupt glare; a flash from two dread

luminous eye, and a young head, like the Medusa's, change, more rapidly

than I could have draw breath, into a grinning skull.  then my terror

make I bow my head, and when I raise it again, all that I have see be

vanish.  but the terror still remain, even when I feel my mother's arm

round I and hear her voice.  and then, when I enter the house, and sit

down again alone, the recollection of what I have see--those eye, that

face, that skull--grow on I strong and strong till I faint, and

remember no more, until my eye, opening, see you by my side, and in my

wonder there be not terror.  no, a sense of joy, protection, hope, yet

still shadow by a kind of fear or awe, in recognize the countenance

which have gleam on I from the sky before the dark vapour have rise,

and while my father's voice have murmur, 'ye will need one another.' and

now--and now--will you love I less that you know a secret in my being

which I have tell to no other,--cannot construe to myself?  only--only,

at least, do not mock I; do not disbelieve I!  Nay, turn from I no

long now: now I ask to meet your eye.  now, before our hand can join

again, tell I that you do not despise I as untruthful, do not pity I as

insane."



"hush, hush!" I say, draw she to my breast.  "of all you tell I we

will talk hereafter.  the scale of our science have no weight fine

enough for the gossamer thread of a maiden's pure fancy.  Enough for

I--for we both--if out from all such illusion start one truth, tell to

you, lovely child, from the heaven; tell to I, ruder man, on the earth;

repeat by each pulse of this heart that woo you to hear and to

trust,--now and henceforth through life unto death, 'each have need of the

other,'--I of you, I of you! my Lilian! my Lilian!"









CHAPTER XVIII.



in spite of the previous assurance of Mrs. Poyntz, it be not without an

uneasy apprehension that I approach the cedar-tree, under which Mrs.

Ashleigh still sit, her friend beside she.  I look on the fair creature

whose arm be link in mine.  so young, so singularly lovely, and with

all the gift of birth and fortune which bend avarice and ambition the

more submissively to youth and beauty, I feel as if I have wrong what a

parent might justly deem her natural lot.



"oh, if your mother should disapprove!" say I, falteringly.  Lilian

lean on my arm less lightly.  "if I have think so," she say with her

soft blush, "should I be thus by your side?"



so we pass under the bough of the dark tree, and Lilian leave I and

kiss Mrs. Ashleigh's cheek; then, seat herself on the turf, lay she

head on her mother's lap.  I look on the queen of the Hill, whose keen

eye shoot over I.  I think there be a momentary expression of pain or

displeasure on her countenance; but it pass.  still there seem to I

something of irony, as well as of triumph or congratulation, in the

half-smile with which she quit her seat, and in the tone with which she

whisper, as she glide by I to the open sward, "so, then, it be

settle."



she walk lightly and quickly down the lawn.  when she be out of sight I

breathe more freely.  I take the seat which she have leave, by Mrs.

Ashleigh's side, and say, "a little while ago I speak of myself as a man

without kindred, without home, and now I come to you and ask for both."



Mrs. Ashleigh look at I benignly, then raise her daughter's face from

her lap, and whisper, "Lilian;" and Lilian's lip move, but I do not

hear her answer.  her mother do.  she take Lilian's hand, simply place

it in mine, and say, "as she choose, I choose; whom she love, I love."









CHAPTER XIX.



from that evening till the day Mrs. Ashleigh and Lilian go on the

dread visit, I be always at their house, when my avocation allow I

to steal to it; and during those few day, the happy I have ever know,

it seem to I that year could not have more deepen my intimacy with

Lilian's exquisite nature, make I more reverential of its purity, or more

enamoured of its sweetness.  I could detect in she but one fault, and I

rebuke myself for believe that it be a fault.  we see many who neglect

the minor duty of life, who lack watchful forethought and considerate

care for other, and we recognize the cause of this fail in levity or

egotism.  certainly, neither of those tendency of character could be

ascribe to Lilian.  yet still in daily trifle there be something of

that neglect, some lack of that care and forethought.  she love she

mother with fondness and devotion, yet it never occur to she to aid in

those petty household care in which her mother centre so much of

habitual interest.  she be full of tenderness and pity to all want and

suffering, yet many a young lady on the Hill be more actively

beneficent,--visiting the poor in their sickness, or instruct their

child in the Infant Schools.  I be persuade that her love for I be

deep and truthful; it be clearly void of all ambition; doubtless she

would have bear, unflinche and content, whatever the world consider

to be a sacrifice and privation,--yet I should never have expect she to

take her share in the trouble of ordinary life.  I could never have

apply to she the homely but significant name of helpmate.  I reproach

myself while I write for notice such defect--if defect it be--in what

may be call the practical routine of our positive, trivial, human

existence.  no doubt it be this that have cause Mrs. Poyntz's harsh

judgment against the wisdom of my choice.  but such chiller shade upon

Lilian's charming nature be reflect from no inert, unamiable self-love.

it be but the consequence of that self-absorption which the habit of

revery have foster.  I cautiously abstain from all allusion to those

visionary deception, which she have confide to I as the truthful

impression of spirit, if not of sense.  to I any approach to what I

term "superstition" be displease; any indulgence of fantasy not

within the measured and beat track of healthful imagination more than

displease I in her,--it alarm.  I would not by a word encourage she in

persuasion which I feel it would be at present premature to reason

against, and cruel indeed to ridicule.  I be convince that of

themselves these mist round her native intelligence, engender by a

solitary and musing childhood, would subside in the full daylight of

wed life.  she seem pained when she see how resolutely I shun a

subject dear to her thought.  she make one or two timid attempt to renew

it, but my grave look suffice to check she.  once or twice indeed, on

such occasion, she would turn away and leave I, but she soon come back;

that gentle heart could not bear one unkindli shade between itself and

what it love.  it be agree that our engagement should be, for the

present, confide only to Mrs. Poyntz.  when Mrs. Ashleigh and Lilian

return, which would be in a few week at furth, it should be

proclaim; and our marriage could take place in the autumn, when I should

be most free for a brief holiday from professional toil.



so we part-as lover part.  I feel none of those jealous fear which,

before we be affiance, have make I tremble at the thought of

separation, and have conjure up irresistible rival.  but it be with a

settle, heavy gloom that I see her depart.  from earth be go a glory;

from life a blessing.









CHAPTER XX.



during the busy year of my professional career, I have snatch leisure

for some professional treatise, which have make more or less sensation,

and one of they, entitle "the Vital Principle; its Waste and Supply," have

gain a wide circulation among the general public.  this last treatise

contain the result of certain experiment, then new in chemistry, which

be adduce in support of a theory I entertain as to the

re-invigoration of the human system by principle similar to those which

Liebig have apply to the replenishment of an exhausted soil,--namely, the

give back to the frame those essential to its nutrition, which it have

lose by the action or accident of time; or supply that special pabulum

or energy in which the individual organism be constitutionally deficient;

and neutralize or counterbalance that in which it super-abounds,--a

theory upon which some eminent physician have more recently improve with

signal success.  but on these essay, slight and suggestive, rather than

dogmatic, I set no value.  I have be for the last two year engage on a

work of much wide range, endear to I by a far bold ambition,--a work

upon which I fondly hope to found an endure reputation as a severe and

original physiologist.  it be an Inquiry into Organic Life, similar in

comprehensiveness of survey to that by which the illustrious Muller, of

Berlin, have enrich the science of our age; however inferior, alas! to

that august combination of thought and learn in the judgment which

check presumption, and the genius which adorn speculation.  but at that

day I be carry away by the ardour of composition, and I admire my

performance because I love my labour.  this work have be entirely lay

aside for the last agitated month; now that Lilian be go, I resume it

earnestly, as the sole occupation that have power and charm enough to rouse

I from the aching sense of void and loss.



the very night of the day she go, I reopen my manuscript.  I have leave

off at the commencement of a chapter upon Knowledge as derive from our

sense.  as my conviction on this head be found on the well-know

argument of Locke and Condillac against innate idea, and on the

reasoning by which Hume have resolve the combination of sensation into a

general idea to an impulse arise merely out of habit, so I set myself to

oppose, as a dangerous concession to the sentimentality or mysticism of

a pseudo-philosophy, the doctrine favour by most of our recent

physiologist, and of which some of the most eminent of german

metaphysician have accept the substance, though refine into a

subtlety its positive form,--I mean the doctrine which Muller himself have

express in these words:--



   "that innate idea may exist cannot in the slight degree be deny:

    it be, indeed, a fact.  all the idea of animal, which be induce by

    instinct, be innate and immediate: something present to the mind, a

    desire to attain which be at the same time give.  the new-bear lamb

    and foal have such innate idea, which lead they to follow their

    mother and suck the teat.  be it not in some measure the same with

    the intellectual idea of man?"[1]



to this question I answer with an indignant "no!"  a "yes" would have

shake my creed of materialism to the dust.  I write on rapidly, warmly.

I define the property and mete the limit of natural law, which I

would not admit that a deity himself could alter.  I clamp and solder

dogma to dogma in the link of my tinker logic, till out from my page,

to my own complacent eye, grow Intellectual Man, as the pure formation of

his material sense; mind, or what be call soul, bear from and nurture

by they alone; through they to act, and to perish with the machine they

move.  Strange, that at the very time my love for Lilian might have

teach I that there be mystery in the core of the feeling which my

analysis of idea could not solve, I should so stubbornly have oppose as

unreal all that could be refer to the spiritual!  Strange, that at the

very time when the thought that I might lose from this life the being I

have know scarce a month have just before so appal I, I should thus

complacently sit down to prove that, accord to the law of the nature

which my passion obey, I must lose for eternity the blessing I now hope

I have win to my life!  but how distinctly dissimilar be man in his conduct

from man in his system!  see the poet recline under forest bough,

con ode to his mistress; follow he out into the world; no mistress

ever live for he there![2]  see the hard man of science, so austere in

his passionless problem; follow he now where the brain rest from its

toil, where the heart find its Sabbath--what child be so tender, so

yielding, and soft?



but I have prove to my own satisfaction that poet and sage be dust, and

no more, when the pulse cease to beat.  and on that consolatory

conclusion my pen stop.



suddenly, beside I I distinctly hear a sigh,--a compassionate, mournful

sigh.  the sound be unmistakable.  I start from my seat, look round,

amazed to discover no one,--no living thing!  the window be close, the

night be still.  that sigh be not the wail of the wind.  but there, in

the dark angle of the room, what be that?  a silvery whiteness, vaguely

shape as a human form, recede, fading, go!  why, I know not--for no

face be visible, no form, if form it be, more distinct than the

colourless outline,--why, I know not, but I cry aloud, "lilian!

Lilian!"  my voice come strangely back to my own ear; I pause, then

smile and blush at my folly.  "so I, too, have learn what be

superstition," I mutter to myself.  "and here be an anecdote at my own

expense (as Muller frankly tell we anecdote of the illusion which

would haunt his eye, shut or open),--an anecdote I may quote when I come

to my chapter on the Cheats of the Senses and Spectral Phantasms."  I

go on with my book, and write till the light wane in the gray of the

dawn.  and I say then, in the triumph of my pride, as I lay myself down

to rest, "I have write that which allot with precision man's place in

the region of nature; write that which will find a school, form

disciple; and race after race of those who cultivate truth through pure

reason shall accept my basis if they enlarge my building."  and again I

hear the sigh, but this time it cause no surprise.  "certainly," I

murmur, "a very strange thing be the nervous system!"  so I turn on

my pillow, and, weary out, fall asleep.



[1] Muller's "Elements of Physiology," vol. ii. p. 134.  translate by Dr.

Baley.



[2] Cowley, who write so elaborate a series of amatory poem, be say

"never to have be in love but once, and then he never have resolution to

tell his passion."--Johnson's "life of the Poets:" COWLEY.









CHAPTER XXI.



the next day, the last of the visit patient to whom my forenoon be

devoted have just quit I, when I be summon in haste to attend the

steward of a Sir Philip Derval not reside at his family seat, which be

about five mile from L----.  it be rarely indeed that person so far

from the town, when of no high rank than this applicant, ask my

service.



but it be my principle to go wherever I be summon; my profession be

not gain, it be healing, to which gain be the incident, not the

essential.  this case the messenger report as urgent.  I go on

horseback, and ride fast; but swiftly as I canter through the village

that skirt the approach to Sir Philip Derval's park, the evident care

bestow on the accommodation of the cottager forcibly strike I.  I feel

that I be on the land of a rich, intelligent, and beneficent proprietor.

enter the park, and pass before the manor-house, the contrast

between the neglect and the decay of the absentee's stately Hall and the

smile home of his villager be disconsolately mournful.



an impose pile, build apparently by Vanbrugh, with decorate pilaster,

pompous portico, and grand perron (or double flight of stair to the

entrance), enrich with urn and statue, but discolour, mildew,

chip, half-hide with unpruned creeper and ivy.  Most of the window

be close with shutter, decay for want of paint; in some of the

casement the pane be break; the peacock perch on the shatter

balustrade, that fence a garden overgrow with weed.  the sun glare

hotly on the place, and make its ruinous condition still more painfully

apparent.  I be glad when a winding in the park-road shut the house from

my sight.  suddenly I emerge through a copse of ancient yew-tree, and

before I there gleam, in abrupt whiteness, a building evidently

design for the family mausoleum, classical in its outline, with the

blind iron door niche into stone wall of massive thickness, and

surround by a funereal garden of rose and evergreen, fence with an

iron rail, party-gilt.



the suddenness with which this House of the Dead come upon I heighten

almost into pain, if not into awe, the dismal impression which the aspect

of the deserted home in its neighbourhood have make.  I spur my horse,

and soon arrive at the door of my patient, who live in a fair brick

house at the other extremity of the park.



I find my patient, a man somewhat advanced in year, but of a robust

conformation, in bed: he have be seize with a fit, which be suppose to

be apoplectic, a few hour before; but be already sensible, and out of

immediate danger.  after I have prescribe a few simple remedy, I take

aside the patient's wife, and go with she to the parlour below stair,

to make some inquiry about her husband's ordinary regiman and habit of

life.  these seem sufficiently regular; I could discover no apparent

cause for the attack, which present symptom not familiar to my

experience.  "have your husband ever have such fit before?"



"never!"



"have he experience any sudden emotion?  have he hear any unexpected news;

or have anything happen to put he out?"



the woman look much disturb at these inquiry.  I press they more

urgently.  at last she burst into tear, and clasp my hand, say, "oh,

doctor, I ought to tell you--I send for you on purpose--yet I fear you

will not believe I: my good man have see a ghost!"



"a ghost!" say I, repress a smile.  "well, tell I all, that I may

prevent the ghost come again."



the woman's story be prolix.  its substance be this her husband,

habitually an early riser, have leave his bed that morning still early

than usual, to give direction about some cattle that be to be send for

sale to a neighbouring fair.  an hour afterwards he have be find by a

shepherd, near the mausoleum, apparently lifeless.  on be remove to

his own house, he have recover speech, and bid all except his wife

leave the room, he then tell she that on walk across the park towards

the cattle-shed, he have see what appear to he at first a pale light

by the iron door of the mausoleum.  on approach nearer, this light

change into the distinct and visible form of his master, Sir Philip

Derval, who be then abroad,--supposed to be in the East, where he have

reside for many year.  the impression on the steward's mind be so

strong, that he call out, "oh, Sir Philip!" when look still more

intently, he perceive that the face be that of a corpse.  as he

continue to gaze, the apparition seem gradually to recede, as if

vanish into the sepulchre itself.  he know no more; he become

unconscious.  it be the excess of the poor woman's alarm, on hear

this strange tale, that make her resolve to send for I instead of the

parish apothecary.  she fancy so astounding a cause for her husband's

seizure could only be properly deal with by some medical man repute to

have more than ordinary learning; and the steward himself object to the

apothecary in the immediate neighbourhood, as more likely to annoy he by

gossip than a physician from a comparative distance.



I take care not to lose the confidence of the good wife by parade too

quickly my disbelief in the phantom her husband declare that he ad see;

but as the story itself seem at once to decide the nature of the fit to

be epileptic, I begin to tell she of similar delusion which, in my

experience, have occur to those subject to epilepsy, and finally

soothe she into the conviction that the apparition be clearly reducible

to natural cause.  afterwards, I lead she on to talk about Sir Philip

Derval, less from any curiosity I feel about the absent proprietor than

from a desire to re-familiarize her own mind to his image as a live man.

the steward have be in the service of Sir Philip's father, and have know

Sir Philip himself from a child.  he be warmly attach to his master,

whom the old woman describe as a man of rare benevolence and great

eccentricity, which last she impute to his studious habit.  he have

succeed to the title and estate as a minor.  for the first few year

after attain his majority, be have mix much in the world.  when at

Derval Court his house have be fill with gay companion, and be the

scene of lavish hospitality; but the estate be not in proportion to the

grandeur of the mansion, still less to the expenditure of the owner.  he

have become greatly embarrassed; and some love disappointment (so it be

rumour) occur simultaneously with his pecuniary difficulty, he have

suddenly change his way of life, shut himself up from his old friend,

live in seclusion, take to book and scientific pursuit, and as the

old woman say vaguely and expressively, "to odd way."  he have

gradually by an economy that, towards himself, be penurious, but which

do not preclude much judicious generosity to other, clear off his

debt; and, once more rich, he have suddenly quit the country, and

take to a life of travel.  he be now about forty-eight year old, and

have be eighteen year abroad.  he write frequently to his steward,

give he minute and thoughtful instruction in regard to the employment,

comfort, and home of the peasantry, but peremptorily order he to

spend no money on the ground and mansion, state as a reason why the

latter might be allow to fall into decay, his intention to pull it down

whenever he return to England.



I stay some time long than my engagement well warrant at my

patient's house, not leave till the sufferer, after a quiet sleep, have

remove from his bed to his armchair, take food, and seem perfectly

recover from his attack.



ride homeward, I muse on the difference that education make, even

pathologically, between man and man.  here be a brawny inhabitant of

rural field, lead the healthy of life, not conscious of the

faculty we call imagination, stricken down almost to Death's door by his

fright at an optical illusion, explicable, if examine, by the same simple

cause which have impress I the night before with a moment's belief in a

sound and a spectre,--me who, thank to sublime education, go so quietly

to sleep a few minute after, convinced hat no phantom, the ghostly

that ear ever hear or eye ever see, can be anything else but a nervous

phenomenon.









CHAPTER XXII.



that evening I go to Mrs. Poyntz's; it be one of her ordinary

"reception night," and I feel that she would naturally expect my

attendance as "a proper attention."



I join a group engage in general conversation, of which Mrs. Poyntz

herself make the centre, knit as usual,--rapidly while she talk,

slowly when she listen.



without mention the visit I have pay that morning, I turn the

conversation on the different country place in the neighbourhood, and

then incidentally ask, "what sort of a man be Sir Philip Derval?  be it

not strange that he should suffer so fine a place to fall into decay?"

the answer I receive add little to the information I have already

obtain.  Mrs. Poyntz know nothing of Sir Philip Derval, except as a man

of large estate, whose rental have be greatly increase by a rise in the

value of property he possess in the town of L----, and which lay

contiguous to that of her husband.  two or three of the old inhabitant

of the Hill have remember Sir Philip in his early day, when he be gay,

high-spirit, hospitable, lavish.  one observe that the only person in

L---- whom he have admit to his subsequent seclusion be Dr. Lloyd, who

be then without practice, and whom he have employ as an assistant in

certain chemical experiment.



here a gentleman strike into the conversation.  he be a stranger to I

and to L----, a visitor to one of the dweller on the Hill, who have ask

leave to present he to its queen as a great traveller and an accomplished

antiquary.



 say this gentleman: "Sir Philip Derval?  I know he.  I meet he in the

East.  he be then still, I believe, very fond of chemical science; a

clever, odd, philanthropical man; have study medicine, or at least

practise it; be say to have make many marvellous cure.  I become

acquainted with he in Aleppo.  he have come to that town, not much

frequent by English traveller, in order to inquire into the murder of

two man, of whom one be his friend and the other his countryman."



"this be interesting," say Mrs. Poyntz, dryly.  "we who live on this

innocent Hill all love story of crime; murder be the pleasantest subject

you could have hit on.  pray give we the detail."



"so encouraged," say the traveller, good-humouredly, "I will not hesitate

to communicate the little I know.  in Aleppo there have live for some

year a man who be hold by the native in great reverence.  he have the

reputation of extraordinary wisdom, but be difficult of access; the

lively imagination of the Orientals invest his character with the

fascination of fable,--in short, Haroun of Aleppo be popularly

consider a magician.  wild story be tell of his power, of his

preternatural age, of his hoard treasure.  apart from such disputable

title to homage, there seem no question, from all I hear, that his

learning be considerable, his charity extensive, his manner of life

irreproachably ascetic.  he appear to have resemble those arabian sage

of the Gothic age to whom modern science be largely indebted,--a mystic

enthusiast, but an earnest scholar.  a wealthy and singular Englishman,

long resident in another part of the East, afflict by some languish

disease, take a journey to Aleppo to consult this sage, who, among his

other acquirement, be hold to have discover rare secret in

medicine,--his countryman say in 'charm.'  one morning, not long after

the Englishman's arrival, Haroun be find dead in his bed, apparently

strangle, and the Englishman, who lodge in another part of the town, have

disappear; but some of his clothe, and a crutch on which he habitually

support himself, be find a few mile distant from Aleppo, near the

roadside.  there appear no doubt that he, too, have be murder, but

his corpse could not be discover.  Sir Philip Derval have be a love

disciple of this sage of Aleppo, to whom he assure I he owe not only

that knowledge of medicine which, by report, Sir Philip possess, but the

insight into various truth of nature, on the promulgation of which, it

be evident, Sir Philip cherish the ambition to found a philosophical

celebrity for himself."



"of what description be those truth of nature?" I ask, somewhat

sarcastically.



"Sir, I be unable to tell you, for Sir Philip do not inform I, nor do I

much care to ask; for what may be revere as truth in Asia be usually

despise as dream in Europe.  to return to my story: Sir Philip have be

in Aleppo a little time before the murder; have leave the Englishman under

the care of Haroun.  he return to Aleppo on hear the tragic event I

have relate, and be busy in collect such evidence as could be

glean, and institute inquiry after our miss countryman at the

time I myself chance to arrive in the city.  I assist in his

research, but without avail.  the assassin remain undiscovered.  I do

not myself doubt that they be mere vulgar robber.  Sir Philip have a

dark suspicion of which he make no secret to I; but as I confess that I

think the suspicion groundless, you will pardon I if I do not repeat

it.  whether since I leave the East the Englishman's remain have be

discover, I know not.  very probably; for I understand that his heir

have get hold of what fortune he left,--less than be generally suppose.

but it be report that he have bury great treasure, a rumour, however

absurd, not altogether inconsistent with his character."



"what be his character?" ask Mrs. Poyntz.



"one of evil and sinister repute.  he be regard with terror by the

attendant who have accompany he to Aleppo.  but he have live in a very

remote part of the East, little know to Europeans, and, from all I could

learn, have there establish an extraordinary power, strengthen by

superstitious awe.  he be say to have study deeply that knowledge

which the philosopher of old call 'occult,' not, like the Sage of

Aleppo, for benevolent, but for malignant end.  he be accuse of

confer with evil spirit, and fill his barbaric court (for he live

in a kind of savage royalty) with charmer and sorcerer.  I suspect,

after all, that he be only, like myself, an ardent antiquary, and

cunningly make use of the fear he inspire in order to secure his

authority, and prosecute in safety research into ancient sepulchre or

temple.  his great passion be, indeed, in excavate such remain, in

his neighbourhood; with what result I know not, never having penetrate

so far into region infest by robber and pestiferous with malaria.  he

wear the eastern dress, and always carry jewel about he.  I come to

the conclusion that for the sake of these jewel he be murder, perhaps

by some of his own servant (and, indeed, two at least of his suite be

missing), who then at once bury his body, and keep their own secret.  he

be old, very infirm; could never have get far from the town without

assistance."



"you have not yet tell we his name," say Mrs. Poyntz.



"his name be Grayle."



"Grayle!" exclaim Mrs. Poyntz, drop her work.  "Louis Grayle?"



"yes; Louis Grayle.  you could not have know he?"



"know he!  no; but I have often hear my father speak of he.  such,

then, be the tragic end of that strong dark creature, for whom, as a

young girl in the nursery, I use to feel a kind of fearful admiring

interest?"



"it be your turn to narrate now," say the traveller.



and we all draw close round our hostess, who remain silent some

moment, her brow thoughtful, her work suspend.



"well," say she at last, look round we with a lofty air, which seem

half defy, "force and courage be always fascinating, even when they

be quite in the wrong.  I go with the world, because the world go with

I; if it do not--"  here she stop for a moment, clench the firm

white hand, and then scornfully wave it, leave the sentence unfinishe,

and break into another.



"go with the world, of course we must march over those who stand

against it.  but when one man stand single-handed against our march, we

do not despise he; it be enough to crush.  I be very glad I do not see

Louis Grayle when I be a girl of sixteen."  again she pause a moment,

and resume: "Louis Grayle be the only son of a usurer, infamous for the

rapacity with which he have acquire enormous wealth.  Old Grayle desire

to rear his heir as a gentleman; send he to Eton.  boy be always

aristocratic; his birth be soon throw in his tooth; he be fierce; he

strike boy big than himself,--fought till he be half kill.  my

father be at school with he; describe he as a tiger-whelp.  one day

he--still a fag--strike a sixth-form boy.  sixth-form boy do not fight

fag; they punish they.  Louis Grayle be order to hold out his hand to

the cane; he receive the blow, draw forth his schoolboy knife, and

stab the punisher.  after that, he leave Eton.  I don't think he be

publicly expel--too mere a child for that honour--but he be take or

send away; educate with great care under the first master at home.  when

he be of age to enter the University, old Grayle be dead.  Louis be

send by his guardian to Cambridge, with acquirement far exceed the

average of young man, and with unlimited command of money.  my father be

at the same college, and describe he again,--haughty, quarrelsome,

reckless, handsome, aspiring, brave.  do that kind of creature interest

you, my dear?" (appeal to the lady).



"La!" say Miss Brabazon; "a horrid usurer's son!"



"ay, true; the vulgar proverb say it be good to be bear with a silver

spoon in one's mouth: so it be when one have one's own family crest on it;

ut when it be a spoon on which people recognize their family crest, and

cry out, 'steal from our plate chest,' it be a heritage that outlaw a

babe in his cradle.  however, young man at college who want money be less

scrupulous about descent than boy at Eton be.  Louis Grayle find, while

at college, plenty of wellborn acquaintance willing to recover from he

some of the plunder his father have extort from theirs.  he be too wild

to distinguish himself by academical honour, but my father say that the

tutor of the college declare there be not six undergraduate in the

University who know as much hard and dry science as wild Louis Grayle.  he

go into the world, no doubt, hope to shine; but his father's name be

too notorious to admit the son into good society.  the Polite World, it

be true, do not examine a scutcheon with the nice eye of a herald, nor

look upon rich with the stately contempt of a stoic; still the Polite

World have its family pride and its moral sentiment.  it do not like to

be cheated,--I mean, in money matter; and when the son of a man who have

empty its purse and foreclose on its acre ride by its club-window,

hand on haunch, and head in the air, no lion have a scowl more awful, no

hyena a laugh more dread, than that same easy, good-temper, tolerant,

polite, well-breed world which be so pleasant an acquaintance, so languid

a friend, and--so remorseless an--enemy.  in short, Louis Grayle claim

the right to be courted,--he be shun; to be admired,--he be loathe.

even his old college acquaintance be shame out of know he.

perhaps he could have live through all this have he seek to glide

quietly into position; but he want the tact of the well-breed, and

strove to storm his way, not to steal it.  reduce for companion to

needy parasite, he brave and he shock all decorous opinion by that

ostentation of excess, which make Richelieus and Lauzuns the rage.  but

then Richelieus and Lauzuns be duke!  he now very naturally take the

Polite World into hate,--gave it scorn for scorn.  he would ally himself

with Democracy; his wealth could not get he into a club, but it would buy

he into parliament; he could not be a Lauzun, nor, perhaps, a Mirabeau,

but he might be a Danton.  he have plenty of knowledge and audacity, and

with knowledge and audacity a good hater be sure to be eloquent.

possibly, then, this poor Louis Grayle might have make a great figure,

leave his mark on his age and his name in history; but in contest the

borough, which he be sure to carry, he have to face an opponent in a real

fine gentleman whom his father have ruin, cool and highbred, with a

tongue like a rapier, a sneer like an adder.  a quarrel of course; Louis

Grayle send a challenge.  the fine gentleman, know to be no coward (fine

gentleman never be), be at first dispose to refuse with contempt.  but

Grayle have make himself the idol of the mob; and at a word from Grayle,

the fine gentleman might have be duck at a pump, or toss in a

blanket,--that would have make he ridiculous; to be shoot at be a trifle,

to be laugh at be serious.  he therefore condescend to accept the

challenge, and my father be his second.



"it be settle, of course, accord to english custom, that both

combatant should fire at the same time, and by signal.  the antagonist

fire at the right moment; his ball graze Louis Grayle's temple.  Louis

Grayle have not fire.  he now seem to the second to take slow and

deliberate aim.  they call out to he not to fire; they be rush to

prevent he, when the trigger be pull, and his opponent fall dead on

the field.  the fight be, therefore, consider unfair; Louis Grayle be

try for his life: he do not stand the trial in person.[1]  he escape

to the continent; hurry on to some distant uncivilized land; could not

be trace; reappear in England no more.  the lawyer who conduct his

defence plead skilfully.  he argue that the delay in firing be not

intentional, therefore not criminal,--the effect of the stun which the

wound in the temple have occasion.  the judge be a gentleman, and sum

up the evidence so as to direct the jury to a verdict against the low

wretch who have murder a gentleman; but the juror be not gentleman,

and Grayle's advocate have of course excite their sympathy for a son of

the people, whom a gentleman have wantonly insult.  the verdict be

manslaughter; but the sentence emphatically mark the aggravate nature

of the homicide,--three year' imprisonment.  Grayle elude the prison,

but he be a man disgrace and an exile,--his ambition blast, his career

an outlaw's, and his age not yet twenty-three.  my father say that he be

suppose to have change his name; none know what have become of he.  and

so this creature, brilliant and daring, whom if bear under well auspex

we might now be all fawn on, cringe to,--after live to old age, no

one know how,--dies murder at Aleppo, no one, you say, know by whom."



"I see some account of his death in the paper about three year ago,"

say one of the party; "but the name be misspell, and I have no idea

that it be the same man who have fight the duel which Mrs. Colonel Poyntz

have so graphically describe.  I have a very vague recollection of the

trial; it take place when I be a boy, more than forty year since.  the

affair make a stir at the time, but be soon forget."



"soon forget," say Mrs. Poyntz; "ay, what be not?  leave your place in

the world for ten minute, and when you come back somebody else have take

it; but when you leave the world for good, who remember that you have ever

a place even in the parish register?"



"nevertheless," say I, "a great poet have say, finely and truly,



   "'the sun of Homer shine upon we still.'"



"but it do not shine upon Homer; and learn folk tell I that we know

no more who and what Homer be, if there be ever a single Homer at all,

or rather, a whole herd of Homers, than we know about the man in the

moon,--if there be one man there, or million of man.  now, my dear Miss

Brabazon, it will be very kind in you to divert our thought into channel

less gloomy.  some pretty french air--Dr. Fenwick, I have something to

say to you."  she draw I towards the window.  "so Annie Ashleigh write

I word that I be not to mention your engagement.  do you think it quite

prudent to keep it a secret?"



"I do not see how prudence be concern in keep it secret one way or

the other,--it be a mere matter of feeling.  Most people wish to abridge,

as far as they can, the time in which their private arrangement be the

topic of public gossip."



"public gossip be sometimes the good security for the due completion of

private arrangement.  as long as a girl be not know to be engage, she

betrothed must be prepare for rival.  announce the engagement, and

rival be warn off."



"I fear no rival."



"do you not?  Bold man!  I suppose you will write to Lilian?"



"certainly."



"do so, and constantly.  by-the-way, Mrs. Ashleigh, before she go, ask

I to send she back Lady Haughton's letter of invitation.  what for,--to

show to you?"



"very likely.  have you the letter still?  may I see it?"



"not just at present.  when lilian or Mrs. Ashleigh write to you, come

and tell I how they like their visit, and what other guest form the

party."



Therewith she turn away and converse apart with the traveller.



her word disquiet I, and I feel that they be mean to do so,

wherefore I could not guess.  but there be no language on earth which have

more word with a double meaning than that speak by the Clever Woman, who

be never so guard as when she appear to be frank.



as I walk home thoughtfully, I be accost by a young man, the son of

one of the wealthy merchant in the town.  I have attend he with

success some month before, in a rheumatic fever: he and his family be

much attach to I.



"ah, my dear Fenwick, I be so glad to see you; I owe you an obligation of

which you be not aware,--an exceedingly pleasant travel-companion.  I

come with he to-day from London, where I have be sight-seeing and

holidaymake for the last fortnight."



"I suppose you mean that you kindly bring I a patient?"



"no, only an admirer.  I be stay at Fenton's Hotel.  it so happen

one day that I have leave in the coffee-room your last work on the Vital

Principle, which, by the by, the bookseller assure I be sell

immensely among reader as non-professional as myself.  come into the

coffee-room again, I find a gentleman read the book.  I claim it

politely; he as politely tender his excuse for take it.  we make

acquaintance on the spot.  the next day we be intimate.  he express

great interest and curiosity about your theory and your experiment.  I

tell he I know you.  you may guess if I describe you as less clever in

your practice than you be in your writing; and, in short, he come with

I to L----, partly to see our flourish town, principally on my promise

to introduce he to you.  my mother, you know, have what she call a

dejeuner tomorrow,--dejeuner and dance.  you will be there?"



"thank you for remind I of her invitation.  I will avail myself of it

if I can.  your new friend will be present?  who and what be he,--a

medical student?"



"no, a mere gentleman at ease, but seem to have a good deal of general

information.  very young, apparently very rich, wonderfully good-look.

I be sure you will like he; everybody must."



"it be quite enough to prepare I to like he that he be a friend of

your."  and so we shake hand and part.



[1] Mrs. Poyntz here make a mistake in law which, though very evident,

her listener do not seem to have notice.  her mistake will be refer

to later.









CHAPTER XXIII.



it be late in the afternoon of the follow day before I be able to

join the party assemble at the merchant's house; it be a villa about two

mile out of the town, pleasantly situate amidst flower-garden

celebrate in the neighbourhood for their beauty.  the breakfast have be

long over; the company be scatter over the lawn,--some form into a

dance on the smooth lawn; some seat under shady awning; other glide

amidst parterre, in which all the glow of colour take a glory yet more

vivid under the flush of a brilliant sunshine; and the ripple of a soft

western breeze.  Music, loud and lively, mingle with the laughter of

happy child, who form much the large number of the party.



stand at the entrance of an arched trelli, that lead from the hardier

flower of the lawn to a rare collection of tropical plant under a lofty

glass dome (connect, as it be, the familiar vegetation of the North

with that of the remotest East), be a form that instantaneously catch

and fix my gaze.  the entrance of the arcade be cover with parasite

creeper, in prodigal luxuriance, of variegate gorgeous tints,--scarlet,

golden, purple; and the form, an idealized picture of man's youth fresh

from the hand of Nature, stand literally in a frame of bloom.



never have I see human face so radiant as that young man's.  there be in

the aspect an indescribable something that literally dazzle.  as one

continue to gaze, it be with surprise; one be force to acknowledge

that in the feature themselves there be no faultless regularity; nor be

the young man's stature imposing, about the middle height.  but the effect

of the whole be not less transcendent.  large eye, unspeakably lustrous;

a most harmonious colouring; an expression of contagious animation and

joyousness; and the form itself so critically fine, that the weld

strength of its sinew be well show in the lightness and grace of its

movement.



he be rest one hand carelessly on the golden lock of a child that have

nestle itself against his knee, look up to his face in that silent

loving wonder with which child regard something too strangely beautiful

for noisy admiration; he himself be converse with the host, an old

gray-haired, gouty man, prop on his crutched stick, and listen with

a look of mournful envy.  to the wealth of the old man all the flower in

that garden owe their renew delight in the summer air and sun.  oh,

that his wealth could renew to himself one hour of the youth whose

incarnation stand beside he, Lord, indeed, of Creation; its splendour

weave into his crown of beauty, its enjoyment subject to his sceptre of

hope and gladness.



I be startle by the hearty voice of the merchant's son.  "ah, my dear

Fenwick, I be afraid you would not come,--you be late.  there be the new

friend of whom I speak to you last night; let I now make you acquaint

with he."  he draw my arm in his, and lead I up to the young man, where

he stand under the arch flower, and whom he then introduce to I by

the name of Margrave.



nothing could be more frankly cordial than Mr. Margrave's manner.  in a

few minute I find myself converse with he familiarly, as if we have

be rear in the same home, and sport together in the same playground.

his vein of talk be peculiar, off-hand, careless, shift from topic to

topic with a bright rapidity.



he say that he like the place; propose to stay in it some week; ask

my address, which I give to he; promise to call soon at an early hour,

while my time be yet free from professional visit.  I endeavour, when

I go away, to analyze to myself the fascination which this young

stranger so notably exercise over all who approach he; and it seem

to I, ever seek to find material cause for all moral effect, that it

rise from the contagious vitality of that rarest of all rare gift in

highly-civilized circles,--perfect health; that health which be in itself

the most exquisite luxury; which, find happiness in the mere sense of

existence, diffuse round it, like an atmosphere, the harmless hilarity of

its bright animal being.  Health, to the utmost perfection, be seldom

know after childhood; health to the utmost cannot be enjoy by those who

overwork the brain, or admit the sure wear and tear of the passion.  the

creature I have just see give I the notion of youth in the golden age of

the poets,--the youth of the careless Arcadian, before nymph or

shepherdess have vex his heart with a sigh.









CHAPTER XXIV.



the house I occupy at L---- be a quaint, old-fashioned building, a

corner-house.  one side, in which be the front entrance, look upon a

street which, as there be no shop in it, and it be no direct

thoroughfare to the busy centre of the town, be always quiet, and at

some hour of the day almost deserted.  the other side of the house

front a lane; opposite to it be the long and high wall of the garden to

a Young Ladies' Boarding-school.  my stable adjoin the house, abut

on a row of small building, with little garden before they, chiefly

occupy by mercantile clerk and retired tradesman.  by the lane there

be a short and ready access both to the high turnpike-road, and to some

pleasant walk through green meadow and along the bank of a river.



this house I have inhabit since my arrival at L----, and it have to I so

many attraction, in a situation sufficiently central to be convenient for

patient, and yet free from noise, and favourable to ready outlet into the

country for such foot or horse exercise as my professional avocation

would allow I to carve for myself out of what the latin poet call the

"solid day," that I have refuse to change it for one well suit to my

increase income; but it be not a house which Mrs. Ashleigh would have

like for Lilian.  the main objection to it in the eye of the "genteel"

be, that it have formerly belong to a member of the heal profession

who unite the shop of an apothecary to the diploma of a surgeon; but that

shop have give the house a special attraction to I; for it have be build

out on the side of the house which front the lane, occupy the great

portion of a small gravel court, fence from the road by a low iron

palisade, and separate from the body of the house itself by a short and

narrow corridor that communicate with the entrance-hall.  this shop I

turn into a rude study for scientific experiment, in which I generally

spend some early hour of the morning, before my visit patient begin

to arrive.  I enjoy the stillness of its separation from the rest of

the house; I enjoy the glimpse of the great chestnut-tree, which

overtop the wall of the school-garden; I enjoy the ease with which,

by open the glaze sash-door, I could get out, if dispose for a short

walk, into the pleasant field; and so completely have I make this

sanctuary my own, that not only my man-servant know that I be never to be

disturb when in it, except by the summon of a patient, but even the

housemaid be forbid to enter it with broom or duster, except upon

special invitation.  the last thing at night, before retire to rest, it

be the man-servant's business to see that the sash-window be close,

and the gate to the iron palisade lock; but during the daytime I so

often go out of the house by that private way that the gate be then

very seldom locked, nor the sash-door bolt from within.  in the town of

L---- there be little apprehension of house-robberies,--especially in the

daylight,--and certainly in this room, cut off from the main building,

there be nothing to attract a vulgar cupidity.  a few of the apothecary's

shelf and case still remain on the wall, with, here and there, a

bottle of some chemical preparation for experiment; two or three

worm-eat, wooden chair; two or three shabby old table; an old

walnut-tree bureau without a lock, into which odd and end be

confusedly thrust, and sundry ugly-look invention of mechanical

science, be, assuredly, not the article which a timid proprietor would

guard with jealous care from the chance of robbery.  it will be see

later why I have be thus prolix in description.  the morning after I have

meet the young stranger by whom I have be so favourably impressed, I be

up as usual, a little before the sun, and long before any of my servant

be astir.  I go first into the room I have mention, and which I

shall henceforth designate as my study, open the window, unlock the

gate, and saunter for some minute up and down the silent lace skirt

the opposite wall, and overhang by the chestnut-tree rich in the

garniture of a glorious summer; then, refresh for work, I re-enter my

study, and be soon absorb in the examination of that now well-know

machine, which be then, to I at least, a novelty,--invented, if I

remember right, by Dubois-Reymond, so distinguished by his research into

the mystery of organic electricity.  it be a wooden cylinder fix

against the edge of a table; on the table two vessel fill with salt and

water be so placed that, as you close your hand on the cylinder, the

forefinger of each hand can drop into the water; each of the vessel have a

metallic plate, and communicate by wire with a galvanometer with its

needle.  now the theory be, that if you clutch the cylinder firmly with

the right hand, leave the left perfectly passive, the needle in the

galvanometer will move from west to south; if, in like manner, you exert

the left arm, leave the right arm passive, the needle will deflect from

west to north.  hence, it be argue that the electric current be induce

through the agency of the nervous system, and that, as human will produce

the muscular contraction requisite, so be it human will that cause the

deflection of the needle.  I imagine that if this theory be

substantiate by experiment, the discovery might lead to some sublime and

unconjectured secret of science.  for human will, thus actively effective

on the electric current, and all matter, animate or inanimate, have more

or less of electricity, a vast field became open to conjecture.  by what

series of patient experimental deduction might not science arrive at the

solution of problem which the newtonian law of gravitation do not

suffice to solve; and--but here I halt.  at the date which my story have

reach, my mind never lose itself long in the Cloudland of Guess.



I be dissatisfied with my experiment.  the needle stir, indeed, but

erratically, and not in direction which, accord to the theory, should

correspond to my movement.  I be about to dismiss the trial with some

uncharitable contempt of the foreign philosopher's dogma, when I hear a

loud ring at my street-door.  while I pause to conjecture whether my

servant be yet up to attend to the door, and which of my patient be the

most likely to summon I at so unseasonable an hour, a shadow darken my

window.  I look up, and to my astonishment beheld the brilliant face of

Mr. Margrave.  the sash to the door be already partially open; he

raise it higher, and walk into the room.  "be it you who ring at the

street-door, and at this hour?" say I.



"yes; and observe, after I have rung, that all the shutter be still

closed, I feel ashamed of my own rash action, and make off rather than

brave the reproachful face of some injure housemaid, rob of she

morning dream.  I turn down that pretty lane,--lured by the green of

the chestnut-trees,--caught sight of you through the window, take courage,

and here I be!  you forgive I?"  while thus speak, he continue to

move along the littered floor of the dingy room, with the undulating

restlessness of some wild animal in the confine of its den, and he now

go on, in short fragmentary sentence, very slightly link together,

but smooth, as it be, into harmony by a voice musical and fresh as a

sky lark's warble.  "Morning dream, indeed! dream that waste the life

of such a morning.  rosy magnificence of a summer dawn!  do you not pity

the fool who prefer to lie a bed, and to dream rather than to live?

what! and you, strong man, with those noble limb, in this den!  do you

not long for a rush through the green of the field, a bath in the blue of

the river?"



here he come to a pause, standing, still in the gray light of the grow

day, with eye whose joyous lustre forestall the sun's, and lip which

seem to laugh even in repose.



but presently those eye, as quick as they be bright, glance over the

wall, the floor, the shelf, the phial, the mechanical invention, and

then rest full on my cylinder fix to the table.  he approach,

examine it curiously, ask what it be.  I explain.  to gratify he I

sit down and renew my experiment, with equally ill success.  the needle,

which should have move from west to south, describe an angle of from

thirty degree to forty or even fifty degree, only make a few troubled,

undecided oscillation.



"Tut," cry the young man, "I see what it be; you have a wound in your

right hand."



that be true; I have burn my band a few day before in a chemical

experiment, and the sore have not heal.



"well," say I, "and what do that matter?"



"everything; the least scratch in the skin of the hand produce chemical

action on the electric current, independently of your will.  let I try."



he take my place, and in a moment the needle in the galvanometer respond

to his grasp on the cylinder, exactly as the inventive philosopher have

state to be the due result of the experiment.



I be startle.



"but how come you, Mr. Margrave, to be so well acquainted with a

scientific process little know, and but recently discover?"



"I well acquaint! not so.  but I be fond of all experiment that relate

to animal life.  Electricity, especially, be full of interest."



on that I draw he out (as I think), and he talk volubly.  I be

amazed to find this young man, in whose brain I have conceive thought keep

one careless holiday, be evidently familiar with the physical science,

and especially with chemistry, which be my own study by predilection.

but never have I meet with a student in whom a knowledge so extensive be

mix up with notion so obsolete or so crotchety.  in one sentence he

show that he have master some late discovery by Faraday or Liebig; in

the next sentence he be talk the wild fallacy of Cardan or Van

Helmont.  I burst out laugh at some paradox about sympathetic powder,

which he enounce as if it be a recognize truth.



"pray tell I," say I, "who be your master in physics; for a cleverer

pupil never have a more crack-brain teacher."



"no," he answer, with his merry laugh, "it be not the teacher's fault.

I be a mere parrot; just cry out a few scrap of learning pick up here

and there.  but, however, I be fond of all research into nature; all

guess at her riddle.  to tell you the truth, one reason why I have

take to you so heartily be not only that your publish work catch my

fancy in the dip which I take into its content (pardon I if I say dip, I

never do more than dip into any book), but also because young ---- tell

I that which all whom I have meet in this town confirm; namely, that you

be one of those few practical chemist who be at once exceedingly

cautious and exceedingly bold,--willing to try every new experiment, but

submit experiment to rigid test.  well, I have an experiment run

wild in this giddy head of mine, and I want you, some day when at leisure,

to catch it, fix it as you have fix that cylinder, make something of it.

I be sure you can."



"what be it?"



"something akin to the theory in your work.  you would replenish or

preserve to each special constitution the special substance that may fail

to the equilibrium of its health.  but you own that in a large

proportion of case the good cure of disease be less to deal with the

disease itself than to support and stimulate the whole system, so as to

enable Nature to cure the disease and restore the impaired equilibrium by

her own agency.  thus, if you find that in certain case of nervous

debility a substance like nitric acid be efficacious, it be because the

nitric acid have a virtue in lock up, as it be, the nervous

energy,--that be, prevent all undue waste.  again, in some case of

what be commonly call feverish cold, stimulant like ammonia assist

nature itself to get rid of the disorder that oppress its normal action;

and, on the same principle, I apprehend, it be contend that a large

average of human life be save in those hospital which have adopt the

support system of ample nourishment and alcoholic stimulant."



"your medical learning surprise I," say I, smile; "and without

pause to notice where it deal somewhat superficially with disputable

point in general, and my own theory in particular, I ask you for the

deduction you draw from your premise."



"it be simply this: that to all animate body, however various, there

must be one principle in common,--the vital principle itself.  what if

there be one certain mean of recruit that principle; and what if that

secret can be discover?"



"Pshaw!  the old illusion of the mediaeval empiric."



"not so.  but the mediaeval empiric be great discoverer.  you sneer at

Van Helmont, who seek, in water, the principle of all thing; but Van

Helmont discover in his search those invisible body call gas.  now

the principle of life must be certainly ascribe to a gas.[1]  and what

ever be a gas chemistry should not despair of produce!  but I can argue

no long now,--never can argue long at a stretch; we be waste the

morning; and, joy! the sun be up!  see!  Out! come out! out! and greet

the great Lifegiver face to face."



I could not resist the young man's invitation.  in a few minute we be

in the quiet lane under the glinting chestnut-tree.  Margrave be

chant, low, a wild tune,--words in a strange language.



"what word be those,--no european language, I think; for I know a little

of most of the language which be speak in our quarter of the globe, at

least by its more civilized race."



"civilized race!  what be civilization?  those word be utter by man

who found empire when Europe itself be not civilized!  Hush, be it not

a grand old air?" and lift his eye towards the sun, he give vent to a

voice clear and deep as a mighty bell!  the air be grand; the word have a

sonorous swell that suit it, and they seem to I jubilant and yet

solemn.  he stop abruptly as a path from the lane have lead we into the

field, already half-bathe in sunlight, dew glitter on the hedgerow.



"your song," say I, "would go well with the clash of cymbal or the peal

of the organ.  I be no judge of melody, but this strike I as that of a

religious hymn."



"I compliment you on the guess.  it be a persian fire-worshipper's hymn to

the sun.  the dialect be very different from modern Persian.  Cyrus the

Great might have chant it on his march upon Babylon."



"and where do you learn it?"



"in Persia itself."



"you have travel much, learn much,--and be so young and so fresh.

be it an impertinent question if I ask whether your parent be yet

live, or be you wholly lord of yourself?"



"thank you for the question,--pray make my answer know in the town.

parent I have not,--never have."



"never have parent!"



"well, I ought rather to say that no parent ever own I.  I be a

natural son, a vagabond, a nobody.  when I come of age I receive an

anonymous letter, inform I that a sum--I need not say what, but more

than enough for all I need--be lodge at an english banker's in my name;

that my mother have die in my infancy; that my father be also dead--but

recently; that as I be a child of love, and he be unwilling that the

secret of my birth should ever be trace, he have provide for I, not by

will, but in his life, by a sum consign to the trust of the friend who

now write to I; I need give myself no trouble to learn more.  faith, I

never do!  I be young, healthy, rich,--yes, rich!  now you know all, and

you have well tell it, that I may win no man's courtesy and no maiden's

love upon false pretence.  I have not even a right, you see, to the name

I bear.  Hist! let I catch that squirrel."



with what a panther-like bind he spring!  the squirrel elude his grasp,

and be up the oak-tree; in a moment he be up the oak-tree too.  in

amazement I see he rise from bough to bough; see his bright eye and

glitter tooth through the green leave.  presently I hear the sharp

piteous cry of the squirrel, echo by the youth's merry laugh; and down,

through that maze of green, Hargrave come, drop on the grass and

bound up, as Mercury might have bound with his wing at his heel.



"I have catch he.  what pretty brown eye!"



suddenly the gay expression of his face change to that of a savage; the

squirrel have wrench itself half-loose, and bite he.  the poor brute!

in an instant its neck be wrung, its body dash on the ground; and that

fair young creature, every feature quiver with rage, be stamp his

foot on his victim again and again!  it be horrible.  I catch he by the

arm indignantly.  he turn round on I like a wild beast disturb from

its prey,--his tooth set, his hand lift, his eye like ball of fire.



"Shame!" say I, calmly; "shame on you!"



he continue to gaze on I a moment or so, his eye glaring, his breath

panting; and then, as if master himself with an involuntary effort, his

arm drop to his side, and he say quite humbly, "I beg your pardon;

indeed I do.  I be beside myself for a moment; I cannot bear pain; "and

he look in deep compassion for himself at his wound hand.  "venomous

brute!"  and he stamp again on the body of the squirrel, already crush

out of shape.



I move away in disgust, and walk on.



but presently I feel my arm softly draw aside, and a voice, dulcet as the

coo of a dove, steal its way into my ear.  there be no resist the

charm with which this extraordinary mortal could fascinate even the hard

and the cold; nor they, perhaps, the least.  for as you see in extreme old

age, when the heart seem to have shrink into itself, and to leave but

meagre and nip affection for the near relation if grow up, the

indurate egotism soften at once towards a playful child; or as you see

in middle life, some misanthrope, whose nature have be sour by wrong

and sorrow, shrink from his own specie, yet make friend with inferior

race, and respond to the caress of a dog,--so, for the worldling or the

cynic, there be an attraction in the freshness of this joyous favourite

of Nature,--an attraction like that of a beautiful child, spoilt and

wayward, or of a graceful animal, half docile, half fierce.



"but," say I, with a smile, as I feel all displeasure go, "such

indulgence of passion for such a trifle be surely unworthy a student of

philosophy!"



"Trifle," he say dolorously.  "but I tell you it be pain; pain be no

trifle.  I suffer.  look!"



I look at the hand, which I take in mine.  the bite no doubt have be

sharp; but the hand that lie in my own be that which the greek sculptor

give to a gladiator; not large (the extremity be never large in

person whose strength come from the just proportion of all the member,

rather than the factitious and partial force which continue muscular

exertion will give to one part of the frame, to the comparative weakening

of the rest), but with the firm-knit joint, the solid finger, the

finish nail, the massive palm, the supple polished skin, in which we

recognize what nature design the human hand to be,--the skilled, swift,

mighty doer of all those marvel which win Nature herself from the

wilderness.



"it be strange," say I, thoughtfully; "but your susceptibility to

suffering confirm my opinion, which be different from the popular

belief,--namely, that pain be most acutely feel by those in whom the

animal organization be perfect, and the sense of vitality exquisitely

keen, every injury or lesion find the whole system rise, as it be, to

repel the mischief and communicate the consciousness of it to all those

nerve which be the sentinel to the garrison of life.  yet my theory be

scarcely bear out by general fact.  the indian savage must have a health

as perfect as your; a nervous system as fine,--witness their marvellous

accuracy of ear, of eye, of scent, probably also of touch; yet they be

indifferent to physical pain; or must I mortify your pride by say that

they have some moral quality defective in you which enable they to rise

superior to it?"



"the indian savage," say Margrave, sullenly, "have not a health as

perfect as mine, and in what you call vitality--the blissful consciousness

of life--they be as stick and stone compare to I."



"how do you know?"



"because I have live with they.  it be a fallacy to suppose that the

savage have a health superior to that of the civilized man,--if the

civilized man be but temperate; and even if not, he have the stamina that

can resist for year the effect of excess which would destroy the savage

in a month.  as to the savage's fine perception of sense, such do not

come from exquisite equilibrium of system, but be hereditary attribute

transmit from race to race, and strengthen by training from infancy.

but be a pointer strong and healthy than a mastiff, because the

pointer through long descent and early teaching creep stealthily to his

game and stand to it motionless?  I will talk of this later; now I

suffer!  Pain, pain!  have life any ill but pain?"



it so happen that I have about I some root of the white lily, which I

mean, before return home, to leave with a patient suffering from one

of those acute local inflammation, in which that simple remedy often

afford great relief.  I cut up one of these root, and bind the cool

leave to the wounded hand with my handkerchief.



"there," say I.  "fortunately if you feel pain more sensibly than other,

you will recover from it more quickly."  and in a few minute my

companion feel perfectly relieve, and pour out his gratitude with an

extravagance of expression and a beam delight of countenance which

positively touch I.



"I almost feel," say I, "as I do when I have still an infant's wail,

and restore it smile to its mother's breast."



"you have do so.  I be an infant, and nature be my mother.  oh, to be

restore to the full joy of life, the scent of wild flower, the song of

bird, and this air--summer air--summer air!"



I know not why it be, but at that moment, look at he and hear he,

I rejoice that Lilian be not at L----.  "but I come out to bathe.  can

we not bathe in that stream?"



"no.  you would derange the bandage round your hand; and for all bodily

ill, from the least to the grave, there be nothing like leave nature

at rest the moment we have hit on the mean which assist her own effort

at cure."



"I obey, then; but I so love the water."



"you swim, of course?"



"ask the fish if it swim.  ask the fish if it can escape I!  I delight to

dive down--down; to plunge after the startled trout, as an otter do; and

then to get amongst those cool, fragrant reed and bulrush, or that

forest of emerald weed which one sometimes find wave under clear

river.  Man! man! could you live but an hour of my life you would know

how horrible a thing it be to die!"



"yet the dying do not think so; they pass away calm and smile, as you

will one day."



"I--I! die one day--die!" and he sink on the grass, and bury his face

amongst the herbage, sob aloud.



before I could get through half a dozen word I mean to soothe, he have

once more bounded up, dash the tear from his eye, and be again

singe some wild, barbaric chant.  abstract itself from the appeal to

its outward sense by melody of which the language be unknown, my mind

soon grew absorb in meditative conjecture on the singular nature, so

wayward, so impulsive, which have force intimacy on a man grave and

practical as myself.



I be puzzle how to reconcile so passionate a childishness, so

undiscipline a want of self-control, with an experience of mankind so

extend by travel, with an education desultory and irregular indeed, but

which must, at some time or other, have be familiarize to severe

reasoning and laborious study.  in Margrave there seem to be want

that mysterious something which be need to keep our faculty, however

severally brilliant, harmoniously link together,--as the string by

which a child mechanically bind the wildflower it gather, shape they

at choice into the garland or the chain.



[1] "accord to the view we have mention, we must ascribe life to a

gas, that be, to an aeriform body."--Liebig: "Organic Chemistry,"

Mayfair's translation, p.363.--It be perhaps not less superfluous to add

that Liebig do not support the view "accord to which life must be

ascribe to a gas," than it would be to state, have Dugald Stewart been

quote as write, "accord to the view we have mention the mind be

but a bundle of impression," that Dugald Stewart be not support, but

opposing, the view of David Hume.  the quotation be merely mean to show,

in the short possible compass, that there be view entertain by

speculative reasoner of our day which, accord to Liebig, would lead to

the inference at which Margrave so boldly arrive.  Margrave be, however,

no doubt, lead to his belief by his reminiscence of Van Helmont, to whose

discovery of gas he be refer.  Van Helmont plainly affirm "that the

arterial spirit of our life be of the nature of a gas;" and in the same

chapter (on the fiction of elementary complexion and mixture) say,

"see that the spirit of our life, since it be a gas, be most mightily

and swiftly affect by any other gas," etc.  he repeat the same dogma in

his treatise on "Long Life," and indeed very generally throughout his

writing, observe, in his chapter on the Vital Air, that the spirit of

life be a salt, sharp vapour, make of the arterial blood, etc.  Liebig,

therefore, in confute some modern notion as to the nature of contagion

by miasma, be lead their reasoning back to that assumption in the

Brawn of physiological science by which the discoverer of gas exalt into

the principle of life the substance to which he first give the name, now

so familiarly know.  it be nevertheless just to Van Helmont to add that

his conception of the vital principle be very far from be as purely

materialistic as it would seem to those unacquainted with his writing;

for he carefully distinguish that principle of life which he ascribe to

a gas, and by which he mean the sensuous animal life, from the

intellectual immortal principle of soul.  Van Helmont, indeed, be a

sincere believer of Divine Revelation.  "the Lord Jesus be the way, the

truth, and the life," say with earnest humility this daring genius, in

that noble chapter "on the completing of the mind by the 'prayer of

silence,' and the love offering tip of the heart, soul, and strength to

the obedience of the Divine will," from which some of the most eloquent of

recent philosopher, argue against materialism, have borrow largely in

support and in ornament of their lofty cause.















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — volume 02 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





