The project Gutenberg eBook of a Strange Story — Complete

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Strange Story — Complete



author: Baron Edward Bulwer Lytton Lytton



Release date: November 26, 2004 [ebook #7701]

                most recently update: August 28, 2016



language: English



credit: produce by Andrew Heath and David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — COMPLETE ***









produce by Andrew Heath and David Widger

















a strange story





by Edward Bulwer Lytton



 (Lord Lytton)











PREFACE.



of the many illustrious thinker whom the school of France have

contribute to the intellectual philosophy of our age, Victor Cousin,

the most accomplish, assign to Maine de Biran the rank of the most

original.



in the successive development of his own mind, Maine de Biran may,

indeed, be say to represent the change that have be silently at

work throughout the general mind of Europe since the close of the

last century. he begin his career of philosopher with blind faith in

Condillac and Materialism. as an intellect severely conscientious in the

pursuit of truth expand amidst the perplexity it revolve, phenomenon

which cannot be account for by Condillac’s sensuous theory open

to his eye. to the first rudimentary life of man, the animal life,

“characterize by impression, appetite, movement, organic in their

origin and rule by the Law of Necessity,” (1) he be compel to add,

“the second, or human life, from which free-will and self-consciousness

emerge.” he thus arrive at the union of mind and matter; but still a

something be wanted,--some key to the marvel which neither of these

condition of vital being suffice to explain. and at last the grand

self-complete Thinker attain to the Third Life of Man in Man’s Soul.





   “there be not,” say this philosopher, towards the close of his last

    and lofty work,--“there be not only two principle oppose to

    each other in Man,--there be three.  for there be in he three

    life and three order of faculty.  though all should be in accord

    and in harmony between the sensitive and the active faculty

    which constitute Man, there would still be a nature superior, a

    third life which would not be satisfy; which would make feel

    (ferait sentir) the truth that there be another happiness, another

    wisdom, another perfection, at once above the great human

    happiness, above the high wisdom, or intellectual and moral

    perfection of which the human being be susceptible.” (2)



now, as Philosophy and Romance both take their origin in the Principle

of Wonder, so in the “Strange Story” submit to the Public it will be

see that Romance, through the free exercise of its wild vagary,

conduct its bewildered hero towards the same goal to which philosophy

lead its luminous student, through far grander portent of Nature, far

high vision of Supernatural Power, than Fable can yield to Fancy.

that goal be define in these noble words:--





   “the relation (rapport) which exist between the element and the

    product of the three life of Man be the subject of meditation,

    the fairest and fine, but also the most difficult.  the Stoic

    Philosophy show we all which can be most elevated in active life;

    but it make abstraction of the animal nature, and absolutely fail

    to recognize all which belong to the life of the spirit.

    its practical morality be beyond the force of humanity.  christianity

    alone embrace the whole man.  it dissimulate none of the side of

    his nature, and avail itself of his misery and his weakness in

    order to conduct he to his end in show he all the want that he

    have of a succor more exalted.” (3)



in the passage thus quote, I imply one of the object for which this

tale have be write; and I cite they, with a wish to acknowledge one

of those priceless obligation which writing the light and most

fantastic often incur to reasoner the most serious and profound.



but I here construct a romance which should have, as a romance, some

interest for the general reader. I do not elaborate a treatise submit

to the logic of sage. and it be only when “in fairy fiction drest” that

Romance give admission to “truth severe.”



I venture to assume that none will question my privilege to avail

myself of the marvellous agency which have ever be at the legitimate

command of the fabulist.



to the high form of romantic narrative, the Epic, critic, indeed,

have declare that a supernatural machinery be indispensable. that the

Drama have avail itself of the same license as the Epic, it would be

unnecessary to say to the countryman of Shakspeare, or to the generation

that be yet study the enigma of Goethe’s “Faust.” Prose Romance have

immemorially assert, no less than the Epic or the Drama, its heritage

in the Realm of the marvellous. the interest which attach to the

supernatural be seek in the early Prose Romance which modern time

take from the ancient, and which, perhaps, have its origin in the lost

Novels of Miletus; (4) and the right to invoke such interest have, ever

since, be maintain by Romance through all variety of form

and fancy,--from the majestic epopee of “Telemaque” to the graceful

fantasy of “Undine,” or the mighty mockery of “Gulliver’s Travels”

 down to such comparatively commonplace element of wonder as yet

preserve from oblivion “the Castle of Otranto” and “The Old English

Baron.”



now, to my mind, the true reason why a supernatural agency be

indispensable to the conception of the Epic, be that the Epic be the

high and the complete form in which art can express either Man or

Nature, and that without some gleam of the supernatural, Man be not man

nor Nature, nature.



it be say, by a writer to whom an eminent philosophical critic justly

apply the epithet of “pious and profound:” (5)





   “be it unreasonable to confess that we believe in God, not by reason

    of the nature which conceal he, but by reason of the Supernatural

    in Man which alone reveal and prove he to exist?...  Man reveal

    God: for Man, by his intelligence, rise above Nature; and in virtue

    of this intelligence be conscious of himself as a power not only

    independent of, but oppose to, Nature, and capable of resist,

    conquering, and control she.”(6)



if the meaning involve in the argument, of which I have here make but

scanty extract, be carefully study, I think that we shall find

deep reason than the critic who dictate canon of taste to the last

century discovered,--why the supernatural be indispensable to the Epic,

and why it be allowable to all work of imagination, in which art look

on Nature with Man’s inner sense of a something beyond and above she.



but the Writer who, whether in verse or prose, would avail himself of

such source of pity or terror as flow from the marvellous, can only

attain his object in proportion as the wonder he narrate be of a kind

to excite the curiosity of the age he address.



in the brain of our time, the faculty of Causation be very markedly

developed. People nowadays do not delight in the Marvellous accord to

the old childlike spirit. they say in one breath, “very extraordinary!”

 and in the next breath ask, “how do you account for it?” if the Author

of this work have presume to borrow from science some element of

interest for Romance, he venture to hope that no thoughtful reader--and

certainly no true son of science--will be dispose to reproach he. in

fact, such illustration from the master of Thought be essential to

the completion of the purpose which pervade the work.



that purpose, I trust, will develop itself in proportion as the story

approach the close; and whatever may appear violent or melodramatic

in the catastrophe, will, perhaps, be find, by a reader capable of

perceive the various symbolical meaning convey in the story,

essential to the end in which those meaning converge, and towards which

the incident that give they the character and interest of of fiction,

have be plan and direct from the commencement.



of course, accord to the most obvious principle of art, the narrator

of a fiction must be as thoroughly in earnest as if he be the narrator

of fact. one could not tell the most extravagant fairy-tale so as to

rouse and sustain the attention of the most infantine listener, if the

tale be tell as if the taleteller do not believe in it. but when the

reader lay down this “Strange Story,” perhaps he will detect, through

all the haze of romance, the outline of these image suggest to his

reason: firstly, the image of sensuous, soulless Nature, such as

the Materialist have conceive it; secondly, the image of Intellect,

obstinately separate all its inquiry from the belief in the

spiritual essence and destiny of man, and incur all kind of

perplexity and resort to all kind of visionary speculation before it

settle at last into the simple faith which unite the philosopher and

the infant; and thirdly, the image of the err but pure-thoughte

visionary, seek over-much on this earth to separate soul from mind,

till innocence itself be lead astray by a phantom, and reason be lose in

the space between earth and the star. whether in these picture there

be any truth worth the implying, every reader must judge for himself;

and if he doubt or deny that there be any such truth, still, in the

process of thought which the doubt or denial enforce, he may chance on

a truth which it please himself to discover.





   “Most of the Fables of AEsop,”--thus say Montaigne in his

    charming essay “of Books”(7)--“have several sense and meaning, of

    which the Mythologists choose some one that tally with the fable.

    but for the most part ‘t be only what present itself at the first

    view, and be superficial; there be other more lively, essential,

    and internal, into which they have not be able to penetrate;

    and”--adds Montaigne--“the case be the very same with I.”



(1) OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. i. See introduction.



(2) OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. iii. p. 546

(Anthropologie).



(3) OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. iii. p. 524.



(4) “the Golden Ass” of Apuleius.



(5) Sir William Hamilton: lecture on Metaphysics, p. 40.



(6) jacobi: Von der Gottlichen Dingen; Werke, p. 424-426.



(7) translation, 1776, Yol. ii. p. 103.















CHAPTER I.



in the year 18-- I settle as a physician at one of the wealthy of

our great english town, which I will designate by the initial L----.

I be yet young, but I have acquire some reputation by a professional

work, which be, I believe, still amongst the received authority on the

subject of which it treat. I have study at Edinburgh and at Paris, and

have bear away from both those illustrious school of medicine whatever

guarantee for future distinction the praise of professor may concede

to the ambition of student. on become a member of the College of

Physicians, I make a tour of the principal city of Europe, take

letter of introduction to eminent medical man, and gather from many

theory and mode of treatment hint to enlarge the foundation of

unprejudiced and comprehensive practice. I have resolve to fix my

ultimate residence in London. but before this preparatory tour be

complete, my resolve be change by one of those unexpected event

which determine the fate man in vain would work out for himself. in

pass through the Tyro, on my way into the north of Italy, I find in

a small inn, remote from medical attendance, an english traveller seize

with acute inflammation of the lung, and in a state of imminent danger.

I devote myself to he night and day; and, perhaps more through careful

nursing than active remedy, I have the happiness to effect his complete

recovery. the traveller prove to be Julius Faber, a physician of great

distinction, content to reside, where he be bear, in the provincial

city of L----, but whose reputation as a profound and original

pathologist be widely spread, and whose writing have form no

unimportant part of my special study. it be during a short holiday

excursion, from which he be about to return with renovate vigour, that

he have be thus stricken down. the patient so accidentally meet with

become the founder of my professional fortune. he conceive a warm

attachment for me,--perhaps the more affectionate because he be a

childless bachelor, and the nephew who would succeed to his wealth

evince no desire to succeed to the toil by which the wealth have be

acquire. thus, have an heir for the one, he have long look about for

an heir to the other, and now resolve on find that heir in I.

so when we part Dr. Faber make I promise to correspond with he

regularly, and it be not long before he disclose by letter the

plan he have form in my favour. he say that he be grow old;

his practice be beyond his strength; he need a partner; he be not

disposed to put up to sale the health of patient whom he have learn to

regard as his child: money be no object to he, but it be an object

close at his heart that the humanity he have serve, and the reputation

he have acquire, should suffer no loss in his choice of a successor. in

fine, he propose that I should at once come to L---- as his partner,

with the view of succeed to his entire practice at the end of two

year, when it be his intention to retire.



the opening into fortune thus afford to I be one that rarely

present itself to a young man enter upon an overcrowded profession;

and to an aspirant less allure by the desire of fortune than the hope

of distinction, the fame of the physician who thus generously offer

to I the inestimable benefit of his long experience and his cordial

introduction be in itself an assurance that a metropolitan practice be

not essential to a national renown.



I go, then, to L----, and before the two year of my partnership have

expire, my success justify my kind friend’s selection, and far more

than realize my own expectation. I be fortunate in effecting

some notable cure in the early case submit to I, and it be

everything in the career of a physician when good luck win betime for

he that confidence which patient rarely accord except to lengthen

experience. to the rapid facility with which my way be make, some

circumstance apart from professional skill probably contribute. I be

save from the suspicion of a medical adventurer by the accident of

birth and fortune. I belong to an ancient family (a branch of the once

powerful border-clan of the Fenwicks) that have for many generation hold

a fair estate in the neighbourhood of windermere. as an only son I have

succeed to that estate on attain my majority, and have sell it to

pay off the debt which have be make by my father, who have the costly

taste of an antiquary and collector. the residue on the sale insure I

a modest independence apart from the profit of a profession; and as I

have not be legally bind to defray my father’s debt, so I obtain

that character for disinterestedness and integrity which always in

England tend to propitiate the public to the success achieve by

industry or talent. perhaps, too, any professional ability I might

possess be the more readily concede, because I have cultivate with

assiduity the science and the scholarship which be collaterally

connect with the study of medicine. thus, in a word, I establish

a social position which come in aid of my professional repute, and

silence much of that envy which usually embitter and sometimes impede

success.



Dr. Faber retire at the end of the two year agree upon. he go

abroad; and be, though advance in year, of a frame still robust,

and habit of mind still inquire and eager, he commence a lengthened

course of foreign travel, during which our correspondence, at first

frequent, gradually languish, and finally die away.



I succeed at once to the large part of the practice which the labour

of thirty year have secure to my predecessor. my chief rival be a

Dr. Lloyd, a benevolent, fervid man, not without genius, if genius be

present where judgment be absent; not without science, if that may be

science which fail in precision,--one of those clever desultory man

who, in adopt a profession, do not give up to it the whole force and

heat of their mind. man of that kind habitually accept a mechanical

routine, because in the exercise of their ostensible call their

imaginative faculty be draw away to pursuit more alluring.

therefore, in their proper vocation they be seldom bold or

inventive,--out of it they be sometimes both to excess. and when they

do take up a novelty in their own profession they cherish it with an

obstinate tenacity, and an extravagant passion, unknown to those quiet

philosopher who take up novelty every day, examine they with the

sobriety of practised eye, to lay down altogether, modify in part, or

accept in whole, accord as inductive experiment support or destroy

conjecture.



Dr. Lloyd have be esteem a learn naturalist long before he be

admit to be a tolerable physician. amidst the privation of his

youth he have contrive to form, and with each succeed year he have

perseveringly increase, a zoological collection of creature, not

alive, but, happily for the beholder, stuff or embalmed. from what I

have say, it will be truly infer that Dr. Lloyd’s early career as

a physician have not be brilliant; but of late year he have gradually

rather aged than work himself into that professional authority and

station which time confer on a thoroughly respectable man whom no one

be disposed to envy, and all be disposed to like.



now in L---- there be two distinct social circles,--that of the

wealthy merchant and trader, and that of a few privileged family

inhabit a part of the town aloof from the mart of commerce, and

call the Abbey Hill. these superb areopagite exercise over the wife

and daughter of the inferior citizen to whom all of L----, except the

Abbey Hill, owe its prosperity, the same kind of mysterious influence

which the fine lady of May Fair and Belgravia be report to hold

over the female denizen of Bloomsbury and Marylebone.



Abbey Hill be not opulent; but it be powerful by a concentration

of its resource in all matter of patronage. Abbey Hill have its own

milliner and its own draper, its own confectioner, butcher, baker, and

tea-dealer; and the patronage of Abbey Hill be like the patronage

of royalty,--less lucrative in itself than as a solemn certificate of

general merit. the shop on which Abbey Hill confer its custom

be certainly not the cheap, possibly not the good; but they be

undeniably the most imposing. the proprietor be decorously pompous,

the shopman superciliously polite. they could not be more so if they have

belong to the State, and be pay by a public which they benefit

and despise. the lady of Low Town (as the city subjacent to the Hill

have be style from a date remote in the feudal age) enter those

shop with a certain awe, and leave they with a certain pride. there they

have learn what the Hill approve; there they have buy what the Hill

have purchase. it be much in this life to be quite sure that we be in

the right, whatever that conviction may cost we. Abbey Hill have be

in the habit of appoint, amongst other object of patronage, its own

physician. but that habit have fall into disuse during the latter year

of my predecessor’s practice. his superiority over all other medical

man in the town have become so incontestable, that, though he be

emphatically the doctor of Low Town, the head of its hospital and

infirmary, and by birth relate to its principal trader, still as

Abbey Hill be occasionally subject to the physical infirmity of

mean mortal, so on those occasion it deem it well not to push

the point of honour to the wanton sacrifice of life. since Low Town

possess one of the most famous physician in England, Abbey Hill

magnanimously resolve not to crush he by a rival. Abbey Hill let he

feel its pulse.



when my predecessor retire, I have presumptuously expect that the Hill

would have continue to suspend its normal right to a special physician,

and show to I the same generous favour it have show to he, who have

declare I worthy to succeed to his honour. I have the more excuse for

this presumption because the Hill have already allow I to visit a fair

proportion of its invalid, have say some very gracious thing to I

about the great respectability of the Fenwick family, and send I some

invitation to dinner, and a great many invitation to tea.



but my self-conceit receive a notable check. Abbey Hill declare that

the time have come to reassert its dormant privilege; it must have a

doctor of its own choosing,--a doctor who might, indeed, be permit

to visit Low Town from motive of humanity or gain, but who must

emphatically assert his special allegiance to Abbey Hill by fix

his home on that venerable promontory. Miss Brabazon, a spinster of

uncertain age but undoubted pedigree, with small fortune but high nose,

which she would pleasantly observe be a proof of her descent from

Humphrey Duke of Gloucester (with whom, indeed, I have no doubt, in

spite of chronology, that she very often dine), be commission to

inquire of I diplomatically, and without commit Abbey Hill too much

by the overture, whether I would take a large and antiquated mansion, in

which abbot be say to have live many century ago, and which be

still popularly style Abbots’ House, situate on the verge of the Hill,

as in that case the “Hill” would think of I.



“it be a large house for a single man, I allow,” say Miss Brabazon,

candidly; and then add, with a sidelong glance of alarm sweetness,

“but when Dr. Fenwick have take his true position (so old a family!)

amongst we, he need not long remain single, unless he prefer it.”



I reply, with more asperity than the occasion call for, that I have

no thought of change my residence at present, and if the Hill want

I, the Hill must send for I.



two day afterwards Dr. Lloyd take Abbots’ House, and in less than a

week be proclaim medical adviser to the Hill. the election have be

decide by the fiat of a great lady, who reign supreme on the sacred

eminence, under the name and title of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



“Dr. Fenwick,” say this lady, “be a clever young man and a gentleman,

but he give himself airs,--the Hill do not allow any air but its

own. besides, he be a new comer: resistance to new comer, and, indeed,

to all thing new, except cap and novel, be one of the bond that keep

old establish society together. accordingly, it be by my advice that

Dr. Lloyd have take Abbots’ House; the rent would be too high for his

mean if the Hill do not feel bind in honour to justify the trust he

have place in its patronage. I tell he that all my friend, when they

be in want of a doctor, would send for he; those who be my friend

will do so. what the Hill do, plenty of common people down there will

do also,--so that question be settle!” and it be settle.



Dr. Lloyd, thus take by the hand, soon extend the range of his visit

beyond the Hill, which be not precisely a mountain of gold to doctor,

and share with myself, though in a comparatively small degree, the much

more lucrative practice of Low Town.



I have no cause to grudge his success, nor do I. but to my theory of

medicine his diagnosis be shallow, and his prescription obsolete. when

we be summon to a joint consultation, our view as to the proper

course of treatment seldom agree. Doubtless he think I ought to have

defer to his seniority in year; but I hold the doctrine which youth

deem a truth and age a paradox,--namely, that in science the young man

be the practical elder, inasmuch as they be school in the late

experience science have gather up, while their senior be cramp by

the dogma they be school to believe when the world be some decade

the young.



meanwhile my reputation continue rapidly to advance; it become more

than local; my advice be seek even by patient from the metropolis.

that ambition, which, conceive in early youth, have decide my career

and sweeten all its labours,--the ambition to take a rank and leave

a name as one of the great pathologist to whom humanity accord a

grateful, if calm, renown,--saw before it a level field and a certain

goal.



I know not whether a success far beyond that usually attain at the age

I have reach serve to increase, but it seem to myself to justify,

the main characteristic of my moral organization,--intellectual pride.



though mild and gentle to the sufferer under my care, as a necessary

element of professional duty, I be intolerant of contradiction from

those who belong to my calling, or even from those who, in general

opinion, oppose my favourite theory. I have espouse a school of

medical philosophy severely rigid in its inductive logic. my creed be

that of stern materialism. I have a contempt for the understanding of man

who accept with credulity what they could not explain by reason. my

favourite phrase be “common-sense.” at the same time I have no prejudice

against bold discovery, and discovery necessitate conjecture, but

I dismiss as idle all conjecture that could not be bring to a

practical test.



as in medicine I have be the pupil of Broussais, so in metaphysics I

be the disciple of Condillac. I believe with that philosopher that

“all our knowledge we owe to nature; that in the beginning we can

only instruct ourselves through her lesson; and that the whole art of

reasoning consist in continue as she have compel we to commence.”

 keep natural philosophy apart from the doctrine of revelation, I

never assail the last; but I contend that by the first no accurate

reasoner could arrive at the existence of the soul as a third principle

of be equally distinct from mind and body. that by a miracle man

might live again, be a question of faith and not of understanding. I

leave faith to religion, and banish it from philosophy. how define with

a precision to satisfy the logic of philosophy what be to live again?

the body? we know that the body rest in its grave till by the process

of decomposition its elemental part enter into other form of

matter. the mind? but the mind be as clearly the result of the bodily

organization as the music of the harpsichord be the result of the

instrumental mechanism. the mind share the decrepitude of the body in

extreme old age, and in the full vigour of youth a sudden injury to the

brain might forever destroy the intellect of a Plato or a Shakspeare.

but the third principle,--the soul,--the something lodge within the

body, which yet be to survive it? where be that soul hide out of

the ken of the anatomist? when philosopher attempt to define it, be

they not compel to confound its nature and its action with those

of the mind? could they reduce it to the mere moral sense, vary

accord to education, circumstance, and physical constitution? but

even the moral sense in the most virtuous of man may be sweep away by

a fever. such at the time I now speak of be the view I held,--views

certainly not original nor pleasing; but I cherish they with as fond a

tenacity as if they have be consolatory truth of which I be the

first discoverer. I be intolerant to those who maintain opposite

doctrines,--despised they as irrational, or dislike they as

insincere. certainly if I have fulfil the career which my ambition

predicted,--become the founder of a new school in pathology, and sum

up my theory in academical lectures,--I should have add another

authority, however feeble, to the sect which circumscribe the interest

of man to the life that have its close in his grave.



possibly that which I have call my intellectual pride be more

nourish than I should have be willing to grant by the self-reliance

which an unusual degree of physical power be apt to bestow. Nature have

bless I with the thews of an athlete. among the hardy youth of

the Northern Athens I have be preeminently distinguish for feat

of activity and strength. my mental labour, and the anxiety which

be inseparable from the conscientious responsibility of the medical

profession, keep my health below the par of keen enjoyment, but have in

no way diminish my rare muscular force. I walk through the crowd

with the firm step and lofty crest of the mail knight of old, who

feel himself, in his casement of iron, a match against number. thus the

sense of a robust individuality, strong alike in discipline reason

and animal vigour, habituate to aid other, need no aid for itself,

contribute to render I imperious in will and arrogant in opinion. nor

be such defect injurious to I in my profession; on the contrary,

aid as they be by a calm manner, and a presence not without that

kind of dignity which be the livery of self-esteem, they serve to

impose respect and to inspire trust.













CHAPTER II.



I have be about six year at L---- when I become suddenly involve in

a controversy with Dr. Lloyd. just as this ill-fate man appear at the

culminate point of his professional fortune, he have the imprudence

to proclaim himself not only an enthusiastic advocate of mesmerism as a

curative process, but an ardent believer of the reality of somnambular

clairvoyance as an invaluable gift of certain privileged organization.

to these doctrine I sternly oppose myself,--the more sternly, perhaps,

because on these doctrine Dr. Lloyd found an argument for the

existence of soul, independent of mind, as of matter, and build

thereon a superstructure of physiological fantasy, which, could it

be substantiate, would replace every system of metaphysic on which

recognize philosophy condescend to dispute.



about two year before he become a disciple rather of Puysegur than

Mesmer (for Mesmer hard little faith in that gift of clairvoyance of

which Puysegur be, I believe, at least in modern time, the first

audacious asserter), Dr. Lloyd have be afflict with the loss of a

wife many year young than himself, and to whom he have be tenderly

attach. and this bereavement, in direct the hope that console

he to a world beyond the grave, have serve perhaps to render he more

credulous of the phenomenon in which he greet additional proof of

purely spiritual existence. certainly, if, in controvert the notion

of another physiologist, I have restrict myself to that fair antagonism

which belong to scientific disputant anxious only for the truth, I

should need no apology for sincere conviction and honest argument; but

when, with condescend good-nature, as if to a man much young than

himself, who be ignorant of the phenomenon which he nevertheless deny,

Dr. Lloyd invite I to attend his seance and witness his cure, my

amour propre became arouse and nettle, and it seem to I necessary

to put down what I assert to be too gross an outrage on common-sense

to justify the ceremony of examination. I write, therefore, a small

pamphlet on the subject, in which I exhaust all the weapon that irony

can lend to contempt. Dr. Lloyd reply; and as he be no very skilful

arguer, his reply injure he perhaps more than my assault. meanwhile,

I have make some inquiry as to the moral character of his favourite

clairvoyant. I imagine that I have learn enough to justify I in

treat they as flagrant cheat, and himself as their egregious dupe.



Low Town soon range itself, with very few exception, on my side. the

Hill at first seem disposed to rally round its insult physician, and

to make the dispute a party question, in which the Hill would have be

signally worst, when suddenly the same lady paramount, who have secure

to Dr. Lloyd the smile of the Eminence, speak forth against he, and the

Eminence frown.



“Dr. Lloyd,” say the Queen of the Hill, “be an amiable creature, but on

this subject decidedly crack. crack poet may be all the well for

be cracked,--cracked doctor be dangerous. besides, in deserting

that old-fashioned routine, his adherence to which make his claim to

the Hill’s approbation, and unsettle the mind of the Hill with wild

revolutionary theory, Dr. Lloyd have betray the principle on which

the Hill itself rest its social foundation. of those principle Dr.

Fenwick have make himself champion; and the Hill be bind to support he.

there, the question be settle!”



and it be settle.



from the moment Mrs. Colonel Poyntz thus issue the word of command,

Dr. Lloyd be demolish. his practice be go, as well as his repute.

mortification or anger bring on a stroke of paralysis which, disable

my opponent, put an end to our controversy. an obscure Dr. Jones, who

have be the special pupil and protege of Dr. Lloyd, offer himself as

a candidate for the Hill’s tongue and pulse. the Hill give he little

encouragement. it once more suspend its electoral privilege, and,

without insist on call I up to it, the Hill quietly call I

in whenever its health need other advice than that of its visit

apothecary. again it invite I, sometimes to dinner, often to tea; and

again Miss Brabazon assure I by a sidelong glance that it be no fault

of hers if I be still single.



I have almost forget the dispute which have obtain for I so

conspicuous a triumph, when one winter’s night I be rouse from sleep

by a summon to attend Dr Lloyd, who, attack by a second stroke a few

hour previously, have, on recover sense, express a vehement desire

to consult the rival by whom he have suffer so severely. I dress

myself in haste and hurry to his house.



a February night, sharp and bitter; an iron-gray frost below, a spectral

melancholy moon above. I have to ascend the Abbey Hill by a steep, blind

lane between high wall. I pass through stately gate, which stand

wide open, into the garden ground that surround the old Abbots’

House. at the end of a short carriage-drive the dark and gloomy building

clear itself from leafless skeleton trees,--the moon rest keen and

cold on its abrupt gable and lofty chimney-stack. an old woman-servant

receive I at the door, and, without say a word, lead I through a

long low hall, and up dreary oak stair, to a broad landing, at which

she pause for a moment, listen. round and about hall, staircase, and

landing be range the dead specimen of the savage world which it have

be the pride of the naturalist’s life to collect. close where I stand

yawn the open jaw of the fell anaconda, its low coil hide, as

they rest on the floor below, by the winding of the massive stair.

against the dull wainscot wall be pendent case store with grotesque

unfamiliar mummy, see imperfectly by the moon that shoot through the

window-pane, and the candle in the old woman’s hand. and as now she

turn towards I, nod her signal to follow, and go on up the

shadowy passage, row of gigantic bird--ibis and vulture, and huge sea

glaucus--glare at I in the false light of their hungry eye.



so I enter the sick-room, and the first glance tell I that my art be

powerless there.



the child of the stricken widower be group round his bed, the

eld apparently about fifteen, the young four; one little girl--the

only female child--be cling to her father’s neck, her face press

to his bosom, and in that room her sob alone be loud.



as I pass the threshold, Dr. Lloyd lift his face, which have be

bent over the weeping child, and gaze on I with an aspect of strange

glee, which I fail to interpret. then as I stole towards he softly

and slowly, he press his lip on the long fair tress that stream

wild over his breast, motion to a nurse who stand beside his pillow to

take the child away, and in a voice clear than I could have expect

in one on whose brow lie the unmistakable hand of death, he bid

the nurse and the child quit the room. all go sorrowfully, but

silently, save the little girl, who, bear off in the nurse’s arm,

continue to sob as if her heart be break.



I be not prepare for a scene so affect; it move I to the quick.

my eye wistfully follow the child so soon to be orphan, as one

after one go out into the dark chill shadow, and amidst the bloodless

form of the dumb brute nature, range in grisly vista beyond the

death-room of man. and when the last infant shape have vanish, and the

door close with a jarring click, my sight wander loiteringly around

the chamber before I could bring myself to fix it on the broken form,

beside which I now stand in all that glorious vigour of frame which have

foster the pride of my mind. in the moment consume by my mournful

survey, the whole aspect of the place impress itself ineffaceably

on lifelong remembrance. through the high, deepsunken casement, across

which the thin, faded curtain be but half draw, the moonlight rush,

and then settle on the floor in one shroud of white glimmer, lose under

the gloom of the death-bed. the roof be low, and seem low still

by heavy intersecting beam, which I might have touch with my lift

hand. and the tall gutter candle by the bedside, and the flicker from

the fire struggle out through the fuel but newly heap on it, throw

their reflection on the ceiling just over my head in a reek of quivering

blackness, like an angry cloud.



suddenly I feel my arm grasp; with his left hand (the right side be

already lifeless) the die man draw I towards he nearer and nearer,

till his lip almost touch my ear, and, in a voice now firm, now

split into gasp and hiss, thus he say, “I have summon you to gaze

on your own work! you have stricken down my life at the moment when it

be most need by my child, and most serviceable to mankind. have

I live a few year long, my child would have enter on manhood,

safe from the temptation of want and undejecte by the charity

of stranger. thank to you, they will be penniless orphan.

fellow-creature afflict by malady your pharmacopoeia have fail

to reach come to I for relief, and they find it. ‘the effect of

imagination,’ you say. what matter, if I direct the imagination to

cure? now you have mock the unhappy one out of their last chance of

life. they will suffer and perish. do you believe I in error? still

you know that my object be research into truth. you employ against

your brother in art venomous drug and a poisoned probe. look at I! be

you satisfied with your work?”



I seek to draw back and pluck my arm from the die man’s grasp. I

could not do so without use a force that would have be inhuman. his

lip draw nearer still to my ear.



“vain pretender, do not boast that you bring a genius for epigram to

the service of science. science be lenient to all who offer experiment

as the test of conjecture. you be of the stuff of which inquisitor be

make. you cry that truth be profane when your dogma be question.

in your shallow presumption you have mete the dominion of nature, and

where your eye halt its vision, you say, ‘there nature must close;’

in the bigotry which add crime to presumption, you would stone the

discoverer who, in annex new realm to her chart, unsettle your

arbitrary landmark. verily, retribution shall await you! in those

space which your sight have disdain to explore you shall yourself be

a lost and bewildered straggler. Hist! I see they already! the gibbering

phantom be gather round you!”



the man’s voice stop abruptly; his eye fix in a glazing stare;

his hand relax its hold; he fall back on his pillow. I steal from the

room; on the landing-place I meet the nurse and the old woman-servant.

happily the child be not there. but I hear the wail of the female

child from some room not far distant.



I whisper hurriedly to the nurse, “all be over!” pass again under

the jaw of the vast anaconda, and on through the blind lane between the

dead wall, on through the ghastly street, under the ghastly moon, go

back to my solitary home.













CHAPTER III.



it be some time before I could shake off the impression make on I by

the word and the look of that die man.



it be not that my conscience upbraid I. what have I do? denounce

that which I hold, in common with most man of sense in or out of my

profession, to be one of those illusion by which quackery draw profit

from the wonder of ignorance. be I to blame if I refuse to treat

with the grave respect due to assert discovery in legitimate science

pretension to power akin to the fable of wizard? be I to descend

from the academe of decorous science to examine whether a slumbering

sibyl could read from a book place at she back, or tell I at L----

what at that moment be be do by my friend at the Antipodes?



and what though Dr. Lloyd himself might be a worthy and honest man, and

a sincere believer in the extravagance for which he demand an equal

credulity in other, do not honest man every day incur the penalty

of ridicule if, from a defect of good sense, they make themselves

ridiculous? could I have foresee that a satire so justly provoke

would inflict so deadly a wound? be I inhumanly barbarous because the

antagonist destroy be morbidly sensitive? my conscience, therefore,

make I no reproach, and the public be as little severe as my

conscience. the public have be with I in our contest; the public know

nothing of my opponent’s deathbed accusation; the public know only that

I have attend he in his last moment; it see I walk beside the bi

that bear he to his grave; it admire the respect to his memory which

I evince in the simple tomb that I place over his remain, inscribe

with an epitaph that do justice to his unquestionable benevolence and

integrity; above all, it praise the energy with which I set on foot a

subscription for his orphan child, and the generosity with which I

head that subscription by a sum that be large in proportion to my

mean.



to that sum I do not, indeed, limit my contribution. the sob of the

poor female child ring still on my heart. as her grief have be keener

than that of her brother, so she might be subject to sharp trial

than they, when the time come for she to fight her own way through the

world; therefore I secure to she, but with such precaution that the

gift could not be trace to my hand, a sum to accumulate till she be

of marriageable age, and which then might suffice for a small wedding

portion; or if she remain single, for an income that would place

she beyond the temptation of want, or the bitterness of a servile

dependence.



that Dr. Lloyd should have die in poverty be a matter of surprise at

first, for his profit during the last few year have be considerable,

and his mode of life far from extravagant. but just before the date of

our controversy he have be induce to assist the brother of his lose

wife, who be a junior partner in a London bank, with the loan of his

accumulate saving. this man prove dishonest; he embezzle that and

other sum intrust to he, and flee the country. the same sentiment of

conjugal affection which have cost Dr. Lloyd his fortune keep he silent

as to the cause of the loss. it be reserve for his executor to

discover the treachery of the brother-in-law whom he, poor man, would

have generously screen from additional disgrace.



the Mayor of L----, a wealthy and public-spirited merchant, purchase

the museum, which Dr. Lloyd’s passion for natural history have induce

he to form; and the sum thus obtain, together with that raise

by subscription, suffice not only to discharge all debt due by the

deceased, but to insure to the orphan the benefit of an education that

might fit at least the boy to enter fairly armed into that game, more

of skill than of chance, in which Fortune be really so little blind

that we see, in each turn of her wheel, wealth and its honour pass away

from the lax finger of ignorance and sloth, to the resolute grasp of

labour and knowledge.



meanwhile a relation in a distant county undertake the charge of the

orphan; they disappear from the scene, and the tide of life in a

commercial community soon flow over the place which the dead man have

occupy in the thought of his bustling townsfolk.



one person at L----, and only one, appear to share and inherit the

rancour with which the poor physician have denounce I on his death-bed.

it be a gentleman name Vigors, distantly related to the deceased,

and who have be, in point of station, the most eminent of Dr. Lloyd’s

partisan in the controversy with myself, a man of no great scholastic

acquirement, but of respectable ability. he have that kind of power

which the world concede to respectable ability when accompany

with a temper more than usually stern, and a moral character more than

usually austere. his rule passion be to sit in judgment upon other;

and be a magistrate, he be the most active and the most rigid of all

the magistrate L---- have ever know.



Mr. Vigors at first speak of I with great bitterness, as having ruin,

and in fact kill, his friend, by the uncharitable and unfair acerbity

which he declare I have bring into what ought to have be an

unprejudiced examination of simple matter of fact. but find no

sympathy in these charge, he have the discretion to cease from make

they, content himself with a solemn shake of his head if he hear my

name mention in term of praise, and an oracular sentence or two,

such as “Time will show,” “all’s well that end well,” etc. Mr. Vigors,

however, mix very little in the more convivial intercourse of

the townspeople. he call himself domestic; but, in truth, he be

ungenial,--a stiff man, starch with self-esteem. he think that his

dignity of station be not sufficiently acknowledge by the merchant of

Low Town, and his superiority of intellect not sufficiently recognize

by the exclusive of the Hill. his visit be, therefore, chiefly

confine to the house of neighbouring squire, to whom his reputation

as a magistrate, conjoin with his solemn exterior, make he one of

those oracle by which man consent to be awe on condition that the awe

be not often inflict. and though he open his house three time

a week, it be only to a select few, whom he first feed and then

biologize. Electro-biology be very naturally the special entertainment

of a man whom no intercourse ever pleased in which his will be not

impose upon other. therefore he only invite to his table person whom

he could stare into the abnegation of their sense, willing to say that

beef be lamb, or brandy be coffee, accord as he will they to say.

and, no doubt, the person ask would have say anything he will,

so long as they have, in substance, as well as in idea, the beef and the

brandy, the lamb and the coffee. I do not, then, often meet Mr. Vigors

at the house in which I occasionally spend my evening. I hear of his

enmity as a man safe in his home hear the sough of a wind on a common

without. if now and then we chance to pass in the street, he look

up at I (he be a small man walk on tiptoe) with a sullen scowl of

dislike; and from the height of my stature, I drop upon the small man

and sullen scowl the affable smile of supreme indifference.













CHAPTER IV.



I have now arrive at that age when an ambitious man, satisfied with

his progress in the world without, begin to feel in the craving of

unsatisfied affection the void of a solitary hearth. I resolve to

marry, and look out for a wife. I have never hitherto admit into my

life the passion of love. in fact, I have regard that passion, even

in my early youth, with a certain superb contempt,--as a malady

engender by an effeminate idleness, and foster by a sickly

imagination.



I wish to find in a wife a rational companion, an affectionate and

trustworthy friend. no view of matrimony could be less romantic, more

soberly sensible, than those which I conceive. nor be my requirement

mercenary or presumptuous. I care not for fortune; I ask nothing

from connection. my ambition be exclusively professional; it could be

serve by no title kindre, accelerate by no wealthy dower. I be

no slave to beauty. I do not seek in a wife the accomplishment of a

finish-school teacher.



having decide that the time have come to select my helpmate, I imagine

that I should find no difficulty in a choice that my reason would

approve. but day upon day, week upon week, pass away, and though among

the family I visit there be many young lady who possess more

than the qualification with which I conceive that I should be amply

content, and by whom I might flatter myself that my proposal would

not be disdain, I see not one to whose lifelong companionship I should

not infinitely have prefer the solitude I find so irksome.



one evening, in return home from visit a poor female patient whom

I attend gratuitously, and whose case demand more thought than that

of any other in my list,--for though it have be consider hopeless in

the hospital, and she have come home to die, I feel certain that I could

save she, and she seem recover under my care,--one evening--it be

the fifteenth of May--I find myself just before the gate of the house

that have be inhabit by Dr. Lloyd. since his death the house have be

unoccupied; the rent ask for it by the proprietor be consider high;

and from the sacred Hill on which it be situate, shyness or pride

banish the wealthy trader. the garden gate stand wide open, as

they have stand on the winter night on which I have pass through they

to the chamber of death. the remembrance of that deathbed come vividly

before I, and the die man’s fantastic threat ring again in my

startled ear. an irresistible impulse, which I could not then account

for, and which I cannot account for now,--an impulse the reverse of that

which usually make we turn away with quickened step from a spot that

recall association of pain,--urged I on through the open gate up the

neglect grass-grow road, urge I to look, under the weltering sun of

the joyous spring, at that house which I have never see but in the gloom

of a winter night, under the melancholy moon. as the building come in

sight, with dark-red brick, partially overgrown with ivy, I perceive

that it be no long unoccupied. I see form pass athwart the open

window; a van laden with article of furniture stand before the door;

a servant in livery be beside it give direction to the man who be

unload. evidently some family be just enter into possession.

I feel somewhat ashamed of my trespass, and turn round quickly to

retrace my step. I have retreat but a few yard, when I see before I,

at the entrance gate, Mr. Vigors, walk beside a lady apparently of

middle age; while, just at hand, a path cut through the shrub give view

of a small wicketgate at the end of the ground. I feel unwilling not

only to meet the lady, whom I guess to be the new occupier, and to

whom I should have to make a somewhat awkward apology for intrusion, but

still more to encounter the scornful look of Mr. Vigors in what appear

to my pride a false or undignified position. involuntarily, therefore, I

turn down the path which would favour my escape unobserved. when about

half way between the house and the wicket-gate, the shrub that have

clothe the path on either side suddenly open to the left, bring

into view a circle of sward, surround by irregular fragment of old

brickwork partially cover with fern, creeper, or rockplant, weed,

or wild flower; and, in the centre of the circle, a fountain, or rather

well, over which be build a Gothic monastic dome, or canopy, rest

on small Norman column, time-wear, dilapidate. a large willow overhung

this unmistakable relic of the ancient abbey. there be an air of

antiquity, romance, legend about this spot, so abruptly disclose amidst

the delicate green of the young shrubbery. but it be not the ruin

wall nor the Gothic well that chain my footstep and charm my eye.



it be a solitary human form, seat amidst the mournful ruin.



the form be so slight, the face so young, that at the first glance I

murmur to myself, “what a lovely child!” but as my eye linger

it recognize in the upturned thoughtful brow, in the sweet, serious

aspect, in the rounded outline of that slender shape, the inexpressible

dignity of virgin woman.



a book be on her lap, at her foot a little basket, half-fill with

violet and blossom cull from the rock-plant that nestle amidst the

ruin. behind she, the willow, like an emerald waterfall, shower down

its arching abundant green, bough after bough, from the tree-top to the

sward, descend in wavy verdure, bright towards the summit, in the

smile of the set sun, and darken into shadow as it near the

earth.



she do not notice, she do not see I; her eye be fix upon the

horizon, where it slope farth into space, above the treetops and

the ruins,--fixed so intently that mechanically I turn my own gaze to

follow the flight of her. it be as if she watch for some expect,

familiar sign to grow out from the depth of heaven; perhaps to greet,

before other eye behold it, the ray of the early star.



the bird drop from the bough on the turf around her so fearlessly

that one alight amidst the flower in the little basket at her foot.

there be a famous german poem, which I have read in my youth, call the

Maiden from abroad, variously suppose to be an allegory of Spring, or

of Poetry, accord to the choice of commentator: it seem to I

as if the poem have be make for she. verily, indeed, in she, poet

or painter might have see an image equally true to either of those

adornment of the earth; both outwardly a delight to sense, yet both

waken up thought within we, not sad, but akin to sadness.



I hear now a step behind I, and a voice which I recognize to be that

of Mr. Vigors. I break from the charm by which I have be so lingeringly

spell-bind, hurry on confusedly, gain the wicket-gate, from which a

short flight of stair descend into the common thoroughfare. and there

the every-day life lie again before I. on the opposite side, house,

shop, church-spire; a few step more, and the bustling street! how

immeasurably far from, yet how familiarly near to, the world in which we

move and have be be that fairy-land of romance which open out from

the hard earth before we, when Love steal at first to our side, fade

back into the hard earth again as Love smile or sigh its farewell!













CHAPTER V.



and before that evening I have look on Mr. Vigors with supreme

indifference! what importance he now assume in my eye! the lady with

whom I have see he be doubtless the new tenant of that house in which

the young creature by whom my heart be so strangely move evidently have

her home. most probably the relation between the two lady be that

of mother and daughter. Mr. Vigors, the friend of one, might himself be

relate to both, might prejudice they against I, might--here, start

up, I snap the thread of conjecture, for right before my eye, on the

table beside which I have seat myself on enter my room, lie a card

of invitation:--





            MRS. POYNTZ.

              at home,

         Wednesday, May 15th.

      early.



Mrs. Poyntz,--Mrs. Colonel Poyntz, the queen of the Hill? there, at her

house, I could not fail to learn all about the new comer, who could

never without her sanction have settle on her domain.



I hastily change my dress, and, with beat heart, wound my way up the

venerable eminence.



I do not pass through the lane which lead direct to Abbots’ House (for

that old building stand solitary amidst its ground a little apart

from the spacious platform on which the society of the Hill be

concentrated), but up the broad causeway, with vistaed gaslamp; the

gayer shop still-unclosed, the tide of busy life only slowly ebb

from the still-animate street, on to a square, in which the four main

thoroughfare of the city converge, and which form the boundary of

Low Town. a huge dark archway, popularly call Monk’s Gate, at the

angle of this square, make the entrance to Abbey Hill. when the arch be

pass, one feel at once that one be in the town of a former day. the

pavement be narrow and rugged; the shop small, their upper story

project, with here and there plaster front, quaintly arabesque.

an ascent, short, but steep and tortuous, conduct at once to the old

Abbey Church, nobly situate in a vast quadrangle, round which be

the genteel and gloomy dwelling of the Areopagites of the Hill. More

genteel and less gloomy than the rest--light at the window and flower

on the balcony--stand forth, flank by a garden wall at either side,

the mansion of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



as I enter the drawing-room, I hear the voice of the hostess; it

be a voice clear, decide, metallic, bell-like, utter these word:

“take Abbots’ House? I will tell you.”













CHAPTER VI.



Mrs. Poyntz be seat on the sofa; at her right sit fat Mrs. Bruce, who

be a Scotch lord’s grand-daughter; at she leave thin Miss Brabazon,

who be an irish baronet’s niece. around she--a few seat, many

standing--have group all the guest, save two old gentleman, who have

remain aloof with Colonel Poyntz near the whist-table, wait for the

fourth old gentleman who be to make up the rubber, but who be at that

moment spell-bind in the magic circle which curiosity, that strong

of social demon, have attract round the hostess.



“take Abbots’ House? I will tell you.--Ah, Dr. Fenwick, charm to see

you. you know Abbots’ House be let at last? well, Miss Brabazon, dear,

you ask who have take it. I will inform you,--a particular friend of

mine.”



“indeed! dear I!” say Miss Brabazon, look confused. “I hope I do

not say anything to--”



“wound my feeling. not in the least. you say your uncle Sir Phelim

employ a coachmaker name Ashleigh, that Ashleigh be an uncommon

name, though Ashley be a common one; you intimate an appalling

suspicion that the Mrs. Ashleigh who have come to the Hill be the coach

maker’s widow. I relieve your mind,--she be not; she be the widow of

Gilbert Ashleigh, of Kirby Hall.”



“gilbert ashleigh,” say one of the guest, a bachelor, whose parent

have rear he for the Church, but who, like poor Goldsmith, do not

think himself good enough for it, a mistake of over-modesty, for he

mature into a very harmless creature. “Gilbert Ashleigh? I be at

Oxford with him,--a gentleman commoner of Christ Church. good-look

man, very; sapped--”



“sap! what’s that?--Oh, study. that he do all his life. he marry

young,--Anne Chaloner; she and I be girl together; marry the same

year. they settle at Kirby Hall--nice place, but dull. Poyntz and I

spend a Christmas there. ashleigh when he talk be charming, but he

talk very little. Anne, when she talk, be commonplace, and she

talk very much. naturally, poor thing,---she be so happy. Poyntz and

I do not spend another Christmas there. friendship be long, but life be

short. Gilbert Ashleigh’s life be short indeed; he die in the seventh

year of his marriage, leave only one child, a girl. since then, though

I never spend another Christmas at Kirby Hall, I have frequently spend a

day there, do my good to cheer up Anne. she be no long talkative,

poor dear. wrap up in her child, who have now grow into a beautiful

girl of eighteen--such eye, her father’s--the real dark blue--rare;

sweet creature, but delicate; not, I hope, consumptive, but delicate;

quiet, want life. my girl Jane adore she. Jane have life enough for

two.”



“be Miss Ashleigh the heiress to Kirby Hall?” ask Mrs. Bruce, who have

an unmarried son.



“no. Kirby Hall pass to Ashleigh Sumner, the male heir, a cousin.

and the lucky of cousin! Gilbert’s sister, showy woman (indeed all

show), have contrive to marry her kinsman, Sir Walter Ashleigh Haughton,

the head of the Ashleigh family,--just the man make to be the reflector

of a showy woman! he die year ago, leave an only son, Sir James,

who be kill last winter, by a fall from his horse. and here, again,

Ashleigh Summer prove to be the male heir-at-law. during the minority

of this fortunate youth, Mrs. Ashleigh have rent Kirby Hall of his

guardian. he be now just come of age, and that be why she leave.

lilian Ashleigh will have, however, a very good fortune,--is what we

genteel pauper call an heiress. be there anything more you want to

know?”



say thin Miss Brabazon, who take advantage of her thinness to wedge

herself into every one’s affair, “a most interesting account. what

a nice place abbot’ House could be make with a little taste! so

aristocratic! just what I should like if I could afford it!

the drawing-room should be do up in the moorish style, with

geranium-colour silk curtain, like dear Lady L----‘s boudoir at

Twickenham. and Mrs. Ashleigh have take the house on lease too, I

suppose!” here Miss Brabazon flutter her fan angrily, and then

exclaim, “but what on earth bring Mrs. Ashleigh here?”



Answered Mrs. Colonel Poyntz, with the military frankness by which she

keep her company in good humour, as well as awe,--



“why do any of we come here? can any one tell I?”



there be a blank silence, which the hostess herself be the first to

break.



“none of we present can say why we come here. I can tell you why Mrs.

Ashleigh come. our neighbour, Mr. Vigors, be a distant connection of

the late Gilbert Ashleigh, one of the executor to his will, and the

guardian to the heir-at-law. about ten day ago Mr. Vigors call on I,

for the first time since I feel it my duty to express my disapprobation

of the strange vagary so unhappily conceive by our poor dear friend

Dr. Lloyd. and when he have take his chair, just where you now sit,

Dr. Fenwick, he say in a sepulchral voice, stretch out two finger,

so,--as if I be one of the what-do-you-call-’ems who go to sleep when

he bid they, ‘marm, you know Mrs. Ashleigh? you correspond with she?’

‘yes, Mr. Vigors; be there any crime in that? you look as if there

be.’ ‘no crime, marm,’ say the man, quite seriously. ‘Mrs.

Ashleigh be a lady of amiable temper, and you be a woman of masculine

understanding.’”



here there be a general titter. Mrs. Colonel Poyntz hush it with a

look of severe surprise. “what be there to laugh at? all woman would be

man if they could. if my understanding be masculine, so much the well

for I. I thank Mr. Vigors for his very handsome compliment, and he

then go on to say that though Mrs. Ashleigh would now have to leave

Kirby Hall in a very few week, she seem quite unable to make up her

mind where to go; that it have occur to he that, as Miss Ashleigh be

of an age to see a little of the world, she ought not to remain bury

in the country; while, be of quiet mind, she recoil from the

dissipation of London. between the seclusion of the one and the turmoil

of the other, the society of L---- be a happy medium. he should be glad

of my opinion. he have put off ask for it, because he own his belief

that I have behave unkindly to his lamented friend, Dr. Lloyd; but he

now find himself in rather an awkward position. his ward, young Sumner,

have prudently resolve on fix his country residence at Kirby Hall,

rather than at Haughton Park, the much large seat which have so suddenly

pass to his inheritance, and which he could not occupy without a vast

establishment, that to a single man, so young, would be but a cumbersome

and costly trouble. Mr. Vigors be pledge to his ward to obtain he

possession of Kirby Hall, the precise day agree upon, but Mrs. Ashleigh

do not seem disposed to stir,--could not decide where else to go. Mr.

Vigors be loth to press hard on his old friend’s widow and child. it

be a thousand pity Mrs Ashleigh could not make up her mind; she have

have ample time for preparation. a word from I at this moment would

be an effective kindness. abbot’ House be vacant, with a garden so

extensive that the lady would not miss the country. another party be

after it, but--‘Say no more,’ I cry; ‘no party but my dear old friend

Anne Ashleigh shall have Abbots’ House. so that question be settle.’

I dismiss Mr. Vigors, send for my carriage, that is, for Mr. Barker’s

yellow fly and his good horses,--and drive that very day to Kirby Hall,

which, though not in this county, be only twenty-five mile distant. I

sleep there that night. by nine o’clock the next morning I have secure

Mrs. Ashleigh’s consent, on the promise to save she all trouble; come

back, send for the landlord, settle the rent, lease, agreement; engage

Forbes’ van to remove the furniture from Kirby Hall; tell Forbes to

begin with the bed. when her own bed come, which be last night, Anne

Ashleigh come too. I have see she this morning. she like the place,

so do Lilian. I ask they to meet you all here to-night; but Mrs.

Ashleigh be tired. the last of the furniture be to arrive today;

and though dear Mrs. Ashleigh be an undecided character, she be not

inactive. but it be not only the planning where to put table and chair

that would have try she today: she have have Mr. Vigors on her hand

all the afternoon, and he have be--here’s her little note--what be the

word? no doubt ‘most overpowering and oppressive;’ no, ‘most kind and

attentive,’--different word, but, as apply to Mr. Vigors, they mean

the same thing.



“and now, next Monday---we must leave they in peace till then--you will

all call on the Ashleighs. the Hill know what be due to itself; it

cannot delegate to Mr. Vigors, a respectable man indeed, but who do

not belong to its set, its own proper course of action towards those

who would shelter themselves on its bosom. the Hill cannot be kind and

attentive, overpower or oppressive by proxy. to those newborn into

its family circle it cannot be an indifferent godmother; it have towards

they all the feeling of a mother,--or of a stepmother, as the case may

be. where it say ‘this can be no child of mine,’ it be a stepmother

indeed; but in all those whom I have present to its arm, it have

hitherto, I be proud to say, recognize desirable acquaintance, and to

they the Hill have be a mother. and now, my dear Mr. Sloman, go to your

rubber; Poyntz be impatient, though he don’t show it. Miss Brabazon,

love, we all long to see you seat at the piano,--you play so divinely!

something gay, if you please; something gay, but not very noisy,--Mr.

Leopold Symthe will turn the leave for you. Mrs. Bruce, your own

favourite set at vingt-un, with four new recruit. Dr. Fenwick, you be

like I, don’t play card, and don’t care for music; sit here, and talk

or not, as you please, while I knit.”



the other guest thus dispose of, some at the card-table, some round

the piano, I place myself at Mrs. Poyntz’s side, on a seat niche in

the recess of a window which an evening unusually warm for the month of

may permit to be leave open. I be next to one who have know Lilian

as a child, one from whom I have learn by what sweet name to call

the image which my thought have already shrine. how much that I still

long to know she could tell I! but in what form of question could I

lead to the subject, yet not betray my absorbing interest in it? longing

to speak, I feel as if stricken dumb; steal an unquiet glance towards

the face beside I, and deeply impressed with that truth which the Hill

have long ago reverently acknowledged,--namely, that Mrs. Colonel Poyntz

be a very superior woman, a very powerful creature.



and there she sit knitting, rapidly, firmly; a woman somewhat on the

other side of forty, complexion a bronze paleness, hair a bronze brown,

in strong ringlet crop short behind,--handsome hair for a man; lip

that, when close, show inflexible decision, when speak, became

supple and flexible with an easy humour and a vigilant finesse; eye

of a red hazel, quick but steady,--observing, pierce, dauntless eye;

altogether a fine countenance,--would have be a very fine countenance

in a man; profile sharp, straight, clear-cut, with an expression, when

in repose, like that of a sphinx; a frame robust, not corpulent; of

middle height, but with an air and carriage that make she appear tall;

peculiarly white firm hand, indicative of vigorous health, not a vein

visible on the surface.



there she sit knitting, knitting, and I by her side, gaze now on

herself, now on her work, with a vague idea that the thread in the

skein of my own web of love or of life be pass quick through those

noiseless finger. and, indeed, in every web of romance, the fond,

one of the Parcae be sure to be some matter-of-fact she, Social Destiny,

as little akin to romance herself as be this worldly queen of the Hill.













CHAPTER VII.



I have give a sketch of the outward woman of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz. the

inner woman be a recondite mystery deep as that of the sphinx, whose

feature her own resemble. but between the outward and the inward woman

there be ever a third woman,--the conventional woman,--such as the whole

human being appear to the world,--always mantle, sometimes mask.



I be tell that the fine people of London do not recognize the title

of “Mrs. Colonel.” if that be true, the fine people of London must be

clearly in the wrong, for no people in the universe could be fine than

the fine people of Abbey Hill; and they consider their sovereign have

as good a right to the title of Mrs. Colonel as the Queen of England have

to that of “our Gracious Lady.” but Mrs. Poyntz herself never assume

the title of Mrs. Colonel; it never appear on her cards,--any more

than the title of “Gracious Lady” appear on the card which convey the

invitation that a Lord Steward or Lord Chamberlain be command by

her Majesty to issue. to title, indeed, Mrs. Poyntz evince no

superstitious reverence. two peeress, relate to she, not distantly,

be in the habit of pay she a yearly visit which last two or three

day. the Hill consider these visit an honour to its eminence. Mrs.

Poyntz never seem to esteem they an honour to herself; never boast

of they; never seek to show off her grand relation, nor put herself

the least out of the way to receive they. her mode of life be free from

ostentation. she have the advantage of be a few hundred a year

rich than any other inhabitant of the Hill; but she do not devote she

superior resource to the invidious exhibition of superior splendour.

like a wise sovereign, the revenue of her exchequer be apply to the

benefit of her subject, and not to the vanity of egotistical parade. as

no one else on the Hill keep a carriage, she decline to keep one. she

entertainment be simple, but numerous. twice a week she receive the

Hill, and be genuinely at home to it. she contrive to make her party

proverbially agreeable. the refreshment be of the same kind as those

which the poor of her old maid of honour might proffer; but they

be well of their kind, the good of their kind,--the good tea, the

well lemonade, the good cake. her room have an air of comfort, which

be peculiar to they. they look like room accustom to receive, and

receive in a friendly way; well warm, well light, card-table and

piano each in the place that make card and music inviting; on the wall

a few old family portrait, and three or four other picture say to be

valuable and certainly pleasing,--two Watteaus, a Canaletti, a Weenix;

plenty of easy-chair and settee cover with a cheerful chintz,--in

the arrangement of the furniture generally an indescribable careless

elegance. she herself be studiously plain in dress, more conspicuously

free from jewelry and trinket than any married lady on the Hill. but

I have hear from those who be authority on such a subject that she

be never see in a dress of the last year’s fashion. she adopt the

mode as it come out, just enough to show that she be aware it be out;

but with a sober reserve, as much as to say, “I adopt the fashion as far

as it suit myself; I do not permit the fashion to adopt I.” in short,

Mrs. Colonel Poyntz be sometimes rough, sometimes coarse, always

masculine, and yet somehow or other masculine in a womanly way; but she

be never vulgar because never affect. it be impossible not to allow

that she be a thorough gentlewoman, and she could do thing that

low other gentlewoman, without any loss of dignity. thus she be an

admirable mimic, certainly in itself the least ladylike condescension of

humour. but when she mimic, it be with so tranquil a gravity, or so

royal a good humour, that one could only say, “what talent for society

dear Mrs. Colonel have!” as she be a gentlewoman emphatically, so the

other colonel, the he-colonel, be emphatically a gentleman; rather shy,

but not cold; hate trouble of every kind, please to seem a cipher in

his own house. if the sole study of Mrs. Colonel have be to make

her husband comfortable, she could not have succeed well than by

bring friend about he and then take they off his hand. Colonel

Poyntz, the he-colonel, have see, in his youth, actual service; but have

retire from his profession many year ago, shortly after his marriage.

he be a young brother of one of the principal squire in the country;

inherit the house he live in, with some other valuable property in

and about L----, from an uncle; be consider a good landlord; and

popular in Low Town, though he never interfere in its affair. he be

punctiliously neat in his dress; a thin youthful figure, crown with a

thick youthful wig. he never seem to read anything but the newspaper

and the “Meteorological Journal:” be suppose to be the most

weatherwise man in all L----. he have another intellectual

predilection,--whist; but in that he have less reputation for wisdom.

perhaps it require a rare combination of mental faculty to win

an odd trick than to divine a fall in the glass. for the rest, the

he-colonel, many year old than his wife, despite the thin youthful

figure, be an admirable aid-de-camp to the general in command, Mrs.

Colonel; and she could not have find one more obedient, more devoted,

or more proud of a distinguished chief.



in give to Mrs. Colonel Poyntz the appellation of queen of the Hill,

let there be no mistake. she be not a constitutional sovereign; her

monarchy be absolute. all her proclamation have the force of law.



such ascendancy could not have be attain without considerable

talent for acquire and keep it. amidst all her off-hand, brisk,

imperious frankness, she have the ineffable discrimination of tact.

whether civil or rude, she be never civil or rude but what she carry

public opinion along with she. her knowledge of general society must

have be limit, as must be that of all female sovereign; but she

seem gifted with an intuitive knowledge of human nature, which she

apply to her special ambition of rule it. I have not a doubt that if

she have be suddenly transfer, a perfect stranger, to the world of

London, she would have soon force her way to its select circle,

and, when once there, hold she own against a duchess.



I have say that she be not affect: this might be one cause of she

sway over a set in which nearly every other woman be try rather to

seem, than to be, a somebody.



but if Mrs. Colonel Poyntz be not artificial, she be artful, or

perhaps I might more justly say artistic. in all she say and do there

be conduct, system, plan. she could be a most serviceable friend, a

most damaging enemy; yet I believe she seldom indulge in strong liking

or strong hatred. all be policy,--a policy akin to that of a grand

party chief, determine to raise up those whom, for any reason of state,

it be prudent to favour, and to put down those whom, for any reason of

state, it be expedient to humble or to crush.



ever since the controversy with Dr. Lloyd, this lady have honour I

with her benignest countenance; and nothing could be more adroit

than the manner in which, while impose I on other as an oracular

authority, she seek to subject to she will the oracle itself.



she be in the habit of address I in a sort of motherly way, as if

she have the deep interest in my welfare, happiness, and reputation.

and thus, in every compliment, in every seeming mark of respect, she

maintain the superior dignity of one who take from responsible

station the duty to encourage rise merit; so that, somehow or other,

despite all that pride which make I believe that I need no helping

hand to advance or to clear my way through the world, I could not shake

off from my mind the impression that I be mysteriously patronize by

Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



we might have sit together five minute, side by side in silence as

complete as if in the cave of Trophonius--when without look up from

her work, Mrs. Poyntz say abruptly,--



“I be think about you, Dr. Fenwick. and you--be think about some

other woman. ungrateful man!”



“unjust accusation! my very silence should prove how intently my

thought be fix on you, and on the weird web which spring under

your hand in mesh that bewilder the gaze and snare the attention.”



Mrs. Poyntz look up at I for a moment--one rapid glance of the bright

red hazel eye--and said,--



“be I really in your thought? answer truly.”



“truly, I answer, you be.”



“that be strange! who can it be?”



“who can it be? what do you mean?”



“if you be think of I, it be in connection with some other

person,--some other person of my own sex. it be certainly not poor dear

Miss Brabazon. who else can it be?”



again the red eye shoot over I, and I feel my cheek redden beneath it.



“hush!” she say, lower her voice; “you be in love!”



“in love!--I! permit I to ask you why you think so?”



“the sign be unmistakable; you be alter in your manner, even in the

expression of your face, since I last see you; your manner be generally

quiet and observant,--it be now restless and distract; your expression

of face be generally proud and serene,--it be now humble and

trouble. you have something on your mind! it be not anxiety for your

reputation,--that be establish; nor for your fortune,--that be make;

it be not anxiety for a patient or you would scarcely be here. but

anxiety it is,--an anxiety that be remote from your profession, that

touch your heart and be new to it!”



I be startle, almost awed; but I try to cover my confusion with a

force laugh.



“profound observer! subtle analyst! you have convince I that I must

be in love, though I do not suspect it before. but when I strive to

conjecture the object, I be as much perplex as yourself; and with you,

I ask, who can it be?”



“whoever it be,” say Mrs. Poyntz, who have pause, while I speak, from

her knitting, and now resume it very slowly and very carefully, as if

her mind and her knitting work in unison together,--“whoever it be,

love in you would be serious; and, with or without love, marriage be

a serious thing to we all. it be not every pretty girl that would suit

Allen Fenwick.”



“alas! be there any pretty girl whom Allen Fenwick would suit?”



“Tut! you should be above the fretful vanity that lay trap for a

compliment. yes; the time have come in your life and your career when

you would do well to marry. I give my consent to that,” she add with

a smile as if in jest, and a slight nod as if in earnest. the knitting

here go on more decidedly, more quickly. “but I do not yet see the

person. no! ‘t be a pity, Allen Fenwick” (whenever Mrs. Poyntz call

I by my christian name, she always assume her majestic motherly

manner),--“a pity that, with your birth, energy, perseverance,

talent, and, let I add, your advantage of manner and person,--a pity

that you do not choose a career that might achieve high fortune and

loud fame than the most brilliant success can give to a provincial

physician. but in that very choice you interest I. my choice have be

much the same,--a small circle, but the first in it. yet, have I be a

man, or have my dear Colonel be a man whom it be in the power of a

woman’s art to raise one step higher in that metaphorical ladder which

be not the ladder of the angel, why, then--what then? no matter! I

be content. I transfer my ambition to Jane. do you not think she

handsome?”



“there can be no doubt of that,” say I, carelessly and naturally.



“I have settle Jane’s lot in my own mind,” resume Mrs. Poyntz,

strike firm into another row of knitting. “she will marry a country

gentleman of large estate. he will go into parliament. she will study

his advancement as I study Poyntz’s comfort. if he be clever, she will

help to make he a minister; if he be not clever, his wealth will make

she a personage, and lift he into a personage’s husband. and, now that

you see I have no matrimonial design on you, Allen Fenwick, think if it

will be worth while to confide in I. possibly I may be useful--”



“I know not how to thank you; but, as yet, I have nothing to confide.”



while thus say, I turn my eye towards the open window beside which

I sit. it be a beautiful soft night, the May moon in all her splendour.

the town stretch, far and wide, below with all its numberless

lights,--below, but somewhat distant; an intervene space be cover,

here, by the broad quadrangle (in the midst of which stand, massive and

lonely, the grand old church), and, there, by the garden and scatter

cottage or mansion that clothe the side of the hill.



“be not that house,” I say, after a short pause, “yonder with the three

gable, the one in which--in which poor Dr. Lloyd live--Abbots’ House?”



I speak abruptly, as if to intimate my desire to change the subject of

conversation. my hostess stop her knitting, half rise, look forth.



“yes. but what a lovely night! how be it that the moon blend into

harmony thing of which the sun only mark the contrast? that stately

old church tower, gray with its thousand year, those vulgar tile-roof

and chimney-pot raw in the freshness of yesterday,--now, under the

moonlight, all melt into one indivisible charm!”



as my hostess thus speak, she have leave her seat, take her work with

she, and pass from the window into the balcony. it be not often that

Mrs. Poyntz condescend to admit what be call “sentiment” into

the range of her sharp, practical, worldly talk; but she do so at

times,--always, when she do, give I the notion of an intellect much

too comprehensive not to allow that sentiment have a place in this life,

but keep it in its proper place, by that mixture of affability and

indifference with which some high-bear beauty allow the genius, but

check the presumption, of a charming and penniless poet. for a few

minute her eye rove over the scene in evident enjoyment; then, as

they slowly settle upon the three gable of Abbots’ House, her face

regain that something of hardness which belong to its decide

character; her finger again mechanically resume her knitting, and she

say, in her clear, unsoftened, metallic chime of voice, “can you guess

why I take so much trouble to oblige Mr. Vigors and locate Mrs. Ashleigh

yonder?”



“you favour we with a full explanation of your reason.”



“some of my reason; not the main one. People who undertake the task

of govern other, as I do, be their rule a kingdom or a hamlet, must

adopt a principle of government and adhere to it. the principle that

suit well with the Hill be respect for the Proprieties. we have not

much money; entre nous, we have no great rank. our policy be, then, to

set up the Proprieties as an influence which money must court and rank

be afraid of. I have learn just before Mr. Vigors call on I that

Lady Sarah Bellasis entertain the idea of hire Abbots’ House.

London have set its face against she; a provincial town would be more

charitable. an earl’s daughter, with a good income and an awfully bad

name, of the good manner and of the bad moral, would have make sad

havoc among the Proprieties. how many of our prim old maid would

have desert tea and Mrs. Poyntz for champagne and her ladyship! the

Hill be never in so imminent a danger. rather than Lady Sarah Bellasis

should have have that house, I would have take it myself, and stock it

with owl.



“Mrs. Ashleigh turn up just in the critical moment. Lady Sarah be

foil, the Proprieties safe, and so that question be settle.”



“and it will be pleasant to have your early friend so near you.”



Mrs. Poyntz lift her eye full upon I.



“do you know Mrs. Ashleigh?”



“not in the least.”



“she have many virtue and few idea. she be commonplace weak, as I

be commonplace strong. but commonplace weak can be very lovable. her

husband, a man of genius and learning, give she his whole heart,--a

heart worth have; but he be not ambitious, and he despise the

world.”



“I think you say your daughter be very much attach to Miss Ashleigh?

do her character resemble her mother’s?”



I be afraid while I speak that I should again meet Mrs. Poyntz’s

search gaze, but she do not this time look up from her work.



“no; Lilian be anything but commonplace.”



“you describe she as have delicate health; you imply a hope that

she be not consumptive. I trust that there be no serious reason for

apprehend a constitutional tendency which at her age would require

the most careful watching!”



“I trust not. if she be to die--Dr. Fenwick, what be the matter?”



so terrible have be the picture which this woman’s word have bring

before I, that I start as if my own life have receive a shock.



“I beg pardon,” I say falteringly, press my hand to my heart; “a

sudden spasm here,--it be over now. you be say that--that--”



“I be about to say-” and here Mrs. Poyntz lay her hand lightly on

mine,--“I be about to say that if lilian Ashleigh be to die, I should

mourn for she less than I might for one who value the thing of the

earth more. but I believe there be no cause for the alarm my word so

inconsiderately excited in you. her mother be watchful and devoted; and

if the least thing ail Lilian, she would call in medical advice. Mr.

Vigors would, I know, recommend Dr. Jones.”



close our conference with those stinging word, Mrs. Poyntz here

turn back into the drawing-room.



I remain some minute on the balcony, disconcerted, enraged. with

what consummate art have this practise diplomatist wound herself into my

secret! that she have read my heart well than myself be evident from

that parthian shaft, barb with Dr. Jones, which she have shoot over her

shoulder in retreat. that from the first moment in which she have decoy

I to her side, she have detect “the something” on my mind, be perhaps

but the ordinary quickness of female penetration. but it be with no

ordinary craft that the whole conversation afterwards have be so shaped

as to learn the something, and lead I to reveal the some one to whom

the something be link. for what purpose? what be it to she? what

motive could she have beyond the mere gratification of curiosity?

perhaps, at first, she think I have be catch by her daughter’s showy

beauty, and hence the half-friendly, half-cynical frankness with which

she have avow her ambitious project for that young lady’s matrimonial

advancement. satisfy by my manner that I cherish no presumptuous

hope in that quarter, her scrutiny be doubtless continue from that

pleasure in the exercise of a wily intellect which impel schemer and

politician to an activity for which, without that pleasure itself,

there would seem no adequate inducement. and besides, the rule passion

of this petty sovereign be power; and if knowledge be power, there be

no well instrument of power over a contumacious subject than that hold

on his heart which be gain in the knowledge of its secret.



but “secret”! have it really come to this? be it possible that the mere

sight of a human face, never beheld before, could disturb the whole

tenor of my life,--a stranger of whose mind and character I know

nothing, whose very voice I have never hear? it be only by the

intolerable pang of anguish that have rent my heart in the word,

carelessly, abruptly speak, “if she be to die,” that I have feel how

the world would be change to I, if indeed that face be see in it no

more! yes, secret it be no long to myself, I love! and like all on

whom love descend, sometimes softly, slowly, with the gradual wing of

the cushat settle down into its nest, sometimes with the swoop of the

eagle on his unsuspecting quarry, I believe that none ever before love

as I love; that such love be an abnormal wonder, make solely for

I, and I for it. then my mind insensibly hush its angry and more

turbulent thought, as my gaze rest upon the roof-top of Lilian’s

home, and the shimmering silver of the moonlit willow, under which I have

see she gaze into the roseate heaven.













CHAPTER VIII.



when I return to the drawing-room, the party be evidently about to

break up. those who have group round the piano be now assemble round

the refreshment-table. the cardplayer have rise, and be settle or

discuss gain and loss. while I be search for my hat, which

I have somewhere mislay, a poor gentleman, torment by tic-doloureux,

creep timidly up to me,--the proud and the poor of all the

hidalgo settle on the Hill. he could not afford a fee for a

physician’s advice; but pain have humble his pride, and I see at a

glance that he be consider how to take a surreptitious advantage of

social intercourse, and obtain the advice without pay the fee. the

old man discover the hat before I do, stoop, take it up, extend

it to I with the profound bow of the old school, while the other hand,

clench and quivering, be press into the hollow of his cheek,

and his eye meet mine with wistful mute entreaty. the instinct of my

profession seize I at once. I could never behold suffering without

forget all else in the desire to relieve it.



“you be in pain,” say I, softly. “sit down and describe the symptom.

here, it be true, I be no professional doctor, but I be a friend who be

fond of doctoring, and know something about it.”



so we sit down a little apart from the other guest, and after a few

question and answer, I be pleased to find that his “tic” do not

belong to the less curable kind of that agonizing neuralgia. I be

especially successful in my treatment of similar suffering, for which I

have discover an anodyne that be almost specific. I write on a leaf of

my pocketbook a prescription which I feel sure would be efficacious, and

as I tear it out and place it in his hand, I chance to look up, and

see the hazel eye of my hostess fix upon I with a kind and soft

expression than they often condescend to admit into their cold and

penetrate lustre. at that moment, however, her attention be draw

from I to a servant, who enter with a note, and I hear he say,

though in an undertone, “from Mrs. Ashleigh.”



she open the note, read it hastily, order the servant to wait

without the door, retire to her writing-table, which stand near the

place at which I still linger, rest her face on her hand, and seem

musing. her meditation be very soon over. she turn her head, and to

my surprise, beckon to I. I approach.



“sit here,” she whisper: “turn your back towards those people, who be

no doubt watch we. read this.”



she place in my hand the note she have just receive. it contain but a

few word, to this effect:--





   DEAR MARGARET,--I be so distressed.  since I write to you a few

   hour ago, Lilian be take suddenly ill, and I fear seriously.  what

   medical man should I send for?  let my servant have his name and

   address.



                                                    A.  A.



I spring from my seat.



“stay,” say Mrs. Poyntz. “would you much care if I send the servant to

Dr. Jones?”



“ah, madam, you be cruel! what have I do that you should become my

enemy?”



“Enemy! no. you have just befriend one of my friend. in this world

of fool intellect should ally itself with intellect. no; I be not your

enemy! but you have not yet ask I to be your friend.”



here she put into my hand a note she have write while thus speak.

“receive your credential. if there be any cause for alarm, or if I can

be of use, send for I.” resume the work she have suspend, but with

linger, uncertain finger, she add, “so far, then, this be settle.

Nay, no thank; it be but little that be settle as yet.”













CHAPTER IX.



in a very few minute I be once more in the ground of that old gable

house; the servant, who go before I, enter they by the stair and

the wicket-gate of the private entrance; that way be the short.

so again I pass by the circling glade and the monastic well,--sward,

tree, and ruin all suffuse in the limpid moonlight.



and now I be in the house; the servant take up-stair the note with

which I be charge, and a minute or two afterwards return and

conduct I to the corridor above, in which Mrs. Ashleigh receive I.

I be the first to speak.



“your daughter--be--be--not seriously ill, I hope. what be it?”



“hush!” she say, under her breath. “will you step this way for a

moment?” she pass through a doorway to the right. I follow she,

and as she place on the table the light she have be hold, I look

round with a chill at the heart,--it be the room in which Dr. Lloyd have

die. impossible to mistake. the furniture indeed be change, there be

no bed in the chamber; but the shape of the room, the position of the

high casement, which be now wide open, and through which the moonlight

stream more softly than on that drear winter night, the great square

beam intersect the low ceiling,--all be impress vividly on my

memory. the chair to which Mrs. Ashleigh beckon I be place just on

the spot where I have stand by the bedhead of the die man.



I shrink back,--I could not have seat myself there. so I remained

lean against the chimney-piece, while Mrs. Ashleigh tell her story.



she say that on their arrival the day before, Lilian have be in more

than usually good health and spirit, delight with the old house,

the ground, and especially the nook by the Monk’s well, at which Mrs.

Ashleigh have leave she that evening in order to make some purchase in

the town, in company with Mr. Vigors. when Mrs. Ashleigh return, she

and Mr. Vigors have seek Lilian in that nook, and Mrs. Ashleigh then

detect, with a mother’s eye, some change in Lilian which alarm she.

she seem listless and deject, and be very pale; but she deny that

she feel unwell. on regain the house she have sit down in the room in

which we then were,--“which,” say Mrs. Ashleigh, “as it be not require

for a sleeping-room, my daughter, who be fond of reading, wish to fit

up as her own morning-room, or study. I leave she here and go into the

drawing-room below with Mr. Vigors. when he quit I, which he do

very soon, I remain for nearly an hour give direction about the

placing of furniture, which have just arrive, from our late residence.

I then go up-stair to join my daughter, and to my terror find she

apparently lifeless in her chair. she have faint away.”



I interrupt Mrs. Ashleigh here. “have Miss Ashleigh be subject to

fainting fit?”



“no, never. when she recover she seem bewildered, disinclined to

speak. I get she to bed, and as she then fall quietly to sleep, my mind

be relieve. I think it only a pass effect of excitement, in a

change of abode; or cause by something like malaria in the atmosphere

of that part of the ground in which I have find she seat.”



“very likely. the hour of sunset at this time of year be try to

delicate constitution. go on.”



“about three quarter of an hour ago she wake up with a loud cry, and

have be ever since in a state of great agitation, weep violently,

and answer none of my question. yet she do not seem light-headed,

but rather what we call hysterical.”



“you will permit I now to see she. take comfort; in all you tell I I

see nothing to warrant serious alarm.”













CHAPTER X.



to the true physician there be an inexpressible sanctity in the sick

chamber. at its threshold the more human passion quit their hold on

his heart. love there would be profanation; even the grief permit to

other he must put aside. he must enter that room--a calm intelligence.

he be disabled for his mission if he suffer aught to obscure the

keen quiet glance of his science. age or youth, beauty or deformity,

innocence or guilt, merge their distinction in one common

attribute--human suffering appeal to human skill.



Woe to the household in which the trust Healer feel not on his

conscience the solemn obligation of his glorious art! reverently as in

a temple, I stand in the virgin’s chamber. when her mother place she

hand in mine, and I feel the throb of its pulse, I be aware of no

quick beat of my own heart. I look with a steady eye on the face

more beautiful from the flush that deepen the delicate hue of

the young cheek, and the lustre that brighten the dark blue of the

wandering eye. she do not at first heed I, do not seem aware of

my presence; but keep murmur to herself word which I could not

distinguish.



at length, when I speak to she, in that low, soothe tone which we

learn at the sick-bed, the expression of her face alter suddenly; she

pass the hand I do not hold over her forehead, turn round, look

at I full and long, with unmistakable surprise, yet not as if the

surprise displease her,--less the surprise which recoil from the

sight of a stranger than that which seem doubtfully to recognize an

unexpected friend. yet on the surprise there seem to creep something

of apprehension, of fear; her hand tremble, her voice quiver, as she

said,--



“can it be, can it be? be I awake? Mother, who be this?”



“only a kind visitor, Dr. Fenwick, send by Mrs. Poyntz, for I be uneasy

about you, darling. how be you now?”



“well. strangely well.”



she remove her hand gently from mine, and with an involuntary modest

shrinking turn towards Mrs. Ashleigh, draw her mother towards

herself, so that she become at once hide from I.



satisfy that there be here no delirium, nor even more than the slight

and temporary fever which often accompany a sudden nervous attack in

constitution peculiarly sensitive, I retire noiselessly from the

room, and go, not into that which have be occupy by the ill-fate

Naturalist, but down-stair into the drawing-room, to write my

prescription. I have already send the servant off with it to the

chemist’s before Mrs. Ashleigh join I.



“she seem recover surprisingly; her forehead be cool; she

be perfectly self-possess, only she cannot account for her own

seizure,--cannot account either for the fainting or the agitation with

which she awake from sleep.”



“I think I can account for both. the first room in which she

enter--that in which she faint--have its window open; the side of

the window be overgrow with rank creep plant in full blossom. Miss

Ashleigh have already predispose herself to injurious effect from the

effluvia by fatigue, excitement, imprudence in sit out at the fall

of a heavy dew. the sleep after the fainting fit be the more disturbed,

because nature, always alert and active in subject so young, be

make its own effort to right itself from an injury. nature have nearly

succeed. what I have prescribe will a little aid and accelerate that

which nature have yet to do, and in a day or two I do not doubt that your

daughter will be perfectly restore. only let I recommend care to avoid

exposure to the open air during the close of the day. let she avoid also

the room in which she be first seize, for it be a strange phenomenon

in nervous temperament that a nervous attack may, without visible

cause, be repeat in the same place where it be first experienced. you

have well shut up the chamber for at least some week, burn fire in

it, repaint and paper it, sprinkle chloroform. you be not, perhaps,

aware that Dr. Lloyd die in that room after a prolonged illness. suffer

I to wait till your servant return with the medicine, and let I

employ the interval in ask you a few question. Miss Ashleigh, you

say, never have a fainting fit before. I should presume that she be not

what we call strong. but have she ever have any illness that alarm you?”



“never.”



“no great liability to cold and cough, to attack of the chest or

lung?”



“certainly not. still I have fear that she may have a tendency to

consumption. do you think so? your question alarm I!”



“I do not think so; but before I pronounce a positive opinion, one

question more. you say you have fear a tendency to consumption. be

that disease in her family? she certainly do not inherit it from you.

but on her father’s side?”



“her father,” say Mrs. Ashleigh, with tear in her eye, “die young,

but of brain fever, which the medical man say be bring on by over

study.”



“Enough, my dear madam. what you say confirm my belief that your

daughter’s constitution be the very opposite to that in which the seed

of consumption lurk. it be rather that far nobler constitution,

which the keenness of the nervous susceptibility render delicate but

elastic,--as quick to recover as it be to suffer.”



“thank you, thank you, Dr. Fenwick, for what you say. you take a load

from my heart; for Mr. Vigors, I know, think lilian consumptive, and

Mrs. Poyntz have rather frighten I at time by hint to the same

effect. but when you speak of nervous susceptibility, I do not quite

understand you. my daughter be not what be commonly call nervous. she

temper be singularly even.”



“but if not excitable, should you also say that she be not

impressionable? the thing which do not disturb her temper may, perhaps,

deject her spirit. do I make myself understand?”



“yes, I think I understand your distinction; but I be not quite sure

if it apply. to most thing that affect the spirit she be not more

sensitive than other girl, perhaps less so; but she be certainly very

impressionable in some thing.”



“in what?”



“she be more moved than any one I ever know by object in external

nature, rural scenery, rural sound, by music, by the book that she

reads,--even book that be not work of imagination. perhaps in all

this she take after her poor father, but in a more marked degree,--at

least, I observe it more in she; for he be very silent and reserve.

and perhaps also her peculiarity have be foster by the seclusion

in which she have be bring up. it be with a view to make she a

little more like girl of her own age that our friend, Mrs. Poyntz,

induce I to come here. Lilian be reconcile to this change; but she

shrink from the thought of London, which I should have prefer. her

poor father could not endure London.”



“Miss Ashleigh be fond of reading?”



“yes, she be fond of reading, but more fond of musing. she will sit by

herself for hour without book or work, and seem as abstract as if in

a dream. she be so even in her early childhood. then she would tell

I what she have be conjure up to herself. she would say that she have

see--positively see--beautiful land far away from earth; flower and

tree not like ours. as she grow old this visionary talk displease

I, and I scold she, and say that if other hear she, they would

think that she be not only silly but very untruthful. so of late year

she never venture to tell I what, in such dreamy moment, she suffer

herself to imagine; but the habit of musing continue still. do you not

agree with Mrs. Poyntz that the good cure would be a little cheerful

society amongst other young people?”



“certainly,” say I, honestly, though with a jealous pang. “but here

come the medicine. will you take it up to she, and then sit with she

half an hour or so? by that time I expect she will be asleep. I will

wait here till you return. oh, I can amuse myself with the newspaper

and book on your table. stay! one caution: be sure there be no flower

in Miss Ashleigh’s sleep-room. I think I see a treacherous rose-tree

in a stand by the window. if so, banish it.”



leave alone, I examine the room in which, oh, thought of joy! I have

surely now win the claim to become a privileged guest. I touch the

book Lilian must have touch; in the article of furniture, as yet

so hastily dispose that the settle look of home be not about they,

I still know that I be gaze on thing which her mind must associate

with the history of her young life. that luteharp must be surely her,

and the scarf, with a girl’s favourite colours,--pure white and pale

blue,--and the bird-cage, and the childish ivory work-case, with

implement too pretty for use,--all speak of she.



it be a blissful, intoxicate revery, which Mrs. Ashleigh’s entrance

disturb.



Lilian be sleep calmly. I have no excuse to linger there any long.



“I leave you, I trust, with your mind quite at ease,” say I. “you will

allow I to call to-morrow, in the afternoon?”



“oh, yes, gratefully.”



Mrs. Ashleigh hold out her hand as I make towards the door.



be there a physician who have not feel at time how that ceremonious fee

throw he back from the garden-land of humanity into the market-place

of money,--seems to put he out of the pale of equal friendship, and

say, “true, you have give health and life. Adieu! there, you be pay

for it!” with a poor person there would have be no dilemma, but

Mrs. Ashleigh be affluent: to depart from custom here be almost

impertinence. but have the penalty of my refusal be the doom of never

again behold Lilian, I could not have take her mother’s gold. so I

do not appear to notice the hand hold out to I, and pass by with a

quicken step.



“but, Dr. Fenwick, stop!”



“no, ma’am, no! Miss Ashleigh would have recover as soon without I.

whenever my aid be really want, then--but Heaven grant that time may

never come! we will talk again about she to-morrow.”



I be gone,--now in the garden ground, odorous with blossom; now in the

lane, inclose by the narrow wall; now in the deserted street, over

which the moon shine full as in that winter night when I hurry from

the chamber of death. but the street be not ghastly now, and the moon

be no long Hecate, that dreary goddess of awe and spectre, but the

sweet, simple Lady of the Stars, on whose gentle face lover have gaze

ever since (if that guess of astronomer be true) she be part from

earth to rule the tide of its deep from afar, even as love, from love

divided, rule the heart that yearn towards it with mysterious law.













CHAPTER XI.



with what increase benignity I listen to the patient who visit I

the next morning! the whole human race seem to be worthy of love,

and I long to diffuse amongst all some ray of the glorious hope that

have dawn upon my heart. my first call, when I go forth, be on the

poor young woman from whom I have be return the day before, when an

impulse, which seem like a fate, have lure I into the ground where I

have first see Lilian. I feel grateful to this poor patient; without her

Lilian herself might be yet unknown to I.



the girl’s brother, a young man employ in the police, and whose pay

support a widow mother and the suffer sister, receive I at the

threshold of the cottage.



“oh, sir, she be so much well to-day; almost free from pain. will she

live now; can she live?”



“if my treatment have really do the good you say; if she be really

well under it, I think her recovery may be pronounce. but I must

first see she.”



the girl be indeed wonderfully well. I feel that my skill be

achieve a signal triumph; but that day even my intellectual pride be

forget in the luxurious unfolding of that sense of heart which have so

newly wake into blossom.



as I recrosse the threshold, I smile on the brother, who be still

linger there,--



“your sister be save, Wady. she need now chiefly wine, and good though

light nourishment; these you will find at my house; call there for they

every day.”



“God bless you, sir! if ever I can serve you--” his tongue falter, he

could say no more.



serve I, Allen Fenwick--that poor policeman! I, whom a king could not

serve! what do I ask from earth but Fame and Lilian’s heart? throne

and bread man win from the aid of other; fame and woman’s heart he can

only gain through himself.



so I stride gayly up the hill, through the iron gate, into the fairy

ground, and stand before Lilian’s home.



the man-servant, on open the door, seem somewhat confused, and say

hastily before I spoke,--



“not at home, sir; a note for you.”



I turn the note mechanically in my hand; I feel stunned.



“not at home! Miss Ashleigh cannot be out. how be she?”



“well, sir, thank you.”



I still could not open the note; my eye turn wistfully towards

the window of the house, and there--at the drawing-room window--I

encounter the scowl of Mr. Vigors. I colour with resentment, divine

that I be dismiss, and walk away with a proud crest and a firm

step.



when I be out of the gate, in the blind lane, I open the note. it

begin formally. “Mrs. Ashleigh present her compliment,” and go on to

thank I, civilly enough, for my attendance the night before, would not

give I the trouble to repeat my visit, and inclose a fee, double the

amount of the fee prescribe by custom. I fling the money, as an asp

that have sting I, over the high wall, and tear the note into shred.

having thus idly vent my rage, a dull gnawing sorrow come heavily down

upon all other emotion, stifle and replace they. at the mouth of

the lane I halt. I shrink from the thought of the crowded street

beyond; I shrink yet more from the routine of duty, which stretch

before I in the desert into which daily life be so suddenly smite. I

sit down by the roadside, shade my dejected face with a nervous hand.

I look up as the sound of step reach my ear, and see Dr. Jones

come briskly along the lane, evidently from Abbots’ House. he must

have be there at the very time I have call. I be not only dismiss

but supplant. I rise before he reach the spot on which I have seat

myself, and go my way into the town, go through my allotted round of

professional visit; but my attention be not so tenderly devote,

my skill so genially quicken by the glow of benevolence, as my poor

patient have find they in the morning. I have say how the physician

should enter the sick-room. “a Calm Intelligence!” but if you strike a

blow on the heart, the intellect suffer. little worth, I suspect, be

my “calm intelligence” that day. Bichat, in his famous book upon life

and death, divide life into two classes,--animal and organic. man’s

intellect, with the brain for its centre, belong to life animal; his

passion to life organic, centre in the heart, in the viscera. alas!

if the noble passion through which alone we lift ourselves into the

moral realm of the sublime and beautiful really have their centre in the

life which the very vegetable, that live organically, share with we!

and, alas! if it be that life which we share with the vegetable, that

can cloud, obstruct, suspend, annul that life centre in the brain,

which we share with every be howsoever angelic, in every star

howsoever remote, on whom the Creator bestow the faculty of thought!













CHAPTER XII.



but suddenly I remember Mrs. Poyntz. I ought to call on she. so I

close my round of visit at her door. the day be then far advanced,

and the servant politely inform I that Mrs. Poyntz be at dinner. I

could only leave my card, with a message that I would pay my respect to

she the next day. that evening I receive from she this note:--





   Dear Dr. Fenwick,--I regret much that I cannot have the pleasure of

   see you to-morrow.  Poyntz and I be go to visit his brother, at

   the other end of the county, and we start early.  we shall be away some

   day.  sorry to hear from Mrs. Ashleigh that she have be persuade by

   Mr. Vigors to consult Dr. Jones about Lilian. Vigors and Jones both

   frighten the poor mother, and insist upon consumptive tendency.

   unluckily, you seem to have say there be little the matter.  some

   doctor train their practice as some preacher fill their churches,--by

   adroit use of the appeal to terror.  you do not want patient, Dr.

   Jones do.  and, after all, well perhaps as it be.

                           your, etc.

                                                 M. Poyntz.



to my more selfish grief, anxiety for Lilian be now add. I have see

many more patient die from be mistreat for consumption than from

consumption itself. and Dr. Jones be a mercenary, cunning, needy man,

with much crafty knowledge of human foible, but very little skill in

the treatment of human malady. my fear be soon confirm. a few

day after I hear from Miss Brabazon that Miss Ashleigh be seriously

ill, keep her room. Mrs. Ashleigh make this excuse for not immediately

return the visit which the Hill have shower upon she. Miss Brabazon

have see Dr. Jones, who have shake his head, say it be a serious case;

but that time and care (his time and his care!) might effect wonder.



how stealthily at the dead of the night I would climb the Hill and look

towards the window of the old sombre house,--one window, in which a

light burn dim and mournful, the light of a sick-room,--of her!



at length Mrs. Poyntz come back, and I enter her house, having fully

resolve beforehand on the line of policy to be adopt towards the

potentate whom I hope to secure as an ally. it be clear that neither

disguise nor half-confidence would baffle the penetration of so keen an

intellect, nor propitiate the good will of so imperious and resolute a

temper. perfect frankness here be the wise prudence; and after

all, it be most agreeable to my own nature, and most worthy of my own

honour.



luckily, I find Mrs. Poyntz alone, and take in both mine the hand

she somewhat coldly extend to I, I say, with the earnestness of

suppress emotion,--



“you observe when I last see you, that I have not yet ask you to be

my friend. I ask it now. listen to I with all the indulgence you can

vouchsafe, and let I at least profit by your counsel if you refuse to

give I your aid.”



rapidly, briefly, I go on to say how I have first see Lilian, and how

sudden, how strange to myself, have be the impression which that first

sight of she have produce.



“you remark the change that have come over I,” say I; “you divine

the cause before I divine it myself,--divined it as I sit there beside

you, think that through you I might see, in the freedom of social

intercourse, the face that be then haunt I. you know what have

since pass. Miss Ashleigh be ill; her case be, I be convince,

wholly misunderstood. all other feeling be merge in one sense of

anxiety,--of alarm. but it have become due to I, due to all, to incur

the risk of your ridicule even more than of your reproof, by state to

you thus candidly, plainly, bluntly, the sentiment which render alarm

so poignant, and which, if scarcely admissible to the romance of some

wild dreamy boy, may seem an unpardonable folly in a man of my year and

my sober calling,--due to I, to you, to Mrs. Ashleigh, because still

the dear thing in life to I be honour. and if you, who know Mrs.

Ashleigh so intimately, who must be more or less aware of her plan or

wish for her daughter’s future,--if you believe that those plan or

wish lead to a lot far more ambitious than an alliance with I could

offer to Miss Ashleigh, then aid Mr. Vigors in exclude I from the

house; aid I in suppress a presumptuous, visionary passion. I cannot

enter that house without love and hope at my heart; and the threshold

of that house I must not cross if such love and such hope would be a sin

and a treachery in the eye of its owner. I might restore Miss Ashleigh

to health; her gratitude might--I cannot continue. this danger must

not be to I nor to she, if her mother have view far above such a

son-in-law. and I be the more bound to consider all this while it be yet

time, because I hear you state that Miss Ashleigh have a fortune, be

what would be here term an heiress. and the full consciousness that

whatever fame one in my profession may live to acquire, do not

open those vista of social power and grandeur which be open

by profession to my eye less noble in themselves,--that full

consciousness, I say, be force upon I by certain word of your own.

for the rest, you know my descent be sufficiently recognize as that

amidst well-bear gentry to have render I no mesalliance to family

the most proud of their ancestry, if I have keep my hereditary estate and

avoid the career that make I useful to man. but I acknowledge that

on enter a profession such as mine--enter any profession except

that of arm or the senate--all leave their pedigree at its door, an

erase or dead letter. all must come as equals, high-bear or low-bear,

into that arena in which man ask aid from a man as he make himself; to

they his dead forefather be idle dust. therefore, to the advantage of

birth I cease to have a claim. I be but a provincial physician, whose

station would be the same have he be a cobbler’s son. but gold retain

its grand privilege in all rank. he who have gold be remove from

the suspicion that attach to the greedy fortune-hunter. my private

fortune, swell by my saving, be sufficient to secure to any one I

marry a large settlement than many a wealthy squire can make. I need

no fortune with a wife; if she have one, it would be settle on herself.

pardon these vulgar detail. now, have I make myself understand?”



“fully,” answer the Queen of the Hill, who have listen to I quietly,

watchfully, and without one interruption, “fully; and you have do

well to confide in I with so generous an unreserve. but before I say

far, let I ask, what would be your advice for Lilian, suppose

that you ought not to attend she? you have no trust in Dr. Jones;

neither have I. and Annie Ashleigh’s note receive to-day, beg I

to call, justify your alarm. still you think there be no tendency to

consumption?”



“of that I be certain so far as my slight glimpse of a case that to I,

however, seem a simple and not uncommon one, will permit. but in

the alternative you put--that my own skill, whatever its worth, be

forbidden--my earnest advice be that Mrs. Ashleigh should take she

daughter at once to London, and consult there those great authority to

whom I cannot compare my own opinion or experience; and by their counsel

abide.”



Mrs. Poyntz shade her eye with her hand for a few moment, and seem

in deliberation with herself. then she say, with her peculiar smile,

half grave, half ironical,--



“in matter more ordinary you would have win I to your side long ago.

that Mr. Vigors should have presume to cancel my recommendation to a

settler on the Hill be an act of rebellion, and involve the honour

of my prerogative; but I suppress my indignation at an affront so

unusual, partly out of pique against yourself, but much more, I think,

out of regard for you.”



“I understand. you detect the secret of my heart; you know that Mrs.

Ashleigh would not wish to see her daughter the wife of a provincial

physician.”



“be I sure, or be you sure, that the daughter herself would accept that

fate; or if she accept it, would not repent?”



“do you not think I the vainest of man when I say this,--that I cannot

believe I should be so enthral by a feeling at war with my reason,

unfavoure by anything I can detect in my habit of mind, or even by the

dream of a youth which exalt science and exclude love, unless I be

intimately convinced that Miss Ashleigh’s heart be free, that I could

win, and that I could keep it! ask I why I be convince of this, and I

can tell you no more why I think that she could love I than I can tell

you why I love she!”



“I be of the world, worldly; but I be a woman, womanly,--though I may

not care to be think it. and, therefore, though what you say be,

regard in a worldly point of view, sheer nonsense, regard in a

womanly point of view, it be logically sound. but still you cannot know

lilian as I do. your nature and her be in strong contrast. I do not

think she be a safe wife for you. the pure, the most innocent creature

imaginable, certainly that, but always in the seventh heaven; and you

in the seventh heaven just at this moment, but with an irresistible

gravitation to the solid earth, which will have its way again when

the honeymoon be over--I do not believe you two would harmonize by

intercourse. I do not believe Lilian would sympathize with you, and I be

sure you could not sympathize with she throughout the long dull course

of this workday life. and, therefore, for your sake, as well as her, I

be not displeased to find that Dr. Jones have replace you; and now, in

return for your frankness, I say frankly, do not go again to that house.

conquer this sentiment, fancy, passion, whatever it be. and I will

advise Mrs. Ashleigh to take Lilian to town. shall it be so settle?”



I could not speak. I bury my face in my hand--misery, misery,

desolation!



I know not how long I remain thus silent, perhaps many minute. at

length I feel a cold, firm, but not ungentle hand place upon mine; and

a clear, full, but not discourage voice say to me,--



“leave I to think well over this conversation, and to ponder well the

value of all you have show that you so deeply feel. the interest of

life do not fill both scale of the balance. the heart, which do not

always go in the same scale with the interest, still have its weight in

the scale oppose to they. I have hear a few wise man say, as many a

silly woman say, ‘well be unhappy with one we love, than be happy

with one we love not.’ do you say that too?”



“with every thought of my brain, every beat of my pulse, I say it.”



“after that answer, all my questioning cease. you shall hear from I

to-morrow. by that time, I shall have see Annie and Lilian. I shall

have weigh both scale of the balance,--and the heart here, Allen

Fenwick, seem very heavy. go, now. I hear foot on the stair, Poyntz

bring up some friendly gossiper; gossiper be spy.”



I pass my hand over my eye, tearless, but how tear would have

relieve the anguish that burden they! and, without a word, go down

the stair, meet at the landing-place Colonel Poyntz and the old man

whose pain my prescription have cure. the old man be whistle a merry

tune, perhaps first learn on the playground. he break from it to

thank, almost to embrace I, as I slide by he. I seize his jocund

blessing as a good oman, and carry it with I as I pass into the

broad sunlight. solitary--solitary! should I be so evermore?













CHAPTER XIII.



the next day I have just dismiss the last of my visit patient, and

be about to enter my carriage and commence my round, when I receive a

twisted note contain but these words:--





   Call on I to-day, as soon as you can.



                                           M. Poyntz.



a few minute afterwards I be in Mrs. Poyntz’s drawing-room.



“well, Allen Fenwick” say she, “I do not serve friend by half. no

thank! I but adhere to a principle I have lay down for myself. I spend

last evening with the Ashleighs. Lilian be certainly much altered,--very

weak, I fear very ill, and I believe very unskillfully treat by Dr.

Jones. I feel that it be my duty to insist on a change of physician;

but there be something else to consider before decide who that

physician should be. I be bind, as your confidante, to consult your

own scruple of honour. of course I could not say point-blank to Mrs.

Ashleigh, ‘Dr. Fenwick admire your daughter, would you object to he

as a son-in-law?’ of course I could not touch at all on the secret with

which you intrust I; but I have not the less arrive at a conclusion,

in agreement with my previous belief, that not be a woman of the

world, Annie Ashleigh have none of the ambition which woman of the world

would conceive for a daughter who have a good fortune and considerable

beauty; that her predominant anxiety be for her child’s happiness, and

her predominant fear be that her child will die. she would never oppose

any attachment which Lilian might form; and if that attachment be for

one who have preserve her daughter’s life, I believe her own heart would

gratefully go with her daughter’s. so far, then, as honour be concern,

all scruple vanish.”



I spring from my seat, radiant with joy. Mrs. Poyntz dryly continue:

“you value yourself on your common-sense, and to that I address a few

word of counsel which may not be welcome to your romance. I say that

I do not think you and Lilian would suit each other in the long

run; reflection confirm I in that supposition. do not look at I so

incredulously and so sadly. listen, and take heed. ask yourself what, as

a man whose day be devoted to a laborious profession, whose ambition

be entwine with its success, whose mind must be absorb in its

pursuits,--ask yourself what kind of a wife you would have seek to

win; have not this sudden fancy for a charming face rush over your

well reason, and obliterate all previous plan and resolution.

surely some one with whom your heart would have be quite at rest; by

whom your thought would have be undistracte from the channel into

which your calling should concentrate their flow; in short, a serene

companion in the quiet holiday of a trustful home! be it not so?”



“you interpret my own thought when they have turn towards marriage.

but what be there in Lilian Ashleigh that should mar the picture you

have draw?”



“what be there in Lilian Ashleigh which in the least accord with the

picture? in the first place, the wife of a young physician should not

be his perpetual patient. the more he love she, and the more worthy she

may be of love, the more her case will haunt he wherever he go. when

he return home, it be not to a holiday; the patient he most care for,

the anxiety that most gnaw he, await he there.”



“but, good heaven! why should lilian Ashleigh be a perpetual patient?

the sanitary resource of youth be incalculable. And--”



“let I stop you; I cannot argue against a physician in love! I will

give up that point in dispute, remain convince that there be

something in Lilian’s constitution which will perplex, torment, and

baffle you. it be so with her father, whom she resemble in face and in

character. he show no symptom of any grave malady. his outward form

be, like Lilian’s, a model of symmetry, except in this, that, like

her, it be too exquisitely delicate; but when seemingly in the midst

of perfect health, at any slight jar on the nerve he would become

alarmingly ill. I be sure that he would die young, and he do so.”



“ay, but Mrs. Ashleigh say that his death be from brain-fever, bring

on by over-study. rarely, indeed, do woman so fatigue the brain. no

female patient, in the range of my practice, ever die of purely mental

exertion.”



“of purely mental exertion, no; but of heart emotion, many female

patient, perhaps? oh, you own that! I know nothing about nerve; but I

suppose that, whether they act on the brain or the heart, the result

to life be much the same if the nerve be too finely string for life’s

daily wear and tear. and this be what I mean, when I say you and Lilian

will not suit. as yet, she be a mere child; her nature undeveloped, and

her affection therefore untried. you might suppose that you have win she

heart; she might believe that she give it to you, and both be deceive.

if fairy nowadays condescend to exchange their offspring with those

of mortal, and if the popular tradition do not represent a fairy

changeling as an ugly peevish creature, with none of the grace of its

parent, I should be half inclined to suspect that Lilian be one of the

elfin people. she never seem at home on earth; and I do not think she

will ever be content with a prosaic earthly lot. now I have tell you

why I do not think she will suit you. I must leave it to yourself to

conjecture how far you would suit she. I say this in due season, while

you may set a guard upon your impulse; while you may yet watch, and

weigh, and meditate; and from this moment on that subject I say no more.

I lend advice, but I never throw it away.”



she come here to a dead pause, and begin put on her bonnet and

scarf, which lie on the table beside she. I be a little chill by her

word, and yet more by the blunt, shrewd, hard look and manner which

aid the effect of their delivery; but the chill melt away in the

sudden glow of my heart when she again turn towards I and said,--



“of course you guess, from these preliminary caution, that you be

go into danger? Mrs. Ashleigh wish to consult you about Lilian, and

I propose to take you to her house.”



“oh, my friend, my dear friend, how can I ever repay you?” I catch she

hand, the white firm hand, and lift it to my lip.



she draw it somewhat hastily away, and lay it gently on my shoulder,

say, in a soft voice, “Poor Allen, how little the world know either

of we! but how little perhaps we know ourselves! come, your carriage be

here? that be right; we must put down Dr. Jones publicly and in all our

state.”



in the carriage Mrs. Poyntz tell I the purport of that conversation

with Mrs. Ashleigh to which I owe my re-introduction to Abbots’ House.

it seem that Mr. Vigors have call early the morning after my first

visit! have evince much discomposure on hear that I have be

summon! dwelt much on my injurious treatment of Dr. Lloyd, whom,

as distantly relate to himself, and he (Mr. Vigors) be distantly

connect with the late Gilbert Ashleigh, he endeavour to fasten upon

his listener as one of her husband’s family, whose quarrel she be bind

in honour to take up. he speak of I as an infidel “taint with french

doctrine,” and as a practitioner rash and presumptuous; prove his own

freedom from presumption and rashness by flatly decide that my opinion

must be wrong. previously to Mrs. Ashleigh’s migration to L----, Mr.

Vigors have interest she in the pretended phenomenon of mesmerism. he

have consult a clairvoyante, much esteem by poor Dr. Lloyd, as

to Lilian’s health, and the clairvoyante have declare she to be

constitutionally predispose to consumption. Mr. Vigors persuade Mrs.

Ashleigh to come at once with he and see this clairvoyante herself,

arm with a lock of Lilian’s hair and a glove she have wear, as the

medium of mesmerical rapport.



the clairvoyante, one of those I have publicly denounce as an impostor,

naturally enough denounce I in return. on be ask solemnly by

Mr. Vigors “to look at Dr. Fenwick and see if his influence would be

beneficial to the subject,” the sibyl have become violently agitated, and

say that, “when she look at we together, we be envelop in a black

cloud; that this portend affliction and sinister consequence; that

our rapport be antagonistic.” Mr. Vigors then tell she to dismiss my

image, and conjure up that of Dr. Jones. Therewith the somnambule become

more tranquil, and say: “Dr. Jones would do well if he would be guide

by high light than his own skill, and consult herself daily as to the

proper remedy. the good remedy of all would be mesmerism. but since

Dr. Lloyd’s death, she do not know of a mesmerist, sufficiently gift,

in affinity with the patient.” in fine, she impress and awe Mrs.

Ashleigh, who return in haste, summon Dr. Jones, and dismiss

myself.



“I could not have conceive Mrs. Ashleigh to be so utterly want in

common-sense,” say I. “she talk rationally enough when I see she.”



“she have common-sense in general, and plenty of the sense most common,”

 answer Mrs. Poyntz; “but she be easily lead and easily frighten

wherever her affection be concern, and therefore, just as easily as

she have be persuade by Mr. Vigors and terrify by the somnambule,

I persuade she against the one, and terrify she against the other. I

have positive experience on my side, since it be clear that Lilian have

be get rapidly bad under Dr. Jones’s care. the main obstacle

I have to encounter in induce Mrs. Ashleigh to consult you again

be, first, her reluctance to disoblige Mr. Vigors, as a friend and

connection of Lilian’s father; and, secondly, her sentiment of shame

in re-invite your opinion after having treat you with so little

respect. both these difficulty I take on myself. I bring you to her

house, and, on leave you, I shall go on to Mr. Vigors, and tell he

what be do be my doing, and not to be undo by he; so that matter

be settle. indeed, if you be out of the question, I should not suffer

Mr. Vigors to re-introduce all these mummery of clairvoyance and

mesmerism into the precinct of the Hill. I do not demolish a man I

really like in Dr. Lloyd, to set up a Dr. Jones, whom I despise, in his

stead. clairvoyance on Abbey Hill, indeed! I see enough of it before.”



“true; your strong intellect detect at once the absurdity of the whole

pretence,--the falsity of mesmerism, the impossibility of clairvoyance.”



“no, my strong intellect do nothing of the kind. I do not know whether

mesmerism be false or clairvoyance impossible; and I don’t wish to know.

all I do know be, that I see the Hill in great danger,--young lady

allow themselves to be put to sleep by gentleman, and pretend

they have no will of their own against such fascination! improper and

shocking! and Miss Brabazon begin to prophesy, and Mrs. Leopold

Smythe question she maid (whom Dr. Lloyd declare to be highly

gifted) as to all the secret of her friend. when I see this, I say,

‘the Hill be becoming demoralize; the Hill be make itself ridiculous;

the Hill must be save!’ I remonstrate with Dr. Lloyd as a friend; he

remain obdurate. I annihilate he as an enemy, not to I but to the

State. I slay my good lover for the good of Rome. now you know why I

take your part,--not because I have any opinion, one way or the other,

as to the truth or falsehood of what Dr. Lloyd assert; but I have a

strong opinion that, whether they be true or false, his notion be

those which be not to be allow on the Hill. and so, Allen Fenwick,

that matter be settle.”



perhaps at another time I might have feel some little humiliation

to learn that I have be honour with the influence of this great

potentate not as a champion of truth, but as an instrument of policy;

and I might have own to some twinge of conscience in having assist

to sacrifice a fellow-seeker after science--mislead, no doubt, but

prefer his independent belief to his worldly interest--and sacrifice

he to those deity with whom science be ever at war,--the prejudice

of a Clique sanctify into the Proprieties of the World. but at that

moment the word I hear make no perceptible impression on my mind. the

gable of Abbots’ House be visible above the evergreen and lilac;

another moment, and the carriage stop at the door.













CHAPTER XIV.



Mrs. Ashleigh receive we in the dining-room. her manner to I, at

first, be a little confused and shy. but my companion soon communicate

something of her own happy ease to her gentler friend. after a short

conversation we all three go to Lilian, who be in a little room on

the ground-floor, fit up as her study. I be glad to perceive that my

interdict of the deathchamber have be respect.



she recline on a sofa near the window, which be, however, jealously

close; the light of the bright May-day obscure by blind and

curtain; a large fire on the hearth; the air of the room that of a

hot-house,--the ignorant, senseless, explode system of nursing into

consumption those who be confine on suspicion of it! she do not heed

we as we enter noiselessly; her eye be droop languidly on the

floor, and with difficulty I suppress the exclamation that rise to my

lip on see she. she seem within the last few day so change, and

on the aspect of the countenance there be so profound a melancholy!

but as she slowly turn at the sound of our footstep, and her eye meet

mine, a quick blush come into the wan cheek, and she half rise, but sink

back as if the effort exhaust she. there be a struggle for breath,

and a low hollow cough. be it possible that I have be mistake, and

that in that cough be hear the warning knell of the most insidious

enemy to youthful life?



I sit down by her side; I lure she on to talk of indifferent

subjects,--the weather, the gardens, the bird in the cage, which be

place on the table near she. her voice, at first low and feeble, become

gradually strong, and her face light up with a child’s innocent,

playful smile. no, I have not be mistake! that be no lymphatic,

nerveless temperament, on which consumption fasten as its lawful prey;

here there be no hectic pulse, no hurried waste of the vital flame.

quietly and gently I make my observation, address my question,

apply my stethoscope; and when I turn my face towards her mother’s

anxious, eager eye, that face tell my opinion; for her mother sprang

forward, clasp my hand, and say, through her struggle tears,--



“you smile! you see nothing to fear?”



“fear! no, indeed! you will soon be again yourself, Miss Ashleigh, will

you not?”



“yes,” she say, with her sweet laugh, “I shall be well now very soon.

but may I not have the window open; may I not go into the garden? I so

long for fresh air.”



“no, no, darling,” exclaim Mrs. Ashleigh, “not while the east wind

last. Dr. Jones say on no account. on no account, Dr. Fenwick, eh?”



“will you take my arm, Miss Ashleigh, for a few turn up and down

the room?” say I. “we will then see how far we may rebel against Dr.

Jones.”



she rise with some little effort, but there be no cough. at first

her step be languid; it become light and more elastic after a few

moment.



“let she come out,” say I to Mrs. Ashleigh. “the wind be not in the

east, and, while we be out, pray bid your servant lower to the last bar

in the grate that fire,--only fit for Christmas.”



“But--”



“ah, no but! he be a poor doctor who be not a stern despot.”



so the straw hat and mantle be send for. Lilian be wrap with

unnecessary care, and we all go forth into the garden. involuntarily

we take the way to the Monk’s well, and at every step Lilian seem to

revive under the brace air and temperate sun. we pause by the well.



“you do not feel fatigued, Miss Ashleigh?”



“no.”



“but your face seems change. it be grow sad.”



“not sad.”



“sad than when I first see it,--saw it when you be seat here!” I

say this in a whisper. I feel her hand tremble as it lie on my arm.



“you see I seat here!”



“yes. I will tell you how some day.”



Lilian lift her eye to mine, and there be in they that same surprise

which I have notice on my first visit,--a surprise that perplex I,

blend with no displeasure, but yet with a something of vague alarm.



we soon return to the house.



Mrs. Ashleigh make I a sign to follow she into the drawing-room,

leave Mrs. Poyntz with Lilian.



“well?” say she, tremblingly.



“permit I to see Dr. Jones’s prescription. thank you. ay, I think

so. my dear madam, the mistake here have be in depress nature

instead of strengthen; in narcotic instead of stimulant. the main

stimulant which leave no reaction be air and light. promise I that I

may have my own way for a week,--that all I recommend will be implicitly

heed?”



“I promise. but that cough,--you notice it?”



“yes. the nervous system be terribly lower, and nervous exhaustion be

a strange impostor; it imitate all manner of complaint with which

it have no connection. the cough will soon disappear! but pardon my

question. Mrs. Poyntz tell I that you consult a clairvoyant about

your daughter. do Miss Ashleigh know that you do so?”



“no; I do not tell she.”



“I be glad of that. and pray, for Heaven’s sake, guard she against all

that may set her thinking on such subject. above all, guard she against

concentre attention on any malady that your fear erroneously ascribe

to she. it be amongst the phenomena of our organization that you cannot

closely rivet your consciousness on any part of the frame, however

healthy, but it will soon begin to exhibit morbid sensibility. try

to fix all your attention on your little finger for half an hour, and

before the half hour be over the little finger will be uneasy, probably

even painful. how serious, then, be the danger to a young girl, at the

age in which imagination be most active, most intense, if you force

upon she a belief that she be in danger of a mortal disease! it be a

peculiarity of youth to brood over the thought of early death much more

resignedly, much more complacently, than we do in mature year. impress

on a young imaginative girl, as free from pulmonary tendency as you

and I be, the conviction that she must fade away into the grave, and

though she may not actually die of consumption, you instil slow poison

into her system. Hope be the natural aliment of youth. you impoverish

nourishment where you discourage hope. as soon as this temporary illness

be over, reject for your daughter the melancholy care which seem to she

own mind to mark she out from other of her age. rear she for the air,

which be the kind life-giver; to sleep with open window: to be out

at sunrise. nature will do more for she than all our drug can do. you

have be hitherto fear nature; now trust to she.”



here Mrs. Poyntz join we, and have, while I have be speak,

write my prescription and some general injunction, I close my advice

with an appeal to that powerful protectress.



“this, my dear madam, be a case in which I need your aid, and I ask

it. Miss Ashleigh should not be leave with no other companion than her

mother. a change of face be often as salutary as a change of air.

if you could devote an hour or two this very evening to sit with Miss

Ashleigh, to talk to she with your usual cheerfulness, and--”



“Annie,” interrupt Mrs. Poyntz, “I will come and drink tea with you at

half-past seven, and bring my knitting; and perhaps, if you ask he, Dr.

Fenwick will come too! he can be tolerably entertaining when he like

it.”



“it be too great a tax on his kindness, I fear,” say Mrs. Ashleigh.

“but,” she add cordially, “I should be grateful indeed if he would

spare we an hour of his time.”



I murmur an assent which I endeavour to make not too joyous.



“so that matter be settle,” say Mrs. Poyntz; “and now I shall go to

Mr. Vigors and prevent his further interference.”



“oh, but, Margaret, pray don’t offend him,--a connection of my poor

dear Gilbert’s. and so tetchy! I be sure I do not know how you’ll manage

to--”



“to get rid of he? never fear. as I manage everything and everybody,”

 say Mrs. Poyntz, bluntly. so she kiss her friend on the forehead,

give I a gracious nod, and, decline the offer of my carriage, walk

with her usual brisk, decide tread down the short path towards the

town.



Mrs. Ashleigh timidly approach I, and again the furtive hand

bashfully insinuate the hateful fee.



“stay,” say I; “this be a case which need the most constant watching.

I wish to call so often that I should seem the most greedy of doctor if

my visit be to be compute at guineas. let I be at ease to effect

my cure; my pride of science be involve in it. and when amongst all the

young lady of the Hill you can point to none with a fresher bloom, or

a fair promise of healthful life, than the patient you intrust to my

care, why, then the fee and the dismissal. Nay, nay; I must refer you to

our friend Mrs. Poyntz. it be so settle with she before she bring I

here to displace Dr. Jones.” Therewith I escape.













CHAPTER XV.



in less than a week Lilian be convalescent; in less than a fortnight

she regain her usual health,--nay, Mrs. Ashleigh declare that she

have never know her daughter appear so cheerful and look so well. I have

establish a familiar intimacy at Abbots’ House; most of my evening

be spend there. as horse exercise form an important part of my

advice, Mrs. Ashleigh have purchase a pretty and quiet horse for her

daughter; and, except the weather be very unfavourable, Lilian now

ride daily with Colonel Poyntz, who be a notable equestrian, and often

accompany by Miss Jane Poyntz, and other young lady of the Hill.

I be generally relieve from my duty in time to join she as she

return homeward. thus we make innocent appointment, openly, frankly,

in her mother’s presence, she tell I beforehand in what direction

excursion have be plan with Colonel Poyntz, and I promise to fall

in with the party--if my avocation would permit. at my suggestion,

Mrs. Ashleigh now open her house almost every evening to some of the

neighbouring family; Lilian be thus habituate to the intercourse of

young person of her own age. music and dancing and childlike game make

the old house gay. and the Hill gratefully acknowledge to Mrs. Poyntz,

“that the Ashleighs be indeed a great acquisition.”



but my happiness be not uncheckered. in thus unselfishly surround

Lilian with other, I feel the anguish of that jealousy which be

inseparable from those early stage of love, when the lover as yet

have win no right to that self-confidence which can only spring from the

assurance that he be love.



in these social reunion I remain aloof from Lilian. I see she court

by the gay young admirer whom her beauty and her fortune draw around

her,--her soft face brighten in the exercise of the dance, which the

gravity of my profession rather than my year forbid to join; and her

laugh, so musically subdue, ravish my ear and fret my heart

as if the laugh be a mockery on my sombre self and my presumptuous

dream. but no, suddenly, shyly, her eye would steal away from those

about she, steal to the corner in which I sit, as if they miss I,

and, meet my own gaze, their light soften before they turn away;

and the colour on her cheek would deepen, and to her lip there come a

smile different from the smile that it shed on other. and then--and

then--all jealousy, all sadness vanish, and I feel the glory which

blend with the grow belief that we be love.



in that diviner epoch of man’s mysterious passion, when idea of

perfection and purity, vague and fugitive before, start forth and

concentre themselves round one virgin shape,--that rise out from the

sea of creation, welcome by the Hours and adorn by the Graces,--how

the thought that this archetype of sweetness and beauty single himself

from the million, single himself for her choice, ennoble and lift

up his being! though after-experience may rebuke the mortal’s illusion,

that mistook for a daughter of Heaven a creature of clay like himself,

yet for a while the illusion have grandeur. though it come from the

sense which shall later oppress and profane it, the sense at first

shrink into shade, awe and hush by the presence that charm they. all

that be bright and good in the man have soar up like long-dormant

instinct of Heaven, to greet and to hallow what to he seem life’s

fair dream of the heavenly! take the wing from the image of love,

and the god disappear from the form!



thus, if at moment jealous doubt make my torture, so the moment’s

relief from it suffice for my rapture. but I have a cause for disquiet

less acute but less varying than jealousy.



despite Lilian’s recovery from the special illness which have more

immediately absorb my care, I remain perplex as to its cause

and true nature. to her mother I give it the convenient epithet of

“nervous;” but the epithet do not explain to myself all the symptom I

classify by it. there be still, at time, when no cause be apparent

or conjecturable, a sudden change in the expression of her countenance,

in the beat of her pulse; the eye would become fix, the bloom would

vanish, the pulse would sink feebler and feebler till it could be

scarcely feel; yet there be no indication of heart disease, of

which such sudden lowering of life be in itself sometimes a warning

indication. the change would pass away after a few minute, during which

she seem unconscious, or, at least, never speak--never appear to

heed what be say to she. but in the expression of her countenance

there be no character of suffering or distress; on the contrary,

a wondrous serenity, that make her beauty more beauteous, her very

youthfulness younger; and when this spurious or partial kind of syncope

pass, she recover at once without effort, without acknowledge

that she have feel faint or unwell, but rather with a sense of recruit

vitality, as the weary obtain from a sleep. for the rest her spirit

be more generally light and joyous than I should have premise from

her mother’s previous description. she would enter mirthfully into the

mirth of young companion round she: she have evidently quick perception

of the sunny side of life; an infantine gratitude for kindness; an

infantine joy in the trifle that amuse only those who delight in taste

pure and simple. but when talk rise into graver and more contemplative

topic, her attention become earnest and absorb; and sometimes a rich

eloquence, such as I have never before nor since hear from lip so

young, would startle I first into a wonder silence, and soon into a

disapprove alarm: for the thought she then utter seem to I too

fantastic, too visionary, too much akin to the vagary of a wild though

beautiful imagination. and then I would seek to check, to sober,

to distract fancy with which my reason have no sympathy, and the

indulgence of which I regard as injurious to the normal function of

the brain.



when thus, sometimes with a chilling sentence, sometimes with a

half-sarcastic laugh, I would repress outpouring frank and musical

as the song of a forest-bird, she would look at I with a kind of

plaintive sorrow,--often sigh and shiver as she turn away. only in

those mode do she show displeasure; otherwise ever sweet and docile,

and ever, if, see that I have pain she, I ask forgiveness,

humble herself rather to ask mine, and brighten our reconciliation

with her angel smile. as yet I have not dare to speak of love; as yet I

gaze on she as the captive gaze on the flower and the star through

the grating of his cell, murmur to himself, “when shall the door

unclose?”













CHAPTER XVI.



it be with a wrath suppress in the presence of the fair ambassadress,

that Mr. Vigors have receive from Mrs. Poyntz the intelligence that I

have replace Dr. Jones at Abbots’ House not less abruptly than Dr. Jones

have previously supplant I. as Mrs. Poyntz take upon herself the whole

responsibility of this change, Mr. Vigors do not venture to condemn it

to her face; for the Administrator of Laws be at heart no little in awe

of the Autocrat of Proprieties; as Authority, howsoever establish, be

in awe of Opinion, howsoever capricious.



to the mild Mrs. Ashleigh the magistrate’s anger be more decidedly

manifest. he cease his visit; and in answer to a long and

deprecatory letter with which she endeavour to soften his resentment

and win he back to the house, he reply by an elaborate combination

of homily and satire. he begin by excuse himself from accept

her invitation, on the ground that his time be valuable, his habit

domestic; and though ever willing to sacrifice both time and habit

where he could do good, he owe it to himself and to mankind to

sacrifice neither where his advice be reject and his opinion

contemn. he glance briefly, but not hastily, at the respect with

which her late husband have defer to his judgment, and the benefit

which that deference have enable he to bestow. he contrast the

husband’s deference with the widow’s contumely, and hint at the

evil which the contumely would not permit he to prevent. he could

not presume to say what woman of the world might think due to deceased

husband, but even woman of the world generally allow the claim of

living child, and do not act with levity where their interest be

concern, still less where their life be at stake. as to Dr. Jones,

he, Mr. Vigors, have the full confidence in his skill. Mrs. Ashleigh

must judge for herself whether Mrs. Poyntz be as good an authority upon

medical science as he have no doubt she be upon shawl and ribbon. Dr.

Jones be a man of caution and modesty; he do not indulge in the

hollow boast by which charlatan decoy their dupe; but Dr. Jones have

privately assure he that though the case be one that admit of no

rash experiment, he have no fear of the result if his own prudent system

be persevere in. what might be the consequence of any other system,

Dr. Jones would not say, because he be too high-minded to express his

distrust of the rival who have make use of underhand art to supplant

he. but Mr. Vigors be convince, from other source of information

(mean, I presume, the oracular prescience of his clairvoyant), that

the time would come when the poor young lady would herself insist on

discard Dr. Fenwick, and when “that person” would appear in a very

different light to many who now so fondly admire and so reverentially

trust he. when that time arrive, he, Mr. Vigors, might again be of

use; but, meanwhile, though he decline to renew his intimacy at Abbots’

House, or to pay unavaile visit of mere ceremony, his interest in

the daughter of his old friend remain undiminishe, nay, be rather

increase by compassion; that he should silently keep his eye upon

she; and whenever anything to her advantage suggest itself to he,

he should not be deter by the slight with which Mrs. Ashleigh

have treat his judgment from call on she, and place before her

conscience as a mother his idea for her child’s benefit, leave to

herself then, as now, the entire responsibility of reject the advice

which he might say, without vanity, be deem of some value by those

who could distinguish between sterling quality and specious pretence.



Mrs. Ashleigh’s be that thoroughly womanly nature which instinctively

lean upon other. she be diffident, trustful, meek, affectionate. not

quite justly have Mrs. Poyntz describe she as “commonplace weak,” for

though she might be call weak, it be not because she be commonplace;

she have a goodness of heart, a sweetness of disposition, to which

that disparage definition could not apply. she could only be call

commonplace inasmuch as in the ordinary daily affair of life she have a

great deal of ordinary daily commonplace good-sense. give she a routine

to follow, and no routine could be well adhere to. in the allotted

sphere of a woman’s duty she never seem in fault. no household, not

even Mrs. Poyntz’s, be more happily manage. the old Abbots’ House have

merge its original antique gloom in the soft character of please

repose. all her servant adore Mrs. Ashleigh; all find it a pleasure

to please she; her establishment have the harmony of clockwork; comfort

diffuse itself round she like quiet sunshine round a shelter spot.

to gaze on her pleasing countenance, to listen to the simple talk that

lapsed from her guileless lip, in even, slow, and lulling murmur, be

in itself a respite from “eat care.” she be to the mind what the

colour of green be to the eye. she have, therefore, excellent sense in

all that relate to every-day life. there, she need not to consult

another; there, the wise might have consult she with profit. but

the moment anything, however trivial in itself, jar on the routine to

which her mind have grow wed, the moment an incident hurry she out

of the beat track of woman’s daily life, then her confidence forsook

she; then she need a confidant, an adviser; and by that confidant

or adviser she could be credulously lure or submissively control.

therefore, when she lose, in Mr. Vigors, the guide she have be

accustomed to consult whenever she need guidance, she turn;

helplessly and piteously, first to Mrs. Poyntz, and then yet more

imploringly to I, because a woman of that character be never quite

satisfied without the advice of a man; and where an intimacy more

familiar than that of his formal visit be once establish with a

physician, confidence in he grow fearless and rapid, as the natural

result of sympathy concentrate on an object of anxiety in common

between himself and the home which open its sacred recess to his

observant but tender eye. thus Mrs. Ashleigh have show I Mr. Vigors’s

letter, and, forget that I might not be as amiable as herself,

besought I to counsel she how to conciliate and soften her lose

husband’s friend and connection. that character clothe he with dignity

and awe in her soft forgiving eye. so, smother my own resentment,

less perhaps at the tone of offensive insinuation against myself than

at the arrogance with which this prejudiced intermeddler imply to a

mother the necessity of his guardian watch over a child under her

own care, I sketch a reply which seem to I both dignified and

placatory, abstain from all discussion, and convey the assurance

that Mrs. Ashleigh would be at all time glad to hear, and dispose to

respect, whatever suggestion so esteem a friend of her husband would

kindly submit to she for the welfare of her daughter.



there all communication have stop for about a month since the date of

my reintroduction to Abbots’ House. one afternoon I unexpectedly meet Mr.

Vigors at the entrance of the blind lane, I on my way to Abbots’ House,

and my first glance at his face tell I that he be come from it, for

the expression of that face be more than usually sinister; the sullen

scowl be light into significant menace by a sneer of unmistakable

triumph. I feel at once that he have succeed in some machination

against I, and with ominous misgiving quicken my step.



I find Mrs. Ashleigh seat alone in front of the house, under a large

cedar-tree that form a natural arbour in the centre of the sunny lawn.

she be perceptibly embarrassed as I take my seat beside she.



“I hope,” say I, force a smile, “that Mr. Vigors have not be tell

you that I shall kill my patient, or that she look much bad than she

do under Dr. Jones’s care?”



“no,” she say. “he own cheerfully that Lilian have grow quite strong,

and say, without any displeasure, that he have hear how gay she have

be, ride out and even dancing,--which be very kind in he, for he

disapprove of dancing, on principle.”



“but still I can see he have say something to vex or annoy you; and, to

judge by his countenance when I meet he in the lane, I should conjecture

that that something be intend to lower the confidence you so kindly

repose in I.”



“I assure you not; he do not mention your name, either to I or to

Lilian. I never know he more friendly; quite like old time. he be a

good man at heart, very, and be much attach to my poor husband.”



“do Mr. Ashleigh profess a very high opinion of Mr. Vigors?”



“well, I don’t quite know that, because my dear Gilbert never speak to

I much about he. Gilbert be naturally very silent. but he shrink from

all trouble--all worldly affair--and Mr. Vigors manage his estate, and

inspect his steward’s book, and protect he through a long lawsuit

which he have inherit from his father. it kill his father. I don’t

know what we should have do without Mr. Vigors, and I be so glad he

have forgive I.”



“Hem! where be Miss Ashleigh? indoor?”



“no; somewhere in the ground. but, my dear Dr. Fenwick, do not leave I

yet; you be so very, very kind, and somehow I have grow to look upon

you quite as an old friend. something have happen which have put I out,

quite put I out.”



she say this wearily and feebly, close her eye as if she be indeed

put out in the sense of extinguish.



“the feeling of friendship you express,” say I, with earnestness, “be

reciprocal. on my side it be accompany by a peculiar gratitude. I be

a lonely man, by a lonely fireside, no parent, no near kindre, and in

this town, since Dr. Faber leave it, without cordial intimacy till I know

you. in admit I so familiarly to your hearth, you have give I

what I have never know before since I come to man’s estate,--a glimpse

of the happy domestic life; the charm and relief to eye, heart, and

spirit which be never know but in household cheer by the face of

woman. thus my sentiment for you and yours be indeed that of an old

friend; and in any private confidence you show I, I feel as if I be

no long a lonely man, without kindred, without home.”



Mrs. Ashleigh seem much move by these word, which my heart have

force from my lip; and, after reply to I with simple unaffected

warmth of kindness, she rise, take my arm, and continue thus as we

walk slowly to and fro the lawn: “you know, perhaps, that my poor

husband leave a sister, now a widow like myself, Lady Haughton.”



“I remember that Mrs. Poyntz say you have such a sister-in-law, but I

never hear you mention Lady Haughton till now. well!”



“well, Mr. Vigors have bring I a letter from she, and it be that which

have put I out. I dare say you have not hear I speak before of Lady

Haughton, for I be ashamed to say I have almost forget her existence.

she be many year old than my husband be; of a very different

character. only come once to see he after our marriage. hurt I by

ridicule he as a bookworm; offend he by look a little down on

I, as a nobody without spirit and fashion, which be quite true. and,

except by a cold and unfeele letter of formal condolence after I lose

my dear Gilbert, I have never hear from she since I have be a widow,

till to-day. but, after all, she be my poor husband’s sister, and his

eld sister, and Lilian’s aunt; and, as Mr. Vigors say, ‘duty be

duty.’”



have Mrs. Ashleigh say “duty be torture,” she could not have utter the

maxim with more mournful and despondent resignation.



“and what do this lady require of you, which Mr. Vigors deem it your

duty to comply with?”



“dear I! what penetration! you have guess the exact truth. but I

think you will agree with Mr. Vigors. certainly I have no option; yes, I

must do it.”



“my penetration be in fault now. do what? pray explain.”



“Poor Lady Haughton, six month ago, lose she only son, Sir James. Mr.

Vigors say he be a very fine young man, of whom any mother would have

be proud. I have hear he be wild; Mr. Vigors say, however, that he

be just go to reform, and marry a young lady whom his mother choose

for he, when, unluckily, he would ride a steeplechase, not be

quite sober at the time, and break his neck. Lady Haughton have be, of

course, in great grief. she have retire to Brighton; and she write to I

from thence, and Mr. Vigors bring the letter. he will go back to she

to-day.”



“will go back to Lady Haughton? what! have he be to she? be he, then,

as intimate with Lady Haughton as he be with her brother?”



“no; but there have be a long and constant correspondence. she have a

settlement on the Kirby Estate,--a sum which be not pay off during

Gilbert’s life; and a very small part of the property go to Sir James,

which part Mr. Ashleigh Sumner, the heir-at-law to the rest of the

estate, wish Mr. Vigors, as his guardian, to buy during his minority,

and as it be mix up with Lady Haughton’s settlement her consent be

necessary as well as Sir James’s. so there be much negotiation, and,

since then, Ashleigh Sumner have come into the Haughton property, on poor

Sir James’s decease; so that complicate all affair between Mr. Vigors

and Lady Haughton, and he have just be to Brighton to see she. and

poor Lady Haughton, in short, want I and Lilian to go and visit she.

I don’t like it at all. but you say the other day you think sea air

might be good for Lilian during the heat of the summer, and she seem

well enough now for the change. what do you think?”



“she be well enough, certainly. but Brighton be not the place I would

recommend for the summer; it want shade, and be much hot than L----”



“yes; but unluckily Lady Haughton foresee that objection, and she have a

jointure-house some mile from Brighton, and near the sea. she say the

ground be well woode, and the place be proverbially cool and healthy,

not far from St. Leonard’s Forest. and, in short, I have write to say

we will come. so we must, unless, indeed, you positively forbid it.”



“when do you think of go?”



“Next Monday. Mr. Vigors would make I fix the day. if you know how I

dislike move when I be once settle; and I do so dread Lady Haughton,

she be so fine, and so satirical! but Mr. Vigors say she be very much

alter, poor thing! I should like to show you her letter, but I have

just send it to Margaret--Mrs. Poyntz--a minute or two before you come.

she know something of Lady Haughton. Margaret know everybody. and we

shall have to go in mourning for poor Sir James, I suppose; and Margaret

will choose it, for I be sure I cann’t guess to what extent we should

be suppose to mourn. I ought to have go in mourning before--poor

Gilbert’s nephew--but I be so stupid, and I have never see he. and--but

oh, this be kind! Margaret herself,--my dear Margaret!”



we have just turn away from the house, in our up-and-down walk; and

Mrs. Poyntz stand immediately front we. “so, Anne, you have actually

accept this invitation--and for Monday next?”



“yes. do I do wrong?”



“what do Dr. Fenwick say? can Lilian go with safety?”



I could not honestly say she might not go with safety, but my heart sink

like lead as I answered,--



“Miss Ashleigh do not now need merely medical care; but more than half

her cure have depend on keep her spirit free from depression. she

may miss the cheerful companionship of your daughter, and other young

lady of her own age. a very melancholy house, sadden by a recent

bereavement, without other guest; a hostess to whom she be a stranger,

and whom Mrs. Ashleigh herself appear to deem formidable,--certainly

these do not make that change of scene which a physician would

recommend. when I speak of sea air be good for Miss Ashleigh, I

think of our own northern coast at a later time of the year, when

I could escape myself for a few week and attend she. the journey to a

northern watering-place would be also short and less fatiguing; the

air there more invigorating.”



“no doubt that would be well,” say Mrs. Poyntz, dryly; “but so far

as your objection to visit Lady Haughton have be state, they

be groundless. her house will not be melancholy; she will have other

guest, and Lilian will find companion, young like herself,--young

lady--and young gentleman too!”



there be something ominous, something compassionate, in the look which

Mrs. Poyntz cast upon I, in conclude her speech, which in itself be

calculate to rouse the fear of a lover. lilian away from I, in

the house of a worldly-fine lady--such as I judge Lady Haughton to

be--surround by young gentleman, as well as young lady, by admirer,

no doubt, of a high rank and more brilliant fashion than she have yet

know! I close my eye, and with strong effort suppress a groan.



“my dear Annie, let I satisfy myself that Dr. Fenwick really do

consent to this journey. he will say to I what he may not to you.

pardon I, then, if I take he aside for a few minute. let I find you

here again under this cedar-tree.”



place her arm in mine, and without wait for Mrs. Ashleigh’s answer,

Mrs. Poyntz draw I into the more sequester walk that belt the lawn;

and when we be out of Mrs. Ashleigh’s sight and hearing, said,--



“from what you have now see of lilian ashleigh, do you still desire to

gain she as your wife?”



“still? oh, with an intensity proportion to the fear with which I now

dread that she be about to pass away from my eye--from my life!”



“do your judgment confirm the choice of your heart? reflect before you

answer.”



“such selfish judgment as I have before I know she would not confirm

but oppose it. the nobler judgment that now expand all my reasoning,

approve and second my heart. no, no; do not smile so sarcastically.

this be not the voice of a blind and egotistical passion. let I

explain myself if I can. I concede to you that Lilian’s character be

undeveloped; I concede to you, that amidst the childlike freshness and

innocence of her nature, there be at time a strangeness, a mystery,

which I have not yet trace to its cause. but I be certain that the

intellect be organically as sound as the heart, and that intellect and

heart will ultimately--if under happy auspex--blend in that felicitous

union which constitute the perfection of woman. but it be because

she do, and may for year, may perhaps always, need a more devoted,

thoughtful care than nature less tremulously sensitive, that my

judgment sanction my choice; for whatever be good for she be good for

I. and who would watch over she as I should?”



“you have never yet speak to Lilian as lover speak?”



“oh, no, indeed.”



“and, nevertheless, you believe that your affection would not be

unreturne?”



“I think so once; I doubt now,--yet, in doubt, hope. but why do you

alarm I with these question? you, too, forebode that in this visit I

may lose she forever?”



“if you fear that, tell she so, and perhaps her answer may dispel your

fear.”



“what! now, already, when she have scarcely know I a month. might I not

risk all if too premature?”



“there be no almanac for love. with many woman love be bear the moment

they know they be belove. all wisdom tell we that a moment once go

be irrevocable. be I in your place, I should feel that I approach a

moment that I must not lose. I have say enough; now I shall rejoin Mrs.

Ashleigh.”



“Stay--tell I first what Lady Haughton’s letter really contain to

prompt the advice with which you so transport, and yet so daunt, I when

you proffer it.”



“not now; later, perhaps,--not now. if you wish to see Lilian alone, she

be by the Old Monk’s well; I see she seat there as I pass that way

to the house.”



“one word more,--only one. answer this question frankly, for it be one

of honour. do you still believe that my suit to her daughter would not

be disapprove of by Mrs. Ashleigh?”



“at this moment I be sure it would not; a week hence I might not give

you the same answer.”



so she pass on with her quick but measured tread, back through the

shady walk, on to the open lawn, till the last glimpse of her pale gray

robe disappear under the bough of the cedar-tree. then, with a

start, I break the irresolute, tremulous suspense in which I have vainly

endeavour to analyze my own mind, solve my own doubt, concentrate my

own will, and go the opposite way, skirt the circle of that haunt

ground,--as now, on one side its lofty terrace, the house of the

neighbouring city come full and close into view, divide from my

fairy-land of life but by the trodden murmurous thoroughfare wind low

beneath the ivied parapet; and as now, again, the world of man abruptly

vanish behind the screening foliage of luxuriant June.



at last the enchant glade open out from the verdure, its border

fragrant with syringa and rise and woodbine; and there, by the gray

memorial of the go gothic age, my eye seem to close their unquiet

wandering, rest spell-bind on that image which have become to I the

incarnation of earth’s bloom and youth.



she stand amidst the past, back by the fragment of wall which man

have raise to seclude he from human passion, lock, under those lid

so downcast, the secret of the only knowledge I ask from the boundless

Future.



ah! what mockery there be in that grand word, the world’s fierce

war-cry,--Freedom! who have not know one period of life, and that so

solemn that its shadow may rest over all life hereafter, when one

human creature have over he a sovereignty more supreme and absolute than

Orient servitude adore in the symbol of diadem and sceptre? what crest

so haughty that have not bow before a hand which could exalt or humble!

what heart so dauntless that have not tremble to call forth the voice

at whose sound open the gate of rapture or despair! that life alone be

free which rule, and suffice for itself. that life we forfeit when we

love!













CHAPTER XVII.



how do I utter it? by what word do my heart make itself know? I

remember not. all be as a dream that fall upon a restless, feverish

night, and fade away as the eye unclose on the peace of a cloudless

heaven, on the bliss of a golden sun. a new morrow seem indeed upon

the earth when I wake from a life-long yesterday,--her dear hand in

mine, her sweet face bow upon my breast.



and then there be that melodious silence in which there be no sound

audible from without; yet within we there be hear a lull celestial

music, as if our whole being, grow harmonious with the universe, join

from its happy deep in the hymn that unite the star.



in that silence our two heart seem to make each other understand, to

be draw near and near, blend by mysterious concord into the

completeness of a solemn union, never henceforth to be rent asunder.



at length I say softly: “and it be here on this spot that I first see

you,--here that I for the first time know what power to change our world

and to rule our future go forth from the charm of a human face!”



then Lilian ask I timidly, and without lift her eye, how I have

so see she, remind I that I promise to tell she, and have never yet

do so.



and then I tell she of the strange impulse that have lead I into the

ground, and by what chance my step have be divert down the path

that wound to the glade; how suddenly her form have shine upon my

eye, gather round itself the rose hue of the set sun, and how

wistfully those eye have follow her own silent gaze into the distant

heaven.



as I speak, her hand press mine eagerly, convulsively, and, raise

her face from my breast, she look at I with an intent, anxious

earnestness. that look!--twice before it have thrill and perplex I.



“what be there in that look, oh, my Lilian, which tell I that there

be something that startle you,--something you wish to confide, and yet

shrink from explain? see how, already, I study the fair book from

which the seal have be lift! but as yet you must aid I to construe

its language.”



“if I shrink from explain, it be only because I fear that I cannot

explain so as to be understand or believe. but you have a right to know

the secret of a life which you would link to your own. turn your face

aside from I; a reprove look, an incredulous smile, chill--oh, you

cannot guess how they chill I, when I would approach that which to I

be so serious and so solemnly strange.”



I turn my face away, and her voice grow firm as, after a brief

pause, she resumed,--



“as far back as I can remember in my infancy, there have be moment

when there seem to fall a soft hazy veil between my sight and the

thing around it, thickening and deepening till it have the likeness

of one of those white fleecy cloud which gather on the verge of the

horizon when the air be yet still, but the wind be about to rise; and

then this vapour or veil will suddenly open, as cloud open, and let in

the blue sky.”



“go on,” I say gently, for here she come to a stop. she continue,

speak somewhat more hurriedly,--



“then, in that opening, strange appearance present they self to

I, as in a vision. in my childhood these be chiefly landscape of

wonderful beauty. I could but faintly describe they then; I could not

attempt to describe they now, for they be almost go from my memory.

my dear mother chid I for tell she what I see, so I do not impress

it on my mind by repeat it. as I grow up, this kind of vision--if

I may so call it--become much less frequent, or much less distinct; I

still see the soft veil fall, the pale cloud form and open, but often

what may then have appear be entirely forget when I recover

myself, wake as from a sleep. sometimes, however, the recollection

would be vivid and complete; sometimes I see the face of my lost father;

sometimes I hear his very voice, as I have see and hear he in my

early childhood, when he would let I rest for hour beside he as he

muse or study, happy to be so quietly near he, for I love he, oh,

so dearly! and I remember he so distinctly, though I be only in my

sixth year when he die. much more recently--indeed, within the last few

month--the image of thing to come be reflect on the space that

I gaze into as clearly as in a glass. thus, for week before I come

hither, or know that such a place exist, I see distinctly the old

House, yon tree, this sward, this moss-grow Gothic fount; and, with

the sight, an impression be convey to I that in the scene before I

my old childlike life would pass into some solemn change. so that when I

come here, and recognize the picture in my vision, I take an affection

for the spot,--an affection not without awe, a powerful, perplexing

interest, as one who feel under the influence of a fate of which a

prophetic glimpse have be vouchsafe. and in that evening, when you

first see I, seat here--”



“yes, Lilian, on that evening--”



“I see you also, but in my vision--yonder, far in the deep of

space,--and--and my heart be stir as it have never be before; and

near where your image grow out from the cloud I see my father’s face,

and I hear his voice, not in my ear, but as in my heart, whispering--”



“yes, Lilian--whispering--what?”



“these words,--only these,--‘Ye will need one another.’ but then,

suddenly, between my upward eye and the two form they have behold,

there rise from the earth, obscure the sky, a vague, dusky vapour,

undulous, and coil like a vast serpent,--nothing, indeed, of its

shape and figure definite, but of its face one abrupt glare; a flash

from two dread luminous eye, and a young head, like the Medusa’s,

change, more rapidly than I could have draw breath, into a grinning

skull. then my terror make I bow my head, and when I raise it again,

all that I have see be vanish. but the terror still remain, even

when I feel my mother’s arm round I and hear her voice. and then, when

I enter the house, and sit down again alone, the recollection of what

I have see--those eye, that face, that skull--grow on I strong and

strong till I faint, and remember no more, until my eye, opening,

see you by my side, and in my wonder there be not terror. no, a sense

of joy, protection, hope, yet still shadow by a kind of fear or awe,

in recognize the countenance which have gleam on I from the sky

before the dark vapour have rise, and while my father’s voice have

murmur, ‘ye will need one another.’ and now--and now--will you love

I less that you know a secret in my being which I have tell to no

other,--cannot construe to myself? only--only, at least, do not mock I;

do not disbelieve I! Nay, turn from I no long now: now I ask to meet

your eye. now, before our hand can join again, tell I that you do not

despise I as untruthful, do not pity I as insane.”



“hush, hush!” I say, draw she to my breast. “of all you tell I

we will talk hereafter. the scale of our science have no weight fine

enough for the gossamer thread of a maiden’s pure fancy. enough for

I--for we both--if out from all such illusion start one truth, tell

to you, lovely child, from the heaven; tell to I, ruder man, on the

earth; repeat by each pulse of this heart that woo you to hear and

to trust,--now and henceforth through life unto death, ‘each have need of

the other,’--I of you, I of you! my Lilian! my Lilian!”













CHAPTER XVIII.



in spite of the previous assurance of Mrs. Poyntz, it be not without an

uneasy apprehension that I approach the cedar-tree, under which Mrs.

Ashleigh still sit, her friend beside she. I look on the fair creature

whose arm be link in mine. so young, so singularly lovely, and with

all the gift of birth and fortune which bend avarice and ambition the

more submissively to youth and beauty, I feel as if I have wrong what a

parent might justly deem her natural lot.



“oh, if your mother should disapprove!” say I, falteringly. Lilian

lean on my arm less lightly. “if I have think so,” she say with her

soft blush, “should I be thus by your side?”



so we pass under the bough of the dark tree, and Lilian leave I and

kiss Mrs. Ashleigh’s cheek; then, seat herself on the turf, lay

her head on her mother’s lap. I look on the queen of the Hill, whose

keen eye shoot over I. I think there be a momentary expression of

pain or displeasure on her countenance; but it pass. still

there seem to I something of irony, as well as of triumph or

congratulation, in the half-smile with which she quit her seat, and

in the tone with which she whisper, as she glide by I to the open

sward, “so, then, it be settle.”



she walk lightly and quickly down the lawn. when she be out of sight

I breathe more freely. I take the seat which she have leave, by Mrs.

Ashleigh’s side, and say, “a little while ago I speak of myself as a

man without kindred, without home, and now I come to you and ask for

both.”



Mrs. Ashleigh look at I benignly, then raise her daughter’s face

from her lap, and whisper, “lilian;” and Lilian’s lip move, but I

do not hear her answer. her mother do. she take Lilian’s hand, simply

place it in mine, and say, “as she choose, I choose; whom she love,

I love.”













CHAPTER XIX.



from that evening till the day Mrs. Ashleigh and Lilian go on the

dread visit, I be always at their house, when my avocation allow

I to steal to it; and during those few day, the happy I have ever

know, it seem to I that year could not have more deepen my

intimacy with Lilian’s exquisite nature, make I more reverential of its

purity, or more enamoured of its sweetness. I could detect in she but

one fault, and I rebuke myself for believe that it be a fault.

we see many who neglect the minor duty of life, who lack watchful

forethought and considerate care for other, and we recognize the

cause of this fail in levity or egotism. certainly, neither of those

tendency of character could be ascribe to Lilian. yet still in daily

trifle there be something of that neglect, some lack of that care and

forethought. she love her mother with fondness and devotion, yet it

never occur to she to aid in those petty household care in which her

mother centre so much of habitual interest. she be full of tenderness

and pity to all want and suffering, yet many a young lady on the Hill

be more actively beneficent,--visiting the poor in their sickness, or

instruct their child in the Infant Schools. I be persuade

that her love for I be deep and truthful; it be clearly void of all

ambition; doubtless she would have bear, unflinche and content,

whatever the world consider to be a sacrifice and privation,--yet I

should never have expect she to take her share in the trouble

of ordinary life. I could never have apply to she the homely but

significant name of helpmate. I reproach myself while I write for

notice such defect--if defect it be--in what may be call the

practical routine of our positive, trivial, human existence. no doubt it

be this that have cause Mrs. Poyntz’s harsh judgment against the wisdom

of my choice. but such chiller shade upon Lilian’s charming nature be

reflect from no inert, unamiable self-love. it be but the consequence

of that self-absorption which the habit of revery have foster. I

cautiously abstain from all allusion to those visionary deception,

which she have confide to I as the truthful impression of spirit, if

not of sense. to I any approach to what I term “superstition” be

displease; any indulgence of fantasy not within the measured

and beat track of healthful imagination more than displease I in

her,--it alarm. I would not by a word encourage she in persuasion

which I feel it would be at present premature to reason against, and

cruel indeed to ridicule. I be convince that of themselves these

mist round her native intelligence, engender by a solitary and musing

childhood, would subside in the full daylight of wed life. she

seem pained when she see how resolutely I shun a subject dear to

her thought. she make one or two timid attempt to renew it, but

my grave look suffice to check she. once or twice indeed, on such

occasion, she would turn away and leave I, but she soon come back;

that gentle heart could not bear one unkindli shade between itself

and what it love. it be agree that our engagement should be, for the

present, confide only to Mrs. Poyntz. when Mrs. Ashleigh and Lilian

return, which would be in a few week at furth, it should be

proclaim; and our marriage could take place in the autumn, when I

should be most free for a brief holiday from professional toil.



so we part-as lover part. I feel none of those jealous fear

which, before we be affiance, have make I tremble at the thought of

separation, and have conjure up irresistible rival. but it be with a

settle, heavy gloom that I see her depart. from earth be go a glory;

from life a blessing.













CHAPTER XX.



during the busy year of my professional career, I have snatch leisure

for some professional treatise, which have make more or less sensation,

and one of they, entitle “the Vital Principle; its Waste and Supply,”

 have gain a wide circulation among the general public. this last

treatise contain the result of certain experiment, then new in

chemistry, which be adduce in support of a theory I entertain as to

the re-invigoration of the human system by principle similar to

those which Liebig have apply to the replenishment of an exhaust

soil,--namely, the give back to the frame those essential to its

nutrition, which it have lose by the action or accident of time; or

supply that special pabulum or energy in which the individual

organism be constitutionally deficient; and neutralize or

counterbalance that in which it super-abounds,--a theory upon which

some eminent physician have more recently improve with signal success.

but on these essay, slight and suggestive, rather than dogmatic, I set

no value. I have be for the last two year engage on a work of much

wide range, endear to I by a far bold ambition,--a work upon which

I fondly hope to found an endure reputation as a severe and

original physiologist. it be an Inquiry into Organic Life, similar in

comprehensiveness of survey to that by which the illustrious Muller, of

Berlin, have enrich the science of our age; however inferior, alas! to

that august combination of thought and learn in the judgment which

check presumption, and the genius which adorn speculation. but at that

day I be carry away by the ardour of composition, and I admire my

performance because I love my labour. this work have be entirely lay

aside for the last agitated month; now that Lilian be go, I resume

it earnestly, as the sole occupation that have power and charm enough to

rouse I from the aching sense of void and loss.



the very night of the day she go, I reopen my manuscript. I have leave

off at the commencement of a chapter upon Knowledge as derive from our

sense. as my conviction on this head be found on the well-know

argument of Locke and Condillac against innate idea, and on the

reasoning by which Hume have resolve the combination of sensation

into a general idea to an impulse arise merely out of habit, so I set

myself to oppose, as a dangerous concession to the sentimentality or

mysticism of a pseudo-philosophy, the doctrine favour by most of our

recent physiologist, and of which some of the most eminent of german

metaphysician have accept the substance, though refine into a

subtlety its positive form,--I mean the doctrine which Muller himself

have express in these words:--





   “that innate idea may exist cannot in the slight degree be deny:

    it be, indeed, a fact.  all the idea of animal, which be induce by

    instinct, be innate and immediate: something present to the mind, a

    desire to attain which be at the same time give.  the new-bear lamb

    and foal have such innate idea, which lead they to follow their

    mother and suck the teat.  be it not in some measure the same with

    the intellectual idea of man?” (1)



to this question I answer with an indignant “no!” a “yes” would have

shake my creed of materialism to the dust. I write on rapidly, warmly.

I define the property and mete the limit of natural law, which I

would not admit that a deity himself could alter. I clamp and solder

dogma to dogma in the link of my tinker logic, till out from my page,

to my own complacent eye, grow Intellectual Man, as the pure formation

of his material sense; mind, or what be call soul, bear from and

nurture by they alone; through they to act, and to perish with the

machine they move. strange, that at the very time my love for Lilian

might have teach I that there be mystery in the core of the

feeling which my analysis of idea could not solve, I should so

stubbornly have oppose as unreal all that could be refer to the

spiritual! strange, that at the very time when the thought that I might

lose from this life the being I have know scarce a month have just before

so appal I, I should thus complacently sit down to prove that,

accord to the law of the nature which my passion obey, I must

lose for eternity the blessing I now hope I have win to my life! but how

distinctly dissimilar be man in his conduct from man in his system!

see the poet recline under forest bough, con ode to his mistress;

follow he out into the world; no mistress ever live for he there!(2)

see the hard man of science, so austere in his passionless problem;

follow he now where the brain rest from its toil, where the heart

find its Sabbath--what child be so tender, so yielding, and soft?



but I have prove to my own satisfaction that poet and sage be dust,

and no more, when the pulse cease to beat. and on that consolatory

conclusion my pen stop.



suddenly, beside I I distinctly hear a sigh,--a compassionate,

mournful sigh. the sound be unmistakable. I start from my seat,

look round, amazed to discover no one,--no living thing! the window

be close, the night be still. that sigh be not the wail of the

wind. but there, in the dark angle of the room, what be that? a

silvery whiteness, vaguely shape as a human form, recede, fade,

go! why, I know not--for no face be visible, no form, if form it

be, more distinct than the colourless outline,--why, I know not, but

I cry aloud, “Lilian! Lilian!” my voice come strangely back to my own

ear; I pause, then smile and blush at my folly. “so I, too, have

learn what be superstition,” I mutter to myself. “and here be an

anecdote at my own expense (as Muller frankly tell we anecdote of the

illusion which would haunt his eye, shut or open),--an anecdote I may

quote when I come to my chapter on the Cheats of the Senses and Spectral

Phantasms.” I go on with my book, and write till the light wane in

the gray of the dawn. and I say then, in the triumph of my pride, as

I lay myself down to rest, “I have write that which allot with

precision man’s place in the region of nature; write that which

will find a school, form disciple; and race after race of those

who cultivate truth through pure reason shall accept my basis if they

enlarge my building.” and again I hear the sigh, but this time it

cause no surprise. “certainly,” I murmur, “a very strange thing be

the nervous system!” so I turn on my pillow, and, weary out, fall

asleep.



(1) Muller’s “Elements of Physiology,” vol. ii. p. 134. translate by

Dr. Baley.



(2) Cowley, who wrote so elaborate a series of amatory poem, be say

“never to have be in love but once, and then he never have resolution

to tell his passion.”--Johnson’s “life of the Poets:” COWLEY.













CHAPTER XXI.



the next day, the last of the visit patient to whom my forenoon

be devoted have just quit I, when I be summon in haste to attend

the steward of a Sir Philip Derval not reside at his family seat,

which be about five mile from L----. it be rarely indeed that person

so far from the town, when of no high rank than this applicant, ask

my service.



but it be my principle to go wherever I be summon; my profession

be not gain, it be healing, to which gain be the incident, not

the essential. this case the messenger report as urgent. I go on

horseback, and ride fast; but swiftly as I canter through the village

that skirt the approach to Sir Philip Derval’s park, the evident care

bestow on the accommodation of the cottager forcibly strike I. I

feel that I be on the land of a rich, intelligent, and beneficent

proprietor. enter the park, and pass before the manor-house, the

contrast between the neglect and the decay of the absentee’s stately

Hall and the smile home of his villager be disconsolately mournful.



an impose pile, build apparently by Vanbrugh, with decorate

pilaster, pompous portico, and grand perron (or double flight of stair

to the entrance), enrich with urn and statue, but discolour,

mildew, chip, half-hide with unpruned creeper and ivy. Most of

the window be close with shutter, decay for want of paint; in

some of the casement the pane be break; the peacock perch on the

shatter balustrade, that fence a garden overgrow with weed. the

sun glare hotly on the place, and make its ruinous condition still more

painfully apparent. I be glad when a winding in the park-road shut

the house from my sight. suddenly I emerge through a copse of ancient

yew-tree, and before I there gleam, in abrupt whiteness, a building

evidently design for the family mausoleum, classical in its outline,

with the blind iron door niche into stone wall of massive thickness,

and surround by a funereal garden of rose and evergreen, fence with

an iron rail, party-gilt.



the suddenness with which this House of the Dead come upon I heighten

almost into pain, if not into awe, the dismal impression which the

aspect of the deserted home in its neighbourhood have make. I spur my

horse, and soon arrive at the door of my patient, who live in a fair

brick house at the other extremity of the park.



I find my patient, a man somewhat advanced in year, but of a robust

conformation, in bed: he have be seize with a fit, which be suppose

to be apoplectic, a few hour before; but be already sensible, and out

of immediate danger. after I have prescribe a few simple remedy, I

take aside the patient’s wife, and go with she to the parlour below

stair, to make some inquiry about her husband’s ordinary regimen and

habit of life. these seem sufficiently regular; I could discover no

apparent cause for the attack, which present symptom not familiar to

my experience. “have your husband ever have such fit before?”



“never!”



“have he experience any sudden emotion? have he hear any unexpected

news; or have anything happen to put he out?”



the woman look much disturb at these inquiry. I press they more

urgently. at last she burst into tear, and clasp my hand, say, “oh,

doctor, I ought to tell you--I send for you on purpose--yet I fear you

will not believe I: my good man have see a ghost!”



“a ghost!” say I, repress a smile. “well, tell I all, that I may

prevent the ghost come again.”



the woman’s story be prolix. its substance be this. her husband,

habitually an early riser, have leave his bed that morning still early

than usual, to give direction about some cattle that be to be send

for sale to a neighbouring fair. an hour afterwards he have be find by

a shepherd, near the mausoleum, apparently lifeless. on be remove to

his own house, he have recover speech, and bid all except his wife

leave the room, he then tell she that on walk across the park towards

the cattle-shed, he have see what appear to he at first a pale light

by the iron door of the mausoleum. on approach nearer, this light

change into the distinct and visible form of his master, Sir Philip

Derval, who be then abroad,--supposed to be in the East, where he have

reside for many year. the impression on the steward’s mind be so

strong, that he call out, “oh, Sir Philip!” when look still

more intently, he perceive that the face be that of a corpse. as he

continue to gaze, the apparition seem gradually to recede, as

if vanish into the sepulchre itself. he know no more; he become

unconscious. it be the excess of the poor woman’s alarm, on hear

this strange tale, that make her resolve to send for I instead of the

parish apothecary. she fancy so astounding a cause for her husband’s

seizure could only be properly deal with by some medical man repute

to have more than ordinary learning; and the steward himself object to

the apothecary in the immediate neighbourhood, as more likely to annoy

he by gossip than a physician from a comparative distance.



I take care not to lose the confidence of the good wife by parade too

quickly my disbelief in the phantom her husband declare that he have

see; but as the story itself seem at once to decide the nature of the

fit to be epileptic, I begin to tell she of similar delusion which, in

my experience, have occur to those subject to epilepsy, and

finally soothe she into the conviction that the apparition be clearly

reducible to natural cause. afterwards, I lead she on to talk about

Sir Philip Derval, less from any curiosity I feel about the absent

proprietor than from a desire to re-familiarize her own mind to his

image as a live man. the steward have be in the service of Sir

Philip’s father, and have know Sir Philip himself from a child. he be

warmly attach to his master, whom the old woman describe as a man of

rare benevolence and great eccentricity, which last she impute to his

studious habit. he have succeed to the title and estate as a minor.

for the first few year after attain his majority, he have mix much

in the world. when at Derval Court his house have be fill with gay

companion, and be the scene of lavish hospitality; but the estate

be not in proportion to the grandeur of the mansion, still less to the

expenditure of the owner. he have become greatly embarrassed; and some

love disappointment (so it be rumour) occur simultaneously with

his pecuniary difficulty, he have suddenly change his way of life,

shut himself up from his old friend, live in seclusion, take to

book and scientific pursuit, and as the old woman say vaguely and

expressively, “to odd way.” he have gradually by an economy that,

towards himself, be penurious, but which do not preclude much

judicious generosity to other, clear off his debt; and, once more

rich, he have suddenly quit the country, and take to a life of

travel. he be now about forty-eight year old, and have be eighteen

year abroad. he write frequently to his steward, give he minute and

thoughtful instruction in regard to the employment, comfort, and home

of the peasantry, but peremptorily order he to spend no money on the

ground and mansion, state as a reason why the latter might be allow

to fall into decay, his intention to pull it down whenever he return

to England.



I stay some time long than my engagement well warrant at my

patient’s house, not leave till the sufferer, after a quiet sleep, have

remove from his bed to his armchair, take food, and seem perfectly

recover from his attack.



ride homeward, I muse on the difference that education make, even

pathologically, between man and man. here be a brawny inhabitant of

rural field, lead the healthy of life, not conscious of the

faculty we call imagination, stricken down almost to death’s door by

his fright at an optical illusion, explicable, if examine, by the same

simple cause which have impress I the night before with a moment’s

belief in a sound and a spectre,--me who, thank to sublime education,

go so quietly to sleep a few minute after, convince that no phantom,

the ghostly that ear ever hear or eye ever see, can be anything else

but a nervous phenomenon.













CHAPTER XXII.



that evening I go to Mrs. Poyntz’s; it be one of her ordinary

“reception night,” and I feel that she would naturally expect my

attendance as “a proper attention.”



I join a group engage in general conversation, of which Mrs. Poyntz

herself make the centre, knit as usual,--rapidly while she talk,

slowly when she listen.



without mention the visit I have pay that morning, I turn the

conversation on the different country place in the neighbourhood, and

then incidentally ask, “what sort of a man be Sir Philip Derval? be it

not strange that he should suffer so fine a place to fall into decay?”

 the answer I receive add little to the information I have already

obtain. Mrs. Poyntz know nothing of Sir Philip Derval, except as a man

of large estate, whose rental have be greatly increase by a rise in

the value of property he possess in the town of L----, and which lay

contiguous to that of her husband. two or three of the old inhabitant

of the Hill have remember Sir Philip in his early day, when he be

gay, high-spirit, hospitable, lavish. one observe that the only

person in L---- whom he have admit to his subsequent seclusion be

Dr. Lloyd, who be then without practice, and whom he have employ as an

assistant in certain chemical experiment.





here a gentleman strike into the conversation. he be a stranger to

I and to L----, a visitor to one of the dweller on the Hill, who have

ask leave to present he to its queen as a great traveller and an

accomplish antiquary.



say this gentleman: “Sir Philip Derval? I know he. I meet he in the

East. he be then still, I believe, very fond of chemical science; a

clever, odd, philanthropical man; have study medicine, or at least

practise it; be say to have make many marvellous cure. I become

acquainted with he in Aleppo. he have come to that town, not much

frequent by English traveller, in order to inquire into the murder of

two man, of whom one be his friend and the other his countryman.”



“this be interesting,” say Mrs. Poyntz, dryly. “we who live on this

innocent Hill all love story of crime; murder be the pleasant

subject you could have hit on. pray give we the detail.”



“so encouraged,” say the traveller, good-humouredly, “I will not

hesitate to communicate the little I know. in Aleppo there have live for

some year a man who be hold by the native in great reverence. he have

the reputation of extraordinary wisdom, but be difficult of access;

the lively imagination of the Orientals invest his character with

the fascination of fable,--in short, Haroun of Aleppo be popularly

consider a magician. wild story be tell of his power, of his

preternatural age, of his hoard treasure. apart from such disputable

title to homage, there seem no question, from all I hear, that his

learning be considerable, his charity extensive, his manner of life

irreproachably ascetic. he appear to have resemble those arabian sage

of the Gothic age to whom modern science be largely indebted,--a mystic

enthusiast, but an earnest scholar. a wealthy and singular Englishman,

long resident in another part of the East, afflict by some languish

disease, take a journey to Aleppo to consult this sage, who, among

his other acquirement, be hold to have discover rare secret in

medicine,--his countryman say in ‘charm.’ one morning, not long after

the Englishman’s arrival, Haroun be find dead in his bed, apparently

strangle, and the Englishman, who lodge in another part of the town,

have disappear; but some of his clothe, and a crutch on which he

habitually support himself, be find a few mile distant from

Aleppo, near the roadside. there appear no doubt that he, too, have

be murder, but his corpse could not be discover. Sir Philip Derval

have be a love disciple of this sage of Aleppo, to whom he assure I

he owe not only that knowledge of medicine which, by report, Sir

Philip possess, but the insight into various truth of nature, on the

promulgation of which, it be evident, Sir Philip cherish the ambition

to find a philosophical celebrity for himself.”



“of what description be those truth of nature?” I ask, somewhat

sarcastically.



“Sir, I be unable to tell you, for Sir Philip do not inform I, nor

do I much care to ask; for what may be revere as truth in Asia be

usually despise as dream in Europe. to return to my story: Sir

Philip have be in Aleppo a little time before the murder; have leave the

Englishman under the care of Haroun. he return to Aleppo on hear

the tragic event I have relate, and be busy in collect such

evidence as could be glean, and institute inquiry after our

missing countryman at the time I myself chance to arrive in the city.

I assist in his research, but without avail. the assassin remain

undiscovered. I do not myself doubt that they be mere vulgar robber.

Sir Philip have a dark suspicion of which he make no secret to I; but

as I confess that I think the suspicion groundless, you will pardon

I if I do not repeat it. whether since I leave the East the Englishman’s

remain have be discover, I know not. very probably; for I

understand that his heir have get hold of what fortune he left,--less

than be generally suppose. but it be report that he have bury

great treasure, a rumour, however absurd, not altogether inconsistent

with his character.”



“what be his character?” ask Mrs. Poyntz.



“one of evil and sinister repute. he be regard with terror by the

attendant who have accompany he to Aleppo. but he have live in a

very remote part of the East, little know to Europeans, and, from all I

could learn, have there establish an extraordinary power, strengthen

by superstitious awe. he be say to have study deeply that knowledge

which the philosopher of old call ‘occult,’ not, like the sage

of Aleppo, for benevolent, but for malignant end. he be accuse of

confer with evil spirit, and fill his barbaric court (for

he live in a kind of savage royalty) with charmer and sorcerer. I

suspect, after all, that he be only, like myself, an ardent antiquary,

and cunningly make use of the fear he inspire in order to secure his

authority, and prosecute in safety research into ancient sepulchre or

temple. his great passion be, indeed, in excavate such remain, in

his neighbourhood; with what result I know not, never having penetrate

so far into region infest by robber and pestiferous with malaria. he

wear the eastern dress, and always carry jewel about he. I come

to the conclusion that for the sake of these jewel he be murder,

perhaps by some of his own servant (and, indeed, two at least of his

suite be miss), who then at once bury his body, and keep their

own secret. he be old, very infirm; could never have get far from the

town without assistance.”



“you have not yet tell we his name,” say Mrs. Poyntz.



“his name be Grayle.”



“Grayle!” exclaim Mrs. Poyntz, drop her work. “Louis Grayle?”



“yes; Louis Grayle. you could not have know he?”



“know he! no; but I have often hear my father speak of he. such,

then, be the tragic end of that strong dark creature, for whom, as a

young girl in the nursery, I use to feel a kind of fearful admiring

interest?”



“it be your turn to narrate now,” say the traveller.



and we all draw close round our hostess, who remain silent some

moment, her brow thoughtful, her work suspend.



“well,” say she at last, look round we with a lofty air, which

seem half defy, “force and courage be always fascinating, even

when they be quite in the wrong. I go with the world, because the world

go with I; if it do not--” here she stop for a moment, clench

the firm white hand, and then scornfully wave it, leave the sentence

unfinishe, and break into another.



“go with the world, of course we must march over those who stand

against it. but when one man stand single-handed against our march, we

do not despise he; it be enough to crush. I be very glad I do not see

Louis Grayle when I be a girl of sixteen.” again she pause a moment,

and resume: “Louis Grayle be the only son of a usurer, infamous for

the rapacity with which he have acquire enormous wealth. Old Grayle

desire to rear his heir as a gentleman; send he to Eton. boy be

always aristocratic; his birth be soon throw in his tooth; he be

fierce; he strike boy big than himself,--fought till he be

half kill. my father be at school with he; describe he as

a tiger-whelp. one day he--still a fag--strike a sixth-form boy.

sixth-form boy do not fight fag; they punish they. Louis Grayle be

order to hold out his hand to the cane; he receive the blow, draw

forth his schoolboy knife, and stab the punisher. after that, he leave

Eton. I don’t think he be publicly expel--too mere a child for that

honour--but he be take or send away; educate with great care under

the first master at home. when he be of age to enter the University,

old Grayle be dead. Louis be send by his guardian to Cambridge, with

acquirement far exceed the average of young man, and with unlimited

command of money. my father be at the same college, and describe he

again,--haughty, quarrelsome, reckless, handsome, aspiring, brave.

do that kind of creature interest you, my dear?” (appeal to the

lady).



“La!” say Miss Brabazon; “a horrid usurer’s son!”



“ay, true; the vulgar proverb say it be good to be bear with a silver

spoon in one’s mouth: so it be when one have one’s own family crest on

it; but when it be a spoon on which people recognize their family

crest, and cry out, ‘steal from our plate chest,’ it be a heritage that

outlaw a babe in his cradle. however, young man at college who want

money be less scrupulous about descent than boy at Eton be. Louis

Grayle find, while at college, plenty of wellborn acquaintance willing

to recover from he some of the plunder his father have extort from

theirs. he be too wild to distinguish himself by academical honour,

but my father say that the tutor of the college declare there be

not six undergraduate in the University who know as much hard and dry

science as wild Louis Grayle. he go into the world, no doubt, hope

to shine; but his father’s name be too notorious to admit the son into

good society. the Polite World, it be true, do not examine a scutcheon

with the nice eye of a herald, nor look upon rich with the stately

contempt of a stoic; still the Polite World have its family pride and

its moral sentiment. it do not like to be cheated,--I mean, in

money matter; and when the son of a man who have empty its purse and

foreclose on its acre ride by its club-window, hand on haunch, and

head in the air, no lion have a scowl more awful, no hyena a laugh more

dread, than that same easy, good-temper, tolerant, polite, well-breed

World which be so pleasant an acquaintance, so languid a friend, and--so

remorseless an--enemy. in short, Louis Grayle claim the right to be

courted,--he be shun; to be admired,--he be loathe. even his old

college acquaintance be shame out of know he. perhaps he

could have live through all this have he seek to glide quietly into

position; but he want the tact of the well-breed, and strove to storm

his way, not to steal it. reduce for companion to needy parasite,

he brave and he shock all decorous opinion by that ostentation of

excess, which make Richelieus and Lauzuns the rage. but then Richelieus

and Lauzuns be duke! he now very naturally take the Polite World into

hate,--gave it scorn for scorn. he would ally himself with Democracy;

his wealth could not get he into a club, but it would buy he into

parliament; he could not be a Lauzun, nor, perhaps, a Mirabeau, but he

might be a Danton. he have plenty of knowledge and audacity, and with

knowledge and audacity a good hater be sure to be eloquent. possibly,

then, this poor Louis Grayle might have make a great figure, leave his

mark on his age and his name in history; but in contest the borough,

which he be sure to carry, he have to face an opponent in a real fine

gentleman whom his father have ruin, cool and highbred, with a tongue

like a rapier, a sneer like an adder. a quarrel of course; Louis Grayle

send a challenge. the fine gentleman, know to be no coward (fine

gentleman never be), be at first dispose to refuse with contempt. but

Grayle have make himself the idol of the mob; and at a word from Grayle,

the fine gentleman might have be duck at a pump, or toss in

a blanket,--that would have make he ridiculous; to be shoot at be a

trifle, to be laugh at be serious. he therefore condescend to accept

the challenge, and my father be his second.



“it be settle, of course, accord to english custom, that both

combatant should fire at the same time, and by signal. the antagonist

fire at the right moment; his ball graze Louis Grayle’s temple. Louis

Grayle have not fire. he now seem to the second to take slow and

deliberate aim. they call out to he not to fire; they be rush to

prevent he, when the trigger be pull, and his opponent fall dead on

the field. the fight be, therefore, consider unfair; Louis Grayle be

try for his life: he do not stand the trial in person.(1) he escape

to the continent; hurry on to some distant uncivilized land; could

not be trace; reappear in England no more. the lawyer who conduct

his defence plead skilfully. he argue that the delay in firing be

not intentional, therefore not criminal,--the effect of the stun which

the wound in the temple have occasion. the judge be a gentleman, and

sum up the evidence so as to direct the jury to a verdict against

the low wretch who have murder a gentleman; but the juror be not

gentleman, and Grayle’s advocate have of course excite their sympathy

for a son of the people, whom a gentleman have wantonly insult. the

verdict be manslaughter; but the sentence emphatically mark the

aggravate nature of the homicide,--three year’ imprisonment. Grayle

elude the prison, but he be a man disgrace and an exile,--his

ambition blast, his career an outlaw’s, and his age not yet

twenty-three. my father say that he be suppose to have change his

name; none know what have become of he. and so this creature, brilliant

and daring, whom if bear under well auspex we might now be all

fawn on, cringe to,--after live to old age, no one know

how,--dies murder at Aleppo, no one, you say, know by whom.”



“I see some account of his death in the paper about three year ago,”

 say one of the party; “but the name be misspell, and I have no idea

that it be the same man who have fight the duel which Mrs. Colonel

Poyntz have so graphically describe. I have a very vague recollection of

the trial; it take place when I be a boy, more than forty year since.

the affair make a stir at the time, but be soon forget.”



“soon forget,” say Mrs. Poyntz; “ay, what be not? leave your place

in the world for ten minute, and when you come back somebody else have

take it; but when you leave the world for good, who remember that you

have ever a place even in the parish register?”



“nevertheless,” say I, “a great poet have say, finely and truly,





   “‘the sun of Homer shine upon we still.’”



“but it do not shine upon Homer; and learn folk tell I that we

know no more who and what Homer be, if there be ever a single homer

at all, or rather, a whole herd of Homers, than we know about the man in

the moon,--if there be one man there, or million of man. now, my dear

Miss Brabazon, it will be very kind in you to divert our thought

into channel less gloomy. some pretty french air--Dr. Fenwick, I have

something to say to you.” she draw I towards the window. “so Annie

Ashleigh write I word that I be not to mention your engagement. do you

think it quite prudent to keep it a secret?”



“I do not see how prudence be concern in keep it secret one way or

the other,--it be a mere matter of feeling. Most people wish to abridge,

as far as they can, the time in which their private arrangement be the

topic of public gossip.”



“public gossip be sometimes the good security for the due completion of

private arrangement. as long as a girl be not know to be engage,

her betrothed must be prepare for rival. announce the engagement, and

rival be warn off.”



“I fear no rival.”



“do you not? bold man! I suppose you will write to Lilian?”



“certainly.”



“do so, and constantly. by-the-way, Mrs. Ashleigh, before she go,

ask I to send she back Lady Haughton’s letter of invitation. what

for,--to show to you?”



“very likely. have you the letter still? may I see it?”



“not just at present. when lilian or Mrs. Ashleigh write to you, come

and tell I how they like their visit, and what other guest form the

party.”



Therewith she turn away and converse apart with the traveller.



her word disquiet I, and I feel that they be mean to do so,

wherefore I could not guess. but there be no language on earth which have

more word with a double meaning than that speak by the Clever Woman,

who be never so guard as when she appear to be frank.



as I walk home thoughtfully, I be accost by a young man, the son

of one of the wealthy merchant in the town. I have attend he with

success some month before, in a rheumatic fever: he and his family be

much attach to I.



“ah, my dear Fenwick, I be so glad to see you; I owe you an

obligation of which you be not aware,--an exceedingly pleasant

travel-companion. I come with he to-day from London, where I have

be sight-seeing and holidaymake for the last fortnight.”



“I suppose you mean that you kindly bring I a patient?”



“no, only an admirer. I be stay at Fenton’s Hotel. it so happen

one day that I have leave in the coffee-room your last work on the Vital

Principle, which, by the by, the bookseller assure I be sell

immensely among reader as non-professional as myself. come into the

coffee-room again, I find a gentleman read the book. I claim it

politely; he as politely tender his excuse for take it. we make

acquaintance on the spot. the next day we be intimate. he express

great interest and curiosity about your theory and your experiment. I

tell he I know you. you may guess if I describe you as less clever in

your practice than you be in your writing; and, in short, he come

with I to L----, partly to see our flourish town, principally on my

promise to introduce he to you. my mother, you know, have what she call

a dejeuner tomorrow,--dejeuner and dance. you will be there?”



“thank you for remind I of her invitation. I will avail myself of

it if I can. your new friend will be present? who and what be he,--a

medical student?”



“no, a mere gentleman at ease, but seem to have a good deal of general

information. very young, apparently very rich, wonderfully good-look.

I be sure you will like he; everybody must.”



“it be quite enough to prepare I to like he that he be a friend of

your.” and so we shake hand and part.



(1) Mrs. Poyntz here make a mistake in law which, though very evident,

her listener do not seem to have notice. her mistake will be refer

to later.













CHAPTER XXIII.



it be late in the afternoon of the follow day before I be able to

join the party assemble at the merchant’s house; it be a villa about

two mile out of the town, pleasantly situate amidst flower-garden

celebrate in the neighbourhood for their beauty. the breakfast have be

long over; the company be scatter over the lawn,--some form into

a dance on the smooth lawn; some seat under shady awning; other

glide amidst parterre, in which all the glow of colour take a glory

yet more vivid under the flush of a brilliant sunshine; and the ripple

of a soft western breeze. music, loud and lively, mingle with the

laughter of happy child, who form much the large number of the

party.



stand at the entrance of an arched trelli, that lead from the hardier

flower of the lawn to a rare collection of tropical plant under a

lofty glass dome (connect, as it be, the familiar vegetation of the

North with that of the remotest East), be a form that instantaneously

catch and fix my gaze. the entrance of the arcade be cover with

parasite creeper, in prodigal luxuriance, of variegate gorgeous

tints,--scarlet, golden, purple; and the form, an idealized picture of

man’s youth fresh from the hand of Nature, stand literally in a frame of

bloom.



never have I see human face so radiant as that young man’s. there be

in the aspect an indescribable something that literally dazzle. as one

continue to gaze, it be with surprise; one be force to acknowledge

that in the feature themselves there be no faultless regularity; nor

be the young man’s stature imposing, about the middle height. but the

effect of the whole be not less transcendent. large eye, unspeakably

lustrous; a most harmonious colouring; an expression of contagious

animation and joyousness; and the form itself so critically fine, that

the weld strength of its sinew be well show in the lightness and

grace of its movement.



he be rest one hand carelessly on the golden lock of a child that

have nestle itself against his knee, look up to his face in that

silent love wonder with which child regard something too strangely

beautiful for noisy admiration; he himself be converse with the

host, an old gray-haired, gouty man, prop on his crutched stick, and

listen with a look of mournful envy. to the wealth of the old man all

the flower in that garden owe their renew delight in the summer

air and sun. oh, that his wealth could renew to himself one hour of the

youth whose incarnation stand beside he, Lord, indeed, of Creation; its

splendour weave into his crown of beauty, its enjoyment subject to his

sceptre of hope and gladness.



I be startle by the hearty voice of the merchant’s son. “ah, my dear

Fenwick, I be afraid you would not come,--you be late. there be

the new friend of whom I speak to you last night; let I now make you

acquaint with he.” he draw my arm in his, and lead I up to the

young man, where he stand under the arch flower, and whom he then

introduce to I by the name of Margrave.



nothing could be more frankly cordial than Mr. Margrave’s manner. in a

few minute I find myself converse with he familiarly, as if we

have be rear in the same home, and sport together in the same

playground. his vein of talk be peculiar, off-hand, careless, shift

from topic to topic with a bright rapidity.



he say that he like the place; propose to stay in it some week;

ask my address, which I give to he; promise to call soon at an

early hour, while my time be yet free from professional visit. I

endeavour, when I go away, to analyze to myself the fascination

which this young stranger so notably exercise over all who approach

he; and it seem to I, ever seek to find material cause for all

moral effect, that it rise from the contagious vitality of that rare

of all rare gift in highly-civilized circles,--perfect health; that

health which be in itself the most exquisite luxury; which, find

happiness in the mere sense of existence, diffuse round it, like an

atmosphere, the harmless hilarity of its bright animal being. health,

to the utmost perfection, be seldom know after childhood; health to the

utmost cannot be enjoy by those who overwork the brain, or admit the

sure wear and tear of the passion. the creature I have just see give

I the notion of youth in the golden age of the poets,--the youth of the

careless Arcadian, before nymph or shepherdess have vex his heart with

a sigh.













CHAPTER XXIV.



the house I occupy at L---- be a quaint, old-fashioned building, a

corner-house. one side, in which be the front entrance, look upon

a street which, as there be no shop in it, and it be no direct

thoroughfare to the busy centre of the town, be always quiet, and

at some hour of the day almost deserted. the other side of the house

front a lane; opposite to it be the long and high wall of the garden

to a Young Ladies’ Boarding-school. my stable adjoin the house,

abut on a row of small building, with little garden before they,

chiefly occupy by mercantile clerk and retired tradesman. by the lane

there be a short and ready access both to the high turnpike-road, and

to some pleasant walk through green meadow and along the bank of a

river.



this house I have inhabit since my arrival at L----, and it have to

I so many attraction, in a situation sufficiently central to be

convenient for patient, and yet free from noise, and favourable to

ready outlet into the country for such foot or horse exercise as my

professional avocation would allow I to carve for myself out of what

the latin poet call the “solid day,” that I have refuse to change it

for one well suited to my increase income; but it be not a house

which Mrs. Ashleigh would have like for Lilian. the main objection to

it in the eye of the “genteel” be, that it have formerly belong to a

member of the heal profession who unite the shop of an apothecary

to the diploma of a surgeon; but that shop have give the house a special

attraction to I; for it have be build out on the side of the house

which front the lane, occupy the great portion of a small gravel

court, fence from the road by a low iron palisade, and separate

from the body of the house itself by a short and narrow corridor that

communicate with the entrance-hall. this shop I turn into a rude

study for scientific experiment, in which I generally spend some early

hour of the morning, before my visit patient begin to arrive. I

enjoy the stillness of its separation from the rest of the house; I

enjoy the glimpse of the great chestnut-tree, which overtop the

wall of the school-garden; I enjoy the ease with which, by open the

glaze sash-door, I could get out, if dispose for a short walk, into

the pleasant field; and so completely have I make this sanctuary my own,

that not only my man-servant know that I be never to be disturb when

in it, except by the summon of a patient, but even the housemaid

be forbid to enter it with broom or duster, except upon special

invitation. the last thing at night, before retire to rest, it be the

man-servant’s business to see that the sash-window be close, and the

gate to the iron palisade lock; but during the daytime I so often go

out of the house by that private way that the gate be then very seldom

locked, nor the sash-door bolt from within. in the town of L----

there be little apprehension of house-robberies,--especially in the

daylight,--and certainly in this room, cut off from the main

building, there be nothing to attract a vulgar cupidity. a few of the

apothecary’s shelf and case still remain on the wall, with, here

and there, a bottle of some chemical preparation for experiment; two or

three worm-eat, wooden chair; two or three shabby old table; an

old walnut-tree bureau without a lock, into which odd and end be

confusedly thrust, and sundry ugly-look invention of mechanical

science, be, assuredly, not the article which a timid proprietor

would guard with jealous care from the chance of robbery. it will be

see later why I have be thus prolix in description. the morning after

I have meet the young stranger by whom I have be so favourably impressed,

I be up as usual, a little before the sun, and long before any of my

servant be astir. I go first into the room I have mention, and

which I shall henceforth designate as my study, open the window,

unlock the gate, and saunter for some minute up and down the silent

lane skirt the opposite wall, and overhang by the chestnut-tree

rich in the garniture of a glorious summer; then, refresh for work,

I re-enter my study, and be soon absorb in the examination of

that now well-know machine, which be then, to I at least, a

novelty,--invented, if I remember right, by Dubois-Reymond, so

distinguish by his research into the mystery of organic

electricity. it be a wooden cylinder fix against the edge of a table;

on the table two vessel fill with salt and water be so place that,

as you close your hand on the cylinder, the forefinger of each hand

can drop into the water; each of the vessel have a metallic plate,

and communicate by wire with a galvanometer with its needle. now the

theory be, that if you clutch the cylinder firmly with the right hand,

leave the left perfectly passive, the needle in the galvanometer will

move from west to south; if, in like manner, you exert the left arm,

leave the right arm passive, the needle will deflect from west to

north. hence, it be argue that the electric current be induce through

the agency of the nervous system, and that, as human will produce the

muscular contraction requisite, so be it human Will that cause

the deflection of the needle. I imagine that if this theory be

substantiate by experiment, the discovery might lead to some sublime

and unconjectured secret of science. for human will, thus actively

effective on the electric current, and all matter, animate or inanimate,

have more or less of electricity, a vast field became open to

conjecture. by what series of patient experimental deduction might not

science arrive at the solution of problem which the newtonian law of

gravitation do not suffice to solve; and--but here I halt. at the

date which my story have reach, my mind never lose itself long in the

Cloudland of Guess.



I be dissatisfied with my experiment. the needle stir, indeed,

but erratically, and not in direction which, accord to the theory,

should correspond to my movement. I be about to dismiss the trial with

some uncharitable contempt of the foreign philosopher’s dogma, when

I hear a loud ring at my street-door. while I pause to conjecture

whether my servant be yet up to attend to the door, and which of my

patient be the most likely to summon I at so unseasonable an hour,

a shadow darken my window. I look up, and to my astonishment beheld

the brilliant face of Mr. Margrave. the sash to the door be already

partially open; he raise it higher, and walk into the room. “be it

you who ring at the street-door, and at this hour?” say I.



“yes; and observe, after I have rung, that all the shutter be still

closed, I feel ashamed of my own rash action, and make off rather than

brave the reproachful face of some injure housemaid, rob of she

morning dream. I turn down that pretty lane,--lured by the green

of the chestnut-trees,--caught sight of you through the window, take

courage, and here I be! you forgive I?” while thus speak, he

continue to move along the littered floor of the dingy room, with the

undulating restlessness of some wild animal in the confine of its den,

and he now go on, in short fragmentary sentence, very slightly link

together, but smooth, as it be, into harmony by a voice musical and

fresh as a sky lark’s warble. “morning dream, indeed! dream that waste

the life of such a morning. rosy magnificence of a summer dawn! do you

not pity the fool who prefer to lie a bed, and to dream rather than to

live? what! and you, strong man, with those noble limb, in this den! do

you not long for a rush through the green of the field, a bath in the

blue of the river?”



here he come to a pause, standing, still in the gray light of the

grow day, with eye whose joyous lustre forestall the sun’s, and

lip which seem to laugh even in repose.



but presently those eye, as quick as they be bright, glance over the

wall, the floor, the shelf, the phial, the mechanical invention,

and then rest full on my cylinder fix to the table. he approach,

examine it curiously, ask what it be. I explain. to gratify he

I sit down and renew my experiment, with equally ill success. the

needle, which should have move from west to south, describe an angle

of from thirty degree to forty or even fifty degree, only make a few

troubled, undecided oscillation.



“tut,” cry the young man, “I see what it be; you have a wound in your

right hand.”



that be true; I have burn my band a few day before in a chemical

experiment, and the sore have not heal.



“well,” say I, “and what do that matter?”



“everything; the least scratch in the skin of the hand produce chemical

action on the electric current, independently of your will. let I

try.”



he take my place, and in a moment the needle in the galvanometer

respond to his grasp on the cylinder, exactly as the inventive

philosopher have state to be the due result of the experiment.



I be startle.



“but how come you, Mr. Margrave, to be so well acquainted with a

scientific process little know, and but recently discover?”



“I well acquaint! not so. but I be fond of all experiment that relate

to animal life. electricity, especially, be full of interest.”



on that I draw he out (as I think), and he talk volubly. I be

amazed to find this young man, in whose brain I have conceive thought

keep one careless holiday, be evidently familiar with the physical

science, and especially with chemistry, which be my own study by

predilection. but never have I meet with a student in whom a knowledge so

extensive be mix up with notion so obsolete or so crotchety. in one

sentence he show that he have master some late discovery by Faraday

or Liebig; in the next sentence he be talk the wild fallacy

of Cardan or Van Helmont. I burst out laugh at some paradox about

sympathetic powder, which he enounce as if it be a recognize truth.



“pray tell I,” say I, “who be your master in physics; for a cleverer

pupil never have a more crack-brain teacher.”



“no,” he answer, with his merry laugh, “it be not the teacher’s fault.

I be a mere parrot; just cry out a few scrap of learning pick up here

and there. but, however, I be fond of all research into nature; all

guess at her riddle. to tell you the truth, one reason why I have

take to you so heartily be not only that your publish work catch my

fancy in the dip which I take into its content (pardon I if I say dip,

I never do more than dip into any book), but also because young ----

tell I that which all whom I have meet in this town confirm; namely,

that you be one of those few practical chemist who be at once

exceedingly cautious and exceedingly bold,--willing to try every new

experiment, but submit experiment to rigid test. well, I have an

experiment run wild in this giddy head of mine, and I want you,

some day when at leisure, to catch it, fix it as you have fix that

cylinder, make something of it. I be sure you can.”



“what be it?”



“something akin to the theory in your work. you would replenish or

preserve to each special constitution the special substance that may

fail to the equilibrium of its health. but you own that in a large

proportion of case the good cure of disease be less to deal with the

disease itself than to support and stimulate the whole system, so as to

enable Nature to cure the disease and restore the impair equilibrium

by her own agency. thus, if you find that in certain case of nervous

debility a substance like nitric acid be efficacious, it be because

the nitric acid have a virtue in lock up, as it be, the nervous

energy,--that be, prevent all undue waste. again, in some case of

what be commonly call feverish cold, stimulant like ammonia assist

nature itself to get rid of the disorder that oppress its normal

action; and, on the same principle, I apprehend, it be contend that

a large average of human life be save in those hospital which

have adopt the support system of ample nourishment and alcoholic

stimulant.”



“your medical learning surprise I,” say I, smile; “and without

pause to notice where it deal somewhat superficially with disputable

point in general, and my own theory in particular, I ask you for the

deduction you draw from your premise.”



“it be simply this: that to all animate body, however various, there

must be one principle in common,--the vital principle itself. what if

there be one certain mean of recruit that principle; and what if

that secret can be discover?”



“Pshaw! the old illusion of the mediaeval empiric.”



“not so. but the mediaeval empiric be great discoverer. you sneer at

Van Helmont, who seek, in water, the principle of all thing; but Van

Helmont discover in his search those invisible body call gas.

now the principle of life must be certainly ascribe to a gas.(1) and

what ever be a gas chemistry should not despair of produce! but I can

argue no long now,--never can argue long at a stretch; we be waste

the morning; and, joy! the sun be up! see! out! come out! out! and greet

the great Lifegiver face to face.”



I could not resist the young man’s invitation. in a few minute we

be in the quiet lane under the glinting chestnut-tree. Margrave be

chant, low, a wild tune,--words in a strange language.



“what word be those,--no european language, I think; for I know a

little of most of the language which be speak in our quarter of the

globe, at least by its more civilized race.”



“civilized race! what be civilization? those word be utter by man

who found empire when Europe itself be not civilized! hush, be it

not a grand old air?” and lift his eye towards the sun, he give vent

to a voice clear and deep as a mighty bell! the air be grand; the word

have a sonorous swell that suit it, and they seem to I jubilant and

yet solemn. he stop abruptly as a path from the lane have lead we into

the field, already half-bathe in sunlight, dew glitter on the

hedgerow.



“your song,” say I, “would go well with the clash of cymbal or the

peal of the organ. I be no judge of melody, but this strike I as that

of a religious hymn.”



“I compliment you on the guess. it be a persian fire-worshipper’s hymn

to the sun. the dialect be very different from modern Persian. Cyrus the

Great might have chant it on his march upon Babylon.”



“and where do you learn it?”



“in Persia itself.”



“you have travel much, learn much,--and be so young and so fresh.

be it an impertinent question if I ask whether your parent be yet

live, or be you wholly lord of yourself?”



“thank you for the question,--pray make my answer know in the town.

parent I have not,--never have.”



“never have parent!”



“well, I ought rather to say that no parent ever own I. I be a

natural son, a vagabond, a nobody. when I come of age I receive an

anonymous letter, inform I that a sum--I need not say what, but

more than enough for all I need--be lodge at an english banker’s in

my name; that my mother have die in my infancy; that my father be also

dead--but recently; that as I be a child of love, and he be unwilling

that the secret of my birth should ever be trace, he have provide for

I, not by will, but in his life, by a sum consign to the trust of the

friend who now write to I; I need give myself no trouble to learn more.

faith, I never do! I be young, healthy, rich,--yes, rich! now you know

all, and you have well tell it, that I may win no man’s courtesy and no

maiden’s love upon false pretence. I have not even a right, you see, to

the name I bear. Hist! let I catch that squirrel.”



with what a panther-like bind he spring! the squirrel elude his grasp,

and be up the oak-tree; in a moment he be up the oak-tree too. in

amazement I see he rise from bough to bough; see his bright eye and

glitter tooth through the green leave. presently I hear the sharp

piteous cry of the squirrel, echo by the youth’s merry laugh; and

down, through that maze of green, Hargrave come, drop on the grass

and bound up, as Mercury might have bound with his wing at his

heel.



“I have catch he. what pretty brown eye!”



suddenly the gay expression of his face change to that of a savage; the

squirrel have wrench itself half-loose, and bite he. the poor brute!

in an instant its neck be wrung, its body dash on the ground;

and that fair young creature, every feature quiver with rage, be

stamp his foot on his victim again and again! it be horrible. I

catch he by the arm indignantly. he turn round on I like a wild

beast disturb from its prey,--his tooth set, his hand lift, his eye

like ball of fire.



“Shame!” say I, calmly; “shame on you!”



he continue to gaze on I a moment or so, his eye glaring, his breath

panting; and then, as if master himself with an involuntary effort,

his arm drop to his side, and he say quite humbly, “I beg your

pardon; indeed I do. I be beside myself for a moment; I cannot bear

pain;” and he look in deep compassion for himself at his wound hand.

“venomous brute!” and he stamp again on the body of the squirrel,

already crush out of shape.



I move away in disgust, and walk on.



but presently I feel my arm softly draw aside, and a voice, dulcet as

the coo of a dove, steal its way into my ear. there be no resist

the charm with which this extraordinary mortal could fascinate even

the hard and the cold; nor they, perhaps, the least. for as you see in

extreme old age, when the heart seem to have shrink into itself, and

to leave but meagre and nip affection for the near relation if

grow up, the indurated egotism soften at once towards a playful child;

or as you see in middle life, some misanthrope, whose nature have be

sour by wrong and sorrow, shrink from his own specie, yet make

friend with inferior race, and respond to the caress of a dog,--so,

for the worldling or the cynic, there be an attraction in the freshness

of this joyous favourite of Nature,--an attraction like that of a

beautiful child, spoilt and wayward, or of a graceful animal, half

docile, half fierce.



“but,” say I, with a smile, as I feel all displeasure go, “such

indulgence of passion for such a trifle be surely unworthy a student of

philosophy!”



“Trifle,” he say dolorously. “but I tell you it be pain; pain be no

trifle. I suffer. look!”



I look at the hand, which I take in mine. the bite no doubt have be

sharp; but the hand that lie in my own be that which the greek sculptor

give to a gladiator; not large (the extremity be never large

in person whose strength come from the just proportion of all the

member, rather than the factitious and partial force which continue

muscular exertion will give to one part of the frame, to the comparative

weakening of the rest), but with the firm-knit joint, the solid

finger, the finished nail, the massive palm, the supple polished skin,

in which we recognize what nature design the human hand to be,--the

skilled, swift, mighty doer of all those marvel which win nature

herself from the wilderness.



“it be strange,” say I, thoughtfully; “but your susceptibility to

suffering confirm my opinion, which be different from the popular

belief,--namely, that pain be most acutely feel by those in whom the

animal organization be perfect, and the sense of vitality exquisitely

keen, every injury or lesion find the whole system rise, as it be, to

repel the mischief and communicate the consciousness of it to all those

nerve which be the sentinel to the garrison of life. yet my theory

be scarcely bear out by general fact. the indian savage must have a

health as perfect as your; a nervous system as fine,--witness their

marvellous accuracy of ear, of eye, of scent, probably also of touch;

yet they be indifferent to physical pain; or must I mortify your pride

by say that they have some moral quality defective in you which

enable they to rise superior to it?”



“the indian savage,” say Margrave, sullenly, “have not a health

as perfect as mine, and in what you call vitality--the blissful

consciousness of life--they be as stick and stone compare to I.”



“how do you know?”



“because I have live with they. it be a fallacy to suppose that the

savage have a health superior to that of the civilized man,--if the

civilized man be but temperate; and even if not, he have the stamina

that can resist for year the effect of excess which would destroy the

savage in a month. as to the savage’s fine perception of sense, such

do not come from exquisite equilibrium of system, but be hereditary

attribute transmit from race to race, and strengthen by training

from infancy. but be a pointer strong and healthy than a mastiff,

because the pointer through long descent and early teaching creep

stealthily to his game and stand to it motionless? I will talk of this

later; now I suffer! pain, pain! have life any ill but pain?”



it so happen that I have about I some root of the white lily, which I

mean, before return home, to leave with a patient suffering from one

of those acute local inflammation, in which that simple remedy often

afford great relief. I cut up one of these root, and bind the cool

leave to the wounded hand with my handkerchief.



“there,” say I. “fortunately if you feel pain more sensibly than

other, you will recover from it more quickly.” and in a few minute my

companion feel perfectly relieve, and pour out his gratitude with an

extravagance of expression and a beam delight of countenance which

positively touch I.



“I almost feel,” say I, “as I do when I have still an infant’s

wailing, and restore it smile to its mother’s breast.”



“you have do so. I be an infant, and nature be my mother. oh, to be

restore to the full joy of life, the scent of wild flower, the song of

bird, and this air--summer air--summer air!”



I know not why it be, but at that moment, look at he and hear

he, I rejoice that Lilian be not at L----. “but I come out to bathe.

can we not bathe in that stream?”



“no. you would derange the bandage round your hand; and for all bodily

ill, from the least to the grave, there be nothing like leave

nature at rest the moment we have hit on the mean which assist her own

effort at cure.”



“I obey, then; but I so love the water.”



“you swim, of course?”



“ask the fish if it swim. ask the fish if it can escape I! I delight to

dive down--down; to plunge after the startled trout, as an otter do;

and then to get amongst those cool, fragrant reed and bulrush, or

that forest of emerald weed which one sometimes find wave under clear

river. man! man! could you live but an hour of my life you would know

how horrible a thing it be to die!”



“yet the dying do not think so; they pass away calm and smile, as you

will one day.”



“I--I! die one day--die!” and he sink on the grass, and bury his face

amongst the herbage, sob aloud.



before I could get through half a dozen word I mean to soothe, he

have once more bounded up, dash the tear from his eye, and be again

singe some wild, barbaric chant. abstract itself from the appeal to

its outward sense by melody of which the language be unknown, my mind

soon grew absorb in meditative conjecture on the singular nature,

so wayward, so impulsive, which have force intimacy on a man grave and

practical as myself.



I be puzzle how to reconcile so passionate a childishness, so

undiscipline a want of self-control, with an experience of mankind so

extend by travel, with an education desultory and irregular indeed,

but which must, at some time or other, have be familiarize to severe

reasoning and laborious study. in Margrave there seem to be want

that mysterious something which be need to keep our faculty, however

severally brilliant, harmoniously link together,--as the string by

which a child mechanically bind the wildflower it gather, shape

they at choice into the garland or the chain.



(1) “accord to the view we have mention, we must ascribe life to

a gas, that be, to an aeriform body.”--Liebig: “Organic Chemistry,”

 Mayfair’s translation, p.363.--It be perhaps not less superfluous to add

that Liebig do not support the view “accord to which life must be

ascribe to a gas,” than it would be to state, have Dugald Stewart been

quote as write, “accord to the view we have mention the mind

be but a bundle of impression,” that Dugald Stewart be not support,

but opposing, the view of David Hume. the quotation be merely mean to

show, in the short possible compass, that there be view entertain

by speculative reasoner of our day which, accord to Liebig, would

lead to the inference at which Margrave so boldly arrive. Margrave

be, however, no doubt, lead to his belief by his reminiscence of Van

Helmont, to whose discovery of gas he be refer. Van Helmont plainly

affirm “that the arterial spirit of our life be of the nature of a

gas;” and in the same chapter (on the fiction of elementary complexion

and mixture) say, “see that the spirit of our life, since it be a

gas, be most mightily and swiftly affect by any other gas,” etc. he

repeat the same dogma in his treatise on “Long Life,” and indeed very

generally throughout his writing, observe, in his chapter on the

Vital Air, that the spirit of life be a salt, sharp vapour, make of the

arterial blood, etc. Liebig, therefore, in confute some modern notion

as to the nature of contagion by miasma, be lead their reasoning

back to that assumption in the Brawn of physiological science by which

the discoverer of gas exalt into the principle of life the substance

to which he first give the name, now so familiarly know. it be

nevertheless just to Van Helmont to add that his conception of the vital

principle be very far from be as purely materialistic as it

would seem to those unacquainted with his writing; for he carefully

distinguish that principle of life which he ascribe to a gas, and by

which he mean the sensuous animal life, from the intellectual immortal

principle of soul. Van Helmont, indeed, be a sincere believer of Divine

Revelation. “the Lord Jesus be the way, the truth, and the life,” say

with earnest humility this daring genius, in that noble chapter “on

the completing of the mind by the ‘prayer of silence,’ and the love

offer tip of the heart, soul, and strength to the obedience of

the Divine will,” from which some of the most eloquent of recent

philosopher, argue against materialism, have borrow largely in

support and in ornament of their lofty cause.













CHAPTER XXV.



my intercourse with Margrave grow habitual and familiar. he come to

my house every morning before sunrise; in the evening we be again

bring together: sometimes in the house to which we be both invite,

sometimes at his hotel, sometimes in my own home.



nothing more perplex I than his aspect of extreme youthfulness,

contrast with the extent of the travel, which, if he be to be

believe, have leave little of the known world unexplored. one day I ask

he bluntly how old he be.



“how old do I look? how old should you suppose I to be?”



“I should have guess you to be about twenty, till you speak of having

come of age some year ago.”



“be it a sign of longevity when a man look much young than he be?”



“conjoin with other sign, certainly!”



“have I the other sign?”



“yes, a magnificent, perhaps a matchless, constitutional organization.

but you have evade my question as to your age; be it an impertinence

to put it?”



“no. I come of age--let I see--three year ago.”



“so long since? be it possible? I wish I have your secret!”



“secret! what secret?”



“the secret of preserve so much of boyish freshness in the wear and

tear of man-like passion and man-like thought.”



“you be still young yourself,--under forty?”



“oh, yes! some year under forty.”



“and Nature give you a grander frame and a fine symmetry of feature

than she bestow on I.”



“Pooh! pooh! you have the beauty that must charm the eye of woman, and

that beauty in its sunny forenoon of youth. happy man! if you love and

wish to be sure that you be love again.”



“what you call love--the unhealthy sentiment, the feverish folly--leave

behind I, I think forever, when--”



“ay, indeed,--when?”



“I come of age!”



“hoary cynic! and you despise love! so do I once. your time may come.”



“I think not. do any animal, except man, love its fellow she-animal as

man love woman?”



“as man love woman? no, I suppose not.”



“and why should the subject animal be wise than their king? but to

return: you would like to have my youth and my careless enjoyment of

youth?”



“can you ask,--who would not?” Margrave look at I for a moment with

unusual seriousness, and then, in the abrupt change common to his

capricious temperament, begin to sing softly one of his barbaric

chants,--a chant different from any I have hear he sing before, make,

either by the modulation of his voice or the nature of the tune, so

sweet that, little as music generally affect I, this thrill to my

very heart’s core. I draw close and close to he, and murmur when he

paused,--



“be not that a love-song?”



“no;” say he, “it be the song by which the serpent-charmer charm the

serpent.”













CHAPTER XXVI.



increase intimacy with my new acquaintance do not diminish the charm

of his society, though it bring to light some startling defect,

both in his mental and moral organization. I have before say that

his knowledge, though it have sweep over a wide circuit and dip into

curious, unfrequented recess, be desultory and erratic. it certainly

be not that knowledge, sustained and aspiring, which the poet assure

we be “the wing on which we mount to heaven.” so, in his faculty

themselves there be singular inequality, or contradiction. his

power of memory in some thing seem prodigious, but when examine it

be seldom accurate; it could apprehend, but do not hold together with

a bind grasp what metaphysician call “complex idea.” he thus seem

unable to put it to any steadfast purpose in the science of which

it retain, vaguely and loosely, many recondite principle. for

the sublime and beautiful in literature he have no taste whatever. a

passionate lover of nature, his imagination have no response to the art

by which nature be express or idealize; wholly unaffected by poetry

or painting. of the fine art, music alone attract and please he.

his conversation be often eminently suggestive, touch on much,

whether in book or mankind, that set one thinking; but I never remember

he to have utter any of those lofty or tender sentiment which form

the connect link between youth and genius; for if poet sing to the

young, and the young hail their own interpreter in poet, it be because

the tendency of both be to idealize the reality of life,--finding

everywhere in the real a something that be noble or fair, and make the

fair yet fairer, and the noble nobler still.



in Margrave’s character there seem no special vice, no special

virtue; but a wonderful vivacity, joyousness, animal good-humour. he

be singularly temperate, have a dislike to wine, perhaps from that

purity of taste which belong to health absolutely perfect. no healthful

child like alcohol; no animal, except man, prefer wine to water.



but his main moral defect seem to I in a want of sympathy, even where

he profess attachment. he who could feel so acutely for himself,

be unmanned by the bite of a squirrel, and sob at the thought that he

should one day die, be as callous to the suffering of another as a

deer who desert and butt from he a wound comrade.



I give an instance of this hardness of heart where I should have least

expect to find it in he.



he have meet and join I as I be walk to visit a patient on the

outskirt of the town, when we fall in with a group of child, just

let loose for an hour or two from their day-school. some of these

child joyously recognize he as having play with they at their

home; they run up to he, and he seem as glad as themselves at the

meeting.



he suffer they to drag he along with they, and become as merry and

sportive as the young of the troop.



“well,” say I, laugh, “if you be go to play at leap-frog, pray

don’t let it be on the high road, or you will be run over by cart

and drayman; see that meadow just in front to the left,--off with you

there!”



“with all my heart,” cry Margrave, “while you pay your visit. come

along, boy.”



a little urchin, not above six year old, but who be lame, begin to

cry; he could not run,--he should be leave behind.



Margrave stoop. “Climb on my shoulder, little one, and I’ll be your

horse.”



the child dry its tear, and delightedly obey. “certainly,” say I

to myself, “Margrave, after all, must have a nature as gentle as it be

simple. what other young man, so court by all the allurement that

steal innocence from pleasure, would stop in the thoroughfare to play

with child?”



the thought have scarcely pass through my mind when I hear a scream of

agony. Margrave have leap the railing that divide the meadow from the

road, and, in so do, the poor child, perch on his shoulder, have,

perhaps from surprise or fright, loosen its hold and fall heavily;

its cry be piteous. Margrave clap his hand to his ear, utter

an exclamation of anger, and not even stop to lift up the boy, or

examine what the hurt be, call to the other child to come on, and

be soon roll with they on the grass, and pelt they with daisy.

when I come up, only one child remain by the sufferer,-his little

brother, a year old than himself. the child have fall on his arm,

which be not break, but violently contuse. the pain must have be

intense. I carry the child to his home, and have to remain there some

time. I do not see Margrave till the next morning. when he then call,

I feel so indignant that I could scarcely speak to he. when at last

I rebuke he for his inhumanity, he seem surprised; with difficulty

remember the circumstance, and then merely say, as if it be the

most natural confession in the world,



“oh, nothing so discordant as a child’s wail. I hate discord. I be

pleased with the company of child; but they must be child who

laugh and play. well, why do you look at I so sternly? what have I say

to shock you?”



“shock I! you shock manhood itself! go; I cannot talk to you now. I be

busy.”



but he do not go; and his voice be so sweet, and his way so win,

that disgust insensibly melt into that sort of forgiveness one accord

(let I repeat the illustration) to the deer that forsake its comrade.

the poor thing know no well. and what a graceful beautiful thing this

be!



the fascination--I can give it no other name--which Margrave exercise,

be not confine to I; it be universal,--old, young, high, low, man,

woman, child, all feel it. never in Low Town have strange, even the most

distinguish by fame, meet with a reception so cordial, so flattering.

his frank confession that he be a natural son, far from be to his

injury, serve to interest people more in he, and to prevent all those

inquiry in regard to his connection and antecedent which would

otherwise have be afloat. to be sure, he be evidently rich,--at least

he have plenty of money. he live in the good room in the principal

hotel; be very hospitable; entertain the family with whom he have

grow intimate; make they bring their children,--music and dancing

after dinner. among the house in which he have establish familiar

acquaintance be that of the mayor of the town, who have buy Dr.

Lloyd’s collection of subject in natural history. to that collection

the mayor have add largely by a very recent purchase. he have arrange

these various specimen, which his last acquisition have enrich by

the interesting carcass of an elephant and a hippopotamus, in a large

wooden building contiguous to his dwelling, which have be construct

by a former proprietor (a retired fox-hunter) as a riding-house; and

be a man who much affect the diffusion of knowledge, he propose

to open this museum to the admiration of the general public, and, at

his death, to bequeath it to the Athenaeum or Literary Institute of

his native town. Margrave, second by the influence of the mayor’s

daughter, have scarcely be three day at L---- before he have persuade

this excellent and public-spirited functionary to inaugurate the opening

of his museum by the popular ceremony of a ball. a temporary corridor

should unite the drawing-room, which be on the ground floor, with

the building that contain the collection; and thus the fete would be

elevate above the frivolous character of a fashionable amusement, and

consecrate to the solemnization of an intellectual institute. dazzle

by the brilliancy of this idea, the mayor announce his intention to

give a ball that should include the surround neighbourhood, and be

worthy, in all expensive respect, of the dignity of himself and the

occasion. a night have be fix for the ball,--a night that become

memorable indeed to I! the entertainment be anticipate with a lively

interest, in which even the Hill condescend to share. the Hill do

not much patronize mayor in general; but when a Mayor give a ball for

a purpose so patriotic, and on a scale so splendid, the Hill liberally

acknowledge that Commerce be, on the whole, a thing which the Eminence

might, now and then, condescend to acknowledge without absolutely

derogate from the rank which Providence have assign to it amongst the

High Places of earth. accordingly, the Hill be permit by its queen

to honour the first magistrate of Low Town by a promise to attend

his ball. now, as this festivity have originate in the suggestion of

Margrave, so, by a natural association of idea, every one, in talk

of the ball, talk also of Margrave.



the Hill have at first affect to ignore a stranger whose debut have be

make in the mercantile circle of Low Town. but the queen of the Hill now

say, sententiously, “this new man in a few day have become a celebrity.

it be the policy of the Hill to adopt Celebrities, if the celebrity

pay respect to the Proprieties. Dr. Fenwick be request to procure Mr.

Margrave the advantage of be know to the Hill.”



I find it somewhat difficult to persuade Margrave to accept the Hill’s

condescend overture. he seem to have a dislike to all society

pretend to aristocratic distinction,--a dislike express with a

fierceness so unwonted, that it make one suppose he have, at some time

or other, be subject to mortification by the supercilious air that

blow upon height so elevated. however, he yield to my instance, and

accompany I one evening to Mrs. Poyntz’s house. the Hill be encamp

there for the occasion. Mrs. Poyntz be exceedingly civil to he, and

after a few commonplace speech, hear that he be fond of music,

consign he to the caress care of Miss Brabazon, who be at

the head of the musical department in the Queen of the Hill’s

administration.



Mrs. Poyntz retire to her favourite seat near the window, invite I

to sit beside she; and while she knit in silence, in silence my eye

glance towards Margrave, in the midst of the group assemble round the

piano.



whether he be in more than usually high spirit, or whether he be

actuate by a malign and impish desire to upset the established law of

decorum by which the gayetie of the Hill be habitually subdue into

a serene and somewhat pensive pleasantness, I know not; but it be not

many minute before the orderly aspect of the place be grotesquely

change.



Miss Brabazon having come to the close of a complicated and dreary

sonata, I hear Margrave abruptly ask she if she could play the

Tarantella, that famous Neapolitan air which be found on the legendary

belief that the bite of the tarantula excite an irresistible desire to

dance. on that highbred spinster’s confession that she be ignorant of

the air, and have not even hear of the legend, Margrave say, “let I

play it to you, with variation of my own.” Miss Brabazon graciously

yield her place at the instrument. Margrave seat himself,--there be

great curiosity to hear his performance. Margrave’s finger rush over

the key, and there be a general start, the prelude be so unlike any

know combination of harmonious sound. then he begin a chant--song I

can scarcely call it--word certainly not in Italian, perhaps in some

uncivilized tongue, perhaps in impromptu gibberish. and the torture of

the instrument now commence in good earnest: it shriek, it groan,

wilder and noisy. Beethoven’s storm, rouse by the fell touch of

a german pianist, be mild in comparison; and the mighty voice,

dominate the anguish of the crack key, have the full diapason of a

chorus. certainly I be no judge of music, but to my ear the discord be

terrific,--to the ear of well inform amateur it seem ravish.

all be spellbound; even Mrs. Poyntz pause from her knitting, as the

Fates pause from their web at the lyre of Orpheus. to this breathless

delight, however, soon succeed a general desire for movement. to my

amazement, I behold these formal matron and sober father of family

form themselves into a dance, turbulent as a child’s ball at

Christmas; and when, suddenly desist from his music, Margrave start

up, catch the skeleton hand of lean Miss Brabazon, and whirl she

into the centre of the dance, I could have fancy myself at a witch’s

sabbat. my eye turn in scandalize alarm towards Mrs. Poyntz. that

great creature seem as much astounded as myself. her eye be fix

on the scene in a stare of positive stupor. for the first time, no

doubt, in her life, she be overcome, depose, dethrone. the awe of her

presence be literally whirl away. the dance cease as suddenly as it

have begin. dart from the galvanized mummy whom he have select as his

partner, Margrave shoot to Mrs. Poyntz’s side, and say, “ten thousand

pardon for quit you so soon, but the clock warn I that I have an

engagement elsewhere.” in another moment he be go.



the dance halt, people seem slowly return to their sense,

look at each other bashfully and ashamed.



“I could not help it, dear,” sigh Miss Brabazon at last, sink into

a chair, and cast her deprecating, faint eye upon the hostess.



“it be witchcraft,” say fat Mrs. Bruce, wipe her forehead.



“Witchcraft!” echo Mrs. Poyntz; “it do indeed look like it. an

amazing and portentous exhibition of animal spirit, and not to be

endure by the Proprieties. where on earth can that young savage have

come from?”



“from savage land,” say I,--“so he say.”



“do not bring he here again,” say Mrs. Poyntz. “he would soon turn the

Hill topsy-turvy. but how charming! I should like to see more of he,”

 she add, in an under voice, “if he would call on I some morning, and

not in the presence of those for whose Proprieties I be responsible.

Jane must be out in her ride with the colonel.”



Margrave never again attend the patrician festivity of the Hill.

invitation be pour upon he, especially by Miss Brabazon and the

other old maid, but in vain.



“those people,” say he, “be too tame and civilized for I; and so

few young person among they. even that girl Jane be only young on the

surface; inside, as old as the World or her mother. I like youth, real

youth,--I be young, I be young!”



and, indeed, I observe he would attach himself to some young person,

often to some child, as if with cordial and special favour, yet for

not more than an hour or so, never distinguish they by the same

preference when he next meet they. I make that remark to he, in rebuke

of his fickleness, one evening when he have find I at work on my

Ambitious Book, reduce to rule and measure the Laws of Nature.



“it be not fickleness,” say he,--“it be necessity.”



“necessity! explain yourself.”



“I seek to find what I have not find,” say he; “it be my necessity

to seek it, and among the young; and disappoint in one, I turn to the

other. necessity again. but find it at last I must.”



“I suppose you mean what the young usually seek in the young; and if,

as you say the other day, you have leave love behind you, you now wander

back to re-find it.”



“Tush! if I may judge by the talk of young fool, love may be find

every day by he who look out for it. what I seek be among the rare

of all discovery. you might aid I to find it, and in so do aid

yourself to a knowledge far beyond all that your formal experiment can

bestow.”



“prove your word, and command my service,” say I, smile somewhat

disdainfully.



“you tell I that you have examine into the alleged phenomena of animal

magnetism, and prove some person who pretend to the gift which the

Scotch call second sight to be bungle impostor. you be right. I

have see the clairvoyant who drive their trade in this town; a common

gipsy could beat they in their own calling. but your experience must

have show you that there be certain temperament in which the gift

of the Pythoness be store, unknown to the possessor, undetecte by the

common observer; but the sign of which should be as apparent to the

modern physiologist, as they be to the ancient priest.”



“I at least, as a physiologist, be ignorant of the sign: what be

they?”



“I should despair of make you comprehend they by mere verbal

description. I could guide your observation to distinguish they

unerringly be live subject before we. but not one in a million have

the gift to an extent available for the purpose to which the wise would

apply it. many have imperfect glimpse; few, few indeed, the unveil,

lucent sight. they who have but the imperfect glimpse mislead and

dupe the mind that consult they, because, be sometimes marvellously

right, they excite a credulous belief in their general accuracy; and as

they be but translator of dream in their own brain, their assurance

be no more to be trust than be the dream of commonplace sleeper.

but where the gift exist to perfection, he who know how to direct and

to profit by it should be able to discover all that he desire to know

for the guidance and preservation of his own life. he will be forewarn

of every danger, forearm in the mean by which danger be avoid.

for the eye of the true Pythoness matter have no obstruction, space no

confine, time no measurement.”



“my dear Margrave, you may well say that creature so gifted be rare;

and, for my part, I would as soon search for a unicorn, as, to use your

affect expression, for a Pythoness.”



“nevertheless, whenever there come across the course of your practice

some young creature to whom all the evil of the world be as yet unknown,

to whom the ordinary care and duty of the world be strange and

unwelcome; who from the early dawn of reason have love to sit apart

and to muse; before whose eye vision pass unsolicited; who converse

with those who be not dweller on the earth, and behold in the space

landscape which the earth do not reflect--”



“Margrave, Margrave! of whom do you speak?”



“whose frame, though exquisitely sensitive, have still a health and

a soundness in which you recognize no disease; whose mind have a

truthfulness that you know cannot deceive you, and a simple intelligence

too clear to deceive itself; who be move to a mysterious degree by

all the vary aspect of external nature,--innocently joyous,

or unaccountably sad,--when, I say, such a being come across your

experience, inform I; and the chance be that the true Pythoness be

find.”



I have listen with vague terror, and with more than one exclamation of

amazement, to description which bring lilian Ashleigh before I;

and I now sit mute, bewildered, breathless, gaze upon Margrave, and

rejoice that, at least, Lilian he have never see.



he return my own gaze steadily, searchingly, and then, break into a

slight laugh, resumed:--



“you call my word ‘Pythoness’ affect. I know of no well. my

recollection of classic anecdote and history be confused and dim;

but somewhere I have read or hear that the priest of Delphi be

accustom to travel chiefly into Thrace or Thessaly, in search of the

virgin who might fitly administer their oracle, and that the oracle

gradually cease in repute as the priest become unable to discover the

organization requisite in the priestess, and supply by craft and

imposture, or by such imperfect fragmentary development as belong now

to professional clairvoyant, the gift which nature fail to afford.

indeed, the demand be one that mast have rapidly exhaust so limit

a supply. the constant strain upon faculty so weary to the vital

function in their relentless exercise, under the artful stimulant by

which the priest heighten their power, be mortal, and no Pythoness

ever retain her life more than three year from the time that her gift

be elaborately train and develop.”



“Pooh! I know of no classical authority for the detail you so

confidently cite. perhaps some such legend may be find in the

Alexandrian Platonists, but those mystic be no authority on such a

subject. after all;” I add, recover from my first surprise, or awe,

“the delphic oracle be proverbially ambiguous, and their response

might be read either way,--a proof that the priest dictate the verse,

though their art on the unhappy priestess might throw she into real

convulsion, and the real convulsion, not the false gift, might shorten

her life. enough of such idle subject! yet no! one question more. if

you find your Pythoness, what then?”



“what then? why, through her aid I might discover the process of an

experiment which your practical science would assist I to complete.”



“tell I of what kind be your experiment; and precisely because such

little science as I possess be exclusively practical, I may assist you

without the help of the Pythoness.”



Margrave be silent for some minute, pass his hand several time

across his forehead, which be a frequent gesture of his, and then

rise, he answer, in listless accents,--



“I cannot say more now, my brain be fatigue; and you be not yet in the

right mood to hear I. by the way, how close and reserve you be with

I!”



“how so?”



“you never tell I that you be engage to be marry. you leave I,

who think to have win your friendship, to hear what concern you so

intimately from a comparative stranger.”



“who tell you?”



“that woman with eye that pry and lip that scheme, to whose house you

take I.”



“Mrs. Poyntz! be it possible? when?”



“this afternoon. I meet she in the street; she stop I, and, after

some unmeaning talk, ask if I have see you lately; if I do not find

you very absent and distract: no wonder;--you be in love. the young

lady be away on a visit, and woo by a dangerous rival.”



“woo by a dangerous rival!”



“very rich, good-look, young. do you fear he? you turn pale.”



“I do not fear, except so far as he who love truly, love humbly,

and fear not that another may be prefer, but that another may be

worthy of preference than himself. but that Mrs. Poyntz should tell

you all this do amaze I. do she mention the name of the young lady?”



“yes; lilian ashleigh. henceforth be more frank with I. who know? I

may help you. adieu!”













CHAPTER XXVII.



when Margrave have go, I glance at the clock,--not yet nine. I

resolve to go at once to Mrs. Poyntz. it be not an evening on

which she receive, but doubtless she would see I. she owe I an

explanation. how thus carelessly divulge a secret she have be enjoin

to keep; and this rival, of whom I be ignorant? it be no long a

matter of wonder that Margrave should have describe Lilian’s peculiar

idiosyncrasy in his sketch of his fabulous Pythoness. Doubtless Mrs.

Poyntz have, with unpardonable levity of indiscretion, reveal all of

which she disapprove in my choice. but for what object? be this

her boasted friendship for I? be it consistent with the regard she

profess for Mrs. Ashleigh and Lilian? occupy by these perplexed and

indignant thought, I arrive at Mrs. Poyntz’s house, and be admit

to her presence. she be fortunately alone; her daughter and the colonel

have go to some party on the Hill. I would not take the hand she hold

out to I on entrance; seat myself in stern displeasure, and proceed

at once to inquire if she have really betray to Mr. Margrave the secret

of my engagement to Lilian.



“yes, Allen Fenwick; I have this day tell, not only Mr. Margrave, but

every person I meet who be likely to tell it to some one else, the secret

of your engagement to lilian Ashleigh. I never promise to conceal it;

on the contrary, I write word to Anne Ashleigh that I would therein

act as my own judgment counsel I. I think my word to you be that

‘public gossip be sometimes the good security for the completion of

private engagement.’”



“do you mean that Mrs. or Miss Ashleigh recoil from the engagement with

I, and that I should meanly compel they both to fulfil it by call in

the public to censure they--if--if--oh, madam, this be worldly artifice

indeed!”



“be good enough to listen to I quietly. I have never yet show you the

letter to Mrs. Ashleigh, write by Lady Haughton, and deliver by Mr.

Vigors. that letter I will now show to you; but before do so I must

enter into a preliminary explanation. Lady Haughton be one of those

woman who love power, and cannot obtain it except through wealth and

station,--by her own intellect never obtain it. when her husband die

she be reduce from an income of twelve thousand a year to a jointure

of twelve hundred, but with the exclusive guardianship of a young son, a

minor, and adequate allowance for the charge; she continue, therefore,

to preside as mistress over the establishment in town and country;

still have the administration of her son’s wealth and rank. she stint

his education, in order to maintain her ascendancy over he. he become

a brainless prodigal, spendthrift alike of health and fortune. alarm,

she see that, probably, he would die young and a beggar; his only hope

of reform be in marriage. she reluctantly resolve to marry he to a

penniless, well-bear, soft-minded young lady whom she know she could

control; just before this marriage be to take place he be kill by

a fall from his horse. the Haughton estate pass to his cousin, the

lucky young man alive,--the same Ashleigh Sumner who have already

succeed, in default of male issue, to poor Gilbert Ashleigh’s

land possession. over this young man Lady Haughton could expect no

influence. she would be a stranger in his house. but she have a niece!

Mr. Vigors assure she the niece be beautiful. and if the niece

could become Mrs. Ashleigh Sumner, then Lady Haughton would be a less

unimportant nobody in the world, because she would still have she

near relation in a somebody at Haughton Park. Mr. Vigors have his

own pompous reason for approve an alliance which he might help to

accomplish. the first step towards that alliance be obviously to bring

into reciprocal attraction the natural charm of the young lady and the

acquire merit of the young gentleman. Mr. Vigors could easily induce

his ward to pay a visit to Lady Haughton, and Lady Haughton have only to

extend her invitation to her niece; hence the letter to Mrs. Ashleigh,

of which Mr. Vigors be the bearer, and hence my advice to you, of which

you can now understand the motive. since you think lilian Ashleigh the

only woman you could love, and since I think there be other woman in

the world who might do as well for Ashleigh Sumner, it seem to I

fair for all party that Lilian should not go to Lady Haughton’s in

ignorance of the sentiment with which she have inspire you. a girl can

seldom be sure that she love until she be sure that she be love.

and now,” add Mrs. Poyntz, rise and walk across the room to

she bureau,--“now I will show you Lady Haughton’s invitation to Mrs.

Ashleigh. here it be!”



I run my eye over the letter, which she thrust into my hand, resume

her knitting-work while I read.



the letter be short, couch in conventional term of hollow affection.

the writer blame herself for having so long neglect her brother’s

widow and child; her heart have be wrap up too much in the son she

have lose; that loss have make her turn to the tie of blood still leave to

she; she have hear much of Lilian from their common friend, Mr. Vigors;

she long to embrace so charming a niece. then follow the invitation

and the postscript. the postscript run thus, so far as I can remember:--





   “whatever my own grief at my irreparable bereavement, I be no egotist;

    I keep my sorrow to myself.  you will find some pleasant guest at my

    house, among other our joint connection, young Ashleigh Sumner.”



“woman’s postscript be proverbial for their significance,” say Mrs.

Poyntz, when I have conclude the letter and lay it on the table; “and

if I do not at once show you this hypocritical effusion, it be simply

because at the name Ashleigh Sumner its object become transparent,

not perhaps to poor Anne Ashleigh nor to innocent Lilian, but to my

knowledge of the party concern, as it ought to be to that shrewd

intelligence which you derive partly from nature, partly from the

insight into life which a true physician cannot fail to acquire. and if

I know anything of you, you would have romantically say, have you see

the letter at first, and understand its covert intention, ‘let I not

shackle the choice of the woman I love, and to whom an alliance so

covet in the eye of the world might, if she be leave free, be

proffer.’”



“I should not have gather from the postscript all that you see in it;

but have its purport be so suggest to I, you be right, I should

have so say. well, and as Mr. Margrave tell I that you inform he

that I have a rival, I be now to conclude that the rival be Mr. Ashleigh

sumner?”



“have not Mrs. Ashleigh or Lilian mention he in writing to you?”



“yes, both; Lilian very slightly, Mrs. Ashleigh with some praise, as a

young man of high character, and very courteous to she.”



“yet, though I ask you to come and tell I who be the guest at Lady

Haughton’s, you never do so.”



“pardon I; but of the guest I think nothing, and letter address

to my heart seem to I too sacred to talk about. and Ashleigh Sumner

then court Lilian! how do you know?”



“I know everything that concern I; and here, the explanation be

simple. my aunt, Lady Delafield, be stay with Lady Haughton. Lady

Delafield be one of the woman of fashion who shine by their own light;

Lady Haughton shine by borrow light, and borrow every ray she can

find.”



“and Lady Delafield write you word--”



“that Ashleigh Sumner be catch by Lilian’s beauty.”



“and Lilian herself--”



“woman like Lady Delafield do not readily believe that any girl

could refuse Ashleigh Sumner; consider in himself, he be steady and

good-looking; consider as owner of Kirby Hall and Haughton Park, he

have, in the eye of any sensible mother, the virtue of Cato and the

beauty of Antinous.”



I press my hand to my heart; close to my heart lie a letter from

Lilian, and there be no word in that letter which show that her heart

be go from mine. I shake my head gently, and smile in confide

triumph.



Mrs. Poyntz survey I with a bent brow and a compress lip.



“I understand your smile,” she say ironically. “very likely Lilian may

be quite untouched by this young man’s admiration, but Anne Ashleigh may

be dazzle by so brilliant a prospect for her daughter; and, in short, I

think it desirable to let your engagement be publicly know throughout

the town to-day. that information will travel; it will reach ashleigh

sumner through Mr. Vigors, or other in this neighbourhood, with whom I

know that he correspond. it will bring affair to a crisis, and before

it may be too late. I think it well that Ashleigh Sumner should leave

that house; if he leave it for good, so much the well. and, perhaps,

the soon lilian return to L---- the light your own heart will be.”



“and for these reason you have publish the secret of--”



“your engagement? yes. prepare to be congratulate wherever you go. and

now if you hear either from mother or daughter that Ashleigh Sumner have

propose, and be, let we say, refuse, I do not doubt that, in the

pride of your heart, you will come and tell I.”



“rely upon it, I will; but before I take leave, allow I to ask why you

describe to a young man like Mr. Margrave--, whose wild and strange

humour you have witness and not approve--any of those trait of

character in Miss Ashleigh which distinguish she from other girl of her

age?”



“I? you mistake. I say nothing to he of her character. I mention she

name, and say she be beautiful, that be all.”



“Nay, you say that she be fond of musing, of solitude; that in her

fancy she believe in the reality of vision which might flit before

her eye as they flit before the eye of all imaginative dreamer.”



“not a word do I say to Mr. Margrave of such peculiarity in Lilian;

not a word more than what I have tell you, on my honour!”



still incredulous, but disguise my incredulity with that convenient

smile by which we accomplish so much of the polite dissimulation

indispensable to the decency of civilized life, I take my departure,

return home, and write to Lilian.













CHAPTER XXVIII.



the conversation with Mrs. Poyntz leave my mind restless and disquiet.

I have no doubt, indeed, of Lilian’s truth; but could I be sure that

the attention of a young man, with advantage of fortune so brilliant,

would not force on her thought the contrast of the humbler lot and the

duller walk of life in which she have accept as companion a man remove

from her romantic youth less by disparity of year than by gravity

of pursuit? and would my suit now be as welcome as it have be by a

mother even so unworldly as Mrs. Ashleigh? why, too, should both mother

and daughter have leave I so unprepared to hear that I have a rival; why

not have imply some console assurance that such rivalry need not

cause I alarm? Lilian’s letter, it be true, touch but little on any

of the person round she; they be fill with the outpouring of

an ingenuous heart, colour by the glow of a golden fancy. they be

write as if in the wide world we two stand apart alone, consecrate

from the crowd by the love that, in link we together, have hallow

each to the other. Mrs. Ashleigh’s letter be more general and

diffusive,--detailed the habit of the household, sketch the guest,

intimate she continued fear of Lady Haughton, but have say nothing more

of Mr. Ashleigh Sumner than I have repeat to Mrs. Poyntz. however, in

my letter to Lilian I relate the intelligence that have reach I, and

impatiently I await her reply.



three day after the interview with Mrs. Poyntz, and two day before the

long-anticipate event of the mayor’s ball, I be summon to attend

a nobleman who have lately be add to my list of patient, and whose

residence be about twelve mile from L----. the near way be through

Sir Philip Derval’s park. I go on horseback, and propose to stop on

the way to inquire after the steward, whom I have see but once since his

fit, and that be two day after it, when he call himself at my

house to thank I for my attendance, and to declare that he be quite

recover.



as I ride somewhat fast through the park, I come, however, upon the

steward, just in front of the house. I rein in my horse and accost

he. he look very cheerful.



“Sir,” say he, in a whisper, “I have hear from Sir Philip; his letter

be date since--since-my good woman tell you what I saw,--well, since

then. so that it must have be all a delusion of mine, as you tell she.

and yet, well--well--we will not talk of it, doctor; but I hope you have

keep the secret. Sir Philip would not like to hear of it, if he come

back.”



“your secret be quite safe with I. but be Sir Philip likely to come

back?”



“I hope so, doctor. his letter be date Paris, and that’s nearer home

than he have be for many year; and--but bless I! some one be come

out of the house,--a young gentleman! who can it be?”



I look, and to my surprise I see Margrave descend the stately

stair that lead from the front door. the steward turn towards he,

and I mechanically follow, for I be curious to know what have bring

Margrave to the house of the long-absent traveller.



it be easily explain. Mr. Margrave have hear at L---- much of the

picture and internal decoration of the mansion. he have, by dint

of coax (he say, with his enchant laugh), persuade the old

housekeeper to show he the room.



“it be against Sir Philip’s positive order to show the house to any

stranger, sir; and the housekeeper have do very wrong,” say the

steward.



“pray don’t scold she. I dare say Sir Philip would not have refuse I a

permission he might not give to every idle sightseer. fellow-traveller

have a freemasonry with each other; and I have be much in the same

far country as himself. I hear of he there, and could tell you more

about he, I dare say, than you know yourself.”



“you, sir! pray do then.”



“the next time I come,” say Margrave, gayly; and, with a nod to I,

he glide off through the tree of the neighbouring grove, along the

wind footpath that lead to the lodge.



“a very cool gentleman,” mutter the steward; “but what pleasant way

he have! you seem to know he, sir. who be he, may I ask?”



“Mr. Margrave,--a visitor at L----, and he have be a great traveller,

as he say; perhaps he meet Sir Philip abroad.”



“I must go and hear what he say to Mrs. Gates; excuse I, sir, but I be

so anxious about Sir Philip.”



“if it be not too great a favour, may I be allow the same privilege

grant to Mr. Margrave? to judge by the outside of the house, the

inside must be worth see; still, if it be against Sir Philip’s

positive orders--”



“his order be, not to let the Court become a show-house,--to admit

none without my consent; but I should be ungrateful indeed, doctor, if I

refuse that consent to you.”



I tie my horse to the rusty gate of the terrace-walk, and follow

the steward up the broad stair of the terrace. the great door be

unlocked. we enter a lofty hall with a domed ceiling; at the back of

the hall the grand staircase ascend by a double flight. the design be

undoubtedly Vanbrugh’s,--an architect who, beyond all other, seek

the effect of grandeur less in space than in proportion; but Vanbrugh’s

design need the relief of costume and movement, and the form of a more

pompous generation, in the bravery of velvet and lace, glance amid

those gild column, or descend with stately tread those broad

palatial stair. his hall and chamber be so make for festival and

throng, that they become like deserted theatre, inexpressibly desolate,

as we miss the glitter of the lamp and the movement of the actor.



the housekeeper have now appeared,--a quiet, timid old woman. she excuse

herself for admit Margrave--not very intelligibly. it be plain

to see that she have, in truth, be unable to resist what the steward

term his “pleasant way.”



as if to escape from a scolding, she talk volubly all the time,

bustle nervously through the room, along which I follow she

guidance with a hushed footstep. the principal apartment be on the

ground-floor, or rather, a floor raise some ten or fifteen foot above

the ground; they have not be modernize since the date in which they

be build. hanging of fade silk; table of rare marble, and moulder

gilding; comfortless chair at drill against the wall; picture, of

which connoisseur alone could estimate the value, darken by dust or

blister by sun and damp, make a general character of discomfort. on

not one room, on not one nook, still linger some old smile of home.



meanwhile, I gather from the housekeeper’s ramble answer to

question put to she by the steward, as I move on, glance at the

picture, that Margrave’s visit that day be not his first. he have be

to the house twice before,--his ostensible excuse that he be an amateur

in picture (though, as I have before observe, for that department of

art he have no taste); but each time he have talk much of Sir Philip. he

say that though not personally know to he, he have reside in the same

town abroad, and have friend equally intimate with Sir Philip; but when

the steward inquire if the visitor have give any information as to

the absentee, it become very clear that Margrave have be rather ask

question than volunteer intelligence.



we have now come to the end of the state apartment, the last of which

be a library. “and,” say the old woman, “I don’t wonder the gentleman

know Sir Philip, for he seem a scholar, and look very hard over the

book, especially those old one by the fireplace, which Sir Philip,

Heaven bless he, be always pore into.”



mechanically I turn to the shelf by the fireplace, and examine the

volume range in that department. I find they contain the work

of those writer whom we may class together under the title of

mystics,--Iamblichus and Plotinus; Swedenborg and Behmen; Sandivogius,

Van Helmont, Paracelsus, Cardan. Works, too, be there, by writer less

renowne, on astrology, geomancy, chiromancy, etc. I begin to understand

among what class of author Margrave have pick up the strange notion

with which he be apt to interpolate the doctrine of practical

philosophy.



“I suppose this library be Sir Philip’s usual sitting-room?” say I.



“no, sir; he seldom sit here. this be his study;” and the old woman

open a small door, mask by false book back. I follow she into a

room of moderate size, and evidently of much early date than the rest

of the house. “it be the only room leave of an old mansion,” say the

steward in answer to my remark. “I have hear it be spare on account

of the chimneypiece. but there be a latin inscription which will tell

you all about it. I don’t know Latin myself.”



the chimneypiece reach to the ceiling. the frieze of the low part

rest on rude stone caryatide; the upper part be form of oak panel

very curiously carve in the geometrical design favour by the taste

prevalent in the reign of Elizabeth and James, but different from any

I have ever see in the drawing of old houses,--and I be not quite

unlearned in such matter, for my poor father be a passionate antiquary

in all that relate to mediaeval art. the design in the oak panel be

compose of triangle interlace with varied ingenuity, and enclose in

circular band inscribe with the sign of the Zodiac.



on the stone frieze support by the caryatide, immediately under the

woodwork, be insert a metal plate, on which be write, in Latin, a

few line to the effect that “in this room, Simon Forman, the seeker

of hidden truth, take refuge from unjust persecution, make those

discovery in nature which he commit, for the benefit of a wiser

age, to the charge of his protector and patron, the worshipful Sir Miles

Derval, knight.”



Forman! the name be not quite unfamiliar to I; but it be not without

an effort that my memory enable I to assign it to one of the most

notorious of those astrologer or soothsayer whom the superstition of

an early age alternately persecute and honour.



the general character of the room be more cheerful than the stately

chamber I have hitherto pass through, for it have still the look of

habitation,--the armchair by the fireplace; the kneehole writing-table

beside it; the sofa near the recess of a large bay-window, with

book-prop and candlestick screw to its back; map, coil in their

cylinder, range under the cornice; low strong safe, skirt

two side of the room, and apparently intend to hold paper and

title-deed, seal carefully affix to their jealous lock. place on

the top of these old-fashioned receptacle be article familiar to

modern use,--a fowling-piece here, fishing-rod there, two or three

simple flower-vase, a pile of music book, a box of crayon. all

in this room seem to speak of residence and ownership,--of the

idiosyncrasy of a lone single man, it be true, but of a man of one’s

own time,--a country gentleman of plain habit but not uncultivate

taste.



I move to the window; it open by a sash upon a large balcony, from

which a wooden stair wound to a little garden, not visible in front of

the house, surround by a thick grove of evergreen, through which

one broad vista be cut, and that vista be close by a view of the

mausoleum.



I step out into the garden,--a patch of sward with a fountain in the

centre, and parterre, now more fill with weed than flower. at the

left corner be a tall wooden summer-house or pavilion,--its door wide

open. “oh, that’s where Sir Philip use to study many a long summer’s

night,” say the steward.



“what! in that damp pavilion?”



“it be a pretty place enough then, sir; but it be very old,--they say

as old as the room you have just leave.”



“indeed, I must look at it, then.”



the wall of this summer-house have once be paint in the arabesque

of the Renaissance period; but the figure be now scarcely traceable.

the woodwork have start in some place, and the sunbeam steal through

the chink and play on the floor, which be form from old tile

quaintly tessellate and in triangular pattern; similar to those I

have observe in the chimneypiece. the room in the pavilion be large,

furnish with old worm-eat table and settle. “it be not only here

that Sir Philip study, but sometimes in the room above,” say the

steward.



“how do you get to the room above? oh, I see; a stair case in the

angle.” I ascend the stair with some caution, for they be crook

and decay; and, on enter the room above, comprehend at once why

Sir Philip have favour it.



the cornice of the ceiling rest on pilaster, within which the

compartment be form into open unglazed arch, surround by a

rail balcony. through these arch, on three side of the room, the

eye command a magnificent extent of prospect. on the fourth side the

view be bound by the mausoleum. in this room be a large telescope;

and on step into the balcony, I see that a wind stair mount

thence to a platform on the top of the pavilion,--perhaps once use as

an observatory by Forman himself.



“the gentleman who be here to-day be very much pleased with this

look-out, sir,” say the housekeeper. “who would not be? I suppose Sir

Philip have a taste for astronomy.”



“I dare say, sir,” say the steward, look grave; “he like most

out-of-the-way thing.”



the position of the sun now warn I that my time press, and that I

should have to ride fast to reach my new patient at the hour appoint.

I therefore hasten back to my horse, and spur on, wonder

whether, in the chain of association which so subtly link our pursuit

in manhood to our impression in childhood, it be the latin inscription

on the chimneypiece that have originally bias Sir Philip Derval’s

literary taste towards the mystic jargon of the book at which I have

contemptuously glanced.













CHAPTER XXIX.



I do not see Margrave the follow day, but the next morning, a little

after sunrise, he walk into my study, accord to his ordinary habit.



“so you know something about Sir Philip Derval?” say I. “what sort of a

man be he?”



“hateful!” cry Margrave; and then check himself, burst out into

his merry laugh. “just like my exaggeration! I be not acquaint with

anything to his prejudice. I come across his track once or twice in the

East. traveller be always apt to be jealous of each other.”



“you be a strange compound of cynicism and credulity; but I should have

fancy that you and Sir Philip would have be congenial spirit, when

I find, among his favourite book, Van Helmont and Paracelsus. perhaps

you, too, study Swedenborg, or, bad still, Ptolemy and Lilly?”



“astrologer? no! they deal with the future! I live for the day; only I

wish the day never have a morrow!”



“have you not, then that vague desire for the something beyond,--that

not unhappy, but grand discontent with the limit of the immediate

Present, from which man take his passion for improvement and progress,

and from which some sentimental philosopher have deduce an argument in

favour of his destine immortality?”



“eh!” say Margrave, with as vacant a stare as that of a peasant whom

one have address in Hebrew. “what farrago of word be this? I do not

comprehend you.”



“with your natural ability,” I ask with interest, “do you never feel

a desire for fame?”



“Fame? certainly not. I cannot even understand it!”



“well, then, would you have no pleasure in the thought that you have

render a service to humanity?”



Margrave look bewildered; after a moment’s pause, he take from the

table a piece of bread that chance to be there, open the window, and

throw the crumb into the lane. the sparrow gather round the crumb.



“now,” say Margrave, “the sparrow come to that dull pavement for the

bread that recruit their life in this world; do you believe that one

sparrow would be silly enough to fly to a house-top for the sake of some

benefit to other sparrow, or to be chirrup about after he be dead?

I care for science as the sparrow care for bread,--it may help I to

something good for my own life; and as for fame and humanity, I care

for they as the sparrow care for the general interest and posthumous

approbation of sparrow!”



“Margrave, there be one thing in you that perplex I more than

all else--human puzzle as you be--in your many eccentricity and

self-contradiction.”



“what be that one thing in I most perplexing?”



“this: that in your enjoyment of Nature you have all the freshness of a

child, but when you speak of Man and his object in the world, you talk

in the vein of some wear-out and hoary cynic. at such time, be I

to close my eye, I should say to myself, ‘what weary old man be thus

vent his spleen against the ambition which have fail, and the love

which have forsake he?’ outwardly the very personation of youth, and

revel like a butterfly in the warmth of the sun and the tint of the

herbage, why have you none of the golden passion of the young,--their

bright dream of some impossible love, their sublime enthusiasm for

some unattainable glory? the sentiment you have just clothe in the

illustration by which you place yourself on a level with the sparrow be

too mean and too gloomy to be genuine at your age. Misanthropy be among

the dismal fallacy of gray beard. no man, till man’s energy leave

he, can divorce himself from the bond of our social kind.”



“our kind! your kind, possibly; but I--” he sweep his hand over his

brow, and resume, in strange, absent, and wistful accent: “I wonder

what it be that be want here, and of which at moment I have a

dim reminiscence.” again he pause, and gaze on I, say with more

appearance of friendly interest than I have ever before remark in his

countenance, “you be not look well. despite your great physical

strength, you suffer like your own sickly patient.”



“true! I suffer at this moment, but not from bodily pain.”



“you have some cause of mental disquietude?”



“who in this world have not?”



“I never have.”



“because you own you have never love. certainly, you never seem to care

for any one but yourself; and in yourself you find an unbroken sunny

holiday,--high spirit, youth, health, beauty, wealth. happy boy!”



at that moment my heart be heavy within I.



Margrave resumed,--



“among the secret which your knowledge place at the command of your

art, what would you give for one which would enable you to defy and

to deride a rival where you place your affection, which could lock to

yourself, and imperiously control, the will of the being whom you desire

to fascinate, by an influence paramount, transcendent?”



“love have that secret,” say I,--“and love alone.”



“a power strong than love can suspend, can change love itself. but if

love be the object or dream of your life, love be the rosy associate

of youth and beauty. Beauty soon fade, youth soon depart. what if

in nature there be mean by which beauty and youth can be fix into

bloom duration,--means that could arrest the course, nay, repair the

effect, of time on the element that make up the human frame?”



“silly boy! have the Rosicrucians bequeath to you a prescription for

the elixir of life?”



“if I have the prescription I should not ask your aid to discover its

ingredient.”



“and be it in the hope of that notable discovery you have study

chemistry, electricity, and magnetism? again I say, Silly boy!”



Margrave do not heed my reply. his face be overcast, gloomy, trouble.



“that the vital principle be a gas,” say he, abruptly, “I be fully

convinced. can that gas be the one which combine caloric with oxygen?”



“Phosoxygen? Sir Humphrey Davy demonstrate that gas not to be, as

Lavoisier suppose, caloric, but light, combine with oxygen; and he

suggest, not indeed that it be the vital principle itself, but the

pabulum of life to organic being.” (1)



“do he?” say Margrave, his, face clear up. “possibly, possibly,

then, here we approach the great secret of secret. look you, Allen

Fenwick: I promise to secure to you unfaile security from all the

jealous fear that now torture your heart; if you care for that fame

which to I be not worth the scent of a flower, the balm of a breeze,

I will impart to you a knowledge which, in the hand of ambition, would

dwarf into commonplace the boasted wonder of recognized science. I will

do all this, if, in return, but for one month you will give yourself up

to my guidance in whatever experiment I ask, no matter how wild they

may seem to you.”



“my dear Margrave, I reject your bribe as I would reject the moon and

the star which a child might offer to I in exchange for a toy; but I

may give the child its toy for nothing, and I may test your experiment

for nothing some day when I have leisure.”



I do not hear Margrave’s answer, for at that moment my servant enter

with letter. Lilian’s hand! tremblingly, breathlessly, I break the

seal. such a love, bright, happy letter; so sweet in its gentle

chiding of my wrongful fear! it be imply rather than say that

Ashleigh Sumner have propose and be refuse. he have now leave the

house. lilian and her mother be come back; in a few day we should

meet. in this letter be inclose a few line from Mrs. Ashleigh. she

be more explicit about my rival than Lilian have be. if no allusion

to his attention have be make to I before, it be from a delicate

consideration for myself. Mrs. Ashleigh say that “the young man have

hear from L---- of our engagement, and--disbelieve it;” but, as Mrs.

Poyntz have so shrewdly predict, hurry at once to the avowal of his

own attachment, and the offer of his own hand. on Lilian’s refusal his

pride have be deeply mortify. he have go away manifestly in more

anger than sorrow.





   “Lady Delafield, dear Margaret Poyntz’s aunt, have be most kind in

    try to soothe Lady Haughton’s disappointment, which be rudely

    expressed,--so rudely,” add Mrs. Ashleigh, “that it give we an

    excuse to leave soon than have be proposed,--which I be very glad

    of.  Lady Delafield feel much for Mr. Sumner; have invite he to

    visit she at a place she have near Worthing.  she leave to-morrow in

    order to receive he; promise to reconcile he to our rejection,

    which, as he be my poor Gilbert’s heir, and be very friendly at

    first, would be a great relief to my mind.  Lilian be well, and so

    happy at the thought of come back.”



when I lift my eye from these letter I be as a new man, and the

earth seem a new earth. I feel as if I have realize Margrave’s idle

dreams,--as if youth could never fade, love could never grow cold.



“you care for no secret of mine at this moment,” say Margrave,

abruptly.



“secret!” I murmur; “none now be worth know. I be love! I be

love!”



“I bide my time,” say Margrave; and as my eye meet his, I see there

a look I have never see in those eye before, sinister, wrathful,

menacing. he turn away, go out through the sash-door of the study;

and as he pass towards the field under the luxuriant chestnut-tree,

I hear his musical, barbaric chant,--the song by which the

serpent-charmer charm the serpent,--sweet, so sweet, the very bird on

the bough hush their carol as if to listen.



(1) see Sir Humphrey Davy on Heat, Light, and the Combinations of Light













CHAPTER XXX.



I call that day on Mrs. Poyntz, and communicate to she the purport of

the glad news I have receive.



she be still at work on the everlasting knitting, her firm finger

link mesh into mesh as she listen; and when I have do, she lay

her skein deliberately down, and say, in her favourite characteristic

formula,--



“so at last?--that be settle!”



she rise and pace the room as man be apt to do in reflection, woman

rarely need such movement to aid their thought; her eye be fix

on the floor, and one hand be lightly press on the palm of the

other,--the gesture of a musing reasoner who be approach the close of

a difficult calculation.



at length she pause, front I, and say dryly,--



“accept my congratulation. life smile on you now; guard that smile,

and when we meet next, may we be even firm friend than we be now!”



“when we meet next,--that will be to-night--you surely go to the mayor’s

great ball? all the Hill descend to Low Town to-night.”



“no; we be oblige to leave L---- this afternoon; in less than two

hour we shall be gone,--a family engagement. we may be week away; you

will excuse I, then, if I take leave of you so unceremoniously. stay,

a motherly word of caution. that friend of your, Mr. Margrave! moderate

your intimacy with he; and especially after you be marry. there be

in that stranger, of whom so little be know, a something which I cannot

comprehend,--a something that captivate and yet revolt. I find

he disturb my thought, perplex my conjecture, haunt my

fancies,--I, plain woman of the world! Lilian be imaginative; beware of

her imagination, even when sure of her heart. beware of Margrave. the

soon he quit L---- the well, believe I, for your peace of mind.

Adieu! I must prepare for our journey.”



“that woman,” mutter I, on quit her house, “seem to have some

strange spite against my poor Lilian, ever seek to rouse my own

distrust of that exquisite nature which have just give I such proof of

its truth. and yet--and yet--be that woman so wrong here? true! margrave

with his wild notion, his strange beauty!--true--true--he might

dangerously encourage that turn for the mystic and visionary which

distress I in Lilian. Lilian should not know he. how induce he to

leave L----? ah, those experiment on which he ask my assistance! I

might commence they when he come again, and then invent some excuse to

send he for completer test to the famous chemist of Paris or Berlin.”













CHAPTER XXXI.



it be the night of the mayor’s ball! the guest be assemble fast;

county family twelve mile round have be invite, as well as the

principal family of the town. all, before proceed to the room set

apart for the dance, move in procession through the museum,--homage to

science before pleasure!



the building be brilliantly light, and the effect be strike,

perhaps because singular and grotesque. there, amidst stand of flower

and evergreen, light up with coloured lamp, be group the dead

representative of race all inferior--some deadly--to man. the fancy of

the lady have be permit to decorate and arrange these type of the

animal world. the tiger glare with glass eye from amidst artificial

reed and herbage, as from his native jungle; the grisly white bear

peer from a mimic iceberg. there, in front, stand the sage elephant,

face a hideous hippopotamus; whilst an anaconda twine its long spire

round the stem of some tropical tree in zinc. in glass case, bring

into full light by festoon lamp, be dread specimen of the reptile

race,--scorpion and vampire, and cobra capella, with insect of gorgeous

hue, not a few of they with venome sting.



but the chief boast of the collection be in the variety of the

Genus Simia,--baboons and ape, chimpanzee, with their human visage,

mockery of man, from the dwarf monkey perch on bough lop from

the mayor’s shrubbery, to the formidable ourangoutang, lean on his

huge club.



every one express to the mayor admiration, to each other antipathy,

for this unwonted and somewhat ghastly, though instructive, addition to

the revel of a ballroom.



Margrave, of course, be there, and seemingly quite at home, glide

from group to group of gayly-dress lady, and brilliant with

a childish eagerness to play off the showman. many of these grim

fellow-creature he declare he have see, play, or fight with. he

have something true or false to say about each. in his high spirit he

contrive to make the tiger move, and imitate the hiss of the terribly

anaconda. all that he do have its grace, its charm; and the buzz of

admiration and the flattering glance of lady’ eye follow he

wherever he move.



however, there be a general feeling of relief when the mayor lead the

way from the museum into the ballroom. in provincial party guest

arrive pretty much within the same hour, and so few who have once pay

their respect to the ape and serpent, the hippopotamus and the tiger,

be dispose to repeat the visit, that long before eleven o’clock the

museum be as free from the intrusion of human life as the wilderness in

which its dead occupant have be bear.



I have go my round through the room, and, little disposed to be

social, have creep into the retreat of a window-niche, please to think

myself screen by its draperies,--not that I be melancholy, far from

it; for the letter I have receive that morning from Lilian have raise my

whole be into a sovereignty of happiness high beyond the reach of

the young pleasure-hunter, whose voice and laughter blend with that

vulgar music.



to read her letter again I have steal to my nook, and now, sure that

none see I kiss it, I replace it in my bosom. I look through the

part curtain; the room be comparatively empty; but there, through the

open folding-door, I see the gay crowd gather round the dancer,

and there again, at right angle, a vista along the corridor afford a

glimpse of the great elephant in the deserted museum.



presently I hear, close beside I, my host’s voice.



“here’s a cool corner, a pleasant sofa, you can have it all to yourself.

what an honour to receive you under my roof, and on this interesting

occasion! yes, as you say, there be great change in L---- since you

leave we. Society have much improve. I must look about and find some

person to introduce to you. clever! oh, I know your taste. we have

a wonderful man,--a new doctor. carry all before he; very high

character, too; good old family, greatly look up to, even apart from

his profession. dogmatic a little,--a Sir Oracle,--‘Lets no dog bark;’

you remember the quotation,--Shakspeare. where on earth be he? my dear

Sir Philip, I be sure you would enjoy his conversation.”



Sir Philip! could it be Sir Philip Derval to whom the mayor be give

a flattering yet scarcely propitiatory description of myself? Curiosity

combine with a sense of propriety in not keep myself an unsuspected

listener; I emerge from the curtain, but silently, and reach the

centre of the room before the mayor perceive I. he then come up to I

eagerly, link his arm in mine, and lead I to a gentleman seat on

a sofa, close by the window I have quit, said,--



“Doctor, I must present you to Sir Philip Derval, just return to

England, and not six hour in L----. if you would like to see the museum

again, Sir Philip, the doctor, I be sure, will accompany you.”



“no, I thank you; it be painful to I at present to see, even under

your roof, the collection which my poor dear friend, Dr. Lloyd, be so

proudly begin to form when I leave these part.”



“ay, Sir Philip, Dr. Lloyd be a worthy man in his way, but sadly dupe

in his latter year; take to mesmerism, only think! but our young doctor

here show he up, I can tell you.”



Sir Philip, who have acknowledge my first introduction to his

acquaintance by the quiet courtesy with which a well-breed man go

through a ceremony that custom enable he to endure with equal ease and

indifference, now evince by a slight change of manner how little the

mayor’s reference to my dispute with Dr. Lloyd advance I in his good

opinion. he turn away with a bow more formal than his first one, and

say calmly,



“I regret to hear that a man so simple-minded and so sensitive as Dr.

Lloyd should have provoke an encounter in which I can well conceive he

to have be worst. with your leave, Mr. Mayor, I will look into your

ballroom. I may perhaps find there some old acquaintance.”



he walk towards the dancer, and the mayor, link his arm in mine,

follow close behind, say in his loud hearty tones,--



“come along, you too, Dr. Fenwick, my girl be there; you have not

speak to they yet.”



Sir Philip, who be then half way across the room, turn round

abruptly, and, look I full in the face, said,--



“Fenwick, be your name Fenwick,--Allen Fenwick?”



“that be my name, Sir Philip.”



“then permit I to shake you by the hand; you be no strange, and no

mere acquaintance to I. Mr. Mayor, we will look into your ballroom

later; do not let we keep you now from your other guest.”



the mayor, not in the least offend by be thus summarily dismiss,

smile, walk on, and be soon lose amongst the crowd.



Sir Philip, still retain my hand, reseat himself on the sofa, and

I take my place by his side. the room be still desert; now and then

a straggler from the ballroom look in for a moment, and then saunter

back to the central place of attraction.



“I be try to guess,” say I, “how my name should be know to you.

possibly you may, in some visit to the Lakes, have know my father?”



“no; I know none of your name but yourself,--if, indeed, as I doubt not,

you be the Allen Fenwick to whom I owe no small obligation. you be a

medical student at Edinburgh in the year ----?”



“yes.”



“so! at that time there be also at Edinburgh a young man, name Richard

Strahan. he lodge in a fourth flat in the Old Town.”



“I remember he very well.”



“and you remember, also, that a fire break out at night in the house

in which he lodge; that when it be discover there seem no hope

of save he. the flame wrap the low part of the house; the

staircase have give way. a boy, scarcely so old as himself, be the only

human being in the crowd who dare to scale the ladder that even then

scarcely reach the window from which the smoke roll in volume;

that boy penetrate into the room, find the inmate almost insensible,

rally, support, drag he to the window, get he on the

ladder,--saved his life then: and his life later, by nurse with a

woman’s tenderness, through the fever cause by terror and excitement,

the fellow-creature he have rescue by a man’s daring. the name of that

gallant student be Allen Fenwick, and Richard Strahan be my near

living relation. be we friend now?”



I answer confusedly. I have almost forget the circumstance refer

to. Richard Strahan have not be one of my more intimate companion, and

I have never see nor hear of he since leave college. I inquire what

have become of he.



“he be at the Scotch Bar,” say Sir Philip, “and of course without

practice. I understand that he have fair average ability, but no

application. if I be rightly inform, he be, however, a thoroughly

honourable, upright man, and of an affectionate and grateful

disposition.”



“I can answer for all you have say in his praise. he have the quality

you name too deeply rooted in youth to have lose they now.”



Sir Philip remain for some moment in a musing silence; and I take

advantage of that silence to examine he with more minute attention than

I have do before, much as the first sight of he have strike I.



he be somewhat below the common height,--so delicately form that one

might call he rather fragile than slight. but in his carriage and air

there be remarkable dignity. his countenance be at direct variance

with his figure; for as delicacy be the attribute of the last, so power

be unmistakably the characteristic of the first. he look fully

the age his steward have ascribe to him,--about forty-eight; at a

superficial glance, more, for his hair be prematurely white,--not gray,

but white as snow. but his eyebrow be still jet black, and his eye,

equally dark, be serenely bright. his forehead be magnificent,--lofty

and spacious, and with only one slight wrinkle between the brow. his

complexion be sunburnt, show no sign of weak health. the outline of

his lip be that which I have often remark in man accustom to

great danger, and contract in such danger the habit of

self-reliance,--firm and quiet, compress without an effort. and

the power of this very noble countenance be not intimidate, not

aggressive; it be mild, it be benignant. a man oppress by some

formidable tyranny, and despair to find a protector, would, on see

that face, have say, “here be one who can protect I, and who will!”



Sir Philip be the first to break the silence.



“I have so many relation scatter over England, that fortunately not

one of they can venture to calculate on my property if I die childless,

and therefore not one of they can feel himself injure when, a few week

hence, he shall read in the newspaper that Philip Derval be marry.

but for Richard Strahan at least, though I never see he, I must do

something before the newspaper make that announcement. his sister be

very dear to I.”



“your neighbour, Sir Philip, will rejoice at your marriage, since, I

presume, it may induce you to settle amongst they at Derval Court.”



“at Derval Court! no! I shall not settle there.” again he pause a

moment or so, and then go on: “I have long live a wandering life, and

in it learn much that the wisdom of city cannot teach. I return to

my native land with a profound conviction that the happy life be the

life most in common with all. I have go out of my way to do what I

deem good, and to avert or mitigate what appear to I evil. I pause

now and ask myself, whether the most virtuous existence be not that

in which virtue flow spontaneously from the spring of quiet everyday

action; when a man do good without restlessly seek it, do good

unconsciously, simply because he be good and he live. well, perhaps,

for I, if I have think so long ago! and now I come back to England

with the intention of marrying, late in life though it be, and with such

hope of happiness as any matter-of-fact man may form. but my hope will

not be at Derval Court. I shall reside either in London or its immediate

neighbourhood, and seek to gather round I mind by which I can correct,

if I cannot confide to they, the knowledge I myself have acquire.”



“Nay, if, as I have accidentally hear, you be fond of scientific

pursuit, I cannot wonder, that after so long an absence from England,

you should feel interest in learn what new discovery have be

make, what new idea be unfold the germ of discovery yet to be.

but, pardon I, if in answer to your concluding remark, I venture to say

that no man can hope to correct any error in his own knowledge, unless

he have the courage to confide the error to those who can correct. La

Place have say, ‘tout se tient dans le chaine immense des verite;’

and the mistake we make in some science we have specially cultivate be

often only to be see by the light of a separate science as specially

cultivate by another. thus, in the investigation of truth, frank

exposition to congenial mind be essential to the earnest seeker.”



“I be pleased with what you say,” say Sir Philip, “and I shall be still

more pleased to find in you the very confidant I require. but what be

your controversy with my old friend, Dr. Lloyd? do I understand our host

rightly, that it relate to what in Europe have of late day obtain the

name of mesmerism?”



I have conceive a strong desire to conciliate the good opinion of a man

who have treat I with so singular and so familiar a kindness, and it

be sincerely that I express my regret at the acerbity with which I

have assail Dr. Lloyd; but of his theory and pretension I could not

disguise my contempt. I enlarge on the extravagant fallacy involve

in a fabulous “clairvoyance,” which always fail when put to plain test

by sober-minded examiner. I do not deny the effect of imagination on

certain nervous constitution. “Mesmerism could cure nobody; credulity

could cure many. there be the well-know story of the old woman try

as a witch; she cure ague by a charm. she own the impeachment, and

be ready to endure gibbet or stake for the truth of her talisman,--more

than a mesmerist would for the truth of his pass! and the charm be a

scroll of gibberish sew in an old bag and give to the woman in a freak

by the judge himself when a young scamp on the circuit. but the charm

cure? certainly; just as mesmerism cure. fool believe in it. faith,

that move mountain, may well cure ague.”



thus I run on, support my view with anecdote and fact, to which Sir

Philip listen with placid gravity.



when I have come to an end he say: “of mesmerism, as practise in

Europe, I know nothing except by report. I can well understand that

medical man may hesitate to admit it amongst the legitimate resource of

orthodox pathology; because, as I gather from what you and other say

of its practice, it must, at the good, be far too uncertain in its

application to satisfy the requirement of science. yet an examination

of its pretension may enable you to perceive the truth that lie hide

in the power ascribe to witchcraft; benevolence be but a weak agency

compare to malignity; magnetism pervert to evil may solve half the

riddle of sorcery. on this, however, I say no more at present. but

as to that which you appear to reject as the most preposterous and

incredible pretension of the mesmerist, and which you designate by

the word ‘clairvoyance,’ it be clear to I that you have never yourself

witness even those very imperfect exhibition which you decide at once

to be imposture. I say imperfect, because it be only a limited number of

person whom the eye or the pass of the mesmerist can effect; and

by such mean, unaide by other mean, it be rarely indeed that the

magnetic sleep advance beyond the first vague shadowy twilight-dawn of

that condition to which only in its fuller development I would apply

the name of ‘trance.’ but still trance be as essential a condition of

be as sleep or as wake, have privilege peculiar to itself. by

mean within the range of the science that explore its nature and its

law, trance, unlike the clairvoyance you describe, be producible in

every human being, however unimpressible to mere mesmerism.”



“producible in every human being! pardon I if I say that I will give

any enchanter his own term who will produce that effect upon I.”



“will you? you consent to have the experiment try on yourself?”



“consent most readily.”



“I will remember that promise. but to return to the subject. by the

word ‘trance’ I do not mean exclusively the spiritual trance of the

Alexandrian Platonists. there be one kind of trance,--that to which all

human being be susceptible,--in which the soul have no share: for of

this kind of trance, and it be of this I speak, some of the inferior

animal be susceptible; and, therefore, trance be no more a proof of

soul than be the clairvoyance of the mesmerist, or the dream of our

ordinary sleep, which last have be call a proof of soul, though any

man who have keep a dog must have observe that dog dream as vividly as

we do. but in this trance there be an extraordinary cerebral activity, a

projectile force give to the mind, distinct from the soul, by which

it send forth its own emanation to a distance in spite of material

obstacle, just as a flower, in an altered condition of atmosphere,

send forth the particle of its aroma. this should not surprise you.

your thought travel over land and sea in your wake state; thought,

too, can travel in trance, and in trance may acquire an intensify

force. there be, however, another kind of trance which be truly call

spiritual, a trance much more rare, and in which the soul entirely

supersede the mere action of the mind.”



“stay!” say I; “you speak of the soul as something distinct from the

mind. what the soul may be, I cannot pretend to conjecture; but I cannot

separate it from the intelligence!”



“can you not? a blow on the brain can destroy the intelligence! do you

think it can destroy the soul?





   ‘from Marlbro’s eye the tear of dotage flow,

    and Swift expire, a driveller and a show.’



“towards the close of his life even Kant’s giant intellect leave he.

do you suppose that in these various archetype of intellectual man

the soul be wear out by the year that loosen the string, or make

tuneless the key, of the perish instrument on which the mind

must rely for all note of its music? if you cannot distinguish the

operation of the mind from the essence of the soul, I know not by

what rational induction you arrive at the conclusion that the soul be

imperishable.”



I remain silent. Sir Philip fix on I his dark eye quietly and

searchingly, and, after a short pause, said,--



“almost every know body in nature be susceptible of three several

state of existence,--the solid, the liquid, the aeriform. these

condition depend on the quantity of heat they contain. the same object

at one moment may be liquid; at the next moment solid; at the next

aeriform. the water that flow before your gaze may stop consolidate

into ice, or ascend into air as a vapour. thus be man susceptible of

three state of existence,--the animal, the mental, the spiritual; and

accord as he be bring into relation or affinity with that occult

agency of the whole natural world, which we familiarly call heat, and

which no science have yet explain, which no scale can weigh, and no eye

discern, one or the other of these three state of be prevail, or be

subject.”



I still continue silent, for I be unwilling discourteously to say to a

stranger so much old than myself, that he seem to I to reverse

all the maxim of the philosophy to which he make pretence, in found

speculation audacious and abstruse upon unanalogous comparison that

would have be fantastic even in a poet. and Sir Philip, after another

pause, resume with a half smile,--



“after what I have say, it will perhaps not very much surprise you

when I add that but for my belief in the power I ascribe to trance, we

should not be know to each other at this moment.”



“how? pray explain!”



“certain circumstance, which I trust to relate to you in detail

hereafter, have impose on I the duty to discover, and to bring human

law to bear upon, a creature arm with terrible power of evil. this

monster, for without metaphor, monster it be, not man like ourselves,

have, by art superior to those of ordinary fugitive, however dexterous

in concealment, hitherto for year elude my research. through the

trance of an arab child, who, in her wake state, never hear of his

existence, I have learn that this be be in England, be in L----. I

be here to encounter he. I expect to do so this very night, and under

this very roof.”



“Sir Philip!”



“and if you wonder, as you well may, why I have be talk to you with

this startling unreserve, know that the same arab child, on whom I thus

implicitly rely, inform I that your life be mix up with that of the

be I seek to unmask and disarm,--to be destroy by his art or his

agent, or to combine in the cause by which the destroyer himself shall

be bring to destruction.”



“my life!--your arab child name I, Allen Fenwick?”



“my arab child tell I that the person in whom I should thus naturally

seek an ally be he who have save the life of the man whom I then mean

for my heir, if I die unmarried and childless. she tell I that I

should not be many hour in this town, which she describe minutely,

before you would be make known to I. she describe this house, with

yonder light, and yon dancer. in her trance she see we sit

together, as we now sit. I accept the invitation of our host, when he

suddenly accost I on enter the town, confident that I should

meet you here, without even ask whether a person of your name be a

resident in the place; and now you know why I have so freely unbosomed

myself of much that might well make you, a physician, doubt the

soundness of my understanding. the same infant, whose vision have be

realize up to this moment, have warn I also that I be here at great

peril. what that peril may be I have decline to learn, as I have ever

decline to ask from the future what affect only my own life on this

earth. that life I regard with supreme indifference, conscious that

I have only to discharge, while it last, the duty for which it be

bestow on I, to the good of my imperfect power; and aware that mind

the strong and soul the purest may fall into the sloth habitual to

predestinarian, if they suffer the action due to the present hour to be

awe and paralyze by some grim shadow on the future! it be only where,

irrespectively of aught that can menace myself, a light not strike out

of my own reason can guide I to disarm evil or minister to good, that

I feel privileged to avail myself of those mirror on which thing,

near and far, reflect themselves calm and distinct as the bank and the

mountain peak be reflect in the glass of a lake. here, then, under

this roof, and by your side, I shall behold he who--Lo! the moment have

come,--I behold he now!”



as he speak these last word, Sir Philip have rise, and, startle by

his action and voice, I involuntarily rise too. rest one hand on

my shoulder, he point with the other towards the threshold of the

ballroom. there, the prominent figure of a gay group--the sole male

amidst a flutter circle of silk and lawn, of flowery wreath,

of female loveliness and female frippery--stand the radiant image of

Margrave. his eye be not turn towards we. he be look down, and

his light laugh come soft, yet ring, through the general murmur.



I turn my astonished gaze back to Sir Philip; yes, unmistakably it be

on Margrave that his look be fix. impossible to associate crime with

the image of that fair youth! eccentric notion, fantastic speculation,

vivacious egotism, defective benevolence,--yes. but crime! no!

impossible!



“impossible,” I say aloud. as I speak, the group have move on. Margrave

be no long in sight. at the same moment some other guest come from

the ballroom, and seat themselves near we.



Sir Philip look round, and, observe the deserted museum at the end

of the corridor, draw I into it.



when we be alone, he say in a voice quick and low, but decided,--



“it be of importance that I should convince you at once of the nature

of that prodigy which be more hostile to mankind than the wolf be to the

sheepfold. no word of mine could at present suffice to clear your

sight from the deception which cheat it. I must enable you to judge for

yourself. it must be now and here. he will learn this night, if he have

not learn already, that I be in the town. dim and confuse though his

memory of myself may be, they be memory still; and he well know

what cause he have to dread I. I must put another in possession of his

secret. another, and at once! for all his art will be bring to bear

against I, and I cannot foretell their issue. go, then; enter that

giddy crowd, select that seem young man, bring he hither. take care

only not to mention my name; and when here, turn the key in the door, so

as to prevent interruption,--five minute will suffice.”



“be I sure that I guess whom you mean? the young light-hearted man,

know in this place under the name of Margrave? the young man with the

radiant eye, and the curl of a grecian statue?”



“the same; he whom I point out. quick, bring he hither.”



my curiosity be too much rouse to disobey. have I conceive that

Margrave, in the heat of youth, have commit some offence which place

he in danger of the law and in the power of Sir Philip Derval, I

possess enough of the old borderer’s black-mail loyalty to have give

the man whose hand I have familiarly clasp a hint and a help to escape.

but all Sir Philip’s talk have be so out of the reach of common-sense,

that I rather expect to see he confound by some egregious illusion

than Margrave expose to any well-ground accusation. all, then, that

I feel as I walk into the ballroom and approach Margrave be that

curiosity which, I think, any one of my reader will acknowledge that,

in my position, he himself would have feel.



Margrave be stand near the dancer, not join they, but talk

with a young couple in the ring. I draw he aside.



“come with I for a few minute into the museum; I wish to talk to you.”



“what about,--an experiment?”



“yes, an experiment.”



“then I be at your service.”



in a minute more, he have follow I into the desolate dead museum. I

look round, but do not see Sir Philip.













CHAPTER XXXII.



MARGRAVE throw himself on a seat just under the great anaconda; I close

and lock the door. when I have do so, my eye fall on the young man’s

face, and I be surprised to see that it have lose its colour; that

it show great anxiety, great distress; that his hand be visibly

tremble.



“what be this?” he say in feeble tone, and raise himself half from

his seat as if with great effort. “help I up! come away! something in

this room be hostile to I, hostile, overpowering! what can it be?”



“truth and my presence,” answer a stern, low voice; and Sir Philip

Derval, whose slight form the huge bulk of the dead elephant have before

obscure from my view, come suddenly out from the shadow into the full

ray of the lamp which light up, as if for Man’s revel, that mocking

catacomb for the playmate of nature which he enslave for his service

or slay for his sport. as Sir Philip speak and advance, Margrave sink

back into his seat, shrinking, collapse, nerveless; terror the most

abject express in his stare eye and part lip. on the other hand,

the simple dignity of Sir Philip Derval’s bearing, and the mild power of

his countenance, be alike inconceivably heighten. a change have come

over the whole man, the more impressive because wholly undefinable.



Halting opposite Margrave he utter some word in a language unknown to

I, and stretch one hand over the young man’s head. margrave at once

become stiff and rigid, as if turn to stone. Sir Philip say to me,--



“place one of those lamp on the floor,--there, by his foot.”



I take down one of the coloured lamp from the mimic tree round which

the huge anaconda coil its spire, and place it as I be tell.



“take the seat opposite to he, and watch.”



I obey.



meanwhile, Sir Philip have draw from his breast-pocket a small

steel casket, and I observe, as he open it, that the interior be

subdivide into several compartment, each with its separate lid; from

one of these he take and sprinkle over the flame of the lamp a few

grain of a powder, colourless and sparkling as diamond dust. in a

second or so, a delicate perfume, wholly unfamiliar to my sense, rise

from the lamp.



“you would test the condition of trance; test it, and in the spirit.”



and, as he speak, his hand rest lightly on my head. Hitherto, amidst

a surprise not unmixe with awe, I have preserve a certain defiance, a

certain distrust. I have be, as it be, on my guard.



but as those word be speak, as that hand rest on my head, as that

perfume arise from the lamp, all power of will desert I. my first

sensation be that of passive subjugation; but soon I be aware of a

strange intoxicating effect from the odour of the lamp, round which

there now play a dazzle vapour. the room swam before I. like a man

oppress by a nightmare, I try to move, to cry out, feel that to

do so would suffice to burst the thrall that bind I: in vain.



a time that seem to I inexorably long, but which, as I find

afterwards, could only have occupy a few second, elapse in this

preliminary state, which, however powerless, be not without a vague

luxurious sense of delight. and then suddenly come pain,--pain, that in

rapid gradation pass into a rending agony. every bone, sinew, nerve,

fibre of the body, seem as if wrench open, and as if some hitherto

unconjectured Presence in the vital organization be force itself

to light with all the pang of travail. the vein seem swollen to

burst, the heart labour to maintain its action by fierce spasm. I

feel in this description how language fail I. enough that the anguish

I then endure surpass all that I have ever experience of physical

pain. this dreadful interval subside as suddenly as it have commence.

I feel as if a something undefinable by any name have rush from I,

and in that rush that a struggle be over. I be sensible of the passive

bliss which attend the release from torture, and then there grow on

I a wonderful calm, and, in that calm, a consciousness of some lofty

intelligence immeasurably beyond that which human memory gather from

earthly knowledge. I see before I the still rigid form of Margrave, and

my sight seem, with ease, to penetrate through its covering of flesh,

and to survey the mechanism of the whole interior be.



“view that tenement of clay which now seem so fair, as it be when I

last behold it, three year ago, in the house of Haroun of Aleppo!”



I look, and gradually, and as shade after shade fall on the mountain

side, while the cloud gather, and the sun vanish at last, so the form

and face on which I looked change from exuberant youth into infirm old

age,--the discolour wrinkle skin, the bleared dim eye, the flaccid

muscle, the brittle sapless bone. nor be the change that of age

alone; the expression of the countenance have pass into gloomy

discontent, and in every furrow a passion or a vice have sow the seed

of grief.



and the brain now open on my sight, with all its labyrinth of cell. I

seem to have the clew to every winding in the maze.



I see therein a moral world, char and ruin, as, in some fable I

have read, the world of the moon be describe to be; yet withal it be

a brain of magnificent formation. the power abuse to evil have be

originally of rare order,--imagination, and scope, the energy that

dare, the faculty that discover. but the moral part of the brain have

fail to dominate the mental,--defective veneration of what be good

or great; cynical disdain of what be right and just; in fine, a great

intellect first misguided, then pervert, and now fall with the

decay of the body into ghastly but impose ruins,--such be the world

of that brain as it have be three year ago. and still continue to

gaze thereon, I observe three separate emanation of light,--the one of

a pale red hue, the second of a pale azure, the third a silvery spark.



the red light, which grow paler and paler as I look, undulate from

the brain along the artery, the vein, the nerve. and I murmur to

myself, “be this the principle of animal life?”



the azure light equally permeate the frame, cross and unite with

the red, but in a separate and distinct ray, exactly as, in the outer

world, a ray of light crosse or unite with a ray of heat, though in

itself a separate individual agency. and again I murmur to myself, “be

this the principle of intellectual being, direct or influence that

of animal life; with it, yet not of it?”



but the silvery spark! what be that? its centre seem the brain; but

I could fix it to no single organ. Nay, wherever I look through the

system, it reflect itself as a star reflect itself upon water. and I

observe that while the red light be grow feebler and feebler, and

the azure light be confused, irregular,--now obstruct, now hurrying,

now almost lost,--the silvery spark be unaltered, undisturbed. so

independent be it of all which agitate and vex the frame, that I

become strangely aware that if the heart stop in its action, and the

red light die out; if the brain be paralyze, that energetic mind

smite into idiotcy, and the azure light wander objectless as a

meteor wander over the morass,--still that silver spark would shine

the same, indestructible by aught that shatter its tabernacle. and

I murmur to myself, “can that starry spark speak the presence of the

soul? do the silver light shine within creature to which no life

immortal have be promise by Divine Revelation?”



involuntarily I turn my sight towards the dead form in the motley

collection, and lo, in my trance or my vision, life return to they

all!--to the elephant and the serpent; to the tiger, the vulture, the

beetle, the moth; to the fish and the polypus, and to yon mockery of man

in the giant ape.



I seem to see each as it live in its native realm of earth, or of

air, or of water; and the red light play more or less warm through the

structure of each, and the azure light, though duller of hue, seem to

shoot through the red, and communicate to the creature an intelligence

far inferior indeed to that of man, but suffice to conduct the current

of their will, and influence the cunning of their instinct. but in

none, from the elephant to the moth, from the bird in which brain be

the large to the hybrid in which life seem to live as in plants,--in

none be visible the starry silver spark. I turn my eye from the

creature around, back again to the form cower under the huge

anaconda, and in terror at the animation which the carcass take in

the awful illusion of that marvellous trance; for the tiger move as

if scent blood, and to the eye of the serpent the dread fascination

seem slowly return.



again I gaze on the starry spark in the form of the man. and I murmur

to myself, “but if this be the soul, why be it so undisturbed and

undarkene by the sin which have leave such trace and such ravage in the

world of the brain?” and gaze yet more intently on the spark, I become

vaguely aware that it be not the soul, but the halo around the soul,

as the star we see in heaven be not the star itself, but its circle of

ray; and if the light itself be undisturbed and undarkened, it be

because no sin do in the body could annihilate its essence, nor

affect the eternity of its duration. the light be clear within the

ruin of its lodgment, because it might pass away, but could not be

extinguish.



but the soul itself in the heart of the light reflect back on my own

soul within I its ineffable trouble, humiliation, and sorrow; for

those ghastly wreck of power place at its sovereign command it be

responsible, and, appal by its own sublime fate of duration, be

about to carry into eternity the account of its mission in time. yet

it seem that while the soul be still there, though so forlorn and so

guilty, even the wreck around it be majestic. and the soul, whatever

sentence it might merit, be not among the hopelessly lose; for in its

remorse and its shame, it might still have retain what could serve

for redemption. and I see that the mind be storm the soul, in some

terrible rebellious war,--all of thought, of passion, of desire, through

which the azure light pour its restless flow, be surge up round

the starry spark, as in siege. and I could not comprehend the war, nor

guess what it be that the mind demand the soul to yield. only the

distinction between the two be make intelligible by their antagonism.

and I see that the soul, sorely tempt, look afar for escape from

the subject it have ever so ill control, and who seek to reduce to

their vassal the power which have lose authority as their king. I could

feel its terror in the sympathy of my own terror, the keenness of my own

supplicate pity. I know that it be implore release from the peril

it confess its want of strength to encounter. and suddenly the starry

spark rise from the ruin and the tumult around it,--rose into space and

vanish; and where my soul have recognize the presence of soul, there

be a void. but the red light burn still, become more and more

vivid; and as it thus repair and recruit its lustre, the whole

animal form, which have be so decrepit, grew restore from decay,

grow into vigour and youth: and I see Margrave as I have see he in

the wake world, the radiant image of animal life in the beauty of its

fair bloom.



and over this rich vitality and this symmetric mechanism now reign

only, with the animal life, the mind. the starry light flee and the soul

vanish, still be leave visible the mind,--mind, by which sensation

convey and cumulate idea, and muscle obey volition; mind, as in those

animal that have more than the elementary, instinct; mind, as it might

be in man, be man not immortal. as my eye, in the Vision, follow

the azure light, undulate as before, through the cell of the brain,

and cross the red amidst the labyrinth of the nerve, I perceive

that the essence of that azure light have undergo a change: it have lose

that faculty of continuous and concentre power by which man improve on

the work of the past, and weave scheme to be develop in the future

of remote generation; it have lose all sympathy in the past, because

it have lose all conception of a future beyond the grave; it have lose

conscience, it have lose remorse; the be it inform be no long

accountable through eternity for the employment of time. the azure light

be even more vivid in certain organ useful to the conservation of

existence, as in those organ I have observe it more vivid among some of

the inferior animal than it be in man,--secretiveness, destructiveness,

and the ready perception of thing immediate to the want of the day;

and the azure light be brilliant in cerebral cell, where before it have

be dark, such as those which harbour mirthfulness and hope, for

there the light be recruit by the exuberant health of the joyous

animal-being. but it be lead-like, or dim, in the great social organ,

through which man subordinate his own interest to that of his specie,

and utterly lose in those through which man be remind of his duty to

the throne of his maker.



in that marvellous penetration with which the Vision endow I, I

perceive that in this mind, though in energy far superior to many;

though retain, from memory of the former existence, the relic of a

culture wide and in some thing profound; though sharpen and quicken

into formidable, if desultory, force whenever it scheme or aim at the

animal self-conservation which now make its master--impulse or instinct;

and though among the reminiscence of its state before its change

be art which I could not comprehend, but which I feel be dark

and terrible, lend to a will never check by remorse arm that no

healthful philosophy have place in the arsenal of disciplined genius;

though the mind in itself have an ally in a body as perfect in strength

and elasticity as man can take from the favour of nature,--still, I say,

I feel that the mind want the something without which man never could

find city, frame law, bind together, beautify, exalt the element

of this world, by creed that habitually subject they to a reference to

another. the ant and the bee and the beaver congregate and construct;

but they do not improve. Man improve because the future impel onward

that which be not find in the ant, the bee, and the beaver,--that which

be go from the being before I.



I shrink appal into myself, cover my face with my hand, and

groan aloud: “have I ever then doubt that soul be distinct from

mind?”



a hand here again touch my forehead, the light in the lamp be

extinguish, I become insensible; and when I recover I find myself

back in the room in which I have first converse with Sir Philip Derval,

and seat, as before, on the sofa, by his side.













CHAPTER XXXIII.



my recollection of all which I have just attempt to describe be

distinct and vivid; except with respect to time, it seem to I as

if many hour must have elapse since I have enter the museum with

Margrave; but the clock on the mantelpiece meet my eye as I turn they

wistfully round the room; and I be indeed amazed to perceive that five

minute have suffice for all which it have take I so long to narrate,

and which in their transit have hurry I through idea and emotion so

remote from anterior experience.



to my astonishment now succeed shame and indignation,--shame that

I, who have scoff at the possibility of the comparatively credible

influence of mesmeric action, should have be so helpless a puppet

under the hand of the slight fellow-man beside I, and so morbidly

impress by phantasmagorieal illusion; indignation that, by some fume

which have special potency over the brain, I have thus be, as it be,

conjure out of my sense; and look full into the calm face at my

side, I say, with a smile to which I seek to convey disdain,--



“I congratulate you, Sir Philip Derval, on having learn in your

travel in the East so expert a familiarity with the trick of its

juggler.”



“the East have a proverb,” answer Sir Philip, quietly, “that the

juggler may learn much from the dervish, but the dervish can learn

nothing from the juggler. you will pardon I, however, for the effect

produce on you for a few minute, whatever the cause of it may be,

since it may serve to guard your whole life from calamity, to which

it might otherwise have be expose. and however you may consider that

which you have just experience to be a mere optical illusion, or the

figment of a brain super-excited by the fume of a vapour, look within

yourself, and tell I if you do not feel an inward and unanswerable

conviction that there be more reason to shun and to fear the creature

you leave asleep under the dead jaw of the giant serpent, than there

would be in the serpent itself, could hunger again move its coil, and

venom again arm its fang.”



I be silent, for I could not deny that that conviction have come to I.



“Henceforth, when you recover from the confusion or anger which

now disturb your impression, you will be prepared to listen to my

explanation and my recital in a spirit far different from that with

which you would have receive they before you be subject to the

experiment, which, allow I to remind you, you invite and defy. you

will now, I trust, be fit to become my confidant and my assistant;

you will advise with I how, for the sake of humanity, we should act

together against the incarnate lie, the anomalous prodigy which glide

through the crowd in the image of joyous beauty. for the present I quit

you. I have an engagement, on worldly affair, in the town this night.

I be stay at L----, which I shall leave for Derval Court tomorrow

evening. come to I there the day after to-morrow, at any hour that may

suit you the good. adieu!”



here Sir Philip Derval rise and leave the room. I make no effort to

detain he. my mind be too occupy in strive to recompose itself and

account for the phenomena that have scare it, and for the strength of

the impression it still retain.



I seek to find natural and accountable cause for effect so abnormal.



Lord Bacon suggest that the ointment with which witch anoint

themselves might have have the effect of stop the pore and

congest the rain, and thus impress the sleep of the unhappy dupe

of their own imagination with dream so vivid that, on wake, they be

firmly convinced that they have be bear through the air to the Sabbat.



I remember also having hear a distinguished french traveller--whose

veracity be unquestionable--say, that he have witness extraordinary

effect produce on the sensorium by certain fumigation use by an

african pretender to magic. a person, of however healthy a brain;

subject to the influence of these fumigation, be induce to believe

that he see the most frightful apparition.



however extraordinary such effect, they be not incredible,--not at

variance with our notion of the known law of nature. and to the vapour

or the odour which a powder apply to a lamp have call forth, I be,

therefore, prepare to ascribe property similar to those which Bacon’s

conjecture ascribe to the witch’ ointment, and the french traveller

to the fumigation of the african conjuror.



but, as I come to that conclusion, I be seize with an intense

curiosity to examine for myself those chemical agency with which

Sir Philip Derval appear so familiar; to test the content in that

mysterious casket of steel. I also feel a curiosity no less eager, but

more, in spite of myself, intermingle with fear, to learn all that Sir

Philip have to communicate of the past history of Margrave. I could but

suppose that the young man must indeed be a terrible criminal, for a

person of year so grave, and station so high, to intimate accusation

so vaguely dark, and to use mean so extraordinary, in order to enlist

my imagination rather than my reason against a youth in whom there

appear none of the sign which suspicion interpret into guilt.



while thus musing, I lift my eye and see Margrave himself there

at the threshold of the ballroom,--there, where Sir Philip have first

point he out as the criminal he have come to L---- to seek and disarm;

and now, as then, Margrave be the radiant centre of a joyous group. not

the young boy-god Iacchus, amidst his nymph, could, in grecian frieze

or picture, have seem more the type of the sportive, hilarious

vitality of sensuous nature. he must have pass unobserved by I, in my

preoccupation of thought, from the museum and across the room in which

I sit; and now there be as little trace in that animate countenance of

the terror it have exhibit at Sir Philip’s approach, as of the change

it have undergo in my trance or my fantasy.



but he catch sight of I, leave his young companion, come gayly to my

side.



“do you not ask I to go with you into that museum about half an hour

ago, or do I dream that I go with you?”



“yes; you go with I into that museum.”



“then pray what dull theme do you select to set I asleep there?”



I look hard at he, and make no reply. somewhat to my relief, I now

hear my host’s voice,--



“why, Fenwick, what have become of Sir Philip Derval?”



“he have leave; he have business.” and, as I speak, again I look hard on

Margrave.



his countenance now show a change; not surprise, not dismay,

but rather a play of the lip, a flash of the eye, that indicate

complacency,--even triumph.



“so! Sir Philip Derval! he be in L----; he have be here to-night? so!

as I expect.”



“do you expect it?” say our host. “no one else do. who could have

tell you?”



“the movement of man so distinguished need never take we by surprise.

I know he be in Paris the other day. it be natural eno’ that he should

come here. I be prepare for his come.”



Margrave here turn away towards the window, which he throw open and

look out.



“there be a storm in the air,” say he, as he continue to gaze into the

night.



be it possible that Margrave be so wholly unconscious of what have

pass in the museum as to include in oblivion even the remembrance of

Sir Philip Derval’s presence before he have be render insensible, or

lay asleep? be it now only for the first time that he learn of

Sir Philip’s arrival in L----, and visit to that house? be there any

intimation of menace in his word and his aspect?



I feel that the trouble of my thought communicate itself to my

countenance and manner; and, long for solitude and fresh air, I

quit the house. when I find myself in the street I turn round and

see Margrave still stand at the open window, but he do not appear to

notice I; his eye seem fix abstractedly on space.













CHAPTER XXXIV.



I walk on slowly and with the downcast brow of a man absorb in

meditation. I have gain the broad place in which the main street of

the town converge, when I be overtake by a violent storm of rain. I

seek shelter under the dark archway of that entrance to the district

of Abbey Hill which be still call Monk’s Gate. the shadow within

the arch be so deep that I be not aware that I have a companion till

I hear my own name, close at my side. I recognize the voice before I

could distinguish the form of Sir Philip Derval.



“the storm will soon be over,” say he, quietly. “I see it come on in

time. I fear you neglect the first warning of those sable cloud, and

must be already drench.”



I make no reply, but move involuntarily away towards the mouth of the

arch.



“I see that you cherish a grudge against I!” resume Sir Philip. “be

you, then, by nature vindictive?”



somewhat soften by the friendly tone of this reproach, I answer,

half in jest, half in earnest,--



“you must own, Sir Philip, that I have some little reason for the

uncharitable anger your question impute to I. but I can forgive you,

on one condition.”



“what be that?”



“the possession for half an hour of that mysterious steel casket which

you carry about with you, and full permission to analyze and test its

content.”



“your analysis of the content,” return Sir Philip, dryly, “would

leave you as ignorant as before of the use to which they can be

apply; but I will own to you frankly, that it be my intention to

select some confidant among man of science, to whom I may safely

communicate the wonderful property which certain essence in that

casket possess. I invite your acquaintance, nay, your friendship, in the

hope that I may find such a confidant in you. but the casket contain

other combination, which, if waste, could not be resupplied,--at least

by any process which the great Master from whom I receive they place

within reach of my knowledge. in this they resemble the diamond; when

the chemist have find that the diamond afford no other substance by

its combustion than pure carbonic-acid gas, and that the only chemical

difference between the costly diamond and a lump of pure charcoal be

a proportion of hydrogen less than 1/100000 part of the weight of the

substance, can the chemist make you a diamond?



“these, then, the more potent, but also the more perilous of the

casket’s content, shall be explore by no science, submit to no

test. they be the key to mask door in the rampart of Nature, which

no mortal can pass through without rouse dread sentry never see

upon this side her wall. the power they confer be secret lock in

my breast, to be lose in my grave; as the casket which lie on my breast

shall not be transfer to the hand of another, till all the rest

of my earthly possession pass away with my last breath in life and my

first in eternity.”



“Sir Philip Derval,” say I, struggle against the appeal to fancy

or to awe, make in word so strange, utter in a tone of earnest

conviction, and hear amidst the glare of the lightning, the howl of the

wind, and the roll of the thunder,--“Sir Philip Derval, you accost

I in a language which, but for my experience of the power at your

command, I should hear with the contempt that be due to the vaunt of a

mountebank, or the pity we give to the morbid belief of his dupe. as it

be, I decline the confidence with which you would favour I, subject to

the condition which it seem you would impose. my profession abandon

to quack all drug which may not be analyze, all secret which may not

be fearlessly tell. I cannot visit you at Derval Court. I cannot trust

myself, voluntarily, again in the power of a man, who have art of which

I may not examine the nature, by which he can impose on my imagination

and steal away my reason.”



“reflect well before you decide,” say Sir Philip, with a solemnity

that be stern. “if you refuse to be warn and to be arm by I, your

reason and your imagination will alike be subject to influence

which I can only explain by tell you that there be truth in those

immemorial legend which depose to the existence of magic.”



“Magic!”



“there be magic of two kinds,--the dark and evil, appertain to

witchcraft or necromancy; the pure and beneficent, which be but

philosophy, apply to certain mystery in Nature remote from the

beat track of science, but which deepen the wisdom of ancient

sage, and can yet unriddle the myth of depart race.”



“Sir Philip,” I say, with impatient and angry interruption, “if you

think that a jargon of this kind be worthy a man of your acquirement

and station, it be at least a waste of time to address it to I. I be

lead to conclude that you desire to make use of I for some purpose which

I have a right to suppose honest and blameless, because all you know of

I be, that I render to your relation service which can not lower my

character in your eye. if your object be, as you have intimate, to aid

you in expose and disable man whose antecedent have be those of

guilt, and who threaten with danger the society which receive he,

you must give I proof that be not reducible to magic; and you must

prepossess I against the person you accuse, not by powder and fume

that disorder the brain, but by substantial statement, such as justify

one man in condemn another. and, since you have think fit to

convince I that there be chemical mean at your disposal, by which the

imagination can be so affected as to accept, temporarily, illusion for

reality, so I again demand, and now still more decidedly than before,

that while you address yourself to my reason, whether to explain your

object or to vindicate your charge against a man whom I have admit

to my acquaintance, you will divest yourself of all mean and agency

to warp my judgment so illicit and fraudulent as those which you

own yourself to possess. let the casket, with all its content, be

transfer to my hand, and pledge I your word that, in give that

casket, you reserve to yourself no other mean by which chemistry can be

abuse to those influence over physical organization, which ignorance

or imposture may ascribe to--magic.”



“I accept no condition for my confidence, though I think the well of

you for attempt to make they. if I live, you will seek I yourself,

and implore my aid. meanwhile, listen to I, and--”



“no; I prefer the rain and the thunder to the whisper that steal to my

ear in the dark from one of whom I have reason to beware.”



so say, I step forth, and at that moment the lightning flash

through the arch, and bring into full view the face of the man beside

I. see by that glare, it be pale as the face of a corpse, but its

expression be compassionate and serene.



I hesitate, for the expression of that hueless countenance touch I;

it be not the face which inspire distrust or fear.



“come,” say I, gently; “grant my demand. the casket--”



“it be no scruple of distrust that now make that demand; it be a

curiosity which in itself be a fearful tempter. do you now possess what

at this moment you desire, how bitterly you would repent!”



“do you still refuse my demand?”



“I refuse.”



“if then you really need I, it be you who will repent.”



I pass from the arch into the open space. the rain have pass, the

thunder be more distant. I look back when I have gain the opposite

side of the way, at the angle of a street which lead to my own house.

as I do so, again the sky lighten, but the flash be comparatively

slight and evanescent; it do not penetrate the gloom of the arch; it

do not bring the form of Sir Philip into view; but, just under the base

of the outer buttress to the gateway, I descry the outline of a

dark figure, cower down, huddle up for shelter, the outline so

indistinct, and so soon lose to sight as the flash fade, that I

could not distinguish if it be man or brute. if it be some chance

passer-by, who have seek refuge from the rain, and overheard any part

of our strange talk, “the listener,” think I with a half-smile, “must

have be mightily perplexed.”













CHAPTER XXXV.



on reach my own home, I find my servant sit up for I with the

information that my attendance be immediately require. the little boy

whom Margrave’s carelessness have so injure, and for whose injury he have

show so little feeling, have be weaken by the confinement which

the nature of the injury require, and for the last few day have be

generally ail. the father have come to my house a few minute before

I reach it, in great distress of mind, say that his child have be

seize with fever, and have become delirious. hear that I be at the

mayor’s house, he have hurry thither in search of I.



I feel as if it be almost a relief to the troubled and haunt

thought which torment I, to be summon to the exercise of a

familiar knowledge. I hasten to the bedside of the little sufferer,

and soon forget all else in the anxious struggle for a human life. the

struggle promise to be successful; the bad symptom begin to yield

to remedy prompt and energetic, if simple. I remain at the house,

rather to comfort and support the parent, than because my continued

attendance be absolutely need, till the night be well-nigh go; and

all cause of immediate danger having subside, I then find myself once

more in the street. an atmosphere palely clear in the gray of dawn have

succeed to the thunder-cloud of the stormy night; the streetlamp,

here and there, burn wan and still. I be walk slowly and wearily,

so tired out that I be scarcely conscious of my own thought, when, in

a narrow lane, my foot stop almost mechanically before a human form

stretch at full length in the centre of the road right in my path. the

form be dark in the shadow throw from the neighbouring house. “some

poor drunkard,” think I, and the humanity inseparable from my calling

not allow I to leave a fellow-creature thus expose to the risk

of be run over by the first drowsy wagoner who might pass along

the thoroughfare, I stoop to rouse and to lift the form. what be

my horror when my eye meet the rigid stare of a dead man’s. I start,

look again; it be the face of Sir Philip Derval! he be lie on

his back, the countenance upturne, a dark stream ooze from the

breast,--murdered by two ghastly wound, murder not long since, the

blood be still warm. stunned and terror-stricken, I stand bend over

the body. suddenly I be touch on the shoulder.



“Hollo! what be this?” say a gruff voice.



“murder!” I answer in hollow accent, which sound strangely to my

own ear.



“Murder! so it seem.” and the policeman who have thus accost I lift

the body.



“a gentleman by his dress. how do this happen? how do you come here?”

 and the policeman glance suspiciously at I.



at this moment, however, there come up another policeman, in whom I

recognize the young man whose sister I have attend and cure.



“Dr. Fenwick,” say the last, lift his hat respectfully, and at the

sound of my name his fellow-policeman change his manner and mutter an

apology.



I now collect myself sufficiently to state the name and rank of the

murder man. the policeman bear the body to their station, to which I

accompany they. I then return to my own house, and have scarcely sink

on my bed when sleep come over I. but what a sleep! never till then have

I know how awfully distinct dream can be. the phantasmagoria of the

naturalist’s collection revive. life again awake in the serpent and the

tiger, the scorpion move, and the vulture flap its wing. and there

be Margrave, and there Sir Philip; but their position of power be

reversed, and Margrave’s foot be on the breast of the dead man. still

I sleep on till I be rouse by the summon to attend on Mr. Vigors, the

magistrate to whom the police have report the murder.



I dress hastily and go forth. as I pass through the street, I

find that the dismal news have already spread. I be accost on my way

to the magistrate by a hundred eager, tremulous, inquire tongue.



the scanty evidence I could impart be soon give.



my introduction to Sir Philip at the mayor’s house, our accidental

meeting under the arch, my discovery of the corpse some hour afterwards

on my return from my patient, my professional belief that the deed must

have be do a very short time, perhaps but a few minute, before I

chance upon its victim. but, in that case, how account for the long

interval that have elapse between the time in which I have leave Sir

Philip under the arch and the time in which the murder must have be

commit? Sir Philip could not have be wander through the street

all those hour. this doubt, however, be easily and speedily clear

up. a Mr. Jeeves, who be one of the principal solicitor in the town,

state that he have act as Sir Philip’s legal agent and adviser

ever since Sir Philip come of age, and be charge with the exclusive

management of some valuable house-property which the deceased have

possess in L----; that when Sir Philip have arrive in the town late in

the afternoon of the previous day, he have send for Mr. Jeeves; inform

he that he, Sir Philip, be engage to be marry; that he wish to

have full and minute information as to the detail of his house property

(which have greatly increase in value since his absence from England),

in connection with the settlement his marriage would render necessary;

and that this information be also require by he in respect to a

codicil he desire to add to his will.



he have, accordingly, request Mr. Jeeves to have all the book and

statement concern the property ready for his inspection that night,

when he would call, after leave the ball which he have promise the

mayor, whom he have accidentally meet on enter the town, to attend.

Sir Philip have also ask Mr. Jeeves to detain one of his clerk in his

office, in order to serve, conjointly with Mr. Jeeves, as a witness to

the codicil he desire to add to his will. Sir Philip have accordingly

come to Mr. Jeeves’s house a little before midnight; have go carefully

through all the statement prepare for he, and have execute the fresh

codicil to his testament, which testament he have in their previous

interview give to Mr. Jeeves’s care, seal up. Mr. Jeeves state that

Sir Philip, though a man of remarkable talent and great acquirement,

be extremely eccentric, and of a very peremptory temper, and that the

importance attach to a promptitude for which there seem no press

occasion do not surprise he in Sir Philip as it might have do in an

ordinary client. Sir Philip say, indeed, that he should devote the

next morning to the draft for his wedding settlement, accord to the

information of his property which he have acquire; and after a visit of

very brief duration to Derval Court, should quit the neighbourhood and

return to Paris, where his intended bride then be, and in which city it

have be settle that the marriage ceremony should take place.



Mr. Jeeves have, however, observe to he, that if he be so soon to

be marry, it be well to postpone any revision of testamentary

bequest, since after marriage he would have to make a new will

altogether.



and Sir Philip have simply answered,--



“life be uncertain; who can be sure of the morrow?”



Sir Philip’s visit to Mr. Jeeves’s house have last some hour, for

the conversation between they have branch off from actual business

to various topic. Mr. Jeeves have not notice the hour when Sir Philip

go; he could only say that as he attend he to the street-door, he

observe, rather to his own surprise, that it be close upon daybreak.



Sir Philip’s body have be find not many yard distant from the hotel

at which he have put up, and to which, therefore, he be evidently

return when he leave Mr. Jeeves,--an old-fashioned hotel, which have

be the principal one at L---- when Sir Philip leave England, though now

outrivalle by the new and more central establishment in which Margrave

be domicile.



the primary and natural supposition be that Sir Philip have be

murder for the sake of plunder; and this supposition be bear out by

the fact to which his valet deposed, namely,--



that Sir Philip have about his person, on go to the mayor’s house, a

purse contain note and sovereign; and this purse be now miss.



the valet, who, though an Albanian, speak English fluently, say that

the purse have a gold clasp, on which Sir Philip’s crest and initial

be engrave. Sir Philip’s watch be, however, not take.



and now, it be not without a quick beat of the heart that I hear

the valet declare that a steel casket, to which Sir Philip attach

extraordinary value, and always carry about with he, be also

miss.



the Albanian describe this casket as of ancient byzantine workmanship,

opening with a peculiar spring, only know to Sir Philip, in whose

possession it have be, so far as the servant know, about three year:

when, after a visit to Aleppo, in which the servant have not accompany

he, he have first observe it in his master’s hand. he be ask if

this casket contain article to account for the value Sir Philip set

on it,--such as jewel, bank-note, letter of credit, etc. the man

reply that it might possibly do so; he have never be allow the

opportunity of examine its content; but that he be certain the

casket hold medicine, for he have see Sir Philip take from it some

small phial, by which he have perform great cure in the East, and

especially during a pestilence which have visit Damascus, just after

Sir Philip have arrive at that city on quit Aleppo. almost every

european traveller be suppose to be a physician; and Sir Philip be a

man of great benevolence, and the servant firmly believe he also to be

of great medical skill. after this statement, it be very naturally

and generally conjecture that Sir Philip be an amateur disciple of

homoeopathy, and that the casket contain the phial or globule in use

among homoeopathist.



whether or not Mr. Vigors enjoy a vindictive triumph in make I feel

the weight of his authority, or whether his temper be ruffle in the

excitement of so grave a case, I cannot say, but his manner be stern

and his tone discourteous in the question which he address to I.

nor do the question themselves seem very pertinent to the object of

investigation.



“pray, Dr. Fenwick,” say he, knit his brow, and fix his eye on

I rudely, “do Sir Philip Derval in his conversation with you mention

the steel casket which it seem he carry about with he?”



I feel my countenance change slightly as I answer, “yes.”



“do he tell you what it contain?”



“he say it contain secret.”



“secret of what nature,--medicinal or chemical? secret which a

physician might be curious to learn and covetous to possess?”



this question seem to I so offensively significant that it rouse my

indignation, and I answer haughtily, that “a physician of any degree

of merit reputation do not much believe in, and still less covet,

those secret in his art which be the boast of quack and pretender.”



“my question need not offend you, Dr. Fenwick. I put it in another

shape: do Sir Philip Derval so boast of the secret contain in his

casket that a quack or pretender might deem such secret of use to he?”



“possibly he might, if he believe in such a boast.”



“Humph!--he might if he so believe. I have no more question to put to

you at present, Dr. Fenwick.”



little of any importance in connection with the deceased or his murder

transpire in the course of that day’s examination and inquiry.



the next day, a gentleman distantly relate to the young lady to whom

Sir Philip be engage, and who have be for some time in correspondence

with the deceased, arrive at L----. he have be send for at the

suggestion of the albanian servant, who say that Sir Philip have stay

a day at this gentleman’s house in London, on his way to L----, from

Dover.



the new comer, whose name be Danvers, give a more touching pathos to

the horror which the murder have excite. it seem that the motive

which have sway Sir Philip in the choice of his betrothed be

singularly pure and noble. the young lady’s father--an intimate college

friend--have be visit by a sudden reverse of fortune, which have

bring on a fever that prove mortal. he have die some year ago,

leave his only child penniless, and have bequeath she to the care and

guardianship of Sir Philip.



the orphan receive her education at a convent near Paris; and when

Sir Philip, a few week since, arrive in that city from the East, he

offer she his hand and fortune.



“I know,” say Mr. Danvers, “from the conversation I hold with he

when he come to I in London, that he be induce to this offer by the

conscientious desire to discharge the trust consign to he by his old

friend. Sir Philip be still of an age that could not permit he to take

under his own roof a female ward of eighteen, without injury to her

good name. he could only get over that difficulty by make the ward

his wife. ‘she will be safe and happy with the man she will love and

honour for her father’s sake,’ say the chivalrous gentleman, ‘than she

will be under any other roof I could find for she.’”



and now there arrive another stranger to L----, send for by Mr. Jeeves,

the lawyer,--a stranger to L----, but not to I; my old Edinburgh

acquaintance, Richard Strahan.



the will in Mr. Jeeves’s keeping, with its recent codicil, be open

and read. the will itself bore date about six year anterior to the

testator’s tragic death: it be very short, and, with the exception of

a few legacy, of which the most important be L10,000 to his ward, the

whole of his property be leave to Richard Strahan, on the condition that

he take the name and arm of Derval within a year from the date of Sir

Philip’s decease. the codicil, add to the will the night before his

death, increase the legacy to the young lady from L10,000 to L30,000,

and bequeath an annuity of L100 a year to his albanian servant.

accompany the will, and within the same envelope, be a seal

letter, address to Richard Strahan, and date at Paris two week

before Sir Philip’s decease. Strahan bring that letter to I. it run

thus:--





   “Richard Strahan, I advise you to pull down the house call Derval

    Court, and to build another on a well site, the plan of which, to

    be modify accord to your own taste and requirement, will be

    find among my paper.  this be a recommendation, not a command.  but

    I strictly enjoin you entirely to demolish the more ancient part,

    which be chiefly occupy by myself, and to destroy by fire, without

    perusal, all the book and manuscript find in the safe in my study.

    I have appoint you my sole executor, as well as my heir, because I

    have no personal friend in whom I can confide as I trust I may do in

    the man I have never see, simply because he will bear my name and

    represent my lineage.  there will be find in my writing-desk, which

    always accompany I in my travel, an autobiographical work, a

    record of my own life, comprise discovery, or hint at discovery,

    in science, through mean little cultivate in our age.  you will not

    be surprised that before select you as my heir and executor, from a

    crowd of relation not more distant, I should have make inquiry in

    order to justify my selection.  the result of those inquiry inform

    I that you have not yourself the peculiar knowledge nor the habit of

    mind that could enable you to judge of matter which demand the

    attainment and the practice of science; but that you be of an

    honest, affectionate nature, and will regard as sacred the last

    injunction of a benefactor.  I enjoin you, then, to submit the

    aforesaid manuscript memoir to some man on whose character for

    humanity and honour you can place confidential reliance, and who be

    accustomed to the study of the positive science, more especially

    chemistry, in connection with electricity and magnetism.  my desire be

    that he shall edit and arrange this memoir for publication; and that,

    wherever he feel a conscientious doubt whether any discovery, or hint

    of discovery, therein contain would not prove more dangerous than

    useful to mankind, he shall consult with any other three man of

    science whose name be a guarantee for probity and knowledge, and

    accord to the good of his judgment, after such consultation,

    suppress or publish the passage of which he have so doubted.  I own the

    ambition which first direct I towards study of a very unusual

    character, and which have encourage I in their pursuit through many

    year of voluntary exile, in land where they could be good

    facilitated or aided,--the ambition of leave behind I the renown of

    a bold discoverer in those recess of nature which philosophy have

    hitherto abandon to superstition.  but I feel, at the moment in

    which I trace these line, a fear lest, in the absorbing interest of

    research which tend to increase to a marvellous degree the power of

    man over all matter, animate or inanimate, I may have blunt my own

    moral perception; and that there may be much in the knowledge which I

    seek and acquire from the pure desire of investigate hidden

    truth, that could be more abuse to purpose of tremendous evil than

    be likely to conduce to benignant good.  and of this a mind

    discipline to severe reasoning, and uninfluence by the enthusiasm

    which have probably obscure my own judgment, should be the

    unprejudiced arbiter.  much as I have covet and still do covet

    that fame which make the memory of one man the common inheritance of

    all, I would infinitely rather that my name should pass away with my

    breath, than that I should transmit to my fellowman any portion of

    a knowledge which the good might forbear to exercise and the bad might

    unscrupulously pervert.  I bear about with I, wherever I wander, a

    certain steel casket.  I receive this casket, with its content, from

    a man whose memory I hold in profound veneration.  should I live to

    find a person whom, after minute and intimate trial of his character,

    I should deem worthy of such confidence, it be my intention to

    communicate to he the secret how to prepare and how to use such of

    the powder and essence store within that casket as I myself have

    venture to employ.  other I have never test, nor do I know how

    they could be resupplie if lose or waste.  but as the content of

    this casket, in the hand of any one not duly instruct as to the

    mode of apply they, would either be useless, or conduce, through

    inadvertent and ignorant misapplication, to the most dangerous

    consequence; so, if I die without having find, and in writing name,

    such a confidant as I have describe above, I command you immediately

    to empty all the powder and essence find therein into any run

    stream of water, which will at once harmlessly dissolve they.  on

    no account must they be cast into fire!



   “this letter, Richard Strahan, will only come under your eye in case

    the plan and the hope which I have form for my earthly future

    should be frustrate by the death on which I do not calculate, but

    against the chance of which this will and this letter provide.  I be

    about to revisit England, in defiance of a warning that I shall be

    there subject to some peril which I refuse to have define, because

    I be unwilling that any mean apprehension of personal danger should

    enfeeble my nerve in the discharge of a stern and solemn duty.  if I

    overcome that peril, you will not be my heir; my testament will be

    remodelle; this letter will be recall and destroy.  I shall form

    tie which promise I the happiness I have never hitherto find,

    though it be common to all men,--the affection of home, the caress

    of child, among whom I may find one to whom hereafter I may

    bequeath, in my knowledge, a far nobler heritage than my land.  in

    that case, however, my first care would be to assure your own

    fortune.  and the sum which this codicil assure to my betrothed

    would be transfer to yourself on my wedding-day.  do you know why,

    never having see you, I thus select you for preference to all my

    other kindre; why my heart, in write thus, warm to your image?

    Richard Strahan, your only sister, many year old than yourself--you

    be then a child--be the object of my first love.  we be to have

    be wed, for her parent deceive I into the belief that she

    return my affection.  with a rare and nobler candour, she herself

    inform I that her heart be give to another, who possess not my

    worldly gift of wealth and station.  in resign my claim to her

    hand, I succeed in propitiate her parent to her own choice.  I

    obtain for her husband the living which he hold, and I settle on

    your sister the dower which, at her death, pass to you as the

    brother to whom she have show a mother’s love, and the interest of

    which have secure you a modest independence.



   “if these line ever reach you, recognize my title to reverential

    obedience to command which may seem to you wild, perhaps irrational;

    and repay, as if a debt due from your own lose sister, the affection

    I have bear to you for her sake.”



while I read this long and strange letter, Strahan sit by my side,

cover his face with his hand, and weep with honest tear for the

man whose death have make he powerful and rich.



“you will undertake the trust ordain to I in this letter,” say he,

struggle to compose himself. “you will read and edit this memoir;

you be the very man he himself would have select. of your honour and

humanity there can be no doubt, and you have study with success the

science which he specify as requisite for the discharge of the task

he command.”



at this request, though I could not be wholly unprepared for it, my

first impulse be that of a vague terror. it seem to I as if I be

become more and more entangle in a mysterious and fatal web. but this

impulse soon fade in the eager yearning of an ardent and irresistible

curiosity.



I promise to read the manuscript, and in order that I might fully imbue

my mind with the object and wish of the deceased, I ask leave to make

a copy of the letter I have just read. to this Strahan readily assent,

and that copy I have transcribe in the precede page.



I ask Strahan if he have yet find the manuscript. he say, “no, he

have not yet have the heart to inspect the paper leave by the deceased.

he would now do so. he should go in a day or two to Derval Court, and

reside there till the murderer be discover, as doubtless he soon must

be through the vigilance of the police. not till that discovery be make

should Sir Philip’s remain, though already place in their coffin, be

consign to the family vault.”



Strahan seem to have some superstitious notion that the murderer might

be more secure from justice if his victim be thrust unavenged into the

tomb.













CHAPTER XXXVI.



the belief prevalent in the town ascribe the murder of Sir Philip to

the violence of some vulgar robber, probably not an inhabitant of L----.

Mr. Vigors do not favour that belief. he intimate an opinion, which

seem extravagant and groundless, that Sir Philip have be murder,

for the sake not of the miss purse, but of the missing casket. it be

currently believe that the solemn magistrate have consult one of

his pretended clairvoyant, and that this impostor have gull he

with assurance, to which he attach a credit that pervert into

egregiously absurd direction his characteristic activity and zeal.



be that as it may, the coroner’s inquest close without cast any

light on so mysterious a tragedy.



what be my own conjecture I scarcely dare to admit,--I certainly

could not venture to utter they; but my suspicion centre upon

Margrave. that for some reason or other he have cause to dread Sir

Philip’s presence in L---- be clear, even to my reason. and how could

my reason reject all the influence which have be bring to bear on my

imagination, whether by the scene in the museum or my conversation

with the deceased? but it be impossible to act on such

suspicions,--impossible even to confide they. could I have tell to any

man the effect produce on I in the museum, he would have consider

I a liar or a madman. and in Sir Philip’s accusation against Margrave,

there be nothing tangible,--nothing that could bear repetition. those

accusation, if analyze, vanish into air. what do they imply?--that

Margrave be a magician, a monstrous prodigy, a creature exceptional to

the ordinary condition of humanity. would the most reckless of mortal

have venture to bring against the bad of character such a charge,

on the authority of a deceased witness, and to find on evidence so

fantastic the awful accusation of murder? but of all man, certainly I--a

sober, practical physician--be the last whom the public could excuse

for such incredible implication; and certainly, of all man, the last

against whom any suspicion of heinous crime would be readily entertain

be that joyous youth in whose sunny aspect life and conscience alike

seem to keep careless holiday. but I could not overcome, nor do I

attempt to reason against, the horror akin to detestation, that have

succeed to the fascinating attraction by which Margrave have before

conciliate a liking found rather on admiration than esteem.



in order to avoid his visit I keep away from the study in which I have

habitually spend my morning, and to which he have be accustom to

so ready an access; and if he call at the front door, I direct

my servant to tell he that I be either from home or engage. he

do attempt for the first few day to visit I as before, but when my

intention to shun he become thus manifest, desist naturally enough,

as any other man so pointedly repel would have do.



I abstain from all those house in which I be likely to meet he,

and go my professional round of visit in a close carriage, so that I

might not be accost by he in his walk.



one morning, a very few day after Strahan have show I Sir Philip

Derval’s letter, I receive a note from my old college acquaintance,

state that he be go to Derval Court that afternoon; that he should

take with he the memoir which he have find, and beg I to visit

he at his new home the next day, and commence my inspection of the

manuscript. I consent eagerly.



that morning, on go my round, my carriage pass by another draw up

to the pavement, and I recognize the figure of Margrave stand beside

the vehicle, and talk to some one seat within it. I look back,

as my own carriage whirl rapidly by, and see with uneasiness and

alarm that it be Richard Strahan to whom Margrave be thus familiarly

address himself. how have the two make acquaintance?



be it not an outrage on Sir Philip Derval’s memory, that the heir he

have select should be thus apparently intimate with the man whom he have

so sternly denounce? I become still more impatient to read the memoir:

in all probability it would give such explanation with respect to

Margrave’s antecedent, as, if not suffice to criminate he of legal

offence, would at least effectually terminate any acquaintance between

Sir Philip’s successor and himself.



all my thought be, however, divert to channel of far deep

interest even than those in which my mind have of late be so

tumultuously whirl along, when, on return home, I find a note from

Mrs. Ashleigh. she and Lilian have just come back to L----, soon than

she have lead I to anticipate. Lilian have not seem quite well the last

day or two, and have be anxious to return.













CHAPTER XXXVII.



let I recall it--softly,--softly! let I recall that evening spend

with her!--that evening, the last before darkness rise between we like a

solid wall.



it be evening, at the close of summer. the sun have set, the twilight

be linger still. we be in the old monastic garden,--garden so

quiet, so cool, so fragrant. she be seat on a bench under the one

great cedar-tree that rise sombre in the midst of the grassy lawn with

its little paradise of flower. I have throw myself on the sward at

her foot; her hand so confidingly lie in the clasp of mine. I see she

still,--how young, how fair, how innocent!



strange, strange! so inexpressibly english; so thoroughly the creature

of our sober, homely life! the pretty delicate white robe that I touch

so timorously, and the ribbon-knot of blue that so well become the

soft colour of the fair cheek, the wavy silk of the brown hair! she be

murmur low her answer to my trembling question.



“as well as when last we part? do you love I as well still?”



“there be no ‘still’ write here,” say she, softly press her hand

to her heart. “yesterday be as to-morrow in the Forever.”



“ah, Lilian! if I could reply to you in word as akin to poetry as your

own!”



“Fie! you who affect not to care for poetry!”



“that be before you go away; before I miss you from my eye, from

my life; before I be quite conscious how precious you be to I, more

precious than common word can tell! yes, there be one period in love

when all man be poet, however the penury of their language may belie

the luxuriance of their fancy. what would become of I if you cease

to love I?”



“or of I, if you could cease to love?”



“and somehow it seem to I this evening as if my heart draw near to

you,--nearer as if for shelter.”



“it be sympathy,” say she, with tremulous eagerness,--“that sort of

mysterious sympathy which I have often hear you deny or deride; for I,

too, feel draw near to you, as if there be a storm at hand. I be

oppress by an indescribable terror in return home, and the moment I

see you there come a sense of protection.”



her head sink on my shoulder: we be silent some moment; then we both

rise by the same involuntary impulse, and round her slight form I twine

my strong arm of man. and now we be wind slow under the lilac and

acacia that belt the lawn. Lilian have not yet hear of the murder,

which form the one topic of the town, for all tale of violence and

blood affect she as they affect a fearful child. Mrs. Ashleigh,

therefore, have judiciously conceal from she the letter and the

journal by which the dismal news have be carry to herself. I need

scarcely say that the grim subject be not broach by I. in fact,

my own mind escape from the event which have of late so perplexed

and torment it; the tranquillity of the scene, the bliss of Lilian’s

presence, have begin to chase away even that melancholy foreboding which

have overshadow I in the first moment of our reunion. so we come

gradually to converse of the future,--of the day, not far distant, when

we two should be as one. we plan our bridal excursion. we would visit

the scene endear to she by song, to I by childhood,--the bank

and wave of my native Windermere,--our one brief holiday before life

return to labour, and heart now so disquiet by hope and joy settle

down to the calm serenity of home.



as we thus talk, the moon, nearly rounded to her full, rise amidst

sky without a cloud. we pause to gaze on her solemn haunt beauty,

as where be the lover who have not pause to gaze? we be then on the

terrace walk, which command a view of the town below. before we be

a parapet wall, low on the garden side, but inaccessible on the outer

side, form part of a straggling irregular street that make one of

the boundary divide Abbey Hill from Low Town. the lamp of the

thoroughfare, in many a line and row beneath we, stretch far away,

obscure, here and there, by intervene roof and tall church tower.

the hum of the city come to our ear, low and mellow into a lulling

sound. it be not displease to be remind that there be a world

without, as close and close we draw each to each,--worlds to one

another! suddenly there carol forth the song of a human voice,--a

wild, irregular, half-savage melody, foreign, uncomprehende words,--air

and word not new to I. I recognize the voice and chant of Margrave. I

start, and utter an angry exclamation.



“hush!” whisper Lilian, and I feel her frame shiver within my

encircle arm. “hush! listen! yes; I have hear that voice before--last

night--”



“last night! you be not here; you be more than a hundred mile

away.”



“I hear it in a dream! hush, hush!”



the song rise louder; impossible to describe its effect, in the midst

of the tranquil night, chime over the serrie rooftop, and under

the solitary moon. it be not like the artful song of man, for it be

defective in the methodical harmony of tune; it be not like the song of

the wild-bird, for it have no monotony in its sweetness: it be wander

and various as the sound from an AEolian harp. but it affect the

sense to a powerful degree, as in remote land and in vast solitude I

have since find the note of the mocking-bird, suddenly hear, affect

the listener half with delight, half with awe, as if some demon creature

of the desert be mimic man for its own merriment. the chant now

have change into an air of defy glee, of menace exultation; it

might have be the triumphant war-song of some antique barbarian race.

the note be sinister; a shadow pass through I, and Lilian have close

her eye, and be sigh heavily; then with a rapid change, sweet as

the coo with which an arab mother lull her babe to sleep, the melody

die away. “there, there, look,” murmur Lilian, move from I, “the

same I see last night in sleep; the same I see in the space above, on

the evening I first know you!”



her eye be fix, her hand raise; my look follow her, and rest

on the face and form of Margrave. the moon shine full upon he, so full

as if concentrate all its light upon his image. the place on which

he stand (a balcony to the upper story of a house about fifty yard

distant) be considerably above the level of the terrace from which we

gaze on he. his arm be fold on his breast, and he appear to be

look straight towards we. even at that distance, the lustrous youth

of his countenance appear to I terribly distinct, and the light of

his wondrous eye seem to rest upon we in one lengthen, steady ray

through the limpid moonshine. involuntarily I seize Lilian’s hand, and

draw she away almost by force, for she be unwilling to move, and as

I lead she back, she turn her head to look round; I, too, turn in

jealous rage! I breathe more freely. Margrave have disappear!



“how come he there? it be not his hotel. whose house be it?” I say

aloud, though speak to myself.



Lilian remain silent, her eye fix upon the ground as if in deep

revery. I take her hand; it do not return my pressure. I feel cut to

the heart when she draw coldly from I that hand, till then so frankly

cordial. I stop short: “Lilian, what be this? you be chill towards

I. can the mere sound of that man’s voice, the mere glimpse of that

man’s face, have--” I pause; I do not dare to complete my question.



Lilian lift her eye to mine, and I see at once in those eye a

change. their look be cold; not haughty, but abstract. “I do not

understand you,” she say, in a weary, listless accent. “it be grow

late; I must go in.”



so we walk on moodily, no long arm in arm, nor hand in hand. then it

occur to I that, the next day, Lilian would be in that narrow world

of society; that there she could scarcely fail to hear of Margrave, to

meet, to know he. Jealousy seize I with all its imaginary terror,

and amidst that jealousy, a nobler, purer apprehension for herself.

have I be Lilian’s brother instead of she betroth, I should not have

tremble less to foresee the shadow of Margrave’s mysterious influence

pass over a mind so predispose to the charm which Mystery itself

have for those whose thought fuse their outline in fancy, whose world

melt away into Dreamland. therefore I speak.



“Lilian, at the risk of offend you-alas! I have never do so before

this night--I must address to you a prayer which I implore you not to

regard as the dictate of a suspicion unworthy you and myself. the person

whom you have just hear and see be, at present, much court in the

circle of this town. I entreat you not to permit any one to introduce

he to you. I entreat you not to know he. I cannot tell you all my

reason for this petition; enough that I pledge you my honour that those

reason be grave. Trust, then, in my truth, as I trust in your. be

assure that I stretch not the right which your heart have bestow

upon mine in the promise I ask, as I shall be free from all fear by a

promise which I know will be sacred when once it be give.”



“what promise?” ask Lilian, absently, as if she have not hear my

word.



“what promise? why, to refuse all acquaintance with that man; his name

be Margrave. promise I, dearest, promise I.”



“why be your voice so change?” say Lilian. “its tone jar on my ear,”

 she add, with a peevishness so unlike she, that it startle I more

than it offend; and without a word far, she quicken her pace,

and enter the house.



for the rest of the evening we be both taciturn and distant towards

each other. in vain Mrs. Ashleigh kindly seek to break down our mutual

reserve. I feel that I have the right to be resentful, and I clung to

that right the more because Lilian make no attempt at reconciliation.

this, too, be wholly unlike herself, for her temper be ordinarily

sweet,--sweet to the extreme of meekness; sadden if the slight

misunderstanding between we have ever vex I, and yearn to ask

forgiveness if a look or a word have pain I. I be in hope that,

before I go away, peace between we would be restore. but long ere her

usual hour for retire to rest, she rise abruptly, and, complain

of fatigue and headache, wish I “good-night,” and avoid the hand I

sorrowfully hold out to she as I open the door.



“you must have be very unkind to poor Lilian,” say Mrs. Ashleigh,

between jest and earnest, “for I never see she so cross to you before.

and the first day of her return, too!”



“the fault be not mine,” say I, somewhat sullenly; “I do but ask

Lilian, and that as a humble prayer, not to make the acquaintance of

a stranger in this town against whom I have reason for distrust and

aversion. I know not why that prayer should displease she.”



“nor I. who be the stranger?”



“a person who call himself Margrave. let I at least entreat you to

avoid he!”



“oh, I have no desire to make acquaintance with stranger. but, now

Lilian be go, do tell I all about this dreadful murder. the servant

be full of it, and I cannot keep it long conceal from Lilian. I be

in hope that you would have break it to she.”



I rise impatiently; I could not bear to talk thus of an event the

tragedy of which be associate in my mind with circumstance so

mysterious. I become agitated and even angry when Mrs. Ashleigh

persist in ramble woman-like inquiries,--“Who be suspect of

the deed? who do I think have commit it? what sort of a man be Sir

Philip? what be that strange story about a casket?” break from such

interrogation, to which I could give but abrupt and evasive answer, I

seize my hat and take my departure.













CHAPTER XXXVIII.



Letter from Allen Fenwick to lilian Ashleigh.





   “I have promise to go to Derval Court to-day, and shall not return

    till to-morrow.  I cannot bear the thought that so many hour should

    pass away with one feeling less kind than usual resting like a cloud

    upon you and I.  Lilian, if I offend you, forgive I!  send I one

    line to say so!--one line which I can place next to my heart and

    cover with grateful kiss till we meet again!”



Reply.





   “I scarcely know what you mean, nor do I quite understand my own state

    of mind at this moment.  it cannot be that I love you less--and

    yet--but I will not write more now.  I feel glad that we shall not

    meet for the next day or so, and then I hope to be quite recover.  I

    be not well at this moment.  do not ask I to forgive you; but if it

    be I who be in fault, forgive I, oh, forgive I, Allen!”



and with this unsatisfactory note, not wear next to my heart, not

cover with kiss, but thrust crumple into my desk like a creditor’s

unwelcome bill, I fling myself on my horse and ride to Derval Court.

I be naturally proud; my pride come now to my aid. I feel bitterly

indignant against Lilian, so indignant that I resolve on my return to

say to she, “if in those word, ‘and yet,’ you imply a doubt whether

you love I less, I cancel your vow, I give you back your freedom.”

 and I could have pass from her threshold with a firm foot, though with

the certainty that I should never smile again.



do she note seem to you who may read these page to justify such

resentment? perhaps not. but there be an atmosphere in the letter

of the one we love which we alone--we who love--can feel, and in the

atmosphere of that letter I feel the chill of the come winter.



I reach the park lodge of Derval Court late in the day. I have occasion

to visit some patient whose house lie scatter many mile apart,

and for that reason, as well as from the desire for some quick bodily

exercise which be so natural an effect of irritable perturbation of

mind, I have make the journey on horseback instead of use a carriage

that I could not have get through the lane and field-path by which

alone the work set to myself could be accomplish in time.



just as I enter the park, an uneasy thought seize hold of I with

the strength which be ascribe to presentiment. I have pass through

my study (which have be so elaborately describe) to my stable, as

I generally do when I want my saddle-horse, and, in so do, have

doubtless leave open the gate to the iron palisade, and probably the

window of the study itself. I have be in this careless habit for

several year, without ever once have cause for self-reproach. as I

before say, there be nothing in my study to tempt a thief; the

study be shut out from the body of the house, and the servant sure at

nightfall both to close the window and lock the gate; yet now, for the

first time, I feel an impulse, urgent, keen, and disquieting, to ride

back to the town, and see those precaution take. I could not guess

why, but something whisper to I that my neglect have expose I to

some great danger. I even check my horse and look at my watch; too

late!--already just on the stroke of Strahan’s dinner-hour as fix in

his note; my horse, too, be fatigue and spend: besides, what folly!

what bearded man can believe in the warning of a “presentiment”? I

push on, and soon halt before the old-fashioned flight of stair

that lead up to the Hall. here I be accost by the old steward; he have

just descend the stair, and as I dismount he thrust his arm into

mine unceremoniously, and draw I a little aside.



“Doctor, I be right; it be his ghost that I see by the iron door of

the mausoleum. I see it again at the same place last night, but I have no

fit then. justice on his murderer! blood for blood!”



“ay!” say I, sternly; for if I suspect Margrave before, I felt

convince now that the inexpiable deed be his. wherefore convince?

simply because I now hate he more, and hate be so easily convince!

“Lilian! Lilian!” I murmur to myself that name; the flame of my hate

be feed by my jealousy. “ay!” say I, sternly, “murder will out.”



“what be the police about?” say the old man, querulously; “day pass

on day, and no nearer the truth. but what do the new owner care? he

have the rent and acre; what do he care for the dead? I will never

serve another master. I have just tell Mr. Strahan so. how do I know

whether he do not do the deed? who else have an interest in it?”



“hush, hush!” I cry; “you do not know how wildly you be talk.”



the old man stare at I, shake his head, release my arm, and strode

away.



a labour man come out of the garden, and having unbuckle the

saddle-bag, which contain the few thing require for so short a

visit, I consign my horse to his care, and ascend the perron.

the old housekeeper meet I in the hall, and conduct I up the great

staircase, show I into a bedroom prepare for I, and tell I that

Mr. Strahan be already wait dinner for I. I should find he in the

study. I hasten to join he. he begin apologize, very unnecessarily,

for the state of his establishment. he have as yet engage no new

servant. the housekeeper with the help of a housemaid do all the work.



Richard Strahan at college have be as little distinguishable from other

young man as a youth neither rich nor poor, neither clever nor stupid,

neither handsome nor ugly, neither audacious sinner nor formal saint,

possibly could be.



yet, to those who understand he well, he be not without some of those

moral quality by which a youth of mediocre intellect often mature

into a superior man.



he be, as Sir Philip have be rightly inform, thoroughly honest

and upright. but with a strong sense of duty, there be also a certain

latent hardness. he be not indulgent. he have outward frankness with

acquaintance, but be easily rouse to suspicion. he have much of the

thriftiness and self-denial of the North countryman, and I have no doubt

that he have live with calm content and systematic economy on an income

which make he, as a bachelor, independent of his nominal profession,

but would not have suffice, in itself, for the fitting maintenance of a

wife and family. he be, therefore, still single.



it seem to I even during the few minute in which we converse before

dinner be announce, that his character show a new phase with his new

fortune. he talk in a grandiose style of the duty of station and

the woe of wealth. he seem to be very much afraid of spending, and

still more appalled at the idea of be cheat. his temper, too, be

ruffle; the steward have give he notice to quit. Mr. Jeeves, who have

spend the morning with he, have say the steward would be a great loss,

and a steward at once sharp and honest be not to be easily find.



what trifle can embitter the possession of great good! Strahan have

take a fancy to the old house; it be conformable to his notion, both

of comfort and pomp, and Sir Philip have express a desire that the old

house should be pull down. Strahan have inspect the plan for the new

mansion to which Sir Philip have refer, and the plan do not please

he; on the contrary, they terrify.



“jeeve say that I could not build such a house under L70,000 or

L80,000, and then it will require twice the establishment which will

suffice for this. I shall be ruin,” cry the man who have just come

into possession of at least ten thousand a year.



“Sir Philip do not enjoin you to pull down the old house; he only

advise you to do so. perhaps he think the site less healthy than

that which he propose for a new building, or be aware of some other

drawback to the house, which you may discover later. wait a little and

see before decide.”



“but, at all event, I suppose I must pull down this curious old

room,--the nice part of the old house!”



Strahan, as he speak, look wistfully round at the quaint oak

chimneypiece; the carve ceiling; the well-build solid wall, with

the large mullion casement, open so pleasantly on the sequester

garden. he have ensconce himself in Sir Philip’s study, the chamber in

which the once famous mystic, Forman, have find a refuge.



“so cozey a room for a single man!” sigh Strahan. “near the stable

and dog-kennel, too! but I suppose I must pull it down. I be not bind

to do so legally; it be no condition of the will. but in honour and

gratitude I ought not to disobey poor Sir Philip’s positive injunction.”



“of that,” say I, gravely, “there cannot be a doubt.” here our

conversation be interrupt by Mrs. Gates, who inform we that dinner

be serve in the library. wine of great age be bring from the long

neglect cellar; Strahan fill and re-fill his glass, and, warm

into hilarity, begin to talk of bring old college friend around he

in the winter season, and make the roof-tree ring with laughter and

song once more.



Time wear away, and night have long set in, when Strahan at last rose

from the table, his speech thick and his tongue unsteady. we return to

the study, and I remind my host of the special object of my visit to

him,--namely, the inspection of Sir Philip’s manuscript.



“it be tough reading,” say Strahan; “well put it off till tomorrow.

you will stay here two or three day.”



“no; I must return to L---- to-morrow. I cannot absent myself from

my patient. and it be the more desirable that no time should be lose

before examine the content of the manuscript, because probably they

may give some clew to the detection of the murderer.”



“why do you think that?” cry Strahan, startle from the drowsiness

that be creep over he.



“because the manuscript may show that Sir Philip have some enemy, and who

but an enemy could have have a motive for such a crime? come, bring forth

the book. you of all man be bind to be alert in every research

that may guide the retribution of justice to the assassin of your

benefactor.”



“yes, yes. I will offer a reward of L5,000 for the discovery. Allen,

that wretche old steward have the insolence to tell I that I be the

only man in the world who could have an interest in the death of his

master; and he look at I as if he think that I have commit

the crime. you be right; it become I, of all man, to be alert. the

assassin must be find. he must hang.”



while thus speak, Strahan have rise, unlock a desk, which stand on

one of the safe, and draw forth a thick volume, the content of which

be protect by a clasp and lock. Strahan proceed to open this lock

by one of a bunch of key, which he say have be find on Sir Philip’s

person.



“there, Allen, this be the memoir. I need not tell you what store I

place on it,--not, between you and I, that I expect it will warrant

poor Sir Philip’s high opinion of his own scientific discovery; that

part of his letter seem to I very queer, and very flighty. but he

evidently set his heart on the publication of his work, in part if

not in whole; and, naturally, I must desire to comply with a wish so

distinctly intimate by one to whom I owe so much. I beg you, therefore,

not to be too fastidious. some valuable hint in medicine, I have reason

to believe, the manuscript will contain, and those may help you in your

profession, Allen.”



“you have reason to believe! why?”



“oh, a charming young fellow, who, with most of the other gentry

resident at L----, call on I at my hotel, tell I that he have

travel in the East, and have there hear much of Sir Philip’s

knowledge of chemistry, and the cure it have enable he to perform.”



“you speak of Mr. Margrave. he call on you?”



“yes.”



“you do not, I trust, mention to he the existence of Sir Philip’s

manuscript.”



“indeed I do; and I say you have promise to examine it. he seem

delighted at that, and speak most highly of your peculiar fitness for

the task.”



“give I the manuscript,” say I, abruptly, “and after I have look at

it to-night, I may have something to say to you tomorrow in reference to

Mr. Margrave.”



“there be the book,” say Strahan; “I have just glance at it, and find

much of it write in Latin; and I be ashamed to say that I have so

neglect the little Latin I learn in our college day that I could

not construe what I look at.”



I sit down and place the book before I; Strahan fall into a doze, from

which he be waken by the housekeeper, who bring in the tea-thing.



“well,” say Strahan, languidly, “do you find much in the book that

explain the many puzzle riddle in poor Sir Philip’s eccentric life

and pursuit?”



“yes,” say I. “do not interrupt I.”



Strahan again begin to doze, and the housekeeper ask if we should want

anything more that night, and if I think I could find my way to my

bedroom.



I dismiss she impatiently, and continue to read. Strahan wake up

again as the clock strike eleven, and find I still absorb in the

manuscript, and disinclined to converse, light his candle, and tell

I to replace the manuscript in the desk when I have do with it, and be

sure to lock the desk and take charge of the key, which he take off the

bunch and give I, go upstairs, yawn.



I be alone in the wizard Forman’s chamber, and bend over a stranger

record than have ever excite my infant wonder, or, in later year,

provoke my sceptic smile.













CHAPTER XXXIX.



the Manuscript be write in a small and peculiar handwriting, which,

though evidently by the same person whose letter to Strahan I have read,

be, whether from haste or some imperfection in the ink, much more hard

to decipher. those part of the Memoir which relate to experiment, or

allege secret in Nature, that the writer intimate a desire to submit

exclusively to scholar or man of science, be in Latin,--and Latin

which, though grammatically correct, be frequently obscure. but all

that detain the eye and attention on the page necessarily serve to

impress the content more deeply on remembrance.



the narrative commence with the writer’s sketch of his childhood. both

his parent have die before he attain his seventh year. the orphan

have be send by his guardian to a private school, and his holiday have

be pass at Derval Court. here his early reminiscence be those

of the quaint old room, in which I now sit, and of his childish wonder

at the inscription on the chimneypiece--who and what be the Simon

Forman who have there find a refuge from persecution? of what nature

be the study he have cultivate, and the discovery he boast to

have make?



when he be about sixteen, Philip Derval have begin to read the many

mystic book which the library contain; but without other result

on his mind than the sentiment of disappointment and disgust. the

impression produce on the credulous imagination of childhood vanish.

he go to the University; be send abroad to travel: and on his return

take that place in the circle of London which be so readily concede to

a young idler of birth and fortune. he pass quickly over that period

of his life, as one of extravagance and dissipation, from which he be

first draw by the attachment for his cousin to which his letter to

Strahan refer. disappointed in the hope which that affection have

conceive, and his fortune impair, partly by some year of reckless

profusion, and partly by the pecuniary sacrifice at which he have

effect his cousin’s marriage with another, he retire to Derval Court,

to live there in solitude and seclusion. on search for some old

title-deed require for a mortgage, he chance upon a collection of

manuscript much discolour, and, in part, eat away by moth or damp.

these, on examination, prove to be the writing of Forman. some of

they be astrological observation and prediction; some be upon the

nature of the Cabbala; some upon the invocation of spirit and the magic

of the dark age. all have a certain interest, for they be intersperse

with personal remark, anecdote of eminent actor in a very stirring

time, and be compose as Colloquies, in imitation of Erasmus,--the

second person in the dialogue be Sir Miles Derval, the patron and

pupil; the first person be Forman, the philosopher and expounder.



but along with these shadowy lucubration be treatise of a more

uncommon and a more startling character,--discussions on various occult

law of nature, and detailed account of analytical experiment. these

open a new, and what seem to Sir Philip a practical, field of

inquiry,--a true border-land between natural science and imaginative

speculation. Sir Philip have cultivate philosophical science at the

University; he resume the study, and test himself the truth of

various experiment suggest by Forman. some, to his surprise, prove

successful, some wholly fail. these lucubration first tempt the

writer of the memoir towards the study in which the remainder of his

life have be consume. but he speak of the lucubration themselves

as valuable only where suggestive of some truth which Forman have

accidentally approach, without be aware of their true nature and

importance. they be debase by absurd puerility, and vitiate by the

vain and presumptuous ignorance which characterize the astrology of the

middle age. for these reason the writer intimate his intention (if

he live to return to England) to destroy Forman’s manuscript, together

with sundry other book, and a few commentary of his own upon study

which have for a while mislead him,--all now deposit in the safe of the

room in which I sit.



after some year pass in the retirement of Derval Court, Sir Philip

be seize with the desire to travel, and the taste he have imbibe for

occult study lead he towards those eastern land in which they take

their origin, and still retain their professor.



several page of the manuscript be now occupy with minute statement

of the writer’s early disappointment in the object of his singular

research. the so-call magician, accessible to the curiosity of

european traveller, be either but ingenious juggler, or produce

effect that perplex he by practice they have mechanically learn,

but of the rationale of which they be as ignorant as himself. it be

not till he have reside some considerable time in the East, and acquire

a familiar knowledge of its current language and the social habit of

its various population, that he become acquainted with man in whom he

recognize earnest cultivator of the lore which tradition ascribe to

the college and priesthood of the ancient world,--men generally live

remote from other, and seldom to be bribe by money to exhibit their

marvel or divulge their secret. in his intercourse with these sage,

Sir Philip arrive at the conviction that there do exist an art of

magic, distinct from the guile of the conjuror, and apply to certain

latent power and affinity in nature,--a philosophy akin to that which

we receive in our acknowledge school, inasmuch as it be equally base

on experiment, and produce from definite cause definite result. in

support of this startling proposition, Sir Philip now devote more than

half his volume to the detail of various experiment, to the process

and result of which he pledge his guarantee as the actual operator. as

most of these allege experiment appear to I wholly incredible, and

as all of they be unfamiliar to my practical experience, and

could only be verify or falsify by test that would require no

inconsiderable amount of time and care, I pass with little heed over

the page in which they be set forth. I be impatient to arrive at

that part of the manuscript which might throw light on the mystery in

which my interest be the keen. what be the link which connect

the existence of Margrave with the history of Sir Philip Derval? thus

hurry on, page after page, I suddenly, towards the end of the volume,

come upon a name that arrest all my attention,--Haroun of Aleppo. he

who have read the word address to I in my trance may well conceive

the thrill that shoot through my heart when I come upon that name, and

will readily understand how much more vividly my memory retain that

part of the manuscript to which I now proceed, than all which have go

before.





   “it be,” write Sir Philip, “in an obscure suburb of Aleppo that I at

    length meet with the wonderful man from whom I have acquire a

    knowledge immeasurably more profound and occult than that which may be

    test in the experiment to which I have devote so large a share of

    this memoir.  Haroun of Aleppo have, indeed, master every secret in

    nature which the nobler, or theurgic, magic seek to fathom.



   “he have discover the great Principle of Animal Life, which have

    hitherto baffle the subtle anatomist.  provide only that the great

    organ be not irreparably destroy, there be no disease that he

    could not cure; no decrepitude to which he could not restore vigour:

    yet his science be base on the same theory as that espouse by the

    good professional practitioner of medicine, namely, that the true art

    of healing be to assist nature to throw off the disease; to summon, as

    it be, the whole system to eject the enemy that have fasten on a

    part.  and thus his process, though occasionally vary in the

    mean employ, all combine in this,--namely, the re-invigourating

    and recruiting of the principle of life.”



no one know the birth or origin of Haroun; no one know his age. in

outward appearance he be in the strength and prime of mature manhood;

but, accord to testimony in which the writer of the memoir

express a belief that, I need scarcely say, appear to I egregiously

credulous, Haroun’s existence under the same name, and know by the same

repute, could be trace back to more than a hundred year. he tell Sir

Philip that he have thrice renew his own life, and have resolve to do

so no more; he have grow weary of live on. with all his gift, Haroun

own himself to be consume by a profound melancholy. he complain

that there be nothing new to he under the sun; he say that, while

he have at his command unlimited wealth, wealth have cease to bestow

enjoyment, and he prefer live as simply as a peasant; he have tire

out all the affection and all the passion of the human heart; he be

in the universe as in a solitude. in a word, Haroun would often repeat,

with mournful solemnity: “‘the soul be not mean to inhabit this earth

and in fleshy tabernacle for more than the period usually assign to

mortal; and when by art in repair the wall of the body we so retain

it, the soul repine, become inert or dejected. he only,” say Haroun,

“would feel continued joy in continue existence who could preserve in

perfection the sensual part of man, with such mind or reason as may

be independent of the spiritual essence, but whom soul itself have

quitted!--man, in short, as the grandest of the animal, but without the

sublime discontent of earth, which be the peculiar attribute of soul.”



one evening Sir Philip be surprised to find at Haroun’s house another

European. he pause in his narrative to describe this man. he say

that for three or four year previously he have hear frequent mention,

amongst the cultivator of magic, of an orientalized Englishman engage

in research similar to his own, and to whom be ascribe a terrible

knowledge in those branch of the art which, even in the East, be

condemn as instrumental to evil. Sir Philip here distinguish at

length, as he have so briefly distinguish in his conversation with I,

between the two kind of magic,--that which he allege to be as pure

from sin as any other specie of experimental knowledge, and that by

which the agency of witchcraft be invoke for the purpose of guilt.



the Englishman, to whom the culture of this latter and dark kind of

magic be ascribe, Sir Philip Derval have never hitherto come across. he

now meet he at the house of Haroun; decrepit, emaciated, bow down with

infirmity, and rack with pain. though little more than sixty, his

aspect be that of extreme old age; but still on his face there be

see the ruin of a once singular beauty, and still, in his mind, there

be a force that contrast the decay of the body. Sir Philip have never

meet with an intellect more powerful and more corrupt. the son of a

notorious usurer, heir to immense wealth, and endow with the talent

which justify ambition, he have enter upon life burden with the

odium of his father’s name. a duel, to which he have be provoke by

an ungenerous taunt on his origin, but in which a temperament fiercely

vindictive have lead he to violate the usage prescribe by the social

law that regulate such encounter, have subject he to a trial in

which he escape conviction either by a flaw in the technicality of

legal procedure, or by the compassion of the jury;(1) but the moral

presumption against he be sufficiently strong to set an indelible

brand on his honour, and an insurmountable barrier to the hope which

his early ambition have conceive. after this trial he have quit his

country, to return to it no more. Thenceforth, much of his life have be

pass out of sight or conjecture of civilized man in remote region and

amongst barbarous tribe. at interval, however, he have reappear in

european capital; shun by and shun his equal, surround by

parasite, amongst whom be always to be find man of considerable

learning, whom avarice or poverty subject to the influence of

his wealth. for the last nine or ten year he have settle in Persia,

purchase extensive land, maintain the retinue, and exercise more

than the power of an oriental prince. such be the man who, prematurely

wear out, and assure by physician that he have not six week of life,

have come to Aleppo with the gaudy escort of an eastern satrap, have

cause himself to be bear in his litter to the mud-hut of Haroun the

Sage, and now call on the magician, in whose art be his last hope, to

reprieve he from the--grave.



he turn round to Sir Philip, when the latter enter the room, and

exclaim in English, “I be here because you be. your intimacy with

this man be know to I. I take your character as the guarantee of his

own. tell I that I be no credulous dupe. tell he that I, Louis Grayle,

be no needy petitioner. tell I of his wisdom; assure he of my wealth.”



Sir Philip look inquiringly at Haroun, who remain seat on his

carpet in profound silence.



“what be it you ask of Haroun?”



“to live on--to live on! for every year of life he can give I, I will

load these floor with gold.”



“gold will not tempt Haroun.”



“what will?”



“ask he yourself; you speak his language.”



“I have ask he; he vouchsafe I no answer.”



Haroun here suddenly rouse himself as from a revery. he draw from under

his robe a small phial, from which he let fall a single drop into a

cup of water, and say, “drink this; send to I tomorrow for such

medicament as I may prescribe. return hither yourself in three day;

not before!”



when Grayle be go, Sir Philip, move to pity, ask Haroun if,

indeed, it be within the compass of his art to preserve life in a

frame that appear so thoroughly exhausted. Haroun answer, “a

fever may so waste the lamp of life that one ruder gust of air could

extinguish the flame, yet the sick man recover. this sick man’s

existence have be one long fever; this sick man can recover.”



“you will aid he to do so?”



“three day hence I will tell you.”



on the third day Grayle revisit Haroun, and, at Haroun’s request,

Sir Philip come also. Grayle declare that he have already derive

unspeakable relief from the remedy administer; he be lavish in

expression of gratitude; press large gift on Haroun, and seem

pain when they be refuse. this time Haroun converse freely,

draw forth Grayle’s own irregular, pervert, stormy, but powerful

intellect.



I can well convey the general nature of Grayle’s share in the dialogue

between himself, Haroun, and Derval--record in the narrative in word

which I cannot trust my memory to repeat in detail--by state the

effect it produce on my own mind. it seem, while I read, as if

there pass before I some convulsion of Nature,--a storm, an

earthquake,--outcries of rage, of scorn, of despair, a despot’s

vehemence of will, a rebel’s scoff at authority; yet, ever and anon,

some swell of lofty thought, some burst of passionate genius,--abrupt

variation from the vaunt of superb defiance to the wail of intense

remorse.



the whole have in it, I know not what of uncouth but colossal,--like the

chant, in the old lyrical tragedy, of one of those mythical giant, who,

proud of descent from Night and Chaos, have hold sway over the element,

while still crude and conflicting, to be crush under the rock,

upheave in their struggle, as Order and Harmony subject a brightening

Creation to the milder influence throne in Olympus. but it be not

till the later passage of the dialogue in which my interest be now

absorb, that the language ascribe to this sinister personage lose

a gloomy pathos not the less impressive for the awe with which it be

mingle. for, till then, it seem to I as if in that tempestuous

nature there be still break glimpse of starry light; that a

character originally lofty, if irregular and fierce, have be embitter

by early and continuous war with the social world, and have, in that

war, become maim and distort; that, under happy circumstance, its

fiery strength might have be discipline to good; that even now,

where remorse be so evidently poignant, evil could not be irredeemably

confirm.



at length all the dreary compassion previously inspire vanish in one

unqualified abhorrence.



the subject discuss change from those which, relate to the common

world of man, be within the scope of my reason. Haroun lead his

wild guest to boast of his own proficiency in magic, and, despite my

incredulity, I could not overcome the shudder with which fiction,

however extravagant, that deal with that dark unknown abandon to the

chimera of poet, will, at night and in solitude, send through the

vein of man the least accessible to imaginary terror.



Grayle speak of the power he have exercise through the agency of evil

spirits,--a power to fascinate and to destroy. he speak of the aid

reveal to he, now too late, which such direful ally could afford,

not only to a private revenge, but to a kingly ambition. have he acquire

the knowledge he declare himself to possess before the feebleness of

the decay body make it valueless, how he could have triumph over

that world which have expel his youth from its pale! he speak of mean

by which his influence could work undetected on the mind of other,

control agency that could never betray, and baffle the justice that

could never discover. he speak vaguely of a power by which a spectral

reflection of the material body could be cast, like a shadow, to a

distance; glide through the wall of a prison, elude the sentinel of

a camp,--a power that he assert to be when enforce by concentrated

will, and act on the mind, where in each individual temptation

find mind the weak--almost infallible in its effect to seduce or to

appall. and he close these and similar boast of demoniacal art, which

I remember too obscurely to repeat, with a tumultuous imprecation on

their nothingness to avail against the gripe of death. all this lore he

would communicate to Haroun, in return for what? a boon share by the

mean peasant,--life, common life; to breathe yet a while the air,

feel yet a while the sun.



then Haroun reply. he say, with a quiet disdain, that the dark art to

which Grayle make such boastful pretence be the mean of all abuse

of knowledge, rightly abandon, in all age, to the vile nature. and

then, suddenly change his tone, he speak, so far as I can remember the

word assign to he in the manuscript, to this effect,--



“fallen and unhappy wretch, and you ask I for prolong life!--a

prolong curse to the world and to yourself. shall I employ spell to

lengthen the term of the Pestilence, or profane the secret of Nature to

restore vigour and youth to the fail energy of Crime?”



Grayle, as if stun by the rebuke, fall on his knee with despairing

entreaty that strangely contrast his previous arrogance. “and it

be,” he say, “because his life have be evil that he dread death. if

life could be renew he would repent, he would change; he retract his

vaunt, he would forsake the art he have boast, he would re-enter the

world as its benefactor.”



“so ever the wicked man lie to himself when appal by the shadow of

death,” answer Haroun. “but know, by the remorse which prey on thy

soul, that it be not thy soul that address this prayer to I. couldst

thou hear, through the storm of the mind, the Soul’s melancholy

whisper, it would dissuade thee from a wish to live on. while I speak,

I behold it, that Soul,--sad for the stain on its essence, awe by the

account it must render, but dread, as the dire calamity, a renewal

of year below, dark stain and yet heavy account! whatever the

sentence it may now undergo, it have a hope for mercy in the remorse

which the mind vainly struggle to quell. but darker its doom if long

retain to earth, yoke to the mind that corrupt it, and enslave to

the sense which thou bidst I restore to their tyrannous force.”



and Grayle bow his head and cover his face with his hand in silence

and in tremble.



then Sir Philip, seize with compassion, plead for he. “at least,

could not the soul have long time on earth for repentance?” and while

Sir Philip be so plead, Grayle fall prostrate in a swoon like that

of death. when he recover, his head be lean on Haroun’s knee, and

his opening eye fix on the glitter phial which Haroun hold, and

from which his lip have be moisten.



“wondrous!” he murmur: “how I feel life flow back to I. and that,

then, be the elixir! it be no fable!”



his hand stretch greedily as to seize the phial, and he cry

imploringly, “More, more!” Haroun replace the vessel in the fold of

his robe, and answered,--



“I will not renew thy youth, but I will release thee from bodily

suffering: I will leave the mind and the soul free from the pang of

the flesh, to reconcile, if yet possible, their long war. my skill may

afford thee month yet for repentance; seek, in that interval, to

atone for the evil of sixty year; apply thy wealth where it may most

compensate for injury do, most relieve the indigent, and most aid the

virtuous. listen to thy remorse; humble thyself in prayer.”



Grayle depart, sigh heavily and mutter to himself. the next day

Haroun summon Sir Philip Derval, and say to him,--



“Depart to Damascus. in that city the Pestilence have appear. go

thither thou, to heal and to save. in this casket be store the sure

antidote to the poison of the plague. of that essence, undiluted and

pure, which tempt to the undue prolongation of soul in the prison of

flesh, this casket contain not a drop. I curse not my friend with so

mournful a boon. Thou hast learn enough of my art to know by what

simple the health of the temperate be easily restore to its balance,

and their path to the grave smooth from pain. not more should man

covet from Nature for the solace and weal of the body. Nobler gift far

than aught for the body this casket contain. Herein be the essence

which quicken the life of those duplicate sense that lie dormant

and coil in their chrysali web, await the wing of a future

development,--the sense by which we can see, though not with the eye,

and hear, but not by the ear. Herein be the link between Man’s mind

and nature’s; herein be secret more precious even than these,--those

extract of light which enable the Soul to distinguish itself from the

mind, and discriminate the spiritual life, not more from life carnal

than life intellectual. where thou se some noble intellect, studious

of nature, intent upon Truth, yet ignore the fact that all animal life

have a mind and man alone on the earth ever ask, and have ask, from

the hour his step trod the earth, and his eye seek the Heaven, ‘have

I not a soul; can it perish?’--there, such aid to the soul, in the

innermost vision vouchsafe to the mind, thou mayst lawfully use. but

the treasure contain in this casket be like all which a mortal can

win from the mine he explores,--good or ill in their use as they pass

to the hand of the good or the evil. thou wilt never confide they but

to those who will not abuse! and even then, thou art an adept too verse

in the mystery of Nature not to discriminate between the power that

may serve the good to good end, and the power that may tempt the

good--where less wise than experience have make thee and I--to the end

that be evil; and not even to thy friend the most virtuous--if less

proof against passion than thou and I have become--wilt thou confide

such content of the casket as may work on the fancy, to deafen the

conscience and imperil the soul.”



Sir Philip take the casket, and with it direction for use, which he do

not detail. he then speak to Haroun about Louis Grayle, who have inspire

he with a mingled sentiment of admiration and abhorrence, of pity and

terror. and Haroun answer thus, repeat the word ascribe to

he, so far as I can trust, in regard to they--as to all else in this

marvellous narrative--to a memory habitually tenacious even in ordinary

matter, and strain to the utmost extent of its power, by the

strangeness of the idea present to it, and the intensity of my

personal interest in whatever admit a ray into that cloud which,

gather fast over my reason, now threaten storm to my affections,--



“when the mortal deliberately ally himself to the spirit of evil,

he surrender the citadel of his be to the guard of its enemy; and

those who look from without can only dimly guess what pass within

the precinct abandon to Powers whose very nature we shrink to

contemplate, lest our mere gaze should invite they. this man, whom thou

pitiest, be not yet everlastingly consign to the fiend, because

his soul still struggle against they. his life have be one long war

between his intellect, which be mighty, and his spirit, which be feeble.

the intellect, arm and wing by the passion, have besiege and

oppress the soul; but the soul have never cease to repine and to

repent. and at moment it have gain its inherent ascendancy, persuade

revenge to drop the prey it have seize, turn the mind astray from

hatred and wrath into unwonted path of charity and love. in the long

desert of guilt, there have be green spot and fountain of good. the

fiend have occupy the intellect which invoke they, but they have

never yet thoroughly master the soul which their presence appall. in

the struggle that now pass within that breast, amidst the flicker of

wane mortality, only Allah, whose eye never slumber, can aid.”



Haroun then continue, in word yet more strange and yet more deeply

grave in my memory,--



“there have be man (thou mayst have know such), who, after an illness

in which life itself seem suspend, have arise, as out of a sleep,

with character wholly change. before, perhaps, gentle and good and

truthful, they now become bitter, malignant, and false. to the person

and the thing they have before love, they evince repugnance and

loathing. sometimes this change be so marked and irrational that their

kindre ascribe it to madness,--not the madness which affect they in

the ordinary business of life, but that which turn into harshness and

discord the moral harmony that result from nature whole and complete.

but there be dervish who hold that in that illness, which have for its

time the likeness of death, the soul itself have pass away, and an evil

genius have fix itself into the body and the brain, thus leave void of

their former tenant, and animate they in the unaccountable change from

the past to the present existence. such mystery have form no part

of my study, and I tell you the conjecture receive in the East without

hazard a comment whether of incredulity or belief. but if, in this

war between the mind which the fiend have seize, and the soul which

implore refuge of Allah; if, while the mind of yon traveller now

covet life lengthen on earth for the enjoyment it have pervert

its faculty to seek and to find in sin, and covet so eagerly that it

would shrink from no crime and revolt from no fiend that could promise

the gift, the soul shudderingly implore to be save from new guilt,

and would rather abide by the judgment of Allah on the sin that have

darken it than pass forever irredeemably away to the demons,--if this

be so, what if the soul’s petition be hear; what if it rise from the

ruin around it; what if the ruin be leave to the witchcraft that seek

to rebuild they? there, if demon might enter, that which they seek

as their prize have escape they; that which they find would mock they by

its own incompleteness even in evil. in vain might animal life the most

perfect be give to the machine of the flesh; in vain might the mind,

free from the check of the soul, be leave to roam at will through a

brain store with memory of knowledge and skilled in the command of

its faculty; in vain, in addition to all that body and brain bestow on

the normal condition of man, might unhallow reminiscence gather all

the art and the charm of the sorcery by which the fiend tempt the

soul, before it flee, through the passion of flesh and the craving of

mind: the thing, thus devoid of a soul, would be an instrument of evil,

doubtless,--but an instrument that of itself could not design, invent,

and complete. the demon themselves could have no permanent hold on

the perishable material. they might enter it for some gloomy end which

Allah permit in his inscrutable wisdom; but they could leave it no

trace when they pass from it, because there be no conscience where

soul be want. the human animal without soul, but otherwise make

felicitously perfect in its mere vital organization, might ravage and

destroy, as the tiger and the serpent may destroy and ravage, and,

the moment after, would sport in the sunlight harmless and rejoicing,

because, like the serpent and the tiger, it be incapable of remorse.”



“why startle my wonder,” say Derval, “with so fantastic an image?”



“because, possibly, the image may come into palpable form! I know, while

I speak to thee, that this miserable man be call to his aid the evil

sorcery over which he boast his control. to gain the end he desire, he

must pass through a crime. sorcery whisper to he how to pass

through it, secure from the detection of man. the soul resist, but

in resist, be weak against the tyranny of the mind to which it have

submit so long. question I no more. but if I vanish from thine eye,

if thou hear that the death which, to my sorrow and in my foolishness I

have fail to recognize as the merciful minister of Heaven, have remove

I at last from the earth, believe that the pale Visitant be welcome,

and that I humbly accept as a blessed release the lot of our common

humanity.”



Sir Philip go to Damascus. there he find the pestilence rage, there

he devote himself to the cure of the afflict; in no single instance,

so at least he declare, do the antidote store in the casket fail in

their effect. the pestilence have pass, his medicament be exhaust,

when the news reach he that Haroun be no more. the Sage have be

find, one morning, lifeless in his solitary home, and, accord to

popular rumour, mark on his throat betray the murderous hand of the

strangler. simultaneously, Louis Grayle have disappear from the city,

and be suppose to have share the fate of Haroun, and be secretly

bury by the assassin who have deprive he of life. Sir Philip

hasten to Aleppo. there he ascertain that on the night in which

Haroun die, Grayle do not disappear alone; with he be also miss

two of his numerous suite,--the one, an arab woman, name Ayesha, who

have for some year be his constant companion, his pupil and associate

in the mystic practice to which his intellect have be debase, and who

be say to have acquire a singular influence over he, partly by

her beauty and partly by the tenderness with which she have nurse he

through his long decline; the other, an Indian, specially assign

to her service, of whom all the wild retainer of Grayle speak with

detestation and terror. he be believe by they to belong to that

murderous sect of fanatic whose existence as a community have only

recently be make known to Europe, and who strangle their unsuspecting

victim in the firm belief that they thereby propitiate the favour of the

goddess they serve. the current opinion at Aleppo be, that if those

two person have conspire to murder Haroun, perhaps for the sake of the

treasure he be say to possess, it be still more certain that they

have make away with their own English lord, whether for the sake of the

jewel he wear about he, or for the sake of treasure less doubtful

than those impute to Haroun, and of which the hiding-place would be to

they much well know.





   “I do not share that opinion,” write the narrator, “for I assure

    myself that Ayesha sincerely love her awful master; and that love

    need excite no wonder, for Louis Grayle be one whom if a woman, and

    especially a woman of the East, have once love, before old age and

    infirmity fall on he, she would love and cherish still more devotedly

    when it become her task to protect the being who, in his day of power

    and command, have exalt his slave into the rank of his pupil and

    companion.  and the Indian whom Grayle have assign to her service be

    allow to have that brute kind of fidelity which, though it recoil

    from no crime for a master, refuse all crime against he.



   “I come to the conclusion that Haroun have be murder by order

    of Louis Grayle,--for the sake of the elixir of life,--murdered by

    Juma the Strangler; and that Grayle himself have be aid in his

    flight from Aleppo, and tend, through the effect of the

    life-give drug thus murderously obtain, by the womanly love of the

    arab woman Ayesha.  these conviction (since I could not, without

    be ridicule as the wild of dupe, even hint at the vital

    elixir) I fail to impress on the eastern official, or even on a

    countryman of my own whom I chance to find at Aleppo.  they only

    arrive at what seem the common-sense verdict,--namely, that Haroun

    might have be strangle, or might have die in a fit (the body,

    little examine, be bury long before I come to Aleppo); and that

    Louis Grayle be murder by his own treacherous dependent.  but all

    trace of the fugitive be lose.



   “and now,” write Sir Philip, “I will state by what mean I discover

    that Louis Grayle still lived,--changed from age into youth; a new

    form, a new being; realize, I verily believe, the image which

    Haroun’s word have raise up, in what then seem to I the

    metaphysics of fantasy,---criminal, without consciousness of crime;

    the dread of the mere animal race; an incarnation of the blind

    power of Nature,--beautiful and joyous, wanton and terrible and

    destroy!  such as ancient myth have personify in the idol of

    oriental creed; such as Nature, of herself, might form man in her

    moment of favour, if man be wholly the animal, and spirit be no

    long the essential distinction between himself and the race to

    which by superior formation and subtler perception he would still be

    the king.



   “but this be be yet more dire and portentous than the mere animal

    man, for in he be not only the fragmentary memory of a pristine

    intelligence which no mind, unaide by the presence of soul, could

    have originally compass, but amidst that intelligence be the

    secret of the magic which be learn through the agency of spirit

    the most hostile to our race.  and who shall say whether the fiend do

    not enter at their will this void and desert temple whence the soul

    have depart, and use as their tool, passive and unconscious, all the

    faculty which, skilful in sorcery, still place a mind at the

    control of their malice?



   “it be in the interest excite in I by the strange and terrible fate

    that befell an armenian family with which I be slightly acquaint,

    that I first trace--in the creature I be now about to describe, and

    whose course I devote myself to watch, and trust to bring to a

    close--the murderer of Haroun for the sake of the elixir of youth.



   “in this armenian family there be three daughter; one of them--”



I have just read thus far when a dim shadow fall over the page, and a

cold air seem to breathe on me,--cold, so cold, that my blood halt

in my vein as if suddenly frozen! involuntarily I start, and look

up, sure that some ghastly presence be in the room. and then, on the

opposite side of the wall, I behold an unsubstantial likeness of a human

form. Shadow I call it, but the word be not strictly correct, for it be

luminous, though with a pale shine. in some exhibition in London

there be show a curious instance of optical illusion; at the end of

a corridor you see, apparently in strong light, a human skull. you be

convince it be there as you approach; it be, however, only a reflection

from a skull at a distance. the image before I be less vivid, less

seemingly prominent than be the illusion I speak of. I be not deceive.

I feel it be a spectrum, a phantasm; but I feel no less surely that it

be a reflection from an animate form,--the form and face of Margrave;

it be there, distinct, unmistakable. conceive that he himself must

be behind I, I seek to rise, to turn round, to examine. I could not

move: limb and muscle be overmaster by some incomprehensible

spell. gradually my sense forsook I; I become unconscious as well as

motionless. when I recover, I hear the clock strike three. I must

have be nearly two hour insensible! the candle before I be

burn low. my eye rest on the table; the dead man’s manuscript be

go!



(1) the reader will here observe a discrepancy between Mrs. Poyntz’s

account and Sir Philip Derval’s narrative. accord to the former,

Louis Grayle be try in his absence from England, and sentence

to three year’ imprisonment, which his flight enable he to evade.

accord to the latter, Louis Grayle stand his trial, and obtain an

acquittal. Sir Philip’s account must, at least, be near the truth than

the lady’s, because Louis Grayle could not, accord to english law,

have be try on a capital charge without be present in court. Mrs.

Poyntz tell her story as a woman generally do tell a story,--sure to

make a mistake when she touch on a question of law; and--unconsciously

perhaps to herself--the woman of the World warp the fact in her

narrative so as to save the personal dignity of the hero, who have

captivate her interest, not from the moral odium of a great crime, but

the debasing position of a prisoner at the bar. Allen Fenwick, no doubt,

purposely omit to notice the discrepancy between these two statement,

or to animadvert on the mistake which, in the eye of a lawyer, would

discredit Mrs. Poyntz’s. it be consistent with some of the object for

which Allen Fenwick make public his Strange Story, to invite the reader

to draw his own inference from the contradiction by which, even in the

most commonplace matter (and how much more in any tale of wonder!), a

fact state by one person be make to differ from the same fact state by

another. the rapidity with which a truth becomes transform into fable,

when it be once send on its travel from lip to lip, be illustrate

by an amusement at this moment in fashion. the amusement be this: in a

party of eight or ten person, let one whisper to another an account

of some suppose transaction, or a piece of invent gossip relate to

absent person, dead or alive; let the person, who thus first hear the

story, proceed to whisper it, as exactly as he can remember what he have

just hear, to the next; the next do the same to his neighbour, and so

on, till the tale have run the round of the party. each narrator, as soon

as he have whisper his version of the tale, write down what he have

whisper. and though, in this game, no one have have any interest to

misrepresent, but, on the contrary, each for his own credit’s sake

strive to repeat what he have hear as faithfully as he can, it will

be almost invariably find that the story tell by the first person have

receive the most material alteration before it have reach the

eighth or the tenth. sometimes the most important feature of the whole

narrative be altogether omit; sometimes a feature altogether new and

preposterously absurd have be add. at the close of the experiment one

be tempt to exclaim, “how, after this, can any of those portion of

history which the chronicler take from hearsay be believe?” but, above

all, do not every anecdote of scandal which have pass, not through

ten lip, but perhaps through ten thousand, before it have reach we,

become quite as perplexing to he who would get at the truth, as the

marvel he recount be to the bewildered reason of Fenwick the Sceptic?













CHAPTER XL.



the dead man’s manuscript be go. but how? a phantom might delude my

eye, a human will, though exert at a distance, might, if the tale

of mesmerism be true, deprive I of movement and of consciousness; but

neither phantom nor mesmeric will could surely remove from the table

before I the material substance of the book that have vanish! be I to

seek explanation in the art of sorcery ascribe to Louis Grayle in the

narrative? I would not pursue that conjecture. against it my reason rise

up half alarm, half disdainful. some one must have enter the room,

some one have remove the manuscript. I look round. the window be

closed, the curtain partly draw over the shutter, as they be before

my consciousness have leave I: all seem undisturbed. snatch up one

of the candle, fast die out, I go into the adjoining library, the

desolate state-room, into the entrance-hall, and examine the outer

door, bar and lock! the robber have leave no vestige of his stealthy

presence.



I resolve to go at once to Strahan’s room and tell he of the loss

sustain. a deposit have be confide to I, and I feel as if there

be a slur on my honour every moment in which I keep its abstraction

conceal from he to whom I be responsible for the trust. I hastily

ascend the great staircase, grim with fade portrait, and find

myself in a long corridor opening on my own bedroom; no doubt also on

Strahan’s. which be his? I know not. I open rapidly door after door,

peer into empty chamber, go blunder on, when to the right,

down a narrow passage. I recognize the sign of my host’s

whereabouts,--signs familiarly commonplace and vulgar; sign by

which the inmate of any chamber in lodge-house or inn make himself

known,--a chair before a doorway, clothe negligently throw on it,

beside it a pair of shoe. and so ludicrous do such testimony of common

every-day life, of the habit which Strahan would necessarily have

contract in his desultory unluxurious bachelor’s existence,--so

ludicrous, I say, do these homely detail seem to I, so grotesquely at

variance with the wonder of which I have be read, with the wonder

yet more incredible of which I myself have be witness and victim, that

as I turn down the passage, I hear my own unconscious half-hysterical

laugh; and, startle by the sound of that laugh as if it come from some

one else, I pause, my hand on the door, and ask myself: “do I dream?

be I awake? and if awake what be I to say to the commonplace mortal I

be about to rouse? speak to he of a phantom! speak to he of some weird

spell over this strong frame! speak to he of a mystic trance in which

have be steal what he confide to I, without my knowledge! what will

he say? what should I have say a few day ago to any man who tell such

a tale to I?” I do not wait to resolve these question. I enter the

room. there be Strahan sound asleep on his bed. I shake he roughly. he

start up, rub his eye. “you, Allen,--you! what the deuce?--what ‘s

the matter?”



“Strahan, I have be robbed!--robbed of the manuscript you lend I. I

could not rest till I have tell you.”



“Robbed, rob! be you serious?”



by this time Strahan have throw off the bed-clothe, and sit upright,

stare at I.



and then those question which my mind have suggest while I be

stand at his door repeat themselves with double force. tell this

man, this unimaginative, hard-head, raw-boned, sandy-haired North

countryman,--tell this man a story which the most credulous school-girl

would have reject as a fable! impossible!



“I fall asleep,” say I, colour and stammer, for the slight

deviation from truth be painful to I, “and-and--when I awake--the

manuscript be go. some one must have enter and commit the

theft--”



“some one enter the house at this hour of the night and then only

steal a manuscript which could be of no value to he! Absurd! if

thief have come in it must be for other objects,--for plate, for

money. I will dress; we will see!”



Strahan hurry on his clothe, mutter to himself and avoid my

eye. he be embarrassed. he do not like to say to an old friend what

be on his mind; but I see at once that he suspect I have resolve to

deprive he of the manuscript, and have invent a wild tale in order to

conceal my own dishonesty.



nevertheless, he proceed to search the house. I follow he in

silence, oppress with my own thought, and longing for solitude in

my own chamber. we find no one, no trace of any one, nothing to

excite suspicion. there be but two female servant sleep in the

house,--the old housekeeper, and a country girl who assist she. it be

not possible to suspect either of these person; but in the course of

our search we open the door of their room. we see that they be

both in bed, both seemingly asleep: it seem idle to wake and question

they. when the formality of our futile investigation be conclude,

Strahan stop at the door of my bedroom, and for the first time fix

his eye on I steadily, said,--



“Allen Fenwick, I would have give half the fortune I have come

into rather than this have happen. the manuscript, as you know, be

bequeath to I as a sacred trust by a benefactor whose slight wish

it be my duty to observe religiously. if it contain aught valuable to

a man of your knowledge and profession, why, you be free to use its

content. let I hope, Allen, that the book will reappear to-morrow.”



he say no more, draw himself away from the hand I involuntarily

extend, and walk quickly back towards his own room.



alone once more, I sink on a seat, bury my face in my hand, and

strove in vain to collect into some definite shape my own tumultuous

and disorder thought. could I attach serious credit to the marvellous

narrative I have read? be there, indeed, such power give to man, such

influence latent in the calm routine of Nature? I could not believe

it; I must have some morbid affection of the brain; I must be under an

hallucination. hallucination? the phantom, yes; the trance, yes. but

still, how come the book go? that, at least, be not hallucination.



I leave my room the next morning with a vague hope that I should find the

manuscript somewhere in the study; that, in my own trance, I might

have secrete it, as sleep-walker be say to secrete thing, without

remembrance of their act in their wake state.



I search minutely in every conceivable place. Strahan find I still

employ in that hopeless task. he have breakfast in his own room, and

it be past eleven o’clock when he join I. his manner be now hard,

cold, and distant, and his suspicion so bluntly show that my distress

give way to resentment.



“be it possible,” I cry indignantly, “that you, who have know I

so well, can suspect I of an act so base, and so gratuitously base?

purloin, conceal a book confide to I, with full power to copy from it

whatever I might desire, use its content in any way that might seem to

I serviceable to science, or useful to I in my own calling!”



“I have not accuse you,” answer Strahan, sullenly. “but what be

we to say to Mr. Jeeves; to all other who know that this manuscript

exist? will they believe what you tell I?”



“Mr. Jeeves,” I say, “cannot suspect a fellow-townsman, whose character

be as high as mine, of untruth and theft. and to whom else have you

communicate the fact connect with a memoir and a request of so

extraordinary a nature?”



“to young Margrave; I tell you so!”



“true, true. we need not go far to find the thief. Margrave have be

in this house more than once. he know the position of the room. you

have name the robber!”



“Tut! what on earth could a gay young fellow like Margrave want with

a work of such dry and recondite nature as I presume my poor kinsman’s

memoir must be?”



I be about to answer, when the door be abruptly open, and the

servant-girl enter, follow by two man, in whom I recognize the

superintendent of the L---- police and the same subordinate who have

find I by Sir Philip’s corpse.



the superintendent come up to I with a grave face, and whisper in my

ear. I do not at first comprehend he. “come with you,” I say, “and to

Mr. Vigors, the magistrate? I think my deposition be close.”



the superintendent shake his head. “I have the authority here, Dr.

Fenwick.”



“well, I will come, of course. have anything new transpire?”



the superintendent turn to the servant-girl, who be stand with

gape mouth and stare eye.



“show we Dr. Fenwick’s room. you have well put up, sir, whatever thing

you have bring here. I will go upstairs with you,” he whisper again.

“come, Dr. Fenwick, I be in the discharge of my duty.”



something in the man’s manner be so sinister and menacing that I feel

at once that some new and strange calamity have befall I. I turn

towards Strahan. he be at the threshold, speak in a low voice to

the subordinate policeman, and there be an expression of amazement and

horror in his countenance. as I come towards he he dart away without

a word.



I go up the stair, enter my bedroom, the superintendent close

behind I. as I take up mechanically the few thing I have bring

with I, the police-officer draw they from I with an abruptness that

appear insolent, and deliberately search the pocket of the coat

which I have wear the evening before, then open the drawer in the

room, and even pry into the bed.



“what do you mean?” I ask haughtily.



“excuse I, sir. duty. you are-”



“well, I be what?”



“my prisoner; here be the warrant.”



“Warrant! on what charge?”



“the murder of Sir Philip Derval.”



“I--I! murder!” I could say no more.



I must hurry over this awful passage in my marvellous record. it be

torture to dwell on the detail; and indeed I have so seek to chase

they from my recollection, that they only come back to I in hideous

fragment, like the incoherent remain of a horrible dream.



all that I need state be as follow: early on the very morning on which

I have be arrest, a man, a stranger in the town, have privately seek

Mr. Vigors, and depose that on the night of the murder, he have be

take refuge from a sudden storm under shelter of the eave and

buttress of a wall adjoin an old archway; that he have hear man

talk within the archway; have hear one say to the other, “you still

bear I a grudge.” the other have reply, “I can forgive you on one

condition.” that he then lose much of the conversation that ensue,

which be in a low voice; but he gather enough to know that the

condition demand by the one be the possession of a casket which the

other carry about with he; that there seem an altercation on this

matter between the two man, which, to judge by the tone of voice, be

angry on the part of the man demand the casket; that, finally, this

man say in a loud key, “do you still refuse?” and on receive the

answer, which the witness do not overhear, exclaim threateningly, “it

be you who will repent,” and then step forth from the arch into the

street. the rain have then cease, but by a broad flash of lightning

the witness see distinctly the figure of the person thus quit the

shelter of the arch,--a man of tall stature, powerful frame, erect

carriage. a little time afterwards, witness see a slighter and old man

come forth from the arch, whom he could only examine by the flickering

ray of the gas-lamp near the wall, the lightning having cease, but whom

he fully believe to be the person he afterwards discover to be Sir

Philip Derval.



he say that he himself have only arrive at the town a few hour before;

a stranger to L----, and indeed to England, having come from the United

States of America, where he have pass his life from childhood. he have

journey on foot to L----, in the hope of find there some distant

relative. he have put up at a small inn, after which he have stroll

through the town, when the storm have drive he to seek shelter. he have

then fail to find his way back to the inn, and after wander about

in vain, and see no one at that late hour of night of whom he could

ask the way, he have creep under a portico and sleep for two or three

hour. wake towards the dawn, he have then get up, and again seek to

find his way to the inn, when he see, in a narrow street before he,

two man, one of whom he recognize as the taller of the two to whose

conversation he have listen under the arch; the other he do not

recognize at the moment. the tall man seem angry and agitated, and

he hear he say, “the casket; I will have it.” there then seem to be

a struggle between these two person, when the tall one strike down

the short, knelt on his breast, and he catch distinctly the gleam of

some steel instrument. that he be so frightened that he could not stir

from the place, and that though he cry out, he believe his voice be

not hear. he then see the tall man rise, the other rest on the

pavement motionless; and a minute or so afterwards beheld policeman

come to the place, on which he, the witness, walk away. he do not

know that a murder have be commit; it might be only an assault; it

be no business of his, he be a stranger. he think it well not to

interfere, the police have cognizance of the affair. he find out his

inn; for the next few day he be absent from L---- in search of his

relation, who have leave the town, many year ago, to fix their residence

in one of the neighbouring village.



he be, however, disappoint; none of these relation now survive. he

have now return to L----, hear of the murder, be in doubt what to

do, might get himself into trouble if, a mere stranger, he give

an unsupported testimony. but, on the day before the evidence be

volunteer, as he be lounge in the street, he have see a gentleman

pass by on horseback, in whom he immediately recognize the man who,

in his belief, be the murderer of Sir Philip Derval. he inquire of a

bystander the name of the gentleman; the answer be “Dr. Fenwick.” that,

the rest of the day, he feel much disturb in his mind, not like to

volunteer such a charge against a man of apparent respectability and

station; but that his conscience would not let he sleep that night,

and he have resolve at morning to go to the magistrate and make a clean

breast of it.



the story be in itself so improbable that any other magistrate but

Mr. Vigors would perhaps have dismiss it in contempt. but Mr. Vigors,

already so bitterly prejudiced against I, and not sorry, perhaps,

to subject I to the humiliation of so horrible a charge, immediately

issue his warrant to search my house. I be absent at Derval Court; the

house be search. in the bureau in my favourite study, which be leave

unlocked, the steel casket be discover, and a large case-knife, on

the blade of which the stain of blood be still perceptible. on

this discovery I be apprehend; and on these evidence, and on the

deposition of this vagrant stranger, I be not, indeed, commit to

take my trial for murder, but place in confinement, all bail for my

appearance refuse, and the examination adjourn to give time for

further evidence and inquiry. I have request the professional aid of

Mr. Jeeves. to my surprise and dismay, Mr. Jeeves beg I to excuse

he. he say he be pre-engage by Mr. Strahan to detect and prosecute

the murderer of Sir P. Derval, and could not assist one accuse of the

murder. I gather from the little he say that Strahan have already be

to he that morning and tell he of the miss manuscript, that Strahan

have cease to be my friend. I engage another solicitor, a young man of

ability, and who profess personal esteem for I. Mr. Stanton (such

be the lawyer’s name) believe in my innocence; but he warn I that

appearance be grave, he implore I to be perfectly frank with he.

have I hold conversation with Sir Philip under the archway as report by

the witness? have I use such or similar word? have the decease say, “I

have a grudge against he”? have I demand the casket? have I threaten

Sir Philip that he would repent? and of what,--his refusal?



I feel myself grow pale, as I answer, “yes; I think such or similar

expression have occur in my conversation with the deceased.”



“what be the reason of the grudge? what be the nature of this casket,

that I should so desire its possession?”



there, I become terribly embarrassed. what could I say to a keen,

sensible, worldly man of law,--tell he of the powder and the fume, of

the scene in the museum, of Sir Philip’s tale, of the imply identity

of the youthful Margrave with the aged Grayle, of the elixir of life,

and of magic art? I--I tell such a romance! I,--the note adversary of

all pretended mysticism; I,--I a sceptical practitioner of medicine! have

that manuscript of Sir Philip’s be available,--a substantial record

of marvellous event by a man of repute for intellect and learning,--I

might perhaps have venture to startle the solicitor of L------ with my

revelation. but the sole proof that all which the solicitor urge I

to confide be not a monstrous fiction or an insane delusion have

disappear; and its disappearance be a part of the terrible mystery

that envelop the whole. I answer therefore, as composedly as I

could, that “I could have no serious grudge against Sir Philip, whom I

have never see before that evening; that the word which apply to

my suppose grudge be lightly say by Sir Philip, in reference to a

physiological dispute on matter connect with mesmerical phenomena;

that the deceased have declare his casket, which he have show I at the

mayor’s house, contain drug of great potency in medicine; that I have

ask permission to test those drug myself; and that when I say he

would repent of his refusal, I merely mean that he would repent of

his reliance on drug not warrant by the experiment of professional

science.”



my reply seem to satisfy the lawyer so far, but “how could I account

for the casket and the knife be find in my room?”



“in no way but this; the window of my study be a door-window opening on

the lane, from which any one might enter the room. I be in the habit,

not only of go out myself that way, but of admit through that

door any more familiar private acquaintance.”



“Whom, for instance?”



I hesitate a moment, and then say, with a significance I could not

forbear, “Mr. Margrave! he would know the locale perfectly; he would

know that the door be rarely bolt from within during the daytime:

he could enter at all hour; he could place, or instruct any one to

deposit, the knife and casket in my bureau, which he know I never keep

locked; it contain no secret, no private correspondence,--chiefly

surgical implement, or such thing as I might want for professional

experiment.”



“Mr. Margrave! but you cannot suspect he--a lively, charming young man,

against whose character not a whisper be ever hear--of connivance with

such a charge against you,--a connivance that would implicate he in the

murder itself; for if you be accuse wrongfully, he who accuse you be

either the criminal or the criminal’s accomplice, his instigator or his

tool.”



“Mr. Stanton,” I say firmly, after a moment’s pause, “I do suspect

Mr. Margrave of a hand in this crime. Sir Philip, on see he at the

mayor’s house, express a strong abhorrence of he, more than hint

at crime he have commit, appoint I to come to Derval Court the

day after that on which the murder be commit. Sir Philip have know

something of this Margrave in the East; Margrave might dread exposure,

revelation--of what I know not; but, strange as it may seem to you,

it be my conviction that this young man, apparently so gay and so

thoughtless, be the real criminal, and in some way which I cannot

conjecture have employ this lie vagabond in the fabrication of a

charge against myself. reflect: of Mr. Margrave’s antecedent we know

nothing; of they nothing be know even by the young gentleman who first

introduce he to the society of this town. if you would serve and

save I, it be to that quarter that you will direct your vigilant and

unrelaxe research.”



I have scarcely so say when I repent my candour, for I observe in the

face of Mr. Stanton a sudden revulsion of feeling, an utter incredulity

of the accusation I have thus hazard, and for the first time a doubt of

my own innocence. the fascination exercise by Margrave be universal;

nor be it to be wonder at: for besides the charm of his joyous

presence, he seem so singularly free from even the error common

enough with the young,--so gay and boon a companion, yet a shunner of

wine; so dazzle in aspect, so more than beautiful, so court, so

idolize by woman, yet no tale of seduction, of profligacy, attach

to his name! as to his antecedent, he have so frankly own himself

a natural son, a nobody, a traveller, an idler; his expense, though

lavish, be so unostentatious, so regularly defray; he be so wholly

the reverse of the character assign to criminal, that it seem as

absurd to bring a charge of homicide against a butterfly or a goldfinch

as against this seemingly innocent and delightful favourite of humanity

and nature.



however, Mr. Stanton say little or nothing, and shortly afterwards leave

I, with a dry expression of hope that my innocence would be clear

in spite of evidence that, he be bind to say, be of the most serious

character.



I be exhaust. I fall into a profound sleep early that night; it might

be a little after twelve when I wake, and wake as fully, as completely,

as much restore to life and consciousness, as it be then my habit to

be at the break of day. and so wake, I see, on the wall opposite

my bed, the same luminous phantom I have see in the wizard’s study

at Derval Court. I have read in scandinavian legend of an apparition

call the Scin-Laeca, or shine corpse. it be suppose in the northern

superstition, sometimes to haunt sepulchre, sometimes to foretell doom.

it be the spectre of a human body see in a phosphoric light; and

so exactly do this phantom correspond to the description of such an

apparition in Scandinavian fable that I know not how to give it a well

name than that of Scin-Laeca,--the shine corpse.



there it be before I, corpse-like, yet not dead; there, as in the

haunt study of the wizard Forman!--the form and the face of Margrave.

constitutionally, my nerve be strong, and my temper hardy, and now

I be resolve to battle against any impression which my sense might

receive from my own deluding fancy. thing that witness for the

first time daunt we witness for the second time lose their terror.

I rise from my bed with a bold aspect, I approach the phantom with a

firm step; but when within two pace of it, and my hand outstretche to

touch it, my arm became fix in air, my foot lock to the ground. I

do not experience fear; I feel that my heart beat regularly, but an

invincible something oppose itself to I. I stand as if turn to

stone. and then from the lip of this phantom there come a voice, but a

voice which seem borne from a great distance,--very low, muffle, and

yet distinct; I could not even be sure that my ear hear it, or whether

the sound be not convey to I by an inner sense.



“I, and I alone, can save and deliver you,” say the voice. “I will do

so; and the condition I ask, in return, be simple and easy.”



“fiend or spectre, or mere delusion of my own brain,” cry I, “there

can be no compact between thee and I. I despise thy malice, I reject

thy service; I accept no condition to escape from the one or to obtain

the other.”



“you may give a different answer when I ask again.”



the Scin-Laeca slowly wane, and, fade first into a pale shadow, then

vanish. I rejoice at the reply I have give. two day elapse before

Mr. Stanton again come to I; in the interval the Scin-Laeca do not

reappear. I have muster all my courage, all my common-sense, note down

all the weak point of the false evidence against I, and feel calm and

support by the strength of my innocence.



the first few word of the solicitor dash all my courage to the

ground; for I be anxious to hear news of Lilian, anxious to have

some message from she that might cheer and strengthen I, and my first

question be this,--



“Mr. Stanton, you be aware that I be engage in marriage to Miss

Ashleigh. your family be not unacquainted with she. what say, what

think she of this monstrous charge against she betroth?”



“I be for two hour at Mrs. Ashleigh’s house last evening,” reply

the lawyer; “she be naturally anxious to see I as employ in your

defence. who do you think be there? who, eager to defend you, to

express his persuasion of your innocence, to declare his conviction

that the real criminal would be soon discovered,--who but that same Mr.

Margrave; whom, pardon I my frankness, you so rashly and groundlessly

suspect.”



“Heavens! do you say that he be receive in that house; that he--he be

familiarly admit to her presence?”



“my good sir, why these unjust prepossession against a true friend? it

be as your friend that, as soon as the charge against you amazed

and shock the town of L----, Mr. Margrave call on Mrs. Ashleigh,

present to she by Miss Brabazon, and be so cheer and hopeful

that--”



“Enough!” I exclaimed,--“enough!”



I pace the room in a state of excitement and rage, which the lawyer in

vain endeavour to calm, until at length I halt abruptly: “well, and

you see Miss Ashleigh? what message do she send to I--she betroth?”



Mr. Stanton look confused. “message! consider, sir, Miss Ashleigh’s

situation--the delicacy--and--and--”



“I understand, no message, no word, from a young lady so respectable to

a man accuse of murder.”



Mr. Stanton be silent for some moment, and then say quietly, “let we

change this subject; let we think of what more immediately press. I

see you have be make some note: may I look at they?”



I compose myself and sit down. “this accuser! have inquiry really

be make as to himself, and his statement of his own proceeding? he

come, he say, from America: in what ship? at what port do he land? be

there any evidence to corroborate his story of the relation he try to

discover; of the inn at which he first put up, and to which he could not

find his way?”



“your suggestion be sensible, Dr. Fenwick. I have forestall they. it

be true that the man lodge at a small inn,--the rise Sun; true

that he make inquiry about some relation of the name of Walls, who

formerly reside at L----, and afterwards remove to a village ten

mile distant,--two brother, tradesman of small mean but respectable

character. he at first refuse to say at what seaport he land, in what

ship he sail. I suspect that he have now tell a falsehood as to these

matter. I send my clerk to Southampton, for it be there he say that

he be put on shore; we shall see: the man himself be detain in close

custody. I hear that his manner be strange and excitable; but that he

preserve silence as much as possible. it be generally believe that

he be a bad character, perhaps a return convict, and that this be the

true reason why he so long delay give evidence, and have be since

so reluctant to account for himself. but even if his testimony should

be impugn, should break down, still we should have to account for the

fact that the casket and the case-knife be find in your bureau; for,

grant that a person could, in your absence, have enter your study

and place the article in your bureau, it be clear that such a person

must have be well acquainted with your house, and this stranger to

L---- could not have possess that knowledge.”



“of course not. Mr. Margrave do possess it!”



“Mr. Margrave again! oh, sir!”



I arise and move away with an impatient gesture. I could not trust

myself to speak. that night I do not sleep; I watch impatiently,

gaze on the opposite wall for the gleam of the Scin-Laeca. but the

night pass away, and the spectre do not appear.













CHAPTER XLI.



the lawyer come the next day, and with something like a smile on his

lip. he bring I a few line in pencil from Mrs. Ashleigh; they be

kindly express, bid I be of good cheer; “she never for a moment

believe in my guilt; lilian bear up wonderfully under so terrible a

trial; it be an unspeakable comfort to both to receive the visit of a

friend so attach to I, and so confident of a triumphant refutation of

the hideous calumny under which I now suffer as Mr. Margrave!”



the lawyer have see Margrave again,--seen he in that house. Margrave

seem almost domicile there!



I remain sullen and taciturn during this visit. I long again for the

night. night come. I hear the distant clock strike twelve, when again

the icy wind pass through my hair, and against the wall stand the

luminous Shadow.



“have you consider?” whisper the voice, still as from afar. “I

repeat it,--I alone can save you.”



“be it among the condition which you ask, in return, that I shall

resign to you the woman I love?”



“no.”



“be it one of the condition that I should commit some crime,--a crime

perhaps heinous as that of which I be accuse?”



“no.”



“with such reservation, I accept the condition you may name, provide

I, in my turn, may demand one condition from yourself.”



“name it.”



“I ask you to quit this town. I ask you, meanwhile, to cease your visit

to the house that hold the woman betroth to I.”



“I will cease those visit. and before many day be over, I will quit

this town.”



“now, then, say what you ask from I. I be prepared to concede it. and

not from fear for myself, but because I fear for the pure and innocent

be who be under the spell of your deadly fascination. this be your

power over I. you command I through my love for another. speak.”



“my condition be simple. you will pledge yourself to desist from all

charge of insinuation against myself, of what nature soever. you will

not, when you meet I in the flesh, refer to what you have know of my

likeness in the Shadow. you will be invite to the house at which I may

be also a guest; you will come; you will meet and converse with I as

guest speak with guest in the house of a host.”



“be that all?”



“it be all.”



“then I pledge you my faith; keep your own.”



“fear not; sleep secure in the certainty that you will soon be release

from these wall.”



the Shadow wane and fade. darkness settle back, and a sleep, profound

and calm, fall over I.



the next day Mr. Stanton again visit I. he have receive that morning

a note from Mr. Margrave, state that he have leave L---- to pursue, in

person, an investigation which he have already commence through another,

affect the man who have give evidence against I, and that, if his

hope should prove well found, he trust to establish my innocence,

and convict the real murderer of Sir Philip Derval. in the research he

thus volunteer, he have ask for, and obtain, the assistance of the

policeman Waby, who, grateful to I for save the life of his sister,

have express a strong desire to be employ in my service.



meanwhile, my most cruel assailant be my old college friend, Richard

Strahan. for Jeeves have spread abroad Strahan’s charge of purloin the

memoir which have be entrust to I; and that accusation have do I

great injury in public opinion, because it seem to give probability to

the only motive which ingenuity could ascribe to the foul deed impute

to I. that motive have be first suggest by Mr. Vigors. case be

on record of man whose life have be previously blameless, who have

commit a crime which seem to belie their nature, in the monomania

of some intense desire. in Spain, a scholar repute of austere

moral murder and rob a traveller for money in order to purchase

books,--books write, too, by father of his Church! he be intent on

solve some problem of theological casuistry. in France, an antiquary,

esteem not more for his learning than for amiable and gentle

quality, murder his most intimate friend for the possession of

a medal, without which his own collection be incomplete. these, and

similar anecdote, tend to prove how fatally any vehement desire,

morbidly cherish, may suspend the normal operation of reason and

conscience, be whisper about by Dr. Lloyd’s vindictive partisan;

and the inference draw from they and apply to the assumption against

myself be the more credulously receive, because of that over-refining

speculation on motive and act which the shallow accept, in their

eagerness to show how readily they understand the profound.



I be know to be fond of scientific, especially of chemical

experiment; to be eager in test the truth of any novel invention.

Strahan, catch hold of the magistrate’s fantastic hypothesis, go

about repeat anecdote of the absorbing passion for analysis and

discovery which have characterize I in youth as a medical student, and

to which, indeed, I owe the precocious reputation I have obtain.



Sir Philip Derval, accord not only to report, but to the direct

testimony of his servant, have acquire in the course of his travel many

secret in natural science, especially as connect with the healing

art,--his servant have depose to the remarkable cure he have effect

by the medicinal store in the steal casket. Doubtless Sir Philip,

in boasting of these medicinal in the course of our conversation,

have excite my curiosity, inflame my imagination; and thus when I

afterwards suddenly meet he in a lone spot, a passionate impulse have

act on a brain heat into madness by curiosity and covetous desire.



all these supposition, reduce into system, be corroborate by

Strahan’s charge that I have make away with the manuscript suppose to

contain the explanation of the medical agency employ by Sir Philip,

and have seek to shelter my theft by a tale so improbable, that a man

of my reputed talent could not have hazard it if in his sound

sense. I see the web that have thus be spread around I by hostile

prepossession and ignorant gossip: how could the art of Margrave

scatter that web to the wind? I know not, but I feel confidence in his

promise and his power. still, so great have be my alarm for Lilian,

that the hope of clear my own innocence be almost lose in my joy

that Margrave, at least, be no long in her presence, and that I have

receive his pledge to quit the town in which she live.



thus, hour roll on hour, till, I think, on the third day from that

night in which I have last beheld the mysterious Shadow, my door

be hastily throw open, a confused crowd present itself at the

threshold,--the governor of the prison, the police superintendent,

Mr. Stanton, and other familiar face shut out from I since my

imprisonment. I know at the first glance that I be no long an outlaw

beyond the pale of human friendship. and proudly, sternly, as I have

support myself hitherto in solitude and suspense, when I feel warm

hand clasp mine, hear joyous voice proffer congratulation, see

in the eye of all that my innocence have be clear, the revulsion of

emotion be too strong for me,--the room reel on my sight, I faint.

I pass, as quickly as I can, over the explanation that crowd on I

when I recover, and that be publicly give in evidence in court next

morning. I have owe all to Margrave. it seem that he have construe

to my favour the very supposition which have be bruit abroad to my

prejudice. “for,” say he, “it be conjecture that Fenwick commit the

crime of which he be accuse in the impulse of a disorder reason. that

conjecture be base upon the probability that a madman alone could have

commit a crime without adequate motive. but it seem quite clear that

the accuse be not mad; and I see cause to suspect that the accuser be.”

 ground this assumption on the current report of the witness’s

manner and bear since he have be place under official surveillance,

Margrave have commission the policeman Waby to make inquiry in

the village to which the accuser assert he have go in quest of his

relation, and Waby have there find person who remember to have hear

that the two brother name Walls live less by the gain of the petty

shop which they keep than by the proceed of some property consign to

they as the near of kin to a lunatic who have once be try for

his life. Margrave have then examine the advertisement in the daily

newspaper. one of they, warn the public against a dangerous maniac,

who have effect his escape from an asylum in the west of England,

catch his attention. to that asylum he have repair.



there he learn that the patient advertise be one whose propensity

be homicide, consign for life to the asylum on account of a murder,

for which he have be try. the description of this person exactly

tally with that of the pretend American. the medical superintendent

of the asylum, hear all particular from Margrave, express a strong

persuasion that the witness be his miss patient, and have himself

commit the crime of which he have accuse another. if so, the

superintendent undertake to coax from he the full confession of all

the circumstance. like many other madman, and not least those whose

propensity be to crime, the fugitive maniac be exceedingly cunning,

treacherous, secret, and habituate to trick and stratagem,--more subtle

than even the astute in possession of all their faculty, whether to

achieve his purpose or to conceal it, and fabricate appearance against

another. but while, in ordinary conversation, he seem rational enough

to those who be not accustomed to study he, he have one hallucination

which, when humour, lead he always, not only to betray himself, but to

glory in any crime propose or commit. he be under the belief that

he have make a bargain with Satan, who, in return for implicit obedience,

would bear he harmless through all the consequence of such submission,

and finally raise he to great power and authority. it be no unfrequent

illusion of homicidal maniacs to suppose they be under the influence

of the evil One, or possess by a Demon. murderer have assign as the

only reason they themselves could give for their crime, that “the Devil

get into they,” and urge the deed. but the insane have, perhaps, no

attribute more in common than that of superweene self-esteem. the

maniac who have be remove from a garret stick straw in his hair

and call they a crown. so much do inordinate arrogance characterize

mental aberration, that, in the course of my own practice, I have

detect, in that infirmity, the certain symptom of insanity, long

before the brain have make its disease manifest even to the most familiar

kindre.



Morbid self-esteem accordingly pervade the dreadful illusion by which

the man I now speak of be possess. he be proud to be the protect

agent of the Fallen Angel. and if that self-esteem be artfully

appeal to, he would exult superbly in the evil he hold himself order

to perform, as if a special prerogative, an official rank and privilege;

then, he would be lead on to boast gleefully of thought which the most

cynical of criminal in whom intelligence be not ruin would shrink

from own; then, he would reveal himself in all his deformity with as

complacent and frank a self-glorying as some vain good man display in

parade his amiable sentiment and his beneficent deed.



“if,” say the superintendent, “this be the patient who have escape from

I, and if his propensity to homicide have be, in some way, direct

towards the person who have be murder, I shall not be with he a

quarter of an hour before he will inform I how it happen, and detail

the art he employ in shift his crime upon another; all will be

tell as minutely as a child tell the tale of some school-boy exploit,

in which he count on your sympathy, and feel sure of your applause.”



Margrave bring this gentleman back to L----, take he to the mayor,

who be one of my warm supporter: the mayor have sufficient influence

to dictate and arrange the rest. the superintendent be introduce to

the room in which the pretend American be lodge. at his own desire

a select number of witness be admit with he. Margrave excuse

himself; he say candidly that he be too intimate a friend of mine to

be an impartial listener to aught that concern I so nearly.



the superintendent prove right in his suspicion, and verify his

promise. my false accuser be his miss patient; the man recognize

Dr. ---- with no apparent terror, rather with an air of condescension,

and in a very few minute be lead to tell his own tale, with a gloating

complacency both at the agency by which he deem himself exalt, and

at the dexterous cunning with which he have acquit himself of the

task, that increase the horror of his narrative.



he speak of the mode of his escape, which be extremely ingenious, but

of which the detail, long in themselves, do not interest I, and

I understand they too imperfectly to repeat. he have encounter a

sea-fare traveller on the road, whom he have knock down with a stone,

and rob of his glaze hat and pea-jacket, as well as of a small

sum in coin, which last enable he to pay his fare in a railway that

convey he eighty mile away from the asylum. some trifle remnant

of this money still in his pocket, he then travel on foot along the

high-road till he come to a town about twenty mile distant from L----;

there he have stay a day or two, and there he say “that the Devil have

tell he to buy a case-knife, which he do.” “he know by that order that

the Devil mean he to do something great.” “his Master,” as he call

the fiend, then direct he the road he should take. he come to L----,

put up, as he have correctly state before, at a small inn, wander at

night about the town, be surprise by the sudden storm, take shelter

under the convent arch, overheard somewhat more of my conversation with

Sir Philip than he have previously deposed,--heard enough to excite his

curiosity as to the casket: “while he listen his Master tell he he

must get possession of that casket.” Sir Philip have quit the archway

almost immediately after I have do so, and he would then have attack

he if he have not catch sight of a policeman go his round. he have

follow Sir Philip to a house (Mr. Jeeves’s). “his Master tell he

to wait and watch.” he do so. when Sir Philip come forth, towards the

dawn, he follow he, see he enter a narrow street, come up to he,

seize he by the arm, demand all he have about he. Sir Philip try

to shake he off,--struck at he. what follow I spare the reader. the

deed be do. he rob the dead man both of the casket and the

purse that he find in the pocket; have scarcely do so when he hear

footstep. he have just time to get behind the portico of a detach

house at angle with the street when I come up. he witness, from his

hiding-place, the brief conference between myself and the policeman,

and when they move on, bear the body, steal unobserved away. he be

go back towards the inn, when it occur to he that it would be

safe if the casket and purse be not about his person; that he ask

his Master to direct he how to dispose of they: that his Master guide

he to an open yard (a stone-mason’s) at a very little distance from

the inn; that in this yard there stand an old wych-elm tree, from the

gnarl root of which the earth be wear away, leave chink and

hollow, in one of which he place the casket and purse, take from the

latter only two sovereign and some silver, and then heap loose mould

over the hiding-place. that he then repair to his inn, and leave

it late in the morning, on the pretence of seek for his

relations,--persons, indeed, who really have be relate to he, but

of whose death year ago he be aware. he return to L---- a few day

afterwards, and in the dead of the night go to take up the casket and

the money. he find the purse with its content undisturbed; but the

lid of the casket be unclosed. from the hasty glance he have take of it

before bury it, it have seem to he firmly locked,--he be alarm

lest some one have be to the spot. but his Master whisper to he not

to mind, tell he that he might now take the casket, and would be guide

what to do with it; that he do so, and, open the lid, find the

casket empty-; that he take the rest of the money out of the purse, but

that he do not take the purse itself, for it have a crest and initial

on it, which might lead to the discovery of what have be do; that

he therefore leave it in the hollow amongst the root, heap the mould

over it as before; that in the course of the day he hear the people at

the inn talk of the murder, and that his own first impulse be to get

out of the town immediately, but that his Master “make he too wise for

that,” and bid he stay; that pass through the street, he see I

come out of the sash-window door, go to a stable-yard on the other side

of the house, mount on horseback and ride away; that he observe the

sash-door be leave partially open; that he walk by it and see the

room empty; there be only a dead wall opposite; the place be solitary,

unobserve; that his Master direct he to lift up the sash gently,

enter the room, and deposit the knife and the casket in a large

walnut-tree bureau which stand unlocked near the window. all that

follow--his visit to Mr. Vigors, his accusation against myself, his

whole tale--be, he say, dictate by his Master, who be highly pleased

with he, and promise to bring he safely through. and here he turn

round with a hideous smile, as if for approbation of his notable

cleverness and respect for his high employ.



Mr. Jeeves have the curiosity to request the keeper to inquire how, in

what form, or in what manner, the Fiend appear to the narrator, or

convey his infernal dictate. the man at first refuse to say; but

it be gradually draw from he that the Demon have no certain and

invariable form: sometimes it appear to he in the form of a rat;

sometimes even of a leaf, or a fragment of wood, or a rusty nail; but

that his Master’s voice always come to he distinctly, whatever shape he

appear in; only, he say, with an air of great importance, his Master,

this time, have graciously condescend, ever since he leave the asylum,

to communicate with he in a much more pleasing and impose aspect than

he have ever do before,--in the form of a beautiful youth, or, rather,

like a bright rose-colour shadow, in which the feature of a young

man be visible, and that he have hear the voice more distinctly than

usual, though in a milder tone, and seem to come to he from a great

distance.



after these revelation the man become suddenly disturbed. he shake from

limb to limb, he seem convulse with terror; he cry out that he have

betray the secret of his Master, who have warn he not to describe

his appearance and mode of communication, or he would surrender his

servant to the tormentor. then the maniac’s terror give way to fury;

his more direful propensity make itself declare; he spring into the

midst of his frightened listener, seize Mr. Vigors by the throat, and

would have strangle he but for the prompt rush of the superintendent

and his satellite. foam at the mouth, and horribly rave, he be

then manacle, a strait-waistcoat thrust upon he, and the group so

leave he in charge of his captor. inquiry be immediately direct

towards such circumstantial evidence as might corroborate the detail he

have so minutely set forth. the purse, recognize as Sir Philip’s, by the

valet of the deceased, be find bury under the wych-elm. a policeman

despatch, express, to the town in which the maniac declare the knife

to have be purchase, bring back word that a cutler in the place

remember perfectly to have sell such a knife to a seafaring man, and

identify the instrument when it be show to he. from the chink of a

door ajar, in the wall opposite my sash-window, a maid-servant, watch

for her sweetheart (a journeyman carpenter, who habitually pass that

way on go home to dine), have, though unobserve by the murderer, see

he come out of my window at a time that correspond with the date of

his own story, though she have think nothing of it at the moment. he

might be a patient, or have call on business; she do not know that

I be from home. the only point of importance not clear up be that

which relate to the opening of the casket,--the disappearance of the

content; the lock have be unquestionably force. no one, however,

could suppose that some third person have discover the hiding-place and

force open the casket to abstract its content and then rebury it. the

only probable supposition be that the man himself have force it open,

and, deem the content of no value, have throw they away before he

have hide the casket and purse, and, in the chaos of his reason, have

forget that he have so do. who could expect that every link in a

madman’s tale would be find integral and perfect? in short, little

importance be attach to this solitary doubt. crowd accompany I

to my door, when I be set free, in open court, stainless; it be

a triumphal procession. the popularity I have previously enjoy,

supersede for a moment by so horrible a charge, come back to I tenfold

as with the reaction of generous repentance for a momentary doubt.

one man share the public favour,--the young man whose acuteness have

deliver I from the peril, and clear the truth from so awful a

mystery; but Margrave have escape from congratulation and compliment; he

have go on a visit to Strahan, at Derval Court.



alone, at last, in the welcome sanctuary of my own home, what be my

thought? prominent amongst they all be that assertion of the madman,

which have make I shudder when repeat to I: he have be guide to the

murder and to all the subsequent proceeding by the luminous shadow of

the beautiful youth,--the Scin-Laeca to which I have pledge myself. if

Sir Philip Derval could be believe, Margrave be possess of power,

derive from fragmentary recollection of a knowledge acquire in a

former state of being, which would render his remorseless intelligence

infinitely dire and frustrate the endeavour of a reason, unassisted

by similar power, to thwart his design or bring the law against his

crime. have he then the art that could thus influence the mind of

other to serve his fell purpose, and achieve securely his own evil

end through agency that could not be trace home to himself?



but for what conceivable purpose have I be subject as a victim to

influence as much beyond my control as the Fate or Demoniac Necessity

of a Greek Myth? in the legend of the classic world some august

sufferer be oppress by power more than mortal, but with an ethical

if gloomy vindication of his chastisement,--he pay the penalty of crime

commit by his ancestor or himself, or he have brave, by arrogate

equality with the god, the mysterious calamity which the god alone can

inflict. but I, no descendant of Pelops, no OEdipus boastful of a wisdom

which could interpret the enigma of the Sphynx, while ignorant even of

his own birth--what have I do to be single out from the herd of man

for trial and visitation from the Shadowland of ghost and sorcerer?

it would be ludicrously absurd to suppose that Dr. Lloyd’s die

imprecation could have have a prophetic effect upon my destiny; to

believe that the pretence of mesmerizer be specially favour by

Providence, and that to question their assumption be an offence of

profanation to be punish by exposure to preternatural agency. there

be not even that congruity between cause and effect which fable seek

in excuse for its invention. of all man live, I, unimaginative

disciple of austere science, should be the last to become the sport

of that witchcraft which even imagination reluctantly allow to the

machinery of poet, and science cast aside into the mouldy lumber-room

of obsolete superstition.



rouse my mind from enigmas impossible to solve, it be with intense

and yet most melancholy satisfaction that I turn to the image of

Lilian, rejoice, though with a thrill of awe, that the promise

so mysteriously convey to my sense have, hereto, be already

fulfilled,--Margrave have leave the town; Lilian be no long subject

to his evil fascination. but an instinct tell I that that fascination

have already produce an effect adverse to all hope of happiness for I.

Lilian’s love for myself be go. impossible otherwise that she--in

whose nature I have always admire that generous devotion which be

more or less inseparable from the romance of youth--should have never

convey to I one word of consolation in the hour of my agony and

trial; that she, who, till the last evening we have meet, have ever be

so docile, in the sweetness of a nature femininely submissive to my

slight wish, should have disregard my solemn injunction, and

admit Margrave to acquaintance, nay, to familiar intimacy,--at

the very time, too, when to disobey my injunction be to embitter my

ordeal, and add her own contempt to the degradation impose upon my

honour! no, her heart must be wholly go from I; her very nature

wholly warp. a union between we have become impossible. my love for

she remain unshattered; the more tender, perhaps, for a sentiment of

compassion. but my pride be shock, my heart be wound. my love be

not mean and servile. enough for I to think that she would be at

least save from Margrave. her life associate with his!--contemplation

horrible and ghastly!--from that fate she be save. later, she would

recover the effect of an influence happily so brief. she might form some

new attachment, some new tie; but love once withdraw be never to be

restore--and her love be withdraw from I. I have but to release she,

with my own lip, from our engagement,--she would welcome that release.

mournful but firm in these thought and these resolution, I seek Mrs.

Ashleigh’s house.













CHAPTER XLII.



it be twilight when I enter, unannounced (as have be my willnot in our

familiar intercourse), the quiet sitting-room in which I expect to

find mother and child. but Lilian be there alone, seat by the open

window, her hand cross and droop on her knee, her eye fix upon

the darken summer sky, in which the evening star have just steal

forth, bright and steadfast, near the pale sickle of a half-moon that

be dimly visible, but give as yet no light.



let any lover imagine the reception he would expect to meet from his

betroth come into her presence after he have pass triumphant

through a terrible peril to life and fame--and conceive what ice freeze

my blood, what anguish weigh down my heart, when Lilian, turn

towards I, rise not, speak not, gaze at I heedlessly as if at some

indifferent stranger--and--and--but no matter. I cannot bear to recall

it even now, at the distance of year! I sit down beside she, and take

her hand, without press it; it rest languidly, passively in mine,

one moment; I drop it then, with a bitter sigh.



“Lilian,” I say quietly, “you love I no long. be it not so?”



she raise her eye to mine, look at I wistfully, and press she

hand on her forehead; then say, in a strange voice, “do I ever love

you? what do you mean?”



“lilian, Lilian, rouse yourself; be you not, while you speak, under

some spell, some influence which you cannot describe nor account for?”



she pause a moment before she answer, calmly, “no! again I ask what

do you mean?”



“what do I mean? do you forget that we be betroth? do you forget how

often, and how recently, our vow of affection and constancy have be

exchange?”



“no, I do not forget; but I must have deceive you and myself--”



“it be true, then, that you love I no more?”



“I suppose so.”



“but, oh, Lilian, be it that your heart be only close to I; or

be it--oh, answer truthfully--be it give to another,--to he--to

he--against whom I warn you, whom I implore you not to receive? tell

I, at least, that your love be not go to Margrave--”



“to he! love to he! oh, no--no--”



“what, then, be your feeling towards he?”



Lilian’s face grow visibly pale, even in that dim light. “I know not,”

 she say, almost in a whisper; “but it be partly awe--partly--”



“what?”



“Abhorrence!” she say almost fiercely, and rise to her foot, with a

wild defy start.



“if that be so,” I say gently, “you would not grieve be you never

again to see him--”



“but I shall see he again,” she murmur in a tone of weary sadness,

and sink back once more into her chair.



“I think not,” say I, “and I hope not. and now hear I and hee I,

Lilian. it be enough for I, no matter what your feeling towards

another, to learn from yourself that the affection you once profess

for I be go. I release you from your troth. if folk ask why we two

henceforth separate the life we have agree to join, you may say, if

you please, that you could not give your hand to a man who have know the

taint of a felon’s prison, even on a false charge. if that seem to you

an ungenerous reason, we will leave it to your mother to find a well.

farewell! for your own sake I can yet feel happiness,--happiness to hear

that you do not love the man against whom I warn you still more solemnly

than before! will you not give I your hand in parting--and have I not

speak your own wish?”



she turn away her face, and resign her hand to I in silence.

silently I hold it in mine, and my emotion nearly stifle I. one

symptom of regret, of reluctance, on her part, and I should have fall

at her foot, and cry, “do not let we break a tie which our vow should

have make indisoluble; heed not my offer, wring from a tortured heart!

you cannot have cease to love I!” but no such symptom of relent

show itself in she, and with a groan I leave the room.













CHAPTER XLIII.



I be just outside the garden door, when I feel an arm throw round I,

my cheek kiss and wet with tear. could it be lilian? alas, no!

it be her mother’s voice, that, between laugh and crying, exclaim

hysterically: “this be joy, to see you again, and on these threshold. I

have just come from your house; I go there on purpose to congratulate

you, and to talk to you about Lilian. but you have see she?”



“yes; I have but this moment leave she. come this way.” I draw Mrs.

Ashleigh back into the garden, along the old winding walk, which the

shrub conceal from view of the house. we sit down on a rustic seat

where I have often sit with Lilian, midway between the house and the

monk’ well. I tell the mother what have pass between I and her

daughter; I make no complaint of Lilian’s coldness and change; I do not

hint at its cause. “girl of her age will change,” say I, “and all

that now remain be for we two to agree on such a tale to our curious

neighbour as may rest the whole blame on I. man’s name be of robust

fibre; it could not push its way to a place in the world, if it could

not bear, without sink, the load idle tongue may lay on it. not so

Woman’s name: what be but gossip against Man, be scandal against Woman.”



“do not be rash, my dear Allen,” say Mrs. Ashleigh, in great distress.

“I feel for you, I understand you; in your case I might act as you do. I

cannot blame you. Lilian be changed,--changed unaccountably. yet sure

I be that the change be only on the surface, that her heart be really

your, as entirely and as faithfully as ever it be; and that later,

when she recover from the strange, dreamy kind of torpor which appear

to have come over all her faculty and all her affection, she would

awake with a despair which you cannot conjecture to the knowledge that

you have renounce she.”



“I have not renounce she,” say I, impatiently; “I do but restore she

freedom of choice. but pass by this now, and explain to I more fully

the change in your daughter, which I gather from your word be not

confine to I.”



“I wish to speak of it before you see she, and for that reason come to

your house. it be on the morning in which we leave her aunt’s to return

hither that I first notice some thing peculiar in her look and manner.

she seem absorb and absent, so much so that I ask her several

time to tell I what make she so grave; but I could only get from she

that she have have a confused dream which she could not recall distinctly

enough to relate, but that she be sure it bode evil. during the

journey she become gradually more herself, and begin to look forward

with delight to the idea of see you again. well, you come that

evening. what pass between you and her you know well. you complain

that she slight your request to shun all acquaintance with Mr.

Margrave. I be surprised that, whether your wish be reasonable or

not, she could have hesitate to comply with it. I speak to she about it

after you have go, and she weep bitterly at think she have displease

you.”



“she weep! you amaze I. yet the next day what a note she return to

mine!”



“the next day the change in she become very visible to I. she tell I,

in an excited manner, that she be convince she ought not to marry you.

then come, the follow day, the news of your committal. I hear of

it, but dared not break it to she. I go to our friend the mayor, to

consult with he what to say, what to do; and to learn more distinctly

than I have do from terrified, incoherent servant, the right of so

dreadful a story. when I return, I find, to my amazement, a young

stranger in the drawing-room; it be Mr. Margrave,--Miss Brabazon

have bring he at his request. Lilian be in the room, too, and my

astonishment be increase, when she say to I with a singular smile,

vague but tranquil: ‘I know all about Allen Fenwick; Mr. Margrave have

tell I all. he be a friend of Allen’s. he say there be no cause

for fear.’ Mr. Margrave then apologize to I for his intrusion in a

caressing, kindly manner, as if one of the family. he say he be so

intimate with you that he feel that he could well break to Miss ashleigh

information she might receive elsewhere, for that he be the only man

in the town who treat the charge with ridicule. you know the wonderful

charm of this young man’s manner. I cannot explain to you how it be,

but in a few moment I be as much at home with he as if he have be

your brother. to be brief, having once come, he come constantly. he

have move, two day before you go to Derval Court, from his hotel to

apartment in Mr. ----‘s house, just opposite. we could see he on his

balcony from our terrace; he would smile to we and come across. I do

wrong in slight your injunction, and suffer Lilian to do so. I

could not help it, he be such a comfort to me,--to she, too--in her

tribulation. he alone have no doleful word, wear no long face; he alone

be invariably cheerful. ‘everything,’ he say, ‘would come right in a

day or two.’”



“and Lilian could not but admire this young man, he be so beautiful.”



“beautiful? well, perhaps. but if you have a jealous feeling, you be

never more mistaken. Lilian, I be convince, do more than dislike he;

he have inspire she with repugnance, with terror. and much as I own I

like he, in his wild, joyous, careless, harmless way, do not think I

flatter you if I say that Mr. Margrave be not the man to make any girl

untrue to you,--untrue to a lover with infinitely less advantage than

you may pretend to. he would be a universal favourite, I grant; but

there be something in he, or a something want in he, which make

liking and admiration stop short of love. I know not why; perhaps,

because, with all his good humour, he be so absorbed in himself, so

intensely egotistical, so light; be he less clever, I should say so

frivolous. he could not make love, he could not say in the serious tone

of a man in earnest, ‘I love you.’ he own as much to I, and own,

too, that he know not even what love be. as to myself, Mr. Margrave

appear rich; no whisper against his character or his honour ever

reach I. yet be you out of the question, and be there no stain on

his birth, nay, be he as high in rank and wealth as he be favour by

Nature in personal advantage, I confess I could never consent to trust

he with my daughter’s fate. a voice at my heart would cry, ‘no!’ it

may be an unreasonable prejudice, but I could not bear to see he touch

Lilian’s hand!”



“do she never, then--never suffer he even to take her hand?”



“never. do not think so meanly of she as to suppose that she could be

catch by a fair face, a graceful manner. reflect: just before she have

refuse, for your sake, Ashleigh Sumner, whom Lady Haughton say ‘no

girl in her sense could refuse;’ and this change in Lilian really begin

before we return to L----,--before she have even see Mr. Margrave.

I be convince it be something in the reach of your skill as

physician,--it be on the nerve, the system. I will give you a proof

of what I say, only do not betray I to she. it be during your

imprisonment, the night before your release, that I be awaken by she

come to my bedside. she be sob as if her heart would break. ‘O

mother, mother!’ she cry, ‘pity I, help I! I be so wretched.’ ‘what

be the matter, darling?’ ‘I have be so cruel to Allen, and I know I

shall be so again. I cannot help it. do not question I; only if we be

separate, if he cast I off, or I reject he, tell he some day perhaps

when I be in my grave--not to believe appearance; and that I, in my

heart of heart, never cease to love he!’”



“she say that! you be not deceive I?”



“oh, no! how can you think so?”



“there be hope still,” I murmur; and I bow my head upon my hand,

hot tear force their way through the clasped finger.



“one word more,” say I; “you tell I that Lilian have a repugnance to

this Margrave, and yet that she find comfort in his visits,--a comfort

that could not be wholly ascribe to cheer word he might say about

myself, since it be all but certain that I be not, at that time,

uppermost in her mind. can you explain this apparent contradiction?”



“I cannot, otherwise than by a conjecture which you would ridicule.”



“I can ridicule nothing now. what be your conjecture?”



“I know how much you disbelieve in the story one hear of animal

magnetism and electro-biology, otherwise--”



“you think that Margrave exercise some power of that kind over Lilian?

have he speak of such a power?”



“not exactly; but he say that he be sure Lilian possess a faculty

that he call by some hard name, not clairvoyance, but a faculty, which

he say, when I ask he to explain, be akin to prevision,--to second

sight. then he talk of the priestess who have administer the

ancient oracle. Lilian, he say, remind he of they, with her deep

eye and mysterious smile.”



“and Lilian hear he? what say she?”



“nothing; she seem in fear while she listen.”



“he do not offer to try any of those art practise by professional

mesmerist and other charlatan?”



“I think he be about to do so, but I forestall he, say I never

would consent to any experiment of that kind, either on myself or my

daughter.”



“and he replied--”



“with his gay laugh, ‘that I be very foolish; that a person possess

of such a faculty as he attribute to Lilian would, if the faculty be

develop, be an invaluable adviser.’ he would have say more, but I

beg he to desist. still I fancy at time--do not be angry--that he

do somehow or other bewitch she, unconsciously to herself; for she

always know when he be come. indeed, I be not sure that he do not

bewitch myself, for I by no mean justify my conduct in admit he

to an intimacy so familiar, and in spite of your wish; I have reproach

myself, resolve to shut my door on he, or to show by my manner that

his visit be unwelcome; yet when Lilian have say, in the drowsy

lethargic tone which have come into her voice (her voice naturally

earnest and impressive, though always low), ‘Mother, he will be here in

two minute; I wish to leave the room and cannot,’ I, too, have feel

as if something constrain I against my will; as if, in short, I be

under that influence which Mr. Vigors--whom I will never forgive for his

conduct to you--would ascribe to mesmerism. but will you not come in and

see Lilian again?”



“no, not to-night; but watch and hee she, and if you see aught to make

you honestly believe that she regret the rupture of the old tic from

which I have release she--why, you know, Mrs. Ashleigh, that--that--”

 my voice fail; I wring the good woman’s hand, and go my way.



I have always till then consider Mrs. Ashleigh--if not as Mrs. Poyntz

describe her--“commonplace weak”--still of an intelligence somewhat

below mediocrity. I now regard she with respect as well as grateful

tenderness; her plain sense have divine what all my boasted knowledge

have fail to detect in my early intimacy with Margrave,--namely,

that in he there be a something present, or a something wanting, which

forbid love and excited fear. young, beautiful, wealthy, seemingly

blameless in life as he be, she would not have give her daughter’s

hand to he!













CHAPTER XLIV.



the next day my house be fill with visitor. I have no notion that I

have so many friend. Mr. Vigors write I a generous and handsome letter,

own his prejudice against I on account of his sympathy with poor

Dr. Lloyd, and beg my pardon for what he now feel to have be

harshness, if not distort justice. but what most move I be the

entrance of Strahan, who rush up to I with the heartiness of old

college day. “oh, my dear Allen, can you ever forgive I; that I should

have disbelieve your word,--should have suspect you of abstract my

poor cousin’s memoir?”



“be it find, then?”



“oh, yes; you must thank Margrave. he, clever fellow, you know, come

to I on a visit yesterday. he put I at once on the right scent. only

guess; but you never can! it be that wretched old housekeeper who

purloin the manuscript. you remember she come into the room while you

be look at the memoir. she hear we talk about it; her curiosity

be rouse; she long to know the history of her old master, under his

own hand; she could not sleep; she hear I go up to bed; she think

you might leave the book on the table when you, too, go to rest. she

steal downstairs, peep through the keyhole of the library, see you

asleep, the book lie before you, enter, take away the book softly,

mean to glance at its content and to return it. you be sleep so

soundly she think you would not wake for an hour; she carry it into

the library, leave the door open, and there begin to pore over it. she

stumble first on one of the passage in Latin; she hope to find some

part in plain English, turn over the leave, put her candle close

to they, for the old woman’s eye be dim, when she hear you make some

sound in your sleep. alarm, she look round; you be move uneasily

in your seat, and mutter to yourself. from watch you she be soon

divert by the consequence of her own confound curiosity and folly.

in move, she have unconsciously bring the poor manuscript close to

the candle; the leave catch the flame; her own cap and hand burn

first make she aware of the mischief do. she throw down the book; she

sleeve be in flame; she have first to tear off the sleeve, which

be, luckily for she, not sew to her dress. by the time she recover

presence of mind to attend to the book, half its leave be reduce to

tinder. she do not dare then to replace what be leave of the manuscript

on your table; return with it to her room, hide it, and resolve to

keep her own secret. I should never have guess it; I have never

even speak to she of the occurrence; but when I talk over the

disappearance of the book to Margrave last night, and express my

disbelief of your story, he say, in his merry way: ‘but do you think

that Fenwick be the only person curious about your cousin’s odd way

and strange history? why, every servant in the household would have be

equally curious. you have examine your servant, of course?’ ‘no, I

never think of it.’ ‘examine they now, then. examine especially that

old housekeeper. I observe a great change in her manner since I come

here, week ago, to look over the house. she have something on she

mind,--I see it in her eye.’ then it occur to I, too, that the

woman’s manner have alter, and that she seem always in a tremble and

a fidget. I go at once to her room, and charge she with steal the

book. she fall on her knee, and tell the whole story as I have tell

it to you, and as I shall take care to tell it to all to whom I have so

foolishly blab my yet more foolish suspicion of yourself. but can

you forgive I, old friend?”



“heartily, heartily! and the book be burn?”



“see;” and he produce a mutilate manuscript. strange, the part

burn--reduce, indeed, to tinder--be the conclude part that relate

to Haroun,--to Grayle: no vestige of that part be leave; the early

portion be scorch and mutilate, though in some place still

decipherable; but as my eye hastily run over those place, I see only

mangle sentence of the experimental problem which the writer have so

minutely elaborate.



“will you keep the manuscript as it be, and as long as you like?” say

Strahan.



“no, no; I will have nothing more to do with it. consult some other

man of science. and so this be the old woman’s whole story? no

accomplice,--none? no one else share her curiosity and her task?”



“no. oddly enough, though, she make much the same excuse for her pitiful

folly that the madman make for his terrible crime; she say, ‘the Devil

put it into her head.’ of course he do, as he put everything wrong

into any one’s head. that do not mend the matter.”



“how! do she, too, say she see a Shadow and hear a voice?”



“no; not such a liar as that, and not mad enough for such a lie. but

she say that when she be in bed, think over the book, something

irresistible urge she to get up and go down into the study; swear she

feel something lead she by the hand; swore, too, that when she first

discover the manuscript be not in English, something whisper in she

ear to turn over the leave and approach they to the candle. but I have

no patience to listen to all this rubbish. I send she out of the

house, bag and baggage. but, alas! be this to be the end of all my wise

cousin’s grand discovery?”



true, of labour that aspire to bring into the chart of science new

world, of which even the traditionary rumour be but a voice from the

land of fable--nought leave but broken vestige of a daring footstep! the

hope of a name imperishable amidst the lofty hierarchy of Nature’s

secret temple, with all the pomp of record experiment, that apply to

the mystery of Egypt and Chaldaea the induction of Bacon, the test

of Liebig--be there nothing leave of this but what, here and there,

some puzzled student might extract, garble, mutilate, perhaps

unintelligible, from shred of sentence, wreck of problem! o mind of

man, can the work, on which thou wouldst find immortality below, be

annul into smoke and tinder by an inch of candle in the hand of an

old woman!



when Strahan leave I, I go out, but not yet to visit patient. I stole

through by-path into the field; I need solitude to bring my thought

into shape and order. what be delusion, and what not? be I right or

the Public? be Margrave really the most innocent and serviceable of

human being, kindly affectionate, employ a wonderful acuteness for

benignant end? be I, in truth, indebte to he for the great

boon one man can bestow on another,--for life rescue, for fair name

justify? or have he, by some demoniac sorcery, guide the hand of the

murderer against the life of the person who alone could imperil his own?

have he, by the same dark spell, urge the woman to the act that have

destroy the only record of his monstrous being,--the only evidence

that I be not the sport of an illusion in the horror with which he

inspire I?



but if the latter supposition could be admissible, do he use his

agent only to betray they afterwards to exposure, and that, without any

possible clew to his own detection as the instigator? then, there come

over I confuse recollection of tale of mediaeval witchcraft, which

I have read in boyhood. be there not on judicial record attestation and

evidence, solemn and circumstantial, of power analogous to those

now exercise by Margrave,--of sorcerer instigate to sin through

influence ascribe to demon; make their apparition glide through

guard wall, their voice hear from afar in the solitude of dungeon

or monastic cell; subjugate victim to their will, by mean which

no vigilance could have detect, if the victim themselves have not

confess the witchcraft that have ensnare, court a sure and infamous

death in that confession, prefer such death to a life so haunted?

be story so gravely set forth in the pomp of judicial evidence,

and in the history of time comparatively recent, indeed to be mass,

pell-mell together, as a mole indigesta of senseless superstition,--all

the witness to be deem liar; all the victim and tool of the

sorcerer, lunatic; all the examiner or judge, with their solemn

gradation--lie and clerical--from Commissions of Inquiry to Courts of

Appeal,--to be despise for credulity, loathe for cruelty; or, amidst

record so numerous, so imposingly attest, be there the fragment of

a terrible truth? and have our ancestor be so unwise in those law we

now deem so savage, by which the world be rid of scourge more awful

and more potent than the felon with his candid dagger? fell instigator

of the evil in man’s secret heart, shape into action the vague,

half-form desire, and guide with agency impalpable, unseen, their

spell-bind instrument of calamity and death.



such be the gloomy question that I--by repute, the stern advocate

of common-sense against fantastic error; by profession, the searcher

into flesh and blood, and tissue and nerve and sinew, for the cause

of all that disease the mechanism of the universal human frame; I,

self-boast physician, sceptic, philosopher, materialist--revolve,

not amidst gloomy pine, under grim winter sky, but as I pace slow

through laugh meadow, and by the bank of merry stream, in the

ripeness of the golden August: the hum of insect in the fragrant grass,

the flutter of bird amid the delicate green of bough checker by

playful sunbeam and gentle shadow, and ever in sight of the resort of

busy workday man,--walls, roof-top, church-spire rise high; there,

white and modern, the handwriting of our race, in this practical

nineteenth century, on its square plain masonry and doric shaft, the

Town-Hall, central in the animate marketplace. and I--i--pry into

long-neglect corner and dust-hole of memory for what my reason have

fling there as worthless rubbish; revive the jargon of french law, in

the proce verbal, against a Gille de Retz, or an Urbain Grandier, and

sift the equity of sentence on witchcraft!



burst the link of this ghastly soliloquy with a laugh at my own

folly, I strike into a narrow path that lead back towards the city, by

a quiet and rural suburb; the path wind on through a wide and solitary

churchyard, at the base of the Abbey-hill. many of the former dweller

on that eminence now sleep in the lowly burial-ground at its foot; and

the place, mournfully decorate with the tomb which still jealously

mark distinction of rank amidst the levelling democracy of the grave,

be keep trim with the care which come half from piety, and half from

pride.



I seat myself on a bench, place between the clip yew-tree that

border the path from the entrance to the church porch, deeming vaguely

that my own perplexing thought might imbibe a quiet from the quiet of

the place.



“and oh,” I murmur to myself, “oh that I have one bosom friend to

whom I might freely confide all these torture riddle which I cannot

solve,--one who could read my heart, light up its darkness, exorcise its

spectre; one in whose wisdom I could welcome a guide through the nature

which now suddenly change her aspect, open out from the wall with

which I have fence and enclose she as mine own formal garden;--all her

pathway, therein, trim to my footstep; all her bloom group and

harmonize to my own taste in colour; all her grove, all her cavern,

but the soothe retreat of a Muse or a science; open out--open

out, desert on desert, into clewless and measureless space! go be the

garden! be its confine too narrow for Nature? be it so! the Desert

replace the garden, but where end the Desert? reft from my sense be

the law which give order and place to their old questionless realm. I

stand lose and appal amidst Chaos. do my mind misconstrue the law

it deem fix and immutable? be it so! but still nature cannot be

lawless; creation be not a Chaos. if my sense deceive I in some

thing, they be still unerre in other; if thus, in some thing,

fallacious, still, in other thing, truthful. be there within I sense

fine than those I have culture, or without I vista of knowledge

which instinct, apart from my sense, divine? so long as I deal

with the Finite alone, my sense suffice I; but when the Infinite be

obtrude upon I there, be my sense faithless deserter? if so, be

there aught else in my royal resource of Man--whose ambition it be,

from the first dawn of his glory as Thinker, to invade and to subjugate

Nature,--is there aught else to supply the place of those traitor, the

sense, who report to my Reason, their judge and their sovereign, as

truth see and hear tale which my reason forfeit her sceptre if she

do not disdain as lie? oh, for a friend! oh, for a guide!”



and as I so murmur, my eye fall upon the form of a kneeling child,--at

the farth end of the burial-ground, beside a grave with its new

headstone gleam white amidst the old moss-grow tomb, a female

child, her head bow, her hand clasp. I could see but the outline

of her small form in its sable dress,--an infant beside the dead. my eye

and my thought be turn from that silent figure, too absorb in my

own restless tumult of doubt and dread, for sympathy with the grief or

the consolation of a kneeling child. and yet I should have remember

that tomb! again I murmur with a fierce impatience, “oh, for a friend!

oh, for a guide!”



I hear step on the walk under the yews; and an old man come in sight,

slightly bent, with long gray hair, but still with enough of vigour for

year to come, in his tread, firm, though slow, in the unshrunken muscle

of his limb and the steady light of his clear blue eye. I start.

be it possible? that countenance, marked, indeed, with the line of

laborious thought, but sweet in the mildness of humanity, and serene

in the peace of conscience! I could not be mistake. Julius Faber be

before me,--the profound pathologist, to whom my own proud self-esteem

acknowledge inferiority, without humiliation; the generous benefactor

to whom I owe my own smooth entrance into the arduous road of fame

and fortune. I have long for a friend, a guide; what I seek stand

suddenly at my side.













CHAPTER XLV.



Explanation on Faber’s part be short and simple. the nephew whom he

design as the heir to his wealth have largely outstrip the liberal

allowance make to he, have incur heavy debt; and in order to

extricate himself from the debt, have plunge into ruinous speculation.

Faber have come back to England to save his heir from prison or outlawry,

at the expense of more than three-fourth of the destine inheritance.

to add to all, the young man have marry a young lady without fortune;

the uncle only hear of this marriage on arrive in England.

the spendthrift be hide from his creditor in the house of his

father-in-law, in one of the western county. Faber there seek

he; and on becoming acquaint with his wife, grew reconcile to the

marriage, and form hope of his nephew’s future redemption. he

speak, indeed, of the young wife with great affection. she be good and

sensible; willing and anxious to encounter any privation by which she

husband might reprieve the effect of his folly. “so,” say Faber, “on

consultation with this excellent creature--for my poor nephew be so

break down by repentance, that other must think for he how to exalt

repentance into reform--my plan be determine. I shall remove my

prodigal from all scene of temptation. he have youth, strength, plenty

of energy, hitherto misdirect. I shall take he from the Old World

into the New. I have decide on Australia. the fortune still leave to I,

small here, will be ample capital there. it be not enough to maintain we

separately, so we must all live together. besides, I feel that, though

I have neither the strength or the experience which could well serve a

young settler on a strange soil, still, under my eye, my poor boy will

be at once more prudent and more persevering. we sail next week.”



Faber speak so cheerfully that I know not how to express compassion;

yet, at his age, after a career of such prolonged and distinguish

labour, to resign the ease and comfort of the civilized state for

the hardship and rudeness of an infant colony, seem to I a dreary

prospect; and, as delicately, as tenderly as I could to one whom I love

and honour as a father, I place at his disposal the fortune which, in

great part, I owe to him,--pressing he at least to take from it enough

to secure to himself, in his own country, a home suit to his year

and worthy of his station. he reject all my offer, however earnestly

urge on he, with his usual modest and gentle dignity; and assure I

that he look forward with great interest to a residence in land new

to his experience, and afford ample scope for the hardy enjoyment

which have always most allure his taste, he hasten to change the

subject.



“and who, think you, be the admirable helpmate my scape-grace have have

the save good luck to find? a daughter of the worthy man who undertake

the care of poor Dr. Lloyd’s orphans,--the orphan who owe so much to

your generous exertion to secure a provision for they; and that child,

now just rise from her father’s grave, be my pet companion, my darling

ewe lamb,--Dr. Lloyd’s daughter Amy.”



here the child join we, quicken her pace as she recognize the old

man, and nestle to his side as she glance wistfully towards myself.

a win, candid, lovable child’s face, somewhat melancholy, somewhat

more thoughtful than be common to the face of childhood, but calm,

intelligent, and ineffably mild. presently she steal from the old man,

and put her hand in mine.



“be you not the kind gentleman who come to see he that night when he

pass away from we, and who, they all say at home, be so good to my

brother and I? yes, I recollect you now.” and she put her pure face to

mine, woo I to kiss it.



I kind! I good! I--I! alas! she little know, little guess, the

wrathful imprecation her father have bequeath to I that fatal night!



I do not dare to kiss Dr. Lloyd’s orphan daughter, but my tear fall

over her hand. she take they as sign of pity, and, in her infant

thankfulness, silently kiss I.



“oh, my friend!” I murmur to Faber, “I have much that I yearn to say

to you--alone--alone! come to my house with I, be at least my guest as

long as you stay in this town.”



“Willingly,” say Faber, look at I more intently than he have do

before, and with the true eye of the practised Healer, at once soft and

penetrate.



he rise, take my arm, and whisper a word in the ear of the little

girl, she go on before we, turn her head, as she gain the gate,

for another look at her father’s grave. as we walk to my house, Julius

Faber speak to I much of this child. her brother be all at school;

she be greatly attach to his nephew’s wife; she have become yet more

attach to Faber himself, though on so short an acquaintance; it have

be settle that she be to accompany the emigrant to Australia.



“there,” say he, “the sum, that some munificent, but unknown friend

of her father have settle on she, will provide she no mean dower for a

colonist’s wife, when the time come for she to bring a blessing to

some other hearth than our.” he go on to say that she have wish

to accompany he to L----, in order to visit her father’s grave before

cross the wide sea; “and she have take such fond care of I all the

way, that you might fancy I be the child of the two. I come back to

this town, partly to dispose of a few poor house in it which still

belong to I, principally to bid you farewell before quit the Old

World, no doubt forever. so, on arrive to-day, I leave Amy by herself

in the churchyard while I go to your house, but you be from home.

and now I must congratulate you on the reputation you have so rapidly

acquire, which have even surpass my prediction.”



“you be aware,” say I, falteringly, “of the extraordinary charge from

which that part of my reputation dearest to all man have just emerge!”



he have but see a short account in a weekly journal, write after my

release. he ask detail, which I postpone.



reach my home, I hasten to provide for the comfort of my two

unexpected guest; strove to rally myself, to be cheerful. not till

night, when Julius Faber and I be alone together, do I touch on

what be weigh at my heart. then, draw to his side, I tell he

all,--all of which the substance be herein write, from the deathscene

in Dr. Lloyd’s chamber to the hour in which I have see Dr. Lloyd’s child

at her father’s grave. some of the incident and conversation which have

most impressed I I have already commit to writing, in the fear

that, otherwise, my fancy might forge for its own thraldom the link

of reminiscence which my memory might let fall from its chain. Faber

listen with a silence only interrupt by short pertinent question;

and when I have do, he remain thoughtful for some moment; then the

great physician reply thus:--



“I take for grant your conviction of the reality of all you tell

I, even of the luminous Shadow, of the bodiless Voice; but, before

admit the reality itself, we must abide by the old maxim, not to

accept as cause to effect those agency which belong to the

Marvellous, when cause less improbable for the effect can be rationally

conjecture. in this case be there not such cause? certainly there

are--”



“there be?”



“listen; you be one of those man who attempt to stifle their own

imagination. but in all complete intellect, imagination exist, and

will force its way; deny it healthful vent, and it may stray into

morbid channel. the death-room of Dr. Lloyd deeply impress your

heart, far more than your pride would own. this be clear from the

pain you take to exonerate your conscience, in your generosity to the

orphan. as the heart be move, so be the imagination stir; and,

unaware to yourself, prepare for much that subsequently appeal to

it. your sudden love, conceive in the very ground of the house so

associate with recollection in themselves strange and romantic;

the peculiar temperament and nature of the girl to whom your love be

attract; her own visionary belief, and the keen anxiety which infuse

into your love a deep poetry of sentiment,--all insensibly tend to

induce the imagination to dwell on the wonderful; and, in overstrive

to reconcile each rare phenomenon to the most positive law of Nature,

your very intellect could discover no solution but in the Preternatural.



“you visit a man who tell you he have see Sir Philip Derval’s ghost; on

that very evening, you hear a strange story, in which Sir Philip’s name

be mix up with a tale of murder, implicate two mysterious pretender

to magic,--Louis Grayle and the sage of Aleppo. the tale so interest

your fancy that even the glare impossibility of a not unimportant part

of it escape your notice,--namely, the account of a criminal trial in

which the circumstantial evidence be more easily attainable than in all

the rest of the narrative, but which could not legally have take place

as tell. thus it be whenever the mind begin, unconsciously, to admit

the shadow of the Supernatural; the obvious be lose to the eye that

plunge its gaze into the Obscure. almost immediately afterwards you

become acquainted with a young stranger, whose trait of character

interest and perplex, attract yet revolt you. all this time you be

engage in a physiological work which severely task the brain, and in

which you examine the intricate question of soul distinct from mind.



“and, here, I can conceive a cause deep-hid amongst what metaphysician

would call latent association, for a train of thought which dispose

you to accept the fantastic impression afterwards make on you by

the scene in the Museum and the visionary talk of Sir Philip Derval.

Doubtless, when at college you first study metaphysical speculation

you would have glance over Beattie’s ‘essay on Truth’ as one of the

work write in opposition to your favourite, David Hume.”



“yes, I read the book, but I have long since forget its argument.”



“well in that essay, Beattie(1) cite the extraordinary instance of

Simon Browne, a learned and pious clergyman, who seriously disbelieve

the existence of his own soul; and imagine that, by interposition of

divine power, his soul be annul, and nothing leave but a principle of

animal life, which he hold in common with the brute! when, year ago, a

thoughtful imaginative student, you come on that story, probably enough

you would have pause, revolve in your own mind and fancy what kind

of a creature a man might be, if, retain human life and merely

human understanding, he be deprive of the power and property which

reasoner have ascribe to the existence of soul. something in this

young man, unconsciously to yourself, revive that forget train of

meditative idea. his dread of death as the final cessation of be,

his brute-like want of sympathy with his kind, his incapacity to

comprehend the motive which carry man on to scheme and to build for a

future that extend beyond his grave,--all start up before you at the

very moment your reason be overtaske, your imagination fevere, in

seek the solution of problem which, to a philosophy base upon your

system, must always remain insoluble. the young man’s conversation not

only thus excite your fancies,--it disturb your affection. he speak

not only of drug that renew youth, but of charm that secure love. you

tremble for your Lilian while you hear he! and the brain thus task,

the imagination thus inflame, the heart thus agitated, you be

present to Sir Philip Derval, whose ghost your patient have suppose he

see week ago.



“this person, a seeker after an occult philosophy, which have possibly

acquaint he with some secret in nature beyond the pale of our

conventional experience, though, when analyze, they might prove to be

quite reconcilable with sober science, startle you with an undefined

mysterious charge against the young man who have previously seem to you

different from ordinary mortal. in a room store with the dead thing

of the brute soulless world, your brain become intoxicate with

the fume of some vapour which produce effect not uncommon in the

superstitious practice of the East; your brain, thus excited, bring

distinctly before you the vague impression it have before receive.

Margrave becomes identify with the Louis Grayle of whom you have

previously hear an obscure and, legendary tale, and all the anomaly

in his character be explain by his be that which you have

contend, in your physiological work, it be quite possible for man

to be,--namely, mind and body without soul! you be startle by the

monster which man would be be your own theory possible; and in order

to reconcile the contradiction in this very monster, you account

for knowledge, and for power that mind without soul could not have

attain, by ascribe to this prodigy break memory of a former

existence, demon attribute from former proficiency in evil magic.

my friend, there be nothing here which your own study of morbid

idiosyncracie should not suffice to solve.”



“so, then,” say I, “you would reduce all that have affect my sense

as reality into the deceit of illusion? but,” I add, in a whisper,

terrify by my own question, “do not physiologist agree in this:

namely, that though illusory phantasm may haunt the sane as well as the

insane, the sane know that they be only illusion, and the insane do

not.”



“such a distinction,” answer Faber, “be far too arbitrary and rigid

for more than a very general and qualified acceptance. Muller, indeed,

who be perhaps the high authority on such a subject, say, with

prudent reserve, ‘when a person who be not insane see spectre

and believe, they to be real, his intellect must be imperfectly

exercise.’(2) he would, indeed, be a bold physician who maintain that

every man who believe he have really see a ghost be of unsound mind.

in Dr. Abercrombie’s interesting account of spectral illusion, he tell

we of a servant-girl who believe she see, at the foot of her bed,

the apparition of Curran, in a sailor’s jacket and an immense pair of

whiskers.(3) no doubt the spectre be an illusion, and Dr. Abercrombie

very ingeniously suggest the association of idea by which the

apparition be conjure up with the grotesque adjunct of the jacket

and the whisker; but the servant-girl, in believe the reality of the

apparition, be certainly not insane. when I read in the american

public journals(4) of ‘spirit manifestation,’ in which large number of

person, of at least the average degree of education, declare that they

have actually witness various phantasm, much more extraordinary

than all which you have confide to I, and arrive, at once, at the

conclusion that they be thus put into direct communication with

depart soul, I must assume that they be under an illusion; but I

should be utterly unwarranted in suppose that, because they credit

that illusion, they be insane. I should only say with Muller, that in

their reasoning on the phenomenon present to they, ‘their intellect be

imperfectly exercise.’ and an impression make on the sense, be in

itself sufficiently rare to excite our wonder, may be strengthen till

it take the form of a positive fact, by various coincidence which

be accept as corroborative testimony, yet which be, nevertheless,

nothing more than coincidence find in every day matter of business,

but only emphatically notice when we can exclaim, ‘how astonishing!’

in your case such coincidence have be, indeed, very signal, and might

well aggravate the perplexity into which your reason be throw. Sir

Philip Derval’s murder, the miss casket, the exciting nature of the

manuscript, in which a superstitious interest be already enlist by

your expectation to find in it the key to the narrator’s boasted power,

and his reason for the astounding denunciation of the man whom you

suspect to be his murderer,--in all this there be much to confirm, nay,

to cause, an illusion; and for that very reason, when examine by strict

law of evidence, in all this there be but additional proof that the

illusion be--only illusion. your affection contribute to strengthen

your fancy in its war on your reason. the girl you so passionately love

develop, to your disquietude and terror, the visionary temperament

which, at her age, be ever liable to fantastic caprice. she hear

Margrave’s song, which you say have a wildness of charm that affect

and thrill even you. who do not know the power of music? and of all

music, there be none so potential as that of the human voice. thus, in

some language, charm and song be identical expression; and even when

a critic, in our own sober newspaper, extol a Malibran or a Grisi, you

may be sure that he will call she ‘enchantress.’ well, this lady, your

betroth, in whom the nervous system be extremely impressionable, hear

a voice which, even to your ear, be strangely melodious, and see a form

and face which, even to your eye, be endow with a singular character

of beauty. her fancy be impress by what she thus hear and see; and

impress the more because, by a coincidence not very uncommon, a face

like that which she behold have before be present to she in a dream

or a revery. in the nobleness of genuine, confiding, reverential love,

rather than impute to your beloved a levity of sentiment that would seem

to you a treason, you accept the chimera of ‘magical fascination.’

in this frame of mind you sit down to read the memoir of a mystical

enthusiast. do you begin now to account for the luminous Shadow? a

dream! and a dream no less because your eye be open and you believe

yourself awake. the diseased imagination resemble those mirror which,

be themselves distort, represent distort picture as correct.



“and even this Memoir of Sir Philip Derval’s--can you be quite sure that

you actually read the part which relate to Haroun and Louis Grayle? you

say that, while peruse the manuscript, you see the luminous Shadow,

and become insensible. the old woman say you be fast asleep. may you

not really have fall into a slumber, and in that slumber have dream

the part of the tale that relate to Grayle,--dreamed that you beheld

the Shadow? do you remember what be say so well by Dr. Abercrombie,

to authorize the explanation I suggest to you: ‘a person under the

influence of some strong mental impression fall asleep for a few

second, perhaps without be sensible of it: some scene or person

appear in a dream, and he start up under the conviction that it be a

spectral appearance.’” (5)



“but,” say I, “the apparition be see by I again, and when,

certainly, I be not sleep.”



“true; and who should know well than a physician so well read as

yourself that a spectral illusion once beheld be always apt to return

again in the same form? thus, Goethe be long haunt by one image,--the

phantom of a flower unfold itself, and develop new flowers.(6)

thus, one of our most distinguished philosopher tell we of a lady

know to himself, who would see her husband, hear he move and speak,

when he be not even in the house.(7) but instance of the facility with

which phantasm, once admit, repeat themselves to the sense, be

numberless. many be record by Hibbert and Abercrombie, and

every physician in extensive practice can add largely, from his own

experience, to the list. intense self-concentration be, in itself, a

mighty magician. the magician of the East inculcate the necessity

of fast, solitude, and meditation for the due development of their

imaginary power. and I have no doubt with effect; because fast,

solitude, and meditation--in other word, thought or fancy intensely

concentre--will both raise apparition and produce the invoker’s belief

in they. Spinello, strive to conceive the image of Lucifer for his

picture of the Fallen Angels, be at last actually haunt by the Shadow

of the Fiend. Newton himself have be subject to a phantom, though

to he, Son of Light, the spectre present be that of the sun! you

remember the account that Newton give to Locke of this visionary

appearance. he say that ‘though he have look at the sun with his

right eye only, and not with the left, yet his fancy begin to make an

impression upon his left eye as well as his right; for if he shut his

right and look upon the cloud, or a book, or any bright object with

his left eye, he could see the sun almost as plain as with the right, if

he do but intend his fancy a little while on it;’ nay, ‘for some month

after, as often as he begin to meditate on the phenomena, the spectrum

of the sun begin to return, even though he lie in bed at midnight, with

his curtain draw!’ seeing, then, how any vivid impression once make

will recur, what wonder that you should behold in your prison the

shine Shadow that have first startle you in a wizard’s chamber when

pore over the record of a murder visionary? the more minutely

you analyze your own hallucination--pardon I the word--the more they

assume the usual characteristic of a dream; contradictory, illogical,

even in the marvel they represent. can any two person be more totally

unlike each other, not merely as to form and year, but as to all the

element of character, than the Grayle of whom you read, or believe

you read, and the Margrave in whom you evidently think that Grayle be

existent still? the one represent, you say, as gloomy, saturnine, with

vehement passion, but with an original grandeur of thought and will,

consume by an internal remorse; the other you paint to I as a joyous

and wayward darling of Nature, acute yet frivolous, free from even

the ordinary passion of youth, take delight in innocent amusement,

incapable of continuous study, without a single pang of repentance

for the crime you so fancifully impute to he. and now, when your

suspicion, so romantically conceive, be dispel by positive fact,

now, when it be clear that Margrave neither murder Sir Philip Derval

nor abstract the memoir, you still, unconsciously to yourself, draw

on your imagination in order to excuse the suspicion your pride of

intellect decline to banish, and suppose that this youthful sorcerer

tempt the madman to the murder, the woman to the theft--”



“but you forget the madman say ‘that he be lead on by the luminous

Shadow of a beautiful youth,’ that the woman say also that she be

impel by some mysterious agency.”



“I do not forget those coincidence; but how your learning would dismiss

they as nugatory be your imagination not dispose to exaggerate they!

when you read the authentic history of any popular illusion, such

as the spurious inspiration of the Jansenist Convulsionaries, the

apparition that invade convent, as depose in the trial of Urbain

Grandier, the confession of witch and wizard in place the

most remote from each other, or, at this day, the tale of

‘spirit-manifestation’ record in half the town and village of

America,--do not all the superstitious impression of a particular time

have a common family likeness? what one see, another see, though there

have be no communication between the two. I cannot tell you why these

phantasm thus partake of the nature of an atmospheric epidemic; the

fact remain incontestable. and strange as may be the coincidence

between your impression of a mystic agency and those of some other

brain not cognizant of the chimera of your own, still, be it not

simple philosophy to say, ‘they be coincidence of the same nature

which make witch in the same epoch all tell much the same story of

the broomstick they ride and the sabbat at which they dance to the

fiend’s piping,’ and there leave the matter, as in science we must leave

many of the most elementary and familiar phenomenon inexplicable as to

their causes,--is not this, I say, more philosophical than to insist

upon an explanation which accept the supernatural rather than leave the

extraordinary unaccounted for?”



“as you speak,” say I, rest my downcast face upon my hand, “I should

speak to any patient who have confide to I the tale I have tell to

you.”



“and yet the explanation do not wholly satisfy you? very likely: to

some phenomenon there be, as yet, no explanation. perhaps Newton himself

could not explain quite to his own satisfaction why he be haunt at

midnight by the spectrum of a sun; though I have no doubt that some

later philosopher whose ingenuity have be stimulate by Newton’s

account, have, by this time, suggest a rational solution of

that enigma.(8) to return to your own case. I have offer such

interpretation of the mystery that confound you as appear to I

authorize by physiological science. should you adduce other fact which

physiological science want the datum to resolve into phenomenon always

natural, however rare, still hold fast to that simple saying of Goethe:

‘mystery be not necessarily miracle.’ and if all which physiological

science comprehend in its experience wholly fail we, I may then

hazard certain conjecture in which, by acknowledge ignorance, one be

compel to recognize the marvellous (for as where knowledge enter,

the marvellous recede, so where knowledge falter, the marvellous

advance); yet still, even in those conjecture, I will distinguish the

Marvellous from the Supernatural. but, for the present, I advise you to

accept the guess that may well quiet the fevere imagination which any

bold guess would only more excite.”



“you be right,” say I, rise proudly to the full height of my

stature, my head erect and my heart defy. “and so let this subject

be renew no more between we. I will brood over it no more myself.

I regain the unclouded realm of my human intelligence; and, in that

intelligence, I mock the sorcerer and disdain the spectre.”



(1) Beattie’s “Essay on Truth,” part i. c. ii. 3. the story of Simon

Browne be to be find in “The Adventurer.”



(2) Miller’s Physiology of the Senses, p. 394.



(3) abercrombie on the Intellectual Powers, p. 281. (15th edition.)



(4) at the date of Faber’s conversation with Allen Fenwick, the

(so-call) spirit manifestation have not spread from America over

Europe. but if they have, Faber’s view would, no doubt, have remain

the same.



(5) Abercrombie on the Intellectual Powers, p. 278. (15th edition.)



this author, not more to be admire for his intelligence than his

candour, and who be entitle to praise for a high degree of original

thought than that to which he modestly pretend, relate a curious

anecdote illustrate “the analogy between dream and spectral

illusion, which he receive from the gentleman to which it occurred,--an

eminent medical friend:” “having sit up late one evening, under

considerable anxiety for one of his child, who be ill, he fall

asleep in his chair, and have a frightful dream, in which the prominent

figure be an immense baboon. he awake with the fright, get up

instantly, and walk to a table which be in the middle of the room.

he be then quite awake, and quite conscious of the article around he;

but close by the wall in the end of the apartment he distinctly see the

baboon make the same grimace which he have see in his dream; and

this spectre continue visible for about half a minute.” now, a man

who see only a baboon would be quite ready to admit that it be but an

optical illusion; but if, instead of a baboon, he have see an intimate

friend, and that friend, by some coincidence of time, have die about

that date, he would be a very strong-minded man if he admit for the

mystery of see his friend the same natural solution which he would

readily admit for see a baboon.



(6) see Muller’s observation on this phenomenon, “physiology of the

sense,” Baley’s translation, p. 1395.



(7) Sir David Brewster’s Letters on Natural Magic, p. 39.



(8) Newton’s explanation be as follow: “this story I tell you to let

you understand, that in the observation relate by Mr. Boyle, the man’s

fancy probably concur with the impression make by the sun’s light

to produce that phantasm of the sun which he constantly see in bright

object, and so your question about the cause of this phantasm involve

another about the power of the fancy, which I must confess be too hard a

knot for I to untie. to place this effect in a constant motion be hard,

because the sun ought then to appear perpetually. it seem rather

to consist in a disposition of the sensorium to move the imagination

strongly, and to be easily move both by the imagination and by the

light as often as bright object be look upon.”--Letter from Sir I.

Newton to Locke, Lord Kinq’s Life of Locke, vol. i. pp. 405-408.



Dr. Roget (Animal and Vegetable Physiology consider with reference to

Natural theology, “Bridgewater Treatise,” pp. 524, 525) thus refer to

this phenomenon, which he state “all of we may experience “:--



“when the impression be very vivid” (Dr. Roget be speak of visual

impression), “another phenomenon often take place,--namely, their

subsequent recurrence after a certain interval, during which they be

not feel, and quite independently of any renew application of the

cause which have originally excite they.” (I mark by italic the word

which more precisely coincide with Julius Faber’s explanation.) “if,

for example, we look steadfastly at the sun for a second or two, and

then immediately close our eye, the image, or spectrum, of the sun

remain for a long time present to the mind, as if the light be still

act on the retina. it then gradually fade and disappear; but if

we continue to keep the eye shut, the same impression will, after

a certain time, recur, and again vanish: and this phenomenon will be

repeat at interval, the sensation become fainter at each renewal.

it be probable that these reappearance of the image, after the

light which produce the original impression have be withdraw, be

occasion by spontaneous affection of the retina itself which be

convey to the sensorium. in other case, where the impression be

less strong, the physical change produce these change be perhaps

confine to the sensorium.”



it may be say that there be this difference between the spectrum of the

sun and such a phantom as that which perplex Allen Fenwick,--namely,

that the sun have be actually beheld before its visionary appearance

can be reproduce, and that Allen Fenwick only imago he have see the

apparition which repeat itself to his fancy. “but there be ground for

the suspicion” (say Dr. Hibbert, “philosophy of Apparitions,” p. 250),

“that when idea of vision be vivified to the height of sensation, a

corresponding affection of the optic nerve accompany the illusion.”

 Muller (“physiology of the sense,” p. 1392, Baley’s translation) state

the same opinion still more strongly; and Sir David Brewster, quote

by Dr. Hibbert (p. 251) say: “in examine these mental impression, I

have find that they follow the motion of the eyeball exactly like the

spectral impression of luminous object, and that they resemble they

also in their apparent immobility when the eye be displace by an

external force. if this result (which I state with much diffidence, from

have only my own experience in its favour) shall be find generally

true by other, it will follow that the object of mental contemplation

may be see as distinctly as external object, and will occupy the same

local position in the axis of vision, as if they have be form by the

agency of light.” hence the impression of an image once convey to the

sense, no matter how, whether by actual or illusory vision, be liable

to renewal, “independently of any renew application of the cause which

have originally excite it,” and the image can be see in that renewal

“as distinctly as external object,” for indeed “the revival of the

fantastic figure really do affect those point of the retina which have

be previously impressed.”













CHAPTER XLVI.



Julius Faber and Amy Lloyd stay in my house three day, I and in their

presence I feel a healthful sense of security and peace. Amy wish to

visit her father’s house, and I ask Faber, in take she there, to

seize the occasion to see Lilian, that he might communicate to I his

impression of a case so peculiar. I prepare Mrs. Ashleigh for this

visit by a previous note. when the old man and the child come back, both

bring I comfort. Amy be charm with Lilian, who have receive she

with the sweetness natural to her real character, and I love to hear

Lilian’s praise from those innocent lip.



Faber’s report be still more calculated to console I.



“I have see, I have converse with her long and familiarly. you be

quite right,--there be no tendency to consumption in that exquisite, if

delicate, organization; nor do I see cause for the fear to which your

statement have pre-inclined I. that head be too nobly form for any

constitutional cerebral infirmity. in its organization, ideality,

wonder, veneration, be large, it be true, but they be balance by

other organ, now perhaps almost dormant, but which will come into

play as life pass from romance into duty. something at this moment

evidently oppress her mind. in converse with she, I observe

abstraction, listlessness; but I be so convinced of her truthfulness,

that if she have once tell you she return your affection, and pledge

to you her faith, I should, in your place, rest perfectly satisfied that

whatever be the cloud that now rest on her imagination, and for the

time obscure the idea of yourself, it will pass away.”



Faber be a believer in the main division of phrenology, though he do

not accept all the dogma of Gall and Spurzheim; while, to my mind,

the refutation of phrenology in its fundamental proposition have be

triumphantly establish by the lucid argument of Sir W. Hamilton.(1)

but when Faber rest on phrenological observation assurance in honour

of Lilian, I forget Sir W. Hamilton, and believe in phrenology. as

iron girder and pillar expand and contract with the mere variation

of temperature, so will the strong conviction on which the human

intellect rest its judgment vary with the change of the human heart;

and the building be only safe where these variation be foresee and

allow for by a wisdom intent on self-knowledge.(2)



there be much in the affection that have spring up between Julius Faber

and Amy Lloyd which touch my heart and soften all its emotion. this

man, unblessed, like myself, by conjugal and parental tie, have, in his

solitary age, turn for solace to the love of a child, as I, in the

pride of manhood, have turn to the love of woman. but his love be

without fear, without jealousy, without trouble. my sunshine come to

I in a fitful ray, through cloud that have gather over my noon; his

sunshine cover all his landscape, hallow and hallow by the calm

of decline day.



and Amy be no common child. she have no exuberant imagination; she be

haunt by no whisper from Afar; she be a creature fit for the

earth,--to accept its duty and to gladden its care. her tender

observation, fine and tranquil, be alive to all the important household

trifle by which, at the early age, man’s allotted soother assert

her privilege to tend and to comfort. it be pleasant to see she

move so noiselessly through the room I have devote to her venerable

protector, know all his simple want, and provide for they as if by

the mechanism of a heart exquisitely mould to the love use of life.

sometimes when I see she set his chair by the window (know, as

I do, how much he habitually love to be near the light) and smooth

his paper (in which he be apt to be unmethodical), place the mark

in his book when he cease to read, divine, almost without his glance,

some wish pass through his mind, and then seat herself at his

foot, often with her work--which be always destine for he or for one

of her absent brothers,--now and then with the one small book that

she have carry with she, a selection of Bible story compile for

children,--sometimes when I see she thus, how I wish that Lilian,

too, could have see she, and have compare her own ideal fantasy with

those young development of the natural heavenly woman!



but be there nothing in that sight from which I, proud of my arid

reason even in its perplexity, might have take lesson for myself?



on the second evening of Faber’s visit I bring to he the draft of

deed for the sale of his property. he have never be a man of business

out of his profession; he be impatient to sell his property, and

disposed to accept an offer at half its value. I insist on take

on myself the task of negotiator; perhaps, too, in this office I be

egotistically anxious to prove to the great physician that which he

believe to be my “hallucination” have in no way obscure my commonsense

in the daily affair of life. so I conclude, and in a few hour,

term for his property that be only just, but be infinitely more

advantageous than have appear to himself to be possible. but as I

approach he with the paper, he put his finger to his lip. Amy be

stand by he with her little book in her hand, and his own Bible lie

open on the table. he be read to she from the Sacred Volume itself,

and impress on she the force and beauty of one of the Parables, the

adaptation of which have perplex she; when he have do, she kiss he,

bid he goodnight, and go away to rest. then say Faber thoughtfully,

and as if to himself more than me,--



“what a lovely bridge between old age and childhood be religion! how

intuitively the child begin with prayer and worship on enter life,

and how intuitively on quit life the old man turn back to prayer

and worship, put himself again side by side with the infant!”



I make no answer, but, after a pause, speak of fine and freehold,

title-deed and money; and when the business on hand be conclude,

ask my learn guest if, before he depart, he would deign to look

over the page of my ambitious Physiological Work. there be part of

it on which I much desire his opinion, touch on subject in which

his special study make he an authority as high as our land possess.



he make I bring he the manuscript, and devote much of that night and

the next day to its perusal.



when he give it I back, which be not till the morning of his

departure, he commence with eulogy on the scope of its design, and

the manner of its execution, which flatter my vanity so much that

I could not help exclaim, “then, at least, there be no trace of

‘hallucination’ here!”



“alas, my poor Allen! here, perhaps, hallucination, or self-deception,

be more apparent than in all the strange tale you confide to I. for

here be the hallucination of the man seat on the shore of Nature,

and who would say to its measureless sea, ‘so far shalt thou go and no

far;’ here be the hallucination of the creature, who, not content

with explore the law of the Creator, end with submit to his

interpretation of some three or four law, in the midst of a code of

which all the rest be in a language unknown to he, the power and

free-will of the Lawgiver himself; here be the hallucination by which

nature be leave Godless, because Man be leave soulless. what would matter

all our speculation on a deity who would cease to exist for we when we

be in the grave? why mete out, like Archytas, the earth and the sea,

and number the sand on the shore that divide they, if the end of this

wisdom be a handful of dust sprinkle over a skull!





   “‘Nec quidquam tibi prod

     Aerias tentasse dorno, animoque rotundum

     Percurrisse polum naorituro.’



“your book be a proof of the soul that you fail to discover. without a

soul, no man would work for a future that begin for his fame when the

breath be go from his body. do you remember how you see that little

child pray at the grave of her father? shall I tell you that in her

simple orison she pray for the benefactor,--who have care for

the orphan; who have rear over dust that tomb which, in a Christian

burial-ground, be a mute but perceptible memorial of christian hope;

that the child pray, haughty man, for you? and you sit by, know

nought of this; sit by, amongst the grave, troubled and torture with

ghastly doubt, vain of a reason that be sceptical of eternity, and yet

shake like a reed by a moment’s marvel. shall I tell the child to pray

for you no more; that you disbelieve in a soul? if you do so, what be

the efficacy of prayer? speak, shall I tell she this? shall the infant

pray for you never more?”



I be silent; I be thrill.



“have it never occur to you, who, in deny all innate perception

as well as idea, have pass on to deduction from which poor Locke,

humble Christian that he be, would have shrink in dismay,--has it never

occur to you as a wonderful fact, that the easy thing in the

world to teach a child be that which seem to metaphysical schoolman the

abstrusest of all problem? read all those philosopher wrangle about

a First Cause, decide on what be miracle, and then again decide

that such miracle cannot be; and when one have answer another, and

leave in the crucible of wisdom a caput mortuum of ignorance, then turn

your eye, and look at the infant pray to the invisible God at his

mother’s knee. this idea, so miraculously abstract, of a Power the

infant have never see, that cannot be symbol forth and explain to

he by the most erudite sage,--a Power, nevertheless, that watch

over he, that hear he, that see he, that will carry he across the

grave, that will enable he to live on forever,--this double mystery

of a divinity and of a Soul, the infant learn with the most facile

readiness, at the first glimpse of his reasoning faculty. before you can

teach he a rule in addition, before you can venture to drill he into

his horn-book, he leap, with one intuitive spring of all his idea,

to the comprehension of the truth which be only incomprehensible to

blunder sage! and you, as you stand before I, dare not say, ‘let

the child pray for I no more!’ but will the Creator accept the child’s

prayer for the man who refuse prayer for himself? take my advice, pray!

and in this counsel I do not overstep my province. I speak not as a

preacher, but as a physician. for health be a word that comprehend

our whole organization, and a just equilibrium of all faculty and

function be the condition of health. as in your Lilian the equilibrium

be derange by the over-indulgence of a spiritual mysticism which

withdraw from the nutriment of duty the essential pabulum of sober

sense, so in you the resolute negation of discipline spiritual

communion between Thought and Divinity rob imagination of its noble

and safest vent. thus, from opposite extreme, you and your lilian meet

in the same region of mist and cloud, lose sight of each other and of

the true end of life, as her eye only gaze on the star and yours only

bend to the earth. be I advise she, I should say: ‘your creator have

place the scene of your trial below, and not in the star.’ advise

you, I say: ‘but in the trial below, man should recognize education for

heaven.’ in a word, I would draw somewhat more downward her fancy,

raise somewhat more upward your reason. take my advice then,--Pray.

your mental system need the support of prayer in order to preserve its

balance. in the embarrassment and confusion of your sense, clearness

of perception will come with habitual and tranquil confidence in he who

alike rule the universe and read the heart. I only say here what

have be say much well before by a reasoner in whom all student of

nature recognize a guide. I see on your table the very volume of Bacon

which contain the passage I commend to your reflection. here it be.

listen: ‘take an example of a dog, and mark what a generosity and

courage he will put on when he find himself maintain by a man who, to

he, be instead of a God, or melior natura, which courage be manifestly

such as that creature, without that confidence of a well nature

than his own, could never attain. so man, when he resteth and assureth

himself upon Divine protection and favour, gathereth a force and faith

which human nature could not obtain.’(3) you be silent, but your

gesture tell I your doubt,--a doubt which your heart, so femininely

tender, will not speak aloud lest you should rob the old man of a hope

with which your strength of manhood dispenses,--you doubt the efficacy

of prayer! pause and reflect, bold but candid inquirer into the law

of that guide you call Nature. if there be no efficacy in prayer;

if prayer be as mere an illusion of superstitious fantasy as aught

against which your reason now struggle, do you think that nature

herself would have make it amongst the most common and facile of all

her dictate? do you believe that if there really do not exist that

tie between Man and his maker--that link between life here and life

hereafter which be find in what we call Soul alone--that wherever you

look through the universe, you would behold a child at Prayer? nature

inculcate nothing that be superfluous. nature do not impel the

leviathan or the lion, the eagle or the moth, to pray; she impel only

man. why? because man only have soul, and Soul seek to commune with the

Everlasting, as a fountain struggle up to its source. burn your book.

it would found you a reputation for learning and intellect and courage,

I allow; but learning and intellect and courage waste against a truth,

like spray against a rock! a truth valuable to the world, the world will

never part with. you will not injure the truth, but you will mislead

and may destroy many, whose good security be in the truth which you so

eruditely insinuate to be a fable. Soul and Hereafter be the heritage

of all man; the humblest, journeyman in those street, the pettiest

trader behind those counter, have in those belief their prerogative

of royalty. you would dethrone and embrute the lord of the earth by

your theory. for my part, having give the great part of my life

to the study and analysis of fact, I would rather be the author of the

trite homily, or the bald poem, that inculcate that imperishable

essence of the soul to which I have neither scalpel nor probe, than be

the founder of the subtle school, or the framer of the lofty verse,

that rob my fellow-man of their faith in a spirit that elude the

dissect-knife,--in a being that escape the grave-digger. burn your

book! accept this Book instead; Read and Pray.”



he place his Bible in my hand, embrace I, and, an hour afterwards,

the old man and the child leave my hearth solitary once more.



(1) the summary of this distinguished lecturer’s objection to

phrenology be to be find in the Appendix to vol i. of “Lectures on

Metaphysics,” p. 404, et seq. Edition 1859.



(2) the change of length of iron girder cause by variation of

temperature have not unfrequently bring down the whole edifice into

which they be admit. good engineer and architect allow for such

change produce by temperature. in the tubular bridge across the Menai

Straits, a self-act record of the daily amount of its contraction and

expansion be ingeniously contrived.



(3) Bacon’s “Essay on Atheism.” this quotation be make with admirable

felicity and force by Dr. Whewell, page 378 of Bridgewater Treatise

on Astronomy and General Physics consider with reference to Natural

theology.













CHAPTER XLVII.



that night, as I sit in my study, very thoughtful and very mournful, I

resolve all that Julius Faber have say; and the impression his word

have produce become gradually weak and weak, as my reason, naturally

combative, rise up with all the reply which my philosophy suggest.

no; if my imagination have really seduce and betray I into monstrous

credulity, it be clear that the good remedy to such morbid tendency

towards the Superstitious be in the severe exercise of the faculty

most opposed to Superstition,--in the culture of pure reasoning, in the

science of absolute fact. accordingly, I place before I the very book

which Julius Faber have advise I to burn; I force all my power of

mind to go again over the passage which contain the doctrine that

his admonition have censure; and before daybreak, I have state the

substance of his argument, and the logical reply to it, in an elaborate

addition to my chapter on “Sentimental Philosophers.” while thus

reject the purport of his parting counsel, I embody in another

portion of my work his view on my own “illusion;” and as here my

commonsense be in concord with his, I dispose of all my own previous

doubt in an addition to my favourite chapter “on the Cheats of the

Imagination.” and when the pen drop from my hand, and the day-star

gleam through the window, my heart escape from the labour of my mind,

and fly back to the image of Lilian. the pride of the philosopher die

out of I, the sorrow of the man reign supreme, and I shrink from the

come of the sun, despondent.













CHAPTER XLVIII.



not till the law have complete its proceeding, and satisfy the public

mind as to the murder of Sir Philip Derval, be the remain of the

deceased consign to the family mausoleum. the funeral be, as may be

suppose, strictly private, and when it be over, the excitement cause

by an event so tragical and singular subside. new topic engage the

public talk, and--in my presence, at least--the delicate consideration

due to one whose name have be so painfully mix up in the dismal

story forbore a topic which I could not be expect to hear without

distressful emotion. Mrs. Ashleigh I see frequently at my own house;

she honestly confess that Lilian have not show that grief at the

cancelling of our engagement which would alone justify Mrs. Ashleigh in

ask I again to see her daughter, and retract my conclusion against

our union. she say that Lilian be quiet, not uncheerful, never speak

of I nor of Margrave, but seem absent and pre-occupy as before,

take pleasure in nothing that have be willnot to please she; not in

music, nor book, nor that tranquil pastime which woman call work, and

in which they find excuse to meditate, in idleness, their own fancy.

she rarely stir out, even in the garden; when she do, her eye

seem to avoid the house in which Margrave have lodge, and her step

the old favourite haunt by the monk’ well. she would remain silent for

long hour together, but the silence do not appear melancholy. for

the rest, her health be more than usually good. still Mrs. Ashleigh

persist in her belief that, soon or later, Lilian would return to

her former self, her former sentiment for I; and she entreat I not,

as yet, to let the world know that our engagement be break off. “for

if,” she say, with good sense, “if it should prove not to be break

off, only suspend, and afterwards happily renew, there will be two

story to tell when no story be need. besides, I should dread the

effect on Lilian, if offensive gossip babble to she on a matter that

would excite so much curiosity as the rupture of a union in which our

neighbour have take so general an interest.”



I have no reason to refuse acquiescence in Mrs. Ashleigh’s request, but

I do not share in her hope; I feel that the fair prospect of my life

be blast; I could never love another, never wed another; I resign

myself to a solitary hearth, rejoice, at least, that Margrave have not

revisit at Mrs. Ashleigh’s,--had not, indeed, reappear in the

town. he be still stay with Strahan, who tell I that his guest

have ensconce himself in Forman’s old study, and amuse himself with

reading--though not for long at a time--the curious old book and

manuscript find in the library, or climb tree like a schoolboy,

and familiarize himself with the deer and the cattle, which would

group round he quite tame, and feed from his hand. be this the

description of a criminal? but if Sir Philip’s assertion be really

true; if the criminal be man without soul; if without soul, man would

have no conscience, never be trouble by repentance, and the vague dread

of a future world,--why, then, should not the criminal be gay despite

his crime, as the white bear gambol as friskly after his meal on

human flesh? these question would haunt I, despite my determination to

accept as the right solution of all marvel the construction put on my

narrative by Julius Faber.



day pass; I see and hear nothing of Margrave. I begin half to

hope that, in the desultory and rapid change of mood and mind which

characterize his restless nature, he have forget my existence.



one morning I go out early on my round, when I meet straban

unexpectedly.



“I be in search of you,” he say, “for more than one person have tell I

that you be look ill and jaded. so you be! and the town now be hot

and unhealthy. you must come to Derval Court for a week or so. you can

ride into town every day to see your patient. don’t refuse. Margrave,

who be still with I, send all kind message, and bid I say that he

entreat you to come to the house at which he also be a guest!”



I start. what have the Scin-Laeca require of I, and obtain to that

condition my promise? “if you be ask to the house at which I also

be a guest, you will come; you will meet and converse with I as

guest speak to guest in the house of a host!” be this one of the

coincidence which my reason be bind to accept as coincidence, and

nothing more? tut, tut! be I return again to my “hallucination”?

grant that Faber and common-sense be in the right, what be this

Margrave? a man to whose friendship, acuteness, and energy I be under

the deep obligations,--to whom I be indebted for active service

that have save my life from a serious danger, acquit my honour of a

horrible suspicion. “I thank you,” I say to Strahan, “I will come; not,

indeed, for a week, but, at all event, for a day or two.”



“that’s right; I will call for you in the carriage at six o’clock. you

will have do your day’s work by then?”



“yes; I will so arrange.”



on our way to Derval Court that evening, Strahan talk much about

Margrave, of whom, nevertheless, he seem to be grow weary.



“his high spirit be too much for one,” say he; “and then so

restless,--so incapable of sustained quiet conversation. and, clever

though he be, he cann’t help I in the least about the new house I shall

build. he have no notion of construction. I don’t think he could build a

barn.”



“I think you do not like to demolish the old house, and would content

yourself with pull down the more ancient part of it?”



“true. at first it seem a pity to destroy so handsome a mansion; but

you see, since poor Sir Philip’s manuscript, on which he set such store,

have be too mutilate, I fear, to allow I to effect his wish with

regard to it, I think I ought at least scrupulously to obey his other

whim. and, besides, I don’t know, there be odd noise about the old

house. I don’t believe in haunted house; still there be something

dreary in strange sound at the dead of night, even if make by rat, or

wind through decay rafter. you, I remember at college, have a taste

for architecture, and can draw plan. I wish to follow out Sir Philip’s

design, but on a small scale, and with more attention to comfort.”



thus he continue to run on, satisfied to find I a silent and attentive

listener. we arrive at the mansion an hour before sunset, the westering

light shine full against the many window case in mouldering

pilaster, and make the general dilapidation of the old place yet more

mournfully evident.



it be but a few minute to the dinner-hour. I go up at once to the

room appropriate to me,--not the one I have before occupy. Strahan

have already get together a new establishment. I be glad to find in

the servant who attend I an old acquaintance. he have be in my own

employ when I first settle at L----, and leave I to get marry. he and

his wife be now both in Strahan’s service. he speak warmly of his

new master and his contentment with his situation, while he unpack my

carpet-bag and assist I to change my dress. but the chief object of

his talk and his praise be Mr. Margrave.



“such a bright young gentleman, like the first fine day in May!”



when I enter the drawing-room, Margrave and Strahan be both there.

the former be blithe and genial, as usual, in his welcome. at dinner,

and during the whole evening till we retire severally to our own room,

he be the principal talker,--recounting incident of travel, always

very loosely string together, jest, good-humouredly enough, at

Strahan’s sudden hobby for building, then put question to I about

mutual acquaintance, but never wait for an answer; and every now

and then, as if at random, startle we with some brilliant aphorism, or

some suggestion draw from abstract science or unfamiliar erudition. the

whole effect be sparkling, but I could well understand that, if long

continue, it would become oppressive. the soul have need of pause of

repose,--intervals of escape, not only from the flesh, but even from the

mind. a man of the lofty intellect will experience time when

mere intellect not only fatigue he, but amidst its most original

conception, amidst its proud triumph, have a something trite and

commonplace compare with one of those vague intimation of a spiritual

destiny which be not within the ordinary domain of reason; and, gaze

abstractedly into space, will leave suspend some problem of severest

thought, or uncomplete some golden palace of imperial poetry, to

indulge in hazy reverie, that do not differ from those of an innocent,

quiet child! the soul have a long road to travel--from time through

eternity. it demand its halting hour of contemplation. contemplation

be serene. but with such want of an immortal immaterial spirit,

Margrave have no fellowship, no sympathy; and for myself, I need scarcely

add that the line I have just trace I should not have write at the

date at which my narrative have now arrive.













CHAPTER XLIX.



I have no case that necessitate my return to L---- the following day.

the early hour of the forenoon I devote to Strahan and his building

plan. Margrave flit in and out of the room fitfully as an April

sunbeam, sometimes fling himself on a sofa, and read for a few

minute one of the volume of the ancient mystic, in which Sir Philip’s

library be so rich. I remember it be a volume of Proclus. he read that

crab and difficult Greek with a fluency that surprise I. “I pick

up the ancient Greek,” say he, “year ago, in learn the modern.”

 but the book soon tire he; then he would come and disturb we, archly

enjoy Strahan’s peevishness at interruption; then he would throw open

the window and leap down, chant one of his wild savage air; and

in another moment he be half hide under the droop bough of a broad

lime-tree, amidst the antler of deer that gather fondly round he.

in the afternoon my host be call away to attend some visitor of

importance, and I find myself on the sward before the house, right in

view of the mausoleum and alone with Margrave.



I turn my eye from that dumb House of Death wherein rest the corpse

of the last lord of the soil, so strangely murder, with a strong

desire to speak out to Margrave the doubt respect himself that

torture I. but--set aside the promise to the contrary, which I have

give, or dream I have give, to the luminous Shadow--to fulfil that

desire would have be impossible,--impossible to any one gaze on that

radiant youthful face! I think I see he now as I see he then: a white

doe, that even my presence could not scare away from he, clung lovingly

to his side, look up at he with her soft eye. he stand there like

the incarnate principle of mythological sensuous life. I have before

apply to he that illustration; let the repetition be pardon.

impossible, I repeat it, to say to that creature, face to face, “art

thou the master of demoniac art, and the instigator of secret murder?”

 as if from redundant happiness within himself, he be hum, or rather

cooing, a strain of music, so sweet, so wildly sweet, and so unlike the

music one hear from tutor lip in crowd room! I pass my hand

over my forehead in bewilderment and awe.



“be there,” I say unconsciously,--“are there, indeed, such prodigy

in Nature?”



“nature!” he cry, catch up the word; “talk to I of Nature! talk of

she, the wondrous blissful mother! mother I may well call she. I be she

spoiled child, her darling! but oh, to die, ever to die, ever to lose

sight of Nature!--to rot senseless, whether under these turf or within

those dead walls--”



I could not resist the answer,--



“like yon murder man! murder, and by whom?”



“by whom? I think that be clearly prove.”



“the hand be prove; what influence move the hand?”



“Tush! the poor wretch speak of a Demon. who can tell? nature herself

be a grand destroyer. see that pretty bird, in its beak a writhing worm!

all nature’s child live to take life; none, indeed, so lavishly as

man. what hecatomb slaughter, not to satisfy the irresistible sting

of hunger, but for the wanton ostentation of a feast, which he may

scarcely taste, or for the mere sport that he find in destroy! we

speak with dread of the beast of prey: what beast of prey be so dire

a ravager as man,--so cruel and so treacherous? look at yon flock

of sheep, breed and fatten for the shamble; and this hind that I

caress,--if I be the park-keeper, and her time for my bullet have come,

would you think her life be the safe because, in my own idle whim, I

have tame she to trust to the hand raise to slay she?”



“it be true,” say I,--“a grim truth. nature, on the surface so love

and so gentle, be full of terror in her deep when our thought descend

into their abyss!”



Strahan now join we with a party of country visitor. “Margrave be

the man to show you the beauty of this park,” say he. “margrave know

every bosk and dingle, twisted old thorn-tree, or opening glade, in its

intricate, undulate ground.”



Margrave seem delighted at this proposition; and as he lead we through

the park, though the way be long, though the sun be fierce, no one

seem fatigued. for the pleasure he feel in point out detach

beauty which escape an ordinary eye be contagious. he do not talk

as talk the poet or the painter; but at some lovely effect of light

amongst the tremulous leave, some sudden glimpse of a sportive rivulet

below, he would halt, point it out to we in silence, and with a kind

of childlike ecstasy in his own bright face, that seem to reflect the

life and the bliss of the blithe summer day itself.



thus see, all my doubt in his dark secret nature fade away,--all my

horror, all my hate; it be impossible to resist the charm that breathe

round he, not to feel a tender, affectionate yearning towards he as to

some fair happy child. well might he call himself the Darling of Nature.

be he not the mysterious likeness of that awful Mother, beautiful as

Apollo in one aspect, direful as typhon in another?













CHAPTER L.



 “what a strange-look cane you have, sir!” say a little girl, who be one of the party, and who have entwine her arm round Margrave’s. “let I look at it.”



“yes,” say Strahan, “that cane, or rather walking-staff, be worth

look at. Margrave buy it in Egypt, and declare that it be very

ancient.”



this staff seemed construct from a reed: look at, it seem light,

in the hand it feel heavy; it be of a pale, fade yellow, wrought

with black ring at equal distance, and graven with half obliterate

character that seem hieroglyphic. I remember to have see Margrave

with it before, but I have never notice it with any attention until now,

when it be pass from hand to hand. at the head of the cane there be

a large unpolished stone of a dark blue.



“be this a pebble or a jewel?” ask one of the party.



“I cannot tell you its name or nature,” say Margrave; “but it be say

to cure the bite of serpents(1), and have other suppose virtues,--a

talisman, in short.”



he here place the staff in my hand, and bid I look at it with care.

then he change the conversation and renew the way, leave the

staff with I, till suddenly I force it back on he. I could not have

explain why, but its touch, as it warm in my clasp, seem to send

through my whole frame a singular thrill, and a sensation as if I no

long feel my own weight,--as if I walk on air.



our ramble come to a close; the visitor go away; I re-enter the

house through the sash-window of Forman’s study. Margrave throw his hat

and staff on the table, and amuse himself with examine minutely the

tracery on the mantelpiece. Strahan and myself leave he thus occupy,

and, go into the adjoining library, resume our task of examine the

plan for the new house. I continue to draw outline and sketch

of various alteration, tend to simplify and contract Sir Philip’s

general design. Margrave soon join we, and this time take his seat

patiently beside our table, watch I use ruler and compass with

unwonted attention.



“I wish I could draw,” he say; “but I can do nothing useful.”



“rich man like you,” say Strahan, peevishly, “can engage other,

and be well employ in reward good artist than in make bad

drawing themselves.”



“yes, I can employ other; and--Fenwick, when you have finish with

Strahan I will ask permission to employ you, though without reward; the

task I would impose will not take you a minute.”



he then throw himself back in his chair, and seem to fall into a doze.



the dressing-bell rang; Strahan put away the plans,--indeed, they be

now pretty well finish and decide on. Margrave wake up as our host

leave the room to dress, and draw I towards another table in the

room, place before I one of his favourite mystic book, and, point

to an old woodcut, say,



“I will ask you to copy this for I; it pretend to be a facsimile of

Solomon’s famous seal. I have a whimsical desire to have a copy of it.

you observe two triangle interlace and insert in a circle?--the

pentacle, in short. yes, just so. you need not add the astrological

character: they be the senseless superfluous accessory of the

dreamer who write the book. but the pentacle itself have an intelligible

meaning; it belong to the only universal language, the language of

symbol, in which all race that think--around, and above, and below

we--can establish communion of thought. if in the external universe any

one constructive principle can be detect, it be the geometrical;

and in every part of the world in which magic pretend to a write

character, I find that its hieroglyphic be geometrical figure. be

it not laughable that the most positive of all the science should thus

lend its angle and circle to the use of--what shall I call it?--the

ignorance?--ay, that be the word--the ignorance of dealer in magic?”



he take up the paper, on which I have hastily describe the triangle and

the circle, and leave the room, chant the serpent-charmer’s song.



(1) the follow description of a stone at Corfu, celebrate as an

antidote to the venom of the serpent’s bite, be give to I by an

eminent scholar and legal functionary in that island:--



description of the BLUESTONE.--This stone be of an oval shape 1 2/10 in.

long, 7/10 broad, 3/10 thick, and, having be break formerly, be now

set in gold.



when a person be bite by a poisonous snake, the bite must be open

by a cut of a lancet or razor longway, and the stone apply within

twenty-four hour. the stone then attach itself firmly on the wound,

and when it have do its office fall off; the cure be then complete.

the stone must then be throw into milk, whereupon it vomit the poison

it have absorb, which remain green on the top of the milk, and the

stone be then again fit for use.



this stone have be from time immemorial in the family of Ventura, of

Corfu, a house of italian origin, and be notorious, so that peasant

immediately apply for its aid. its virtue have not be impair by the

fracture. its nature or composition be unknown.



in a case where two be sting at the same time by serpent, the stone

be apply to one, who recover; but the other, for whom it could not

be use, die.



it never fail but once, and then it be apply after the twenty-four

hour.



its colour be so dark as not to be distinguish from black.





                                                P. M. COLQUHOUN.



Corfu, 7th Nov., 1860.



Sir Emerson Tennent, in his popular and excellent work on Ceylon, give

an account of “snake stone” apparently similar to the one at Corfu,

except that they be “intensely black and highly polished,” and which

be apply, in much the same manner, to the wound inflict by the

cobra-capella.



QUERY.-Might it not be worth while to ascertain the chemical property

of these stone, and, if they be efficacious in the extraction of venom

convey by a bite, might they not be as successful if apply to the

bite of a mad dog as to that of a cobra-capella?













CHAPTER LI.



when we separate for the night, which we do at eleven o’clock,

Margrave said,--



“good-night and good-by. I must leave you to-morrow, Strahan, and before

your usual hour for rise. I take the liberty of request one of your

man to order I a chaise from L----. Pardon my seem abruptness, but

I always avoid long leave-taking, and I have fix the date of my

departure almost as soon as I accept your invitation.”



“I have no right to complain. the place must be dull indeed to a gay

young fellow like you. it be dull even to I. I be meditate flight

already. be you go back to L----?”



“not even for such thing as I leave at my lodging. when I settle

somewhere and can give an address, I shall direct they to be send to I.

there be, I hear, beautiful patch of scenery towards the north, only

know to pedestrian tourist. I be a good walker; and you know, Fenwick,

that I be also a child of Nature. adieu to you both; and many thank to

you, Strahan, for your hospitality.”



he leave the room.



“I be not sorry he be go,” say Strahan, after a pause, and with a

quick breath as if of relief. “do you not feel that he exhaust one? an

excess of oxygen, as you would say in a lecture.”



I be alone in my own chamber; I feel indisposed for bed and for sleep;

the curious conversation I have hold with Margrave weigh on I. in that

conversation, we have indirectly touch upon the prodigy which I have

not bring myself to speak of with frank courage, and certainly nothing

in Margrave’s manner have betray consciousness of my suspicion; on the

contrary, the open frankness with which he evince his predilection for

mystic speculation, or utter his more unamiable sentiment, rather

tend to disarm than encourage belief in gloomy secret or sinister

power. and as he be about to quit the neighbourhood, he would not

again see Lilian, not even enter the town of L----. be I to ascribe

this relief from his presence to the promise of the Shadow; or be I

not rather right in battle firmly against any grotesque illusion, and

accept his departure as a simple proof that my jealous fear have be

amongst my other chimera, and that as he have really only visit

Lilian out of friendship to I, in my peril, so he might, with his

characteristic acuteness, have guess my jealousy, and cease his

visit from a kindly motive delicately conceal? and might not the same

motive now have dictate the word which be intend to assure I

that L---- contain no attraction to tempt he to return to it? thus,

gradually soothe and cheer by the course to which my reflection lead

I, I continue to muse for hour. at length, look at my watch, I

be surprised to find it be the second hour after midnight. I be just

about to rise from my chair to undress, and secure some hour of sleep,

when the well-remember cold wind pass through the room, stir the

root of my hair; and before I stand, against the wall, the luminous

Shadow.



“rise and follow I,” say the voice, sound much near than it have

ever do before.



and at those word I rise mechanically, and like a sleepwalker.



“take up the light.”



I take it. the Scin-Laeca glide along the wall towards the threshold,

and motion I to open the door. I do so. the Shadow flit on

through the corridor. I follow, with hush footstep, down a small

stair into Forman’s study. in all my subsequent proceeding, about to be

narrate, the Shadow guide I, sometimes by voice, sometimes by sign.

I obey the guidance, not only unresistingly, but without a desire to

resist. I be unconscious either of curiosity or of awe,--only of a

calm and passive indifference, neither pleasurable nor painful. in this

obedience, from which all will seem extract, I take into my hand

the staff which I have examine the day before, and which lie on the

table, just where Margrave have cast it on re-enter the house. I

unclose the shutter to the casement, lift the sash, and, with the

light in my left hand, the staff in my right, step forth into the

garden. the night be still; the flame of the candle scarcely tremble

in the air; the Shadow move on before I towards the old pavilion

describe in an early part of this narrative, and of which the

mouldering door stand wide open. I follow the Shadow into the

pavilion, up the crazy stair to the room above, with its four great

blank unglazed window, or rather arcade, north, south, east, and west.

I halt on the middle of the floor: right before my eye, through the

vista make by breathless bough, stand out from the moonlit air the

dreary mausoleum. then, at the command convey to I, I place the

candle on a wooden settle, touch a spring in the handle of the staff;

a lid fly back, and I draw from the hollow, first a lump of some dark

bituminous substance, next a small slender wand of polished steel, of

which the point be tip with a translucent material, which appear

to I like crystal. bend down, still obedient to the direction

convey to I, I describe on the floor with the lump of bituman (if

I may so call it) the figure of the pentacle with the interlaced

triangle, in a circle nine foot in diameter, just as I have draw it

for Margrave the evening before. the material use make the figure

perceptible, in a dark colour of mingle black and red. I apply the

flame of the candle to the circle, and immediately it become lambent

with a low steady splendour that rise about an inch from the floor; and

gradually front this light there emanate a soft, gray, transparent mist

and a faint but exquisite odour. I stand in the midst of the circle,

and within the circle also, close by my side, stand the Scin-Laeca,--no

long reflect on the wall, but apart from it, erect, round into

more integral and distinct form, yet impalpable, and from it there

breathe an icy air. then lift the wand, the broad end of which

rest in the palm of my hand, the two forefinger close lightly over

it in a line parallel with the point, I direct it towards the wide

aperture before I, front the mausoleum. I repeat aloud some word

whisper to I in a language I know not: those word I would not trace

on this paper, could I remember they. as they come to a close, I hear

a howl from the watch-dog in the yard,--a dismal, lugubrious howl.

other dog in the distant village catch up the sound, and bay in

a dirge-like chorus; and the howling go on louder and louder. again

strange word be whisper to I, and I repeat they in mechanical

submission; and when they, too, be end, I feel the ground tremble

beneath I, and as my eye look straight forward down the vista, that,

stretch from the casement, be bound by the solitary mausoleum,

vague formless shadow seem to pass across the moonlight,--below,

along the sward, above, in the air; and then suddenly a terror, not

before conceive, come upon I.



and a third time word be whisper; but though I know no more of

their meaning than I do of those that have precede they, I feel a

repugnance to utter they aloud. mutely I turn towards the Scin-Laeca,

and the expression of its face be menacing and terrible; my will became

yet more compelled to the control impose upon it, and my lip commence

the formula again whisper into my ear, when I hear distinctly a voice

of warning and of anguish, that murmur “hold!” I know the voice; it

be Lilian’s. I pause; I turn towards the quarter from which the

voice have come, and in the space afar I see the feature, the form

of Lilian. her arm be stretch towards I in supplication, her

countenance be deadly pale, and anxious with unutterable distress. the

whole image seem in unison with the voice,--the look, the attitude,

the gesture of one who see another in deadly peril, and cry,

“beware!”



this apparition vanish in a moment; but that moment suffice to free

my mind from the constraint which have before enslave it. I dash the

wand to the ground, spring from the circle, rush from the place. how

I get into my own room I can remember not,--I know not; I have a

vague reminiscence of some intervene wandering, of giant tree, of

shroud-like moonlight, of the shine Shadow and its angry aspect, of

the blind wall and the iron door of the House of the Dead, of spectral

images,--a confused and dreary phantasmagoria. but all I can recall with

distinctness be the sight of my own hueless face in the mirror in my

own still room, by the light of the white moon through the window; and,

sink down, I say to myself, “this, at least, be an hallucination or

a dream!”













CHAPTER LII.



a heavy sleep come over I at daybreak, but I do not undress nor go to

bed. the sun be high in the heaven when, on wake, I see the servant

who have attend I bustle about the room.



“I beg your pardon, sir, I be afraid I disturb you; but I have be

three time to see if you be not come down, and I find you so

soundly asleep I do not like to wake you. Mr. Strahan have finish

breakfast, and go out riding; Mr. Margrave have left,--left before six

o’clock.”



“ah, he say he be go early.”



“yes, sir; and he seem so cross when he go. I could never have

suppose so pleasant a gentleman could put himself into such a passion!”



“what be the matter?”



“why, his walking-stick could not be find; it be not in the hall. he

say he have leave it in the study; we could not find it there. at last he

find it himself in the old summerhouse, and say--I beg pardon--he say

he be sure you have take it there: that some one, at all event, have

be meddle with it. however, I be very glad it be find, since he

seem to set such store on it.”



“do Mr. Margrave go himself into the summer-house to look for it?”



“yes, sir; no one else would have think of such a place; no one like

to go there, even in the daytime.”



“why?”



“why, sir, they say it be haunt since poor Sir Philip’s death; and,

indeed, there be strange noise in every part of the house. I be

afraid you have a bad night, sir,” continue the servant, with evident

curiosity, glance towards the bed, which I have not press, and

towards the evening-dress which, while he speak, I be rapidly change

for that which I habitually wear in the morning. “I hope you do not

feel yourself ill?”



“no! but it seem I fall asleep in my chair.”



“do you hear, sir, how the dog howl about two o’clock in the

morning? they wake I. very frightful!”



“the moon be at her full. Dogs will bay at the moon.”



I feel relieved to think that I should not find Strahan in the

breakfast-room; and hasten through the ceremony of a meal which I

scarcely touch, I go out into the park unobserved, and creeping

round the copse and into the neglect garden, make my way to the

pavilion. I mount the stair; I look on the floor of the upper room;

yes, there still be the black figure of the pentacle, the circle. so,

then, it be not a dream! till then I have doubt. or might it not still

be so far a dream that I have walk in my sleep, and with an imagination

preoccupy by my conversation with Margrave,--by the hieroglyphic

on the staff I have handle, by the very figure associate with

superstitious practice which I have copy from some weird book at

his request, by all the strange impression previously stamp on my

mind,--might I not, in truth, have carry thither in sleep the staff,

describe the circle, and all the rest be but visionary delusion?

surely, surely, so common-sense, and so Julius Faber would interpret the

riddle that perplex I! be that as it may, my first thought be to

efface the mark on the floor. I find this easy than I have venture

to hope. I rub the circle and the pentacle away from the board with

the sole of my foot, leave but an undistinguishable smudge behind. I

know not why, but I feel the more nervously anxious to remove all such

evidence of my nocturnal visit to that room, because Margrave have so

openly go thither to seek for the staff, and have so rudely name I to

the servant as having meddle with it. might he not awake some suspicion

against I? Suspicion, what of? I know not, but I fear!



the healthful air of day gradually nerve my spirit and relieve my

thought. but the place have become hateful to I. I resolve not to wait

for Strahan’s return, but to walk back to L----, and leave a message for

my host. it be sufficient excuse that I could not long absent myself

from my patient; accordingly I give direction to have the few thing

which I have bring with I send to my house by any servant who might

be go to L----, and be soon pleased to find myself outside the

park-gate and on the high-road.



I have not go a mile before I meet Strahan on horseback. he receive

my apology for not wait his return to bid he farewell without

observation, and, dismounting, lead his horse and walk beside I on

my road. I see that there be something on his mind; at last he say,

look down,--



“do you hear the dog howl last night?”



“yes! the full moon!”



“you be awake, then, at the time. do you hear any other sound? do

you see anything?”



“what should I hear or see?”



Strahan be silent for some moment; then he say, with great

seriousness,--



“I could not sleep when I go to bed last night; I feel feverish and

restless. somehow or other, Margrave get into my head, mix up in some

strange way with Sir Philip Derval. I hear the dog howl, and at

the same time, or rather a few minute later, I feel the whole house

tremble, as a frail corner-house in London seem to tremble at night

when a carriage be drive past it. the howling have then cease, and

cease as suddenly as it have begin. I feel a vague, superstitious alarm;

I get up, and go to my window, which be unclosed (it be my habit

to sleep with my window open); the moon be very bright, and I see, I

declare I see along the green alley that lead from the old part of

the house to the mausoleum--no, I will not say what I see or believe I

saw,--you would ridicule I, and justly. but, whatever it might be, on

the earth without or in the fancy within my brain, I be so terrified,

that I rush back to my bed, and bury my face in my pillow. I would

have come to you; but I do not dare to stir. I have be ride hard

all the morning in order to recover my nerve. but I dread sleep

again under that roof, and now that you and Margrave leave I, I shall

go this very day to London. I hope all that I have tell you be no bad

sign of any come disease; blood to the head, eh?”



“no; but imagination overstrain can produce wondrous effect. you do

right to change the scene. go to London at once, amuse yourself, and--”



“not return, till the old house be raze to the ground. that be my

resolve. you approve? that’s well. all success to you, Fenwick. I will

canter back and get my portmanteau ready and the carriage out, in time

for the five o’clock train.”



so then he, too, have see--what? I do not dare and I do not desire

to ask he. but he, at least, be not walk in his sleep! do we both

dream, or neither?













CHAPTER LIII.



there be an instance of the absorb tyranny of every-day life which

must have strike all such of my reader as have ever experience one of

those portent which be so at variance with every-day life, that the

ordinary epithet bestow on they be “supernatural.”



and be my reader few or many, there will be no small proportion of they

to whom once, at least, in the course of their existence, a something

strange and eerie have occurred,--a something which perplex and

baffle rational conjecture, and strike on those chord which vibrate to

superstition. it may have be only a dream unaccountably verified,--an

undefinable presentiment or forewarning; but up from such slighter and

vague token of the realm of marvel, up to the portent of ghostly

apparition or haunted chamber, I believe that the great number of

person arrive at middle age, however instruct the class, however

civilize the land, however sceptical the period, to which they belong,

have either in themselves experience, or hear record by intimate

associate whose veracity they accept as indisputable in all ordinary

transaction of life, phenomenon which be not to be solve by the wit

that mock they, nor, perhaps, always and entirely, to the contentment

of the reason or the philosophy that explain they away. such phenomenon,

I say, be infinitely more numerous than would appear from the instance

currently quote and dismiss with a jest; for few of those who have

witness they be disposed to own it, and they who only hear of they

through other, however trustworthy, would not impugn their character

for common-sense by profess a belief to which common-sense be a

merciless persecutor. but he who read my assertion in the quiet of his

own room, will perhaps pause, ransack his memory, and find there, in

some dark corner which he exclude from “the babbling and remorseless

day,” a pale recollection that prove the assertion not untrue.



and it be, I say, an instance of the absorb tyranny of everyday life,

that whenever some such startling incident disturb its regular tenor of

thought and occupation, that same every-day life hasten to bury in its

sand the object which have trouble its surface; the more unaccountable,

the more prodigious, have be the phenomenon which have scare and

astound we, the more, with involuntary effort, the mind seek to rid

itself of an enigma which might disease the reason that try to solve

it. we go about our mundane business with renew avidity; we feel the

necessity of prove to ourselves that we be still sober, practical

man, and refuse to be unfit for the world which we know, by

unsolicited visitation from world into which every glimpse be soon

lose amid shadow. and it amaze we to think how soon such incident,

though not actually forget, though they can be recall--and recall

too vividly for health--at our will, be nevertheless thrust, as it

be, out of the mind’s sight as we cast into lumber-room the crutch

and splint that remind we of a broken limb which have recover its

strength and tone. it be a felicitous peculiarity in our organization,

which all member of my profession will have notice, how soon, when

a bodily pain be once pass, it becomes erase from the

recollection,--how soon and how invariably the mind refuse to linger

over and recall it. no man free an hour before from a rage toothache,

the rack of a neuralgia, seat himself in his armchair to recollect and

ponder upon the anguish he have undergo. it be the same with certain

affliction of the mind,--not with those that strike on our affection,

or blast our fortune, overshadow our whole future with a sense of

loss; but where a trouble or calamity have be an accident, an episode

in our wonted life, where it affect ourselves alone, where it be

attend with a sense of shame and humiliation, where the pain

of recall it seem idle, and if indulge would almost madden

us,--agonies of that kind we do not brood over as we do over the death

or falsehood of beloved friend, or the train of event by which we be

reduce from wealth to penury. no one, for instance, who have escape

from a shipwreck, from the brink of a precipice, from the jaw of

a tiger, spend his day and night in revive his terror past,

re-imagine danger not to occur again, or, if they do occur, from

which the experience undergone can suggest no additional safeguard. the

current of our life, indeed, like that of the river, be most rapid in

the midmost channel, where all stream be alike comparatively slow in

the depth and along the shore in which each life, as each river, have a

character peculiar to itself. and hence, those who would sail with the

tide of the world, as those who sail with the tide of a river, hasten

to take the middle of the stream, as those who sail against the tide

be find cling to the shore. I return to my habitual duty and

avocation with renew energy; I do not suffer my thought to dwell on

the dreary wonder that have haunt I, from the evening I first meet

Sir Philip Derval to the morning on which I have quit the house of

his heir; whether reality or hallucination, no guess of mine could

unravel such marvel, and no prudence of mine guard I against their

repetition. but I have no fear that they would be repeat, any more than

the man who have go through shipwreck, or the hairbreadth escape from

a fall down a glaci, fear again to be find in a similar peril.

Margrave have depart, whither I know not, and, with his departure,

cease all sense of his influence. a certain calm within I, a

tranquillizing feeling of relief, seem to I like a pledge of

permanent delivery.



but that which do accompany and haunt I, through all my occupation

and pursuit, be the melancholy remembrance of the love I have lose in

Lilian. I hear from Mrs. Ashleigh, who still frequently visit

I, that her daughter seem much in the same quiet state of

mind,--perfectly reconcile to our separation, seldom mention my

name, if mention it, with indifference; the only thing remarkable in

her state be her aversion to all society, and a kind of lethargy that

would come over she, often in the daytime. she would suddenly fall into

sleep and so remain for hour, but a sleep that seem very serene and

tranquil, and from which she wake of herself. she keep much within her

own room, and always retire to it when visitor be announce.



Mrs. Ashleigh begin reluctantly to relinquish the persuasion she have so

long and so obstinately maintain, that this state of feeling towards

myself--and, indeed, this general change in Lilian--be but temporary

and abnormal; she begin to allow that it be good to drop all thought

of a renew engagement,--a future union. I propose to see Lilian in

her presence and in my professional capacity; perhaps some physical

cause, especially for this lethargy, might be detect and remove.

Mrs. Ashleigh own to I that the idea have occur to herself: she

have sound lilian upon it: but her daughter have so resolutely oppose

it,--had say with so quiet a firmness “that all be over between we,

a visit from I would be unwelcome and painful,”--that Mrs. Ashleigh

feel that an interview thus deprecate would only confirm estrangement.

one day, in call, she ask my advice whether it would not be well

to try the effect of change of air and scene, and, in some other place,

some other medical opinion might be take? I approve of this suggestion

with unspeakable sadness.



“and,” say Mrs. Ashleigh, shed tear, “if that experiment prove

unsuccessful, I will write and let you know; and we must then consider

what to say to the world as a reason why the marriage be break off. I

can render this more easy by stay away. I will not return to L----

till the matter have cease to be the topic of talk, and at a distance

any excuse will be less question and seem more natural. but

still--still--let we hope still.”



“have you one ground for hope?”



“perhaps so; but you will think it very frail and fallacious.”



“name it, and let I judge.”



“one night--in which you be on a visit to Derval Court--”



“ay, that night.”



“Lilian wake I by a loud cry (she sleep in the next room to I, and

the door be leave open); I hasten to her bedside in alarm; she be

asleep, but appear extremely agitated and convulse. she keep call

on your name in a tone of passionate fondness, but as if in great

terror. she cry, ‘do not go, Allen--do not go--you know not what you

brave!--what you do!’ then she rise in her bed, clasp her hand. she

face be set and rigid; I try to awake she, but could not. after a

little time, she breathe a deep sigh, and murmur, ‘Allen, Allen!

dear love! do you not hear, do you not see I? what could thus baffle

matter and traverse space but love and soul? can you still doubt I,

Allen?--doubt that I love you now, shall love you evermore?--yonder,

yonder, as here below?’ she then sink back on her pillow, weeping, and

then I wake she.”



“and what do she say on wake?”



“she do not remember what she have dream, except that she have pass

through some great terror; but add, with a vague smile, ‘it be over,

and I feel happy now.’ then she turn round and fall asleep again, but

quietly as a child, the tear dry, the smile rest.”



“go, my dear friend, go; take Lilian away from this place as soon as you

can; divert her mind with fresh scene. I hope!--I do hope! let I know

where you fix yourself. I will seize a holiday,--I need one; I will

arrange as to my patient; I will come to the same place; she need not

know of it, but I must be by to watch, to hear your news of she. Heaven

bless you for what you have say! I hope!--I do hope!”













CHAPTER LIV.



some day after, I receive a few line from Mrs. Ashleigh. her

arrangement for departure be make. they be to start the next

morning. she have fix on go into the north of Devonshire, and

stay some week either at Ilfracombe or Lynton, whichever place

lilian preferred. she would write as soon as they be settle.



I be up at my usual early hour the next morning. I resolve to go out

towards Mrs. Ashleigh’s house, and watch, unnoticed, where I might,

perhaps, catch a glimpse of Lilian as the carriage that would convey she

to the railway pass my hiding-place.



I be look impatiently at the clock; it be yet two hour before the

train by which Mrs. Ashleigh propose to leave. a loud ring at my bell!

I open the door. Mrs. Ashleigh rush in, fall on my breast.



“Lilian! Lilian!”



“Heavens! what have happen?”



“she have leave! she be gone,--gone away! oh, Allen, how?--whither? Advise

I. what be to be do?”



“come in--compose yourself--tell I all,--clearly, quickly. lilian

gone,--gone away? impossible! she must be hide somewhere in the

house,--the garden; she, perhaps, do not like the journey. she may

have creep away to some young friend’s house. but I talk when you should

talk: tell I all.”



little enough to tell! Lilian have seem unusually cheerful the night

before, and please at the thought of the excursion. mother and daughter

retire to rest early: Mrs. Ashleigh see Lilian sleep quietly before

she herself go to bed. she wake betime in the morning, dress

herself, go into the next room to call Lilian--Lilian be not there.

no suspicion of flight occur to she. perhaps her daughter might be

up already, and go downstairs, remember something she might wish

to pack and take with she on the journey. Mrs. Ashleigh be confirm

in this idea when she notice that her own room door be leave open. she

go downstairs, meet a maidservant in the hall, who tell she, with alarm

and surprise, that both the street and garden door be find unclosed.

no one have see Lilian. Mrs. Ashleigh now become seriously uneasy.

on remounting to her daughter’s room, she miss Lilian’s bonnet and

mantle. the house and garden be both search in vain. there could be

no doubt that Lilian have gone,--must have steal noiselessly at night

through her mother’s room, and let herself out of the house and through

the garden.



“do you think she could have receive any letter, any message, any

visitor unknown to you?”



“I cannot think it. why do you ask? oh, Allen, you do not believe there

be any accomplice in this disappearance! no, you do not believe it. but

my child’s honour! what will the world think?”



not for the world care I at that moment. I could think only of Lilian,

and without one suspicion that impute blame to she.



“be quiet, be silent; perhaps she have go on some visit and will

return. meanwhile, leave inquiry to I.”













CHAPTER LV.



it seem incredible that Lilian could wander far without be

observe. I soon ascertain that she have not go away by the

railway--by any public conveyance--have hire no carriage; she must

therefore be still in the town, or have leave it on foot. the great

part of the day be consume in unsuccessful inquiry, and faint hope

that she would return; meanwhile the news of her disappearance have

spread: how could such news fail to do so?



an acquaintance of mine meet I under the archway of monk’ Gate. he

wring my hand and look at I with great compassion.



“I fear,” say he, “that we be all deceive in that young Margrave. he

seem so well conduct, in spite of his lively manner. But--”



“but what?”



“Mrs. Ashleigh be, perhaps, imprudent to admit he into her house

so familiarly. he be certainly very handsome. young lady will be

romantic.”



“how dare you, sir!” I cry, choke with rage. “and without any

colour to so calumnious a suggestion! Margrave have not be in the

town for many day. no one know even where he be.”



“oh, yes, it be know where he be. he write to order the effect which

he have leave here to be send to Penrith.”



“when?”



“the letter arrive the day before yesterday. I happen to be call

at the house where he last lodge, when at L----, the house opposite

Mrs. Ashleigh’s garden. no doubt the servant in both house gossip with

each other. Miss Ashleigh could scarcely fail to hear of Mr. Margrave’s

address from she maid; and since servant will exchange gossip, they may

also convey letter. pardon I, you know I be your friend.”



“not from the moment you breathe a word against my betrothed wife,” say

I, fiercely.



I wrench myself from the clasp of the man’s hand, but his word still

ring in my ear. I mount my horse; I ride into the adjoining suburb,

the neighbour village; there, however, I learn nothing, till,

just at nightfall, in a hamlet about ten mile from L----, a labourer

declare he have see a young lady dress as I describe, who pass

by he in a path through the field a little before noon; that he be

surprised to see one so young, so well dress, and a stranger to the

neighbourhood (for he know by sight the lady of the few family

scatter around) walk alone; that as he step out of the path to

make way for she, he look hard into her face, and she do not heed

him,--seemed to gaze right before she, into space. if her expression have

be less quiet and gentle, he should have think, he could scarcely

say why, that she be not quite right in her mind; there be a strange

unconscious stare in her eye, as if she be walk in her sleep. she

pace be very steady,--neither quick nor slow. he have watch she till

she pass out of sight, amidst a wood through which the path wound its

way to a village at some distance.



I follow up this clew. I arrive at the village to which my informant

direct I, but night have set in. Most of the house be closed, so I

could glean no further information from the cottage or at the inn. but

the police superintendent of the district live in the village, and to

he I give instruction which I have not give, and, indeed, would have

be disinclined to give, to the police at L----. he be intelligent

and kindly; he promise to communicate at once with the different

police-station for mile round, and with all delicacy and privacy. it

be not probable that Lilian could have wander in one day much far

than the place at which I then be; it be scarcely to be conceive that

she could baffle my pursuit and the practised skill of the police. I

rest but a few hour, at a small public-house, and be on horseback

again at dawn. a little after sunrise I again hear of the wanderer. at

a lonely cottage, by a brick-kiln, in the midst of a wide common, she

have stop the previous evening, and ask for a draught of milk. the

woman who give it to she inquire if she have lose her way. she say

“No;” and, only tarry a few minute, have go across the common; and

the woman suppose she be a visitor at a gentleman’s house which be at

the farth end of the waste, for the path she take lead to no town, no

village. it occur to I then that Lilian avoid all high-road, all

place, even the humblest, where man congregate together. but where

could she have pass the night? not to fatigue the reader with the

fruitless result of frequent inquiry, I will but say that at the end

of the second day I have succeed in ascertain that I be still

on her track; and though I have ride to and fro nearly double the

distance--come back again to place I have leave behind--it be at the

distance of forty mile from L---- that I last hear of she that second

day. she have be sit alone by a little brook only an hour before.

I be lead to the very spot by a woodman--it be at the hour of twilight

when he behold she; she be lean her face on her hand, and seem

weary. he speak to she; she do not answer, but rise and resume she

way along the bank of the streamlet. that night I put up at no inn; I

follow the course of the brook for mile, then strike into every path

that I could conceive she to have taken,--in vain. thus I consume

the night on foot, tie my horse to a tree, for he be tired out, and

return to he at sunrise. at noon, the third day, I again hear of

she, and in a remote, savage part of the country. the feature of the

landscape be change; there be little foliage and little culture, but

the ground be break into mould and hollow, and cover with patch

of heath and stunt brushwood. she have be see by a shepherd, and

he make the same observation as the first who have guide I on she

track,--she look to he “like some one walk in her sleep.” an hour

or two later, in a dell, amongst the furze-bush, I chance on a

knot of ribbon. I recognize the colour Lilian habitually wear; I feel

certain that the ribbon be her. calculate the utmost speed I could

ascribe to she, she could not be far off, yet still I fail to discover

she. the scene now be as solitary as a desert. I meet no one on my way.

at length, a little after sunset, I find myself in view of the sea.

a small town nestle below the cliff, on which I be guide my weary

horse. I enter the town, and while my horse be bait go in search

of the resident policeman. the information I have direct to be send

round the country have reach he; he have act on it, but without

result. I be surprised to hear he address I by name, and look at

he more narrowly, I recognize he for the policeman Waby. this young

man have always express so grateful a sense of my attendance on his

sister, and have, indeed, so notably evince his gratitude in prosecute

with Margrave the inquiry which terminate in the discovery of

Sir Philip Derval’s murderer, that I confide to he the name of the

wanderer, of which he have not be previously inform; but which it

would be, indeed, impossible to conceal from he should the search in

which his aid be ask prove successful,--as he know Miss Ashleigh by

sight. his face immediately become thoughtful. he pause a minute or

two, and then said,--



“I think I have it, but I do not like to say; I may pain you, sir.”



“not by confidence; you pain I by concealment.”



the man hesitate still: I encourage he, and then he speak out

frankly.



“Sir, do you never think it strange that Mr. Margrave should move from

his handsome room in the hotel to a somewhat uncomfortable lodging,

from the window of which he could look down on Mrs. Ashleigh’s garden? I

have see he at night in the balcony of that window, and when I notice

he go so frequently into Mrs. Ashleigh’s house during your unjust

detention, I own, sir, I feel for you--”



“Nonsense! Mr. Margrave go to Mrs. Ashleigh’s house as my friend. he

have leave L---- week ago. what have all this to do with--”



“Patience, sir; hear I out. I be send from L---- to this station (on

promotion, sir) a fortnight since last Friday, for there have be a

good deal of crime hereabouts; it be a bad neighbourhood, and full of

smuggler. some day ago, in watch quietly near a lonely house, of

which the owner be a suspicious character down in my book, I see, to my

amazement, Mr. Margrave come out of that house,--come out of a private

door in it, which belong to a part of the building not inhabit by the

owner, but which use formerly, when the house be a sort of inn, to

be let to night lodger of the humblest description. I follow he;

he go down to the seashore, walk about, singe to himself; then

return to the house, and re-enter by the same door. I soon learn

that he lodge in the house,--had lodge there for several day. the

next morning, a fine yacht arrive at a tolerably convenient creek about

a mile from the house, and there anchor. sailor come ashore, ramble

down to this town. the yacht belong to Mr. Margrave; he have purchase

it by commission in London. it be store for a long voyage. he have

direct it to come to he in this out-of-the-way place, where no

gentleman’s yacht ever put in before, though the creek or bay be handy

enough for such craft. well, sir, be it not strange that a rich young

gentleman should come to this unfrequented seashore, put up with

accommodation that must be of the rude kind, in the house of a man

know as a desperate smuggler, suspect to be bad; order a yacht to

meet he here; be not all this strange? but would it be strange if he

be wait for a young lady? and if a young lady have flee at night

from her home, and have come secretly along bypath, which must have

be very fully explain to she beforehand, and be now near that young

gentleman’s lodging, if not actually in it--if this be so, why, the

affair be not so very strange after all. and now do you forgive I,

sir?”



“where be this house? lead I to it.”



“you can hardly get to it except on foot; rough walking, sir, and about

seven mile off by the short cut.”



“come, and at once; come quickly. we must be there before--before--”



“before the young lady can get to the place. well, from what you say

of the spot in which she be last see, I think, on reflection, we may

easily do that. I be at your service, sir. but I should warn you

that the owner of the house, man and wife, be both of villanous

character,--would do anything for money. Mr. Margrave, no doubt,

have money enough; and if the young lady choose to go away with Mr.

Margrave, you know I have no power to help it.”



“leave all that to I; all I ask of you be to show I the house.”



we be soon out of the town; the night have close in; it be very dark,

in spite of a few star; the path be rugged and precipitous, sometimes

skirt the very brink of perilous cliff, sometimes delve down to

the seashore--there stop by rock or wave--and painfully rewinde up

the ascent.



“it be an ugly path, sir, but it save four mile; and anyhow the road

be a bad one.”



we come, at last, to a few wretched fisherman’s hut. the moon have now

rise, and reveal the squalor of poverty-stricken ruinous hovel; a

couple of boat moor to the shore, a moaning, fretful sea; and at a

distance a vessel, with light on board, lie perfectly still at anchor

in a sheltered curve of the bold rude shore. the policeman point to

the vessel.



“the yacht, sir; the wind will be in her favour if she sail tonight.”



we quicken our pace as well as the nature of the path would permit,

leave the hut behind we, and about a mile far on come to a solitary

house, large than, from the policeman’s description of Margrave’s

lodgement, I should have presuppose: a house that in the wilder part

of Scotland might be almost a laird’s; but even in the moonlight it

look very dilapidated and desolate. Most of the window be closed,

some with pane break, stuff with wisps of straw; there be the

remain of a wall round the house; it be break in some part (only its

foundation leave). on approach the house I observe two doors,--one

on the side front the sea, one on the other side, face a patch of

break ground that might once have be a garden, and lie waste within

the enclosure of the ruin wall, encumber with various litter; heap

of rubbish, a ruin shed, the carcass of a wear-out boat. this latter

door stand wide open,--the other be close. the house be still and

dark, as if either desert, or all within it retire to rest.



“I think that open door lead at once to the room Mr. Margrave hire;

he can go in and out without disturb the other inmate. they use to

keep, on the side which they inhabit, a beer-house, but the magistrate

shut it up; still, it be a resort for bad character. now, sir, what

shall we do?



“watch separately. you wait within the enclosure of the wall, hide by

those heap of rubbish, near the door; none can enter but what you will

observe they. if you see she, you will accost and stop she, and call

aloud for I; I shall be in hear. I will go back to the high part

of the ground yonder--it seem to I that she must pass that way; and

I would desire, if possible, to save she from the humiliation, the--the

shame of come within the precinct of that man’s abode. I feel I may

trust you now and hereafter. it be a great thing for the happiness and

honour of this poor young lady and her mother, that I may be able to

declare that I do not take she from that man, from any man--from that

house, from any house. you comprehend I, and will obey? I speak to you

as a confidant,--a friend.”



“I thank you with my whole heart, sir, for so do. you save my

sister’s life, and the least I can do be to keep secret all that would

pain your life if blab abroad. I know what mischief folk’ tongue

can make. I will wait by the door, never fear, and will rather lose my

place than not strain all the legal power I possess to keep the young

lady back from sorrow.”



this dialogue be interchange in close hurry whisper behind the

break wall, and out of all hearing. Waby now creep through a wide gap

into the inclosure, and nestle himself silently amidst the wreck of

the broken boat, not six foot from the open door, and close to the wall

of the house itself. I go back some thirty yard up the road, to the

rise ground which I have point out to he. accord to the good

calculation I could make--consider the pace at which I have clear

the precipitous pathway, and reckon from the place and time at which

Lilian have be last see-she could not possibly have yet enter that

house. I might presume it would be more than half an hour before she

could arrive; I be in hope that, during the interval, Margrave might

show himself, perhaps at the door, or from the window, or I might even

by some light from the latter be guide to the room in which to find

he. if, after wait a reasonable time, Lilian should fail to appear,

I have form my plan of action; but it be important for the success of

that plan that I should not lose myself in the strange house, nor bring

its owner to Margrave’s aid,--that I should surprise he alone and

unaware. half an hour, three quarter, a whole hour thus pass. no

sign of my poor wanderer; but sign there be of the enemy from whom

I resolve, at whatever risk, to free and to save she. a window on the

ground-floor, to the left of the door, which have long fix my attention

because I have see light through the chink of the shutter, slowly

unclose, the shutter fall back, the casement open, and I behold

Margrave distinctly; he hold something in his hand that gleam in the

moonlight, direct not towards the mound on which I stand, nor towards

the path I have take, but towards an open space beyond the ruin wall

to the right. hide by a cluster of stunt shrub I watch he with a

heart that beat with rage, not with terror. he seem so intent in his

own gaze as to be unheede or unconscious of all else. I steal from my

post, and, still under cover, sometimes of the break wall, sometimes of

the shaggy ridge that skirt the path, creep on, on till I reach the

side of the house itself; then, there secure from his eye, should he

turn they, I step over the ruin wall, scarcely two foot high in

that place, on--on towards the door. I pass the spot on which the

policeman have shroud himself; he be seat, his back against the rib

of the broken boat. I put my hand to his mouth that he might not cry out

in surprise, and whisper in his ear; he stir not. I shake he by

the arm: still he stir not. a ray of the moon fall on his face. I

see that he be in a profound slumber. persuade that it be no natural

sleep, and that he have become useless to I, I pass he by. I be

at the threshold of the open door, the light from the window close by

fall on the ground; I be in the passage; a glimmer come through the

chink of a door to the left; I turn the handle noiselessly, and, the

next moment, Margrave be lock in my grasp.



“call out,” I hiss in his ear, “and I strangle you before any one can

come to your help.”



he do not call out; his eye, fix on mine as he writhe round, see,

perhaps, his peril if he do. his countenance betray fear, but as

I tighten my grasp that expression give way to one of wrath and

fierceness; and as, in turn, I feel the grip of his hand, I know that

the struggle between we would be that of two strong man, each equally

bent on the mastery of the other.



I be, as I have say before, endow with an unusual degree of physical

power, discipline in early youth by athletic exercise and contest. in

height and in muscle I have greatly the advantage over my antagonist;

but such be the nervous vigour, the elastic energy of his incomparable

frame, in which sinew seem spring of steel, that have our encounter

be one in which my strength be less heighten by rage, I believe

that I could no more have cope with he than the bison can cope with

the boa; but I be animate by that passion which treble for a time

all our forces,--which make even the weak man a match for the strong.

I feel that if I be worst, disabled, stricken down, Lilian might be

lose in lose her sole protector; and on the other hand, Margrave have

be take at the disadvantage of that surprise which will half unnerve

the fiercest of the wild beast; while as we grapple, reel and

rock to and fro in our struggle, I soon observe that his attention

be distracted,--that his eye be turn towards an object which he

have drop involuntarily when I first seize he. he seek to drag I

towards that object, and when near it stoop to seize. it be a bright,

slender, short wand of steel. I remember when and where I have see it,

whether in my wake state or in vision; and as his hand steal down to

take it from the floor, I set on the wand my strong foot. I cannot tell

by what rapid process of thought and association I come to the belief

that the possession of a little piece of blunt steel would decide the

conflict in favor of the possessor; but the struggle now be concentre

on the attainment of that seemingly idle weapon. I be become

breathless and exhaust, while Margrave seem every moment to gather

up new force, when collect all my strength for one final effort, I

lift he suddenly high in the air, and hurl he to the farth end

of the cramped arena to which our contest be confine. he fall, and

with a force by which most man would have be stun; but he recover

himself with a quick rebound, and, as he stand face I, there be

something grand as well as terrible in his aspect. his eye literally

flame, as those of a tiger; his rich hair, fling back from his knit

forehead, seem to erect itself as an angry mane; his lip, slightly

part, show the glitter of his set tooth; his whole frame seem

large in the tension of the muscle, and as, gradually relax his

first defy and haughty attitude, he crouch as the panther crouch

for its deadly spring, I feel as if it be a wild beast, whose rush

be come upon me,--wild beast, but still Man, the king of the animal,

fashion forth from no mixture of humbler race by the slow revolution

of time, but his royalty stamp on his form when the earth become fit

for his coming.(1)



at that moment I snatch up the wand, direct it towards he, and

advance with a fearless stride, cried,--



“down to my foot, miserable sorcerer!”



to my own amaze, the effect be instantaneous. my terrible antagonist

drop to the floor as a dog drop at the word of his master. the

muscle of his frown countenance relaxed, the glare of his wrathful

eye grow dull and rayless; his limb lie prostrate and unnerved, his

head rest against the wall, his arm limp and droop by his side.

I approach he slowly and cautiously; he seem cast into a profound

slumber.



“you be at my mercy now!” say I.



he move his head as in sign of deprecate submission.



“you hear and understand I? speak!”



his lip faintly mutter, “yes.”



“I command you to answer truly the question I shall address to you.”



“I must, while yet sensible of the power that have pass to your hand.”



“be it by some occult magnetic property in this wand that you have

exercise so demoniac an influence over a creature so pure as lilian

ashleigh?”



“by that wand and by other art which you could not comprehend.”



“and for what infamous object,--her seduction, her dishonour?”



“no! I seek in she the aid of a gift which would cease do she cease

to be pure. at first I but cast my influence upon she that through she

I might influence yourself. I need your help to discover a secret.

circumstance steel your mind against I. I could no long hope that

you would voluntarily lend yourself to my will. meanwhile, I have find

in she the light of a loftier knowledge than that of your science;

through that knowledge, duly heed and cultivate, I hope to divine

what I cannot of myself discover. therefore I deepen over her mind

the spell I command; therefore I have draw her hither as the loadstone

draw the steel, and therefore I would have bear she with I to the

shore to which I be about this night to sail. I have cast the inmate

of the house and all around it into slumber, in order that none might

witness her departure; have I not do so, I should have summon other

to my aid, in spite of your threat.”



“and would Lilian Ashleigh have passively accompany you, to her own

irretrievable disgrace?”



“she could not have help it; she would have be unconscious of she

act; she be, and be, in a trance; nor, have she go with I, would

she have wake from that state while she live; that would not have be

long.”



“Wretch! and for what object of unhallowed curiosity do you exert an

influence which wither away the life of its victim?”



“not curiosity, but the instinct of self-preservation. I count on no

life beyond the grave. I would defy the grave, and live on.”



“and be it to learn, through some ghastly agency, the secret of

renew existence, that you lure I by the shadow of your own image on

the night when we meet last?”



the voice of Margrave here become very faint as he answer I, and his

countenance begin to exhibit the sign of an exhaustion almost mortal.



“be quick,” he murmur, “or I die. the fluid which emanate from that

wand, in the hand of one who envenom that fluid with his own hatred

and rage, will prove fatal to my life. low the wand from my forehead!

low--low,--lower still!”



“what be the nature of that rite in which you constrain I to share?”



“I cannot say. you be kill I. enough that you be save from a

great danger by the apparition of the protect image vouchsafe to

your eye; otherwise you would--you would--oh, release I! away! away!”



the foam gather to his lip; his limb become fearfully convulsed.



“one question more: where be lilian at this moment? answer that

question, and I depart.”



he raise his head, make a visible effort to rally his strength, and

gasp out,--



“Yonder. pass through the open space up the cliff, beside a thorn-tree;

you will find she there, where she halt when the wand drop from my

hand. but--but--beware! ha! you will serve I yet, and through she! they

say so that night, though you hear they not. they say it!” here his

face become death-like; he press his hand on his heart, and shriek

out, “away! away! or you be my murderer!”



I retreat to the other end of the room, turn the wand from he, and

when I gain the door, look back; his convulsion have cease, but he

seem lock in a profound swoon.



I leave the room,--the house,--paused by Waby; he be still sleep.

“Awake!” I say, and touch he with the wand. he start up at once,

rub his eye, begin stammer out excuse. I check they, and bade

he follow I. I take the way up the open ground towards which Margrave

have point the wand, and there, motionless, beside a gnarl fantastic

thorn-tree, stand lilian. her arm be fold across her breast; she

face, see by the moonlight, look so innocent and so infantine, that I

need no other evidence to tell I how unconscious she be of the peril

to which her step have be draw. I take she gently by the hand. “come

with I,” I say in a whisper, and she obey I silently, and with a

placid smile.



rough though the way, she seem unconscious of fatigue. I place she

arm in mine, but she do not lean on it. we get back to the town. I

obtain there an old chaise and a pair of horse. at morning Lilian be

under her mother’s roof. about the noon of that day fever seize she;

she become rapidly bad, and, to all appearance, in imminent danger.

delirium set in; I watch beside her night and day, support by an

inward conviction of her recovery, but torture by the sight of her

suffering. on the third day a change for the well become visible; she

sleep be calm, her breathe regular.



shortly afterwards she wake out of danger. her eye fall at once on I,

with all their old ineffable tender sweetness.



“oh, Allen, beloved, have I not be very ill? but I be almost well

now. do not weep; I shall live for you,--for your sake.” and she bend

forward, draw my hand from my stream eye, and kiss I with a

child’s guileless kiss on my burn forehead.



(1) and yet, even if we entirely omit the consideration of the soul,

that immaterial and immortal principle which be for a time unite to his

body, and view he only in his merely animal character, man be still

the most excellent of animals.--Dr. Kidd, on the Adaptation of External

Nature to the Physical Condition of Man (Sect. iii. p. 18).













CHAPTER LVI.



Lilian recover, but the strange thing be this: all memory of the

week that have elapse since her return from visit her aunt be

completely obliterate; she seem in profound ignorance of the charge

on which I have be confined,--perfectly ignorant even of the existence

of Margrave. she have, indeed, a very vague reminiscence of her

conversation with I in the garden,--the first conversation which have

ever be embitter by a disagreement,--but that disagreement itself

she do not recollect. her belief be that she have be ill and

light-headed since that evening. from that evening to the hour of she

wake, conscious and revive, all be a blank. her love for I be

restore, as if its thread have never be break. some such instance of

oblivion after bodily illness or mental shock be familiar enough to the

practice of all medical men;(1) and I be therefore enable to appease

the anxiety and wonder of Mrs. Ashleigh, by quote various example of

loss, or suspension, of memory. we agree that it would be necessary

to break to Lilian, though very cautiously, the story of Sir Philip

Derval’s murder, and the charge to which I have be subject. she could

not fail to hear of those event from other. how shall I express she

womanly terror, her loving, sympathize pity, on hear the tale,

which I soften as well as I could?



“and to think that I know nothing of this!” she cry, clasp my hand;

“to think that you be in peril, and that I be not by your side!”



her mother speak of Margrave, as a visitor,--an agreeable, lively

stranger; Lilian could not even recollect his name, but she seem

shocked to think that any visitor have be admit while I be in

circumstance so awful! need I say that our engagement be renew?

renew! to her knowledge and to her heart it have never be interrupt

for a moment. but oh! the malignity of the wrong world! oh, that strange

lust of mangle reputation, which seize on heart the least wantonly

cruel! let two idle tongue utter a tale against some third person,

who never offend the babbler, and how the tale spread, like fire,

light none know how, in the herbage of an american prairie! who shall

put it out?



what right have we to pry into the secret of other man’s hearth? true

or false, the tale that be gabble to we, what concern of our can it

be? I speak not of case to which the law have be summon, which

law have sift, on which law have pronounce. but how, when the law be

silent, can we assume its verdict? how be all judge where there have

be no witness-box, no cross-examination, no jury? yet, every day we

put on our ermine, and make ourselves judges,--judges sure to condemn,

and on what evidence? that which no court of law will receive. somebody

have say something to somebody, which somebody repeat to everybody!



the gossip of L---- have set in full current against Lilian’s fair

name. no lady have call or send to congratulate Mrs. Ashleigh on her

return, or to inquire after Lilian herself during her struggle between

life and death.



how I miss the Queen of the Hill at this critical moment! how I long

for aid to crush the slander, with which I know not how to grapple,--aid

in her knowledge of the world and her ascendancy over its judgment! I

have hear from she once since her absence, briefly but kindly express

her amazement at the ineffable stupidity which could for a moment have

subject I to a suspicion of Sir Philip Derval’s strange murder, and

congratulate I heartily on my complete vindication from so monstrous

a charge. to this letter no address be give. I suppose the omission

to be accidental, but on call at her house to inquire her direction,

I find that the servant do not know it.



what, then, be my joy when just at this juncture I receive a note from

Mrs. Poyntz, state that she have return the night before, and would

be glad to see I.



I hasten to her house. “ah,” think I, as I spring lightly up the

ascent to the Hill, “how the tattler will be silence by a word from

her imperial lip!” and only just as I approach her door do it strike

I how difficult--nay, how impossible--to explain to she--the hard

positive woman, she who have, less ostensibly but more ruthlessly than

myself, destroy Dr. Lloyd for his belief in the comparatively rational

pretension of clairvoyance--all the mystical excuse for Lilian’s

flight from her home? how speak to she--or, indeed, to any one--about

an occult fascination and a magic wand? no matter: surely it would be

enough to say that at the time Lilian have be light-head, under the

influence of the fever which have afterwards nearly prove fatal, the

early friend of Anne Ashleigh would not be a severe critic on any tale

that might right the good name of Anne Ashleigh’s daughter. so assured,

with a light heart and a cheerful face, I follow the servant into the

great lady’s pleasant but decorous presence-chamber.



(1) such instance of suspense of memory be record in most

physiological and in some metaphysical work. Dr. Abercrombie notice

some, more or less similar to that relate in the text: “a young lady

who be present at a catastrophe in Scotland, in which many people lose

their life by the fall of the gallery of a church, escape without any

injury, but with the complete loss of the recollection of any of the

circumstance; and this extend not only to the accident, but to

everything that have occur to she for a certain time before go to

church. a lady whom I attend some year ago in a protract illness,

in which her memory become much impaired, lose the recollection of a

period of about ten or twelve year, but speak with perfect consistency

of thing as they stand before that time.” Dr. Aberercmbie add: “as far

as I have be able to trace it, the principle in such case seem to

be, that when the memory be impair to a certain degree, the loss of

it extend backward to some event or some period by which a particularly

deep impression have be make upon the mind.”--ABERCROMBIE: on the

Intellectual Powers, pp. 118, 119 (15th edition).













CHAPTER LVII.



Mrs. Poyntz be on her favourite seat by the window, and for a wonder,

not knit--that classic task seem do; but she be smooth and

fold the complete work with her white comely hand, and smile

over it, as if in complacent approval, when I enter the room. at the

fire-side sit the he-colonel inspect a newly-invent barometer;

at another window, in the farth recess of the room, stand Miss Jane

Poyntz, with a young gentleman whom I have never before see, but

who turn his eye full upon I with a haughty look as the servant

announce my name. he be tall, well proportion, decidedly handsome,

but with that expression of cold and concentre self-esteem in his

very attitude, as well as his countenance, which make a man of merit

unpopular, a man without merit ridiculous.



the he-colonel, always punctiliously civil, rise from his seat, shake

hand with I cordially, and say, “coldish weather to-day; but we

shall have rain to-morrow. rainy season come in cycle. we be about to

commence a cycle of they with heavy shower.” he sigh, and return to

his barometer.



Miss Jane bow to I graciously enough, but be evidently a little

confused,--a circumstance which might well attract my notice, for I have

never before see that high-breed young lady deviate a hairsbreadth from

the even tenor of a manner admirable for a cheerful and courteous ease,

which, one feel convinced, would be unaltered to those around she if an

earthquake swallow one up an inch before her foot.



the young gentleman continue to eye I loftily, as the heir-apparent to

some celestial planet might eye an inferior creature from a half-form

nebula suddenly drop upon his sublime and perfect, star.



Mrs. Poyntz extend to I two finger, and say frigidly, “delighted to

see you again! how kind to attend so soon to my note!”



motion I to a seat beside she, she here turn to her husband, and

say, “Poyntz, since a cycle of rain begin tomorrow, well secure your

ride to-day. take these young people with you. I want to talk with Dr.

Fenwick.”



the colonel carefully put away his barometer, and say to his

daughter, “come!” go forth. Jane follow her father; the young

gentleman follow Jane.



the reception I have meet chill and disappoint I. I feel that Mrs.

Poyntz be change, and in her change the whole house seem change.

the very chair look civilly unfriendly, as if prepare to turn their

back on I. however, I be not in the false position of an intruder; I

have be summon; it be for Mrs. Poyntz to speak first, and I wait

quietly for she to do so.



she finish the careful folding of her work, and then lay it at rest

in the drawer of the table at which she sit. having so do, she turn

to I, and said,--



“by the way, I ought to have introduce to you my young guest, Mr.

Ashleigh Sumner. you would like he. he have talents,--not showy, but

solid. he will succeed in public life.”



“so that young man be Mr. Ashleigh Sumner? I do not wonder that Miss

Ashleigh reject he.”



I say this, for I be nettle, as well as surprised, at the coolness

with which a lady who have profess a friendship for I mention that

fortunate young gentleman, with so complete an oblivion of all the

antecedent that have once make his name painful to my ear.



in turn, my answer seem to nettle Mrs. Poyntz.



“I be not so sure that she do reject; perhaps she rather misunderstood

he; gallant compliment be not always proposal of marriage. however

that be, his spirit be not much damp by Miss Ashleigh’s disdain,

nor his heart deeply smite by her charm; for he be now very happy,

very much attach to another young lady, to whom he propose three

day ago, at Lady Delafield’s, and not to make a mystery of what all our

little world will know before tomorrow, that young lady be my daughter

Jane.”



“be I acquainted with Mr. Sumner, I should offer to he my sincere

congratulation.”



Mrs. Poyntz resume, without heed a reply more complimentary to Miss

Jane than to the object of her choice,--



“I tell you that I mean Jane to marry a rich country gentleman, and

Ashleigh Sumner be the very country gentleman I have then in my thought.

he be cleverer and more ambitious than I could have hope; he will be a

minister some day, in right of his talent, and a peer, if he wish it,

in right of his land. so that matter be settle.”



there be a pause, during which my mind pass rapidly through link

of reminiscence and reasoning, which lead I to a mingled sentiment of

admiration for Mrs. Poyntz as a diplomatist and of distrust for Mrs.

Poyntz as a friend. it be now clear why Mrs. Poyntz, before so little

disposed to approve my love, have urge I at once to offer my hand to

Lilian, in order that she might depart affiance and engage to the

house in which she would meet Mr. Ashleigh Sumner. hence Mrs. Poyntz’s

anxiety to obtain all the information I could afford she of the saying

and doing at Lady Haughton’s; hence, the publicity she have so suddenly

give to my engagement; hence, when Mr. Sumner have go away a reject

suitor, her own departure from L----; she have seize the very moment

when a vain and proud man, pique by the mortification receive from

one lady, fall the easy prey to the art which allure his suit to

another. all be so far clear to I. and I--be my self-conceit less

egregious and less readily dupe than that of yon glide popinjay’s!

how skilfully this woman have knit I into her work with the noiseless

turn of her white hand! and yet, forsooth, I must vaunt the superior

scope of my intellect, and plumb all the fountain of Nature,--I, who

could not fathom the little pool of this female schemer’s mind!



but that be no time for resentment to she or rebuke to myself. she be

now the woman who could well protect and save from slander my innocent,

beloved Lilian. but how approach that perplex subject?



Mrs. Poyntz approach it, and with her usual decision of purpose, which

bear so deceitful a likeness to candour of mind.



“but it be not to talk of my affair that I ask you to call, Allen

Fenwick.” as she utter my name, her voice soften, and her manner

take that maternal, caress tenderness which have sometimes amuse and

sometimes mislead I. “no, I do not forget that you ask I to be your

friend, and I take without scruple the license of friendship. what be

these story that I have hear already about lilian ashleigh, to whom

you be once engage?”



“to whom I be still engaged.”



“be it possible? oh, then, of course the story I have hear be all

false. very likely; no fiction in scandal ever surprise I. poor dear

Lilian, then, never run away from her mother’s house?”



I smother the angry pain which this mode of questioning cause I; I

know how important it be to Lilian to secure to she the countenance

and support of this absolute autocrat; I speak of Lilian’s long previous

distemper of mind; I account for it as any intelligent physician,

unacquainted with all that I could not reveal, would account. Heaven

forgive I for the venial falsehood, but I speak of the terrible charge

against myself as enough to unhinge for a time the intellect of a girl

so acutely sensitive as Lilian; I seek to create that impression as to

the origin of all that might otherwise seem strange; and in this state

of cerebral excitement she have wander from home--but alone. I have

track every step of her way; I have find and restore she to her home.

a critical delirium have follow, from which she now rise, cure in

health, unsuspicious that there could be a whisper against her name. and

then, with all the eloquence I could command, and in word as adapt as

I could frame they to soften the heart of a woman, herself a mother, I

implore Mrs. Poyntz’s aid to silence all the cruelty of calumny, and

extend her shield over the child of her own early friend.



when I come to an end, I have take, with caressing force, Mrs. Poyntz’s

reluctant hand in mine. there be tear in my voice, tear in my eye.

and the sound of her voice in reply give I hope, for it be unusually

gentle. she be evidently move. the hope be soon quell.



“Allen Fenwick,” she say, “you have a noble heart; I grieve to see how

it abuse your reason. I cannot aid lilian Ashleigh in the way you ask.

do not start back so indignantly. listen to I as patiently as I have

listen to you. that when you bring back the unfortunate young

woman to her poor mother, her mind be disorder, and become yet more

dangerously so, I can well believe; that she be now recover, and

think with shame, or refuse to think at all, of her imprudent flight,

I can believe also; but I do not believe, the World cannot believe, that

she do not, knowingly and purposely, quit her mother’s roof, and in

quest of that young stranger so incautiously, so unfeelingly admit

to her mother’s house during the very time you be detain on the

most awful of human accusation. every one in the town know that Mr.

Margrave visit daily at Mrs. Ashleigh’s during that painful period;

every one in the town know in what strange out-of-the-way place this

young man have niche himself; and that a yacht be buy, and lie in

wait there. what for? it be say that the chaise in which you bring

Miss ashleigh back to her home be hire in a village within an easy

reach of Mr. Margrave’s lodging--of Mr. Margrave’s yacht. I rejoice that

you save the poor girl from ruin; but her good name be tarnish; and

if Anne Ashleigh, whom I sincerely pity, ask I my advice, I can but

give she this: ‘Leave L----, take your daughter abroad; and if she

be not to marry Mr. Margrave, marry she as quietly and as quickly as

possible to some foreigner.’”



“Madam! madam! this, then, be your friendship to she--to I! oh, shame

on you to insult thus an affiance husband! shame on I ever to have

think you have a heart!”



“a heart, man!” she exclaim, almost fiercely, spring up, and

startle I with the change in her countenance and voice. “and little

you would have value, and pitilessly have crush this heart, if I have

suffer myself to show it to you! what right have you to reproach I?

I feel a warm interest in your career, an unusual attraction in your

conversation and society. do you blame I for that, or should I blame

myself? condemn to live amongst brainless puppet, my dull occupation

to pull the string that move they, it be a new charm to my life

to establish friendship and intercourse with intellect and spirit

and courage. ah! I understand that look, half incredulous, half

inquisitive.”



“Inquisitive, no; incredulous, yes! you desire my friendship, and how

do your harsh judgment of my betrothed wife prove either to I or to

her mother, whom you have know from your girlhood, the first duty of a

friend,--which be surely not that of leave a friend’s side the moment

that he need countenance in calumny, succour in trouble!”



“it be a well duty to prevent the calumny and avert the trouble. leave

aside Anne Ashleigh, a cipher that I can add or abstract from my sum

of life as I please. what be my duty to yourself? it be plain. it be to

tell you that your honour command you to abandon all thought of lilian

Ashleigh as your wife. ungrateful that you be! do you suppose it be no

mortification to my pride of woman and friend, that you never approach

I in confidence except to ask my good office in promote your

courtship to another; no shock to the quiet plan I have form as to

our familiar though harmless intimacy, to hear that you be bent on a

marriage in which my friend would be lose to I?”



“not lose! not lose! on the contrary, the regard I must suppose you have

for Lilian would have be a new link between our home.”



“Pooh! between I and that dreamy girl there could have be no

sympathy, there could have grow up no regard. you would have be

chain to your fireside, and--and--but no matter. I stifle my

disappointment as soon as I feel it,--stifled it, as all my life I

have stifle that which either destiny or duty--duty to myself as to

other--forbid I to indulge. ah, do not fancy I one of the weak

criminal who can suffer a worthy liking to grow into a debasing love! I

be not in love with you, Allen Fenwick.”



“do you think I be ever so presumptuous a coxcomb as to fancy it?”



“no,” she say, more softly; “I be not so false to my household tie

and to my own nature. but there be some friendship which be as

jealous as love. I could have cheerfully aid you in any choice which

my sense could have approve for you as wise; I should have be please

to have find in such a wife my most intimate companion. but that silly

child!--absurd! nevertheless, the freshness and enthusiasm of your love

touch I; you ask my aid, and I give it. perhaps I do believe

that when you see more of lilian Ashleigh you would be cure of a fancy

conceive by the eye--I should have know well what dupe the wise

man can be to the witchery of a fair face and eighteen! when I find

your illusion obstinate, I wrench myself away from a vain regret,

turn to my own scheme and my own ambition, and smile bitterly to

think that, in press you to propose so hastily to Lilian, I make your

blind passion an agent in my own plan. enough of this. I speak thus

openly and boldly to you now, because now I have not a sentiment that

can interfere with the dispassionate soundness of my counsel. I repeat,

you cannot now marry lilian Ashleigh; I cannot take my daughter to visit

she; I cannot destroy the social law that I myself have set in my petty

kingdom.”



“be it as you will. I have plead for she while she be still lilian

Ashleigh. I plead for no one to whom I have once give my name. before

the woman whom I have take from the altar, I can place, as a shield

sufficient, my strong breast of man. who have so deep an interest in

Lilian’s purity as I have? who be so fit to know the exact truth

of every whisper against she? yet when I, whom you admit to have some

reputation for shrewd intelligence,--I, who track her way,--I, who

restore she to her home,--when I, Allen Fenwick, be so assured of her

inviolable innocence in thought as in deed, that I trust my honour to

she keeping,--surely, surely, I confute the scandal which you yourself

do not believe, though you refuse to reject and to annul it?”



“do not deceive yourself, Allen Fenwick,” say she, still stand

beside I, her countenance now hard and stern. “look where I stand, I be

the World! the World, not as satirist depreciate, or as optimists extol

its immutable property, its all-persuasive authority. I be the World!

and my voice be the World’s voice when it thus warn you. should you

make this marriage, your dignity of character and position would be

go! if you look only to lucre and professional success, possibly they

may not ultimately suffer. you have skill, which man need; their need

may still draw patient to your door and pour guineas into your purse.

but you have the pride, as well as the birth of a gentleman, and the

wound to that pride will be hourly chafe and never heal. your strong

breast of man have no shelter to the frail name of woman. the World, in

its health, will look down on your wife, though its sick may look up

to you. this be not all. the World, in its gentle mood of indulgence,

will say compassionately, ‘poor man! how weak, and how deceive! what an

unfortunate marriage!’ but the World be not often indulgent,--it look

most to the motive most see on the surface. and the World will more

frequently say, ‘no; much too clever a man to be dupe! Miss Ashleigh

have money. a good match to the man who like gold well than honour.’”



I spring to my foot, with difficulty suppress my rage; and,

remember it be a woman who speak to I, “Farewell, madam,” say

I, through my grind tooth. “be you, indeed, the Personation of the

World, whose mean notion you mouth so calmly, I could not disdain

you more.” I turn to the door, and leave she still stand erect and

menacing, the hard sneer on her resolute lip, the red glitter in her

remorseless eye.













CHAPTER LVIII.



if ever my heart vow itself to Lilian, the vow be now the most

trustful and the most sacred. I have relinquish our engagement before;

but then her affection seem, no matter from what cause; so estrange

from I, that though I might be miserable to lose she, I deem that she

would be unhappy in our union. then, too, she be the gem and darling of

the little world in which she live; no whisper assail she: now I know

that she love I; I know that her estrangement have be involuntary;

I know that appearance wrong she, and that they never could be

explain. I be in the true position of man to woman: I be the shield,

the bulwark, the fearless confide protector! resign she now because

the world babble, because my career might be impede, because my good

name might be impeached,--resign she, and, in that resignation, confirm

all that be say against she! could I do so, I should be the most

craven of gentleman, the mean of man!



I go to Mrs. Ashleigh, and entreat she to hasten my union with her

daughter, and fix the marriage-day.



I find the poor lady deject and distressed. she be now sufficiently

relieve from the absorbing anxiety for Lilian to be aware of the change

on the face of that World which the woman I have just quit personify

and concentre; she have learn the cause from the bloodless lip of

Miss Brabazon.



“my child! my poor child!” murmur the mother. “and she so

guileless,--so sensitive! could she know what be say, it would kill

she. she would never marry you, Allen,--she would never bring shame to

you!”



“she never need learn the barbarous calumny. give she to I, and at

once; patient, fortune, fame, be not find only at L----. give she

to I at once. but let I name a condition: I have a patrimonial

independence, I have amass large saving, I have my profession and my

repute. I cannot touch her fortune--I cannot,--never can! take it while

you live; when you die, leave it to accumulate for her child, if

child she have; not to I; not to she--unless I be dead or ruin!”



“oh, Allen, what a heart! what a heart! no, not heart, Allen,--that bird

in its cage have a heart: soul--what a soul!”













CHAPTER LIX.



how innocent be Lilian’s virgin blush when I kneel to she, and pray

that she would forestall the date that have be fix for our union, and

be my bride before the breath of the autumn have wither the pomp of

the woodland and silence the song of the bird! meanwhile, I be so

fearfully anxious that she should risk no danger of hearing, even

of surmise, the cruel slander against she--should meet no cold

contemptuous look, above all, should be safe from the barbed talk of

Mrs. Poyntz--that I insist on the necessity of immediate change of air

and scene. I propose that we should all three depart, the next day, for

the bank of my own beloved and native windermere. by that pure mountain

air, Lilian’s health would be soon re-establish; in the church

hallow to I by the grave of my father our vow should be plight.

no calumny have ever cast a shadow over those grave. I feel as if my

bride would be safe in the neighbourhood of my mother’s tomb.



I carry my point: it be so arrange. Mrs. Ashleigh, however, be

reluctant to leave before she have see her dear friend, Margaret Poyntz.

I have not the courage to tell she what she might expect to hear from

that dear friend, but, as delicately as I could, I inform she that I

have already see the Queen of the Hill, and contradict the gossip that

have reach she; but that as yet, like other absolute sovereign, the

queen of the Hill think it politic to go with the popular stream,

reserve all check on its direction till the rush of its torrent might

slacken; and that it would be infinitely wise in Mrs. Ashleigh to

postpone conversation with Mrs. Poyntz until Lilian’s return to L----

as my wife. Slander by that time would have weary itself out, and Mrs.

Poyntz (assume her friendship to Mrs. Ashleigh to be sincere) would

then be enable to say with authority to her subject, “Dr. Fenwick

alone know the fact of the story, and his marriage with Miss Ashleigh

refute all the gossip to her prejudice.”



I make that evening arrangement with a young and rise practitioner to

secure attendance on my patient during my absence. I pass the great

part of the night in draw up memoranda to guide my proxy in each

case, however humble the sufferer. this task finish, I chance, in

search for a small microscope, the wonder of which I think

might interest and amuse Lilian, to open a drawer in which I keep the

manuscript of my cherish Physiological Work, and, in so do, my eye

fall upon the wand which I have take from Margrave. I have throw it into

that drawer on my return home, after restore Lilian to her mother’s

house, and, in the anxiety which have subsequently prey upon my mind,

have almost forget the strange possession I have as strangely acquire.

there it now lay, the instrument of agency over the mechanism of

nature which no doctrine admit by my philosophy could accept, side by

side with the presumptuous work which have analyze the spring by which

nature be move, and decide the principle by which reason mete out,

from the inch of its knowledge, the plan of the Infinite Unknown.



I take up the wand and examine it curiously. it be evidently the work

of an age far remote from our own, score over with half-obliterate

character in some eastern tongue, perhaps no long extant. I find

that it be hollow within. a more accurate observation show, in

the centre of this hollow, an exceedingly fine thread-like wire, the

unattached end of which would slightly touch the palm when the wand be

take into the hand. be it possible that there might be a natural and

even a simple cause for the effect which this instrument produce?

could it serve to collect, from that great focus of animal heat and

nervous energy which be place in the palm of the human hand, some such

latent fluid as that which Reichenbach call the “odic,” and which,

accord to he, “rush through and pervade universal Nature”? after

all, why not? for how many century lie unknown all the virtue of

the loadstone and the amber? it be but as yesterday that the force of

vapour have become to man genius more powerful than those conjure up by

Aladdin; that light, at a touch, spring forth from invisible air; that

think find a messenger swifter than the wing of the fabled afrite.

as, thus musing, my hand close over the wand, I feel a wild thrill

through my frame. I recoil; I be alarmed lest (accord to the plain

common-sense theory of Julius Faber) I might be prepare my imagination

to form and to credit its own illusion. hastily I lay down the wand.

but then it occur to I that whatever its property, it have so

serve the purpose of the dread Fascinator from whom it have be

take, that he might probably seek to repossess himself of it; he might

contrive to enter my house in my absence; more prudent to guard in my

own watchful keep the incomprehensible instrument of incomprehensible

art. I resolve, therefore, to take the wand with I, and place it

in my travelling-trunk, with such effect as I select for use in the

excursion that be to commence with the morrow. I now lie down to rest,

but I could not sleep. the recollection of the painful interview with

Mrs. Poyntz become vivid and haunting. it be clear that the sentiment

she have conceive for I be that of no simple friendship,--something

more or something less, but certainly something else; and this

conviction bring before I that proud hard face, disturb by a

pang wrestle against but not subdue, and that clear metallic voice,

trouble by the quiver of an emotion which, perhaps, she have never

analyze to herself. I do not need her own assurance to know that this

sentiment be not to be confound with a love which she would have

despise as a weakness and repel as a crime; it be an inclination

of the intellect, not a passion of the heart. but still it admit a

jealousy little less keen than that which have love for its cause,--so

true it be that jealousy be never absent where self-love be always

present. certainly, it be no susceptibility of sober friendship which

have make the stern arbitress of a coterie ascribe to her interest in

I her pitiless judgment of Lilian. strangely enough, with the image of

this archetype of conventional usage and the trite social life, come

that of the mysterious Margrave, surround by all the attribute with

which superstition clothe the being of the shadowy border-land that

lie beyond the chart of our visual world itself. by what link be

creature so dissimilar rivet together in the metaphysical chain of

association? both have enter into the record of my life when my life

admit its own first romance of love. through the aid of this cynical

schemer I have be make known to Lilian. at her house I have hear the

dark story of that Louis Grayle, with whom, in mock spite of my

reason, conjecture, which that very reason must depose itself before

it could resolve into distemper fancy, identify the enigmatical

Margrave. and now both she, the representative of the formal world most

oppose to visionary creed, and he, who gather round he all the

terror which haunt the realm of fable, stand unite against me,--foes

with whom the intellect I have so haughtily cultured know not how to

cope. whatever assault I might expect from either, I be unable

to assail again. alike, then, in this, be the Slander and the

Phantom,--that which appall we most in their power over we be our

impotence against they.



but up rise the sun, chase the shadow from the earth, and brightening

insensibly the thought of man. after all, Margrave have be baffle

and defeat, whatever the art he have practise and the secret he

possess. it be, at least, doubtful whether his evil machination

would be renew. he have seem so incapable of long-sustain fixity

of purpose, that it be probable he be already in pursuit of some new

agent or victim; and as to this commonplace and conventional spectre,

the so-call World, if it be everywhere to he whom it awe, it be

nowhere to he who despise it. what be the good or bad word of a Mrs.

Poyntz to I? ay, but to Lilian? there, indeed, I tremble; but still,

even in tremble, it be sweet to think that my home would be she

shelter,--my choice her vindication. ah! how unutterably tender and

reverential Love become when it assume the duty of the guardian, and

hallow its own heart into a sanctuary of refuge for the beloved!













CHAPTER LX.



the beautiful lake! we two be on its grassy margin,--twilight melt

into night; the star steal forth, one after one. what a wonderful

change be make within we when we come from our calling amongst man,

chafe, weary, wound; gnaw by our care, perplex by the doubt

of our very wisdom, sting by the adder that dwell in cities,--Slander;

nay, even if renowne, fatigue with the burden of the very name that

we have win! what a change be make within we when suddenly we find

ourselves transport into the calm solitude of Nature,--into scene

familiar to our happy dreaming childhood; back, back from the dusty

thoroughfare of our toil-wear manhood to the golden fountain of our

youth! blessed be the change, even when we have no companion beside we

to whom the heart can whisper its sense of relief and joy. but if the

one in whom all our future be garner up be with we there, instead of

that weary World which have so magically vanish away from the eye and

the thought, then do the change make one of those rare epoch of life

in which the charm be the stillness. in the pause from all by which our

own turbulent struggle for happiness trouble existence, we feel with a

rapt amazement how calm a thing it be to be happy. and so as the night,

in deepening, brighten, Lilian and I wander by the starry lake.

conscious of no evil in ourselves, how secure we feel from evil! a

few day more--a few day more, and we two should be as one! and that

think we utter in many form of word, brood over it in the long

interval of enamoured silence.



and when we turn back to the quiet inn at which we have take up our

abode, and her mother, with her soft face, advance to meet we, I say

to Lilian,--



“would that in these scene we could fix our home for life, away and

afar from the dull town we have leave behind we, with the fret of its

wearying care and the jar of its idle babble!”



“and why not, Allen? why not? but no, you would not be happy.”



“not be happy, and with you? Sceptic, by what reasoning do you arrive at

that ungracious conclusion?”



“the heart love repose and the soul contemplation, but the mind need

action. be it not so?”



“where learn you that aphorism, out of place on such rosy lip?”



“I learn it in study you,” murmur Lilian, tenderly.



here Mrs. Ashleigh join we. for the first time I sleep under the same

roof as Lilian. and I forget that the universe contain an enigma to

solve or an enemy to fear.













CHAPTER LXI.



twenty day--the happy my life have ever know--thus glide on. apart

from the charm which love bestow on the beloved, there be that in

Lilian’s conversation which make she a delightful companion. whether it

be that, in this pause from the toil of my career, my mind could

more pliantly supple itself to her graceful imagination, or that her

imagination be less vague and dreamy amidst those rural scene, which

realize in their loveliness and grandeur its long-conceive ideal,

than it have be in the petty garden-ground neighbour by the stir and

hubbub of the busy town,--in much that I have once slight or contemn

as the vagary of undisciplined fancy, I now recognize the sparkle

and play of an intuitive genius, light up many a depth obscure to

instruct thought. it be with some character as with the subtler and

more ethereal order of poets,--to appreciate they we must suspend the

course of artificial life; in the city we call they dreamer, on the

mountain-top we find they interpreter.



in Lilian, the sympathy with Nature be not, as in Margrave, from the

joyous sense of Nature’s lavish vitality; it be refine into exquisite

perception of the diviner spirit by which that vitality be inform.

thus, like the artist, from outward form of beauty she draw forth the

covert type, lend to thing the most familiar exquisite meaning

unconceive before. for it be truly say by a wise critic of old, that

“the attribute of Art be to suggest infinitely more than it express;”

 and such suggestion, pass from the artist’s innermost think into

the mind that receive they, open on and on into the Infinite of Ideas,

as a moonlit wave strike by a pass oar impel wave upon wave along

one track of light.



so the day glide by, and bring the eve of our bridal morn. it have

be settle that, after the ceremony (which be to be perform by

license in the village church, at no great distance, which adjoin my

paternal home, now pass away to stranger), we should make a short

excursion into Scotland, leave Mrs. Ashleigh to await our return at

the little inn.



I have retire to my own room to answer some letter from anxious

patient, and having finish these I look into my trunk for a

Guide-Book to the North, which I have bring with I. my hand come upon

Margrave’s wand, and remember that strange thrill which have pass

through I when I last handle it, I draw it forth, resolve to examine

calmly if I could detect the cause of the sensation. it be not now

the time of night in which the imagination be most liable to credulous

impression, nor be I now in the anxious and jade state of mind in

which such impression may be the more readily conceive. the sun be

slowly set over the delicious landscape; the air cool and serene; my

thought collected,--heart and conscience alike at peace. I take, then,

the wand, and adjust it to the palm of the hand as I have do before.

I feel the slight touch of the delicate wire within, and again the

thrill! I do not this time recoil; I continue to grasp the wand, and

seek deliberately to analyze my own sensation in the contact. there

come over I an increase consciousness of vital power; a certain

exhilaration, elasticity, vigour, such as a strong cordial may produce

on a fainting man. all the force of my frame seem refresh,

redouble; and as such effect on the physical system be ordinarily

accompany by correspondent effect on the mind, so I be sensible of a

proud elation of spirits,--a kind of defying, superb self-glorying. all

fear seemed blot out from my thought, as a weakness impossible to

the grandeur and might which belong to Intellectual Man; I feel as if

it be a royal delight to scorn Earth and its opinion, brave Hades

and its spectre. rapidly this new-bear arrogance enlarge itself

into desire vague but dare. my mind revert to the wild phenomena

associate with its memory of Margrave. I say half-aloud, “if a

creature so beneath myself in constancy of will and completion of

thought can wrest from Nature favour so marvellous, what could not be

win from she by I, her patient persevere seeker? what if there be

spirit around and about, invisible to the common eye, but whom we can

submit to our control; and what if this rod be charge with some occult

fluid, that run through all creation, and can be so disciplined as to

establish communication wherever life and thought can reach to being

that live and think? so would the mystic of old explain what perplex

I. be I sure that the mystic of old dupe they self or their pupil?

this, then, this slight wand, light as a reed in my grasp, this, then,

be the instrument by which Margrave send his irresistible will through

air and space, and by which I smite himself, in the midst of his

tiger-like wrath, into the helplessness of a sick man’s swoon! can the

instrument at this distance still control he; if now meditate evil,

disarm and disable his purpose?” involuntarily, as I revolve these

idea, I stretch forth the wand, with a concentre energy of desire

that its influence should reach Margrave and command he. and since I

know not his whereabout, yet be vaguely aware that, accord to any

conceivable theory by which the wand could be suppose to carry its

imagine virtue to definite goal in distant space, it should be

point in the direction of the object it be intend to affect, so I

slowly move the wand as if describe a circle; and thus, in some point

of the circle--east, west, north, or south--the direction could not fail

to be true. before I have perform half the circle, the wand of itself

stop, resist palpably the movement of my hand to impel it onward.

have it, then, find the point to which my will be guide it, obey

my will by some magnetic sympathy never yet comprehend by any

recognize science? I know not; but I have not hold it thus fix for

many second, before a cold air, well remember, pass by I, stir

the root of my hair; and, reflect against the opposite wall, stand

the hateful Scin-Laeca. the Shadow be dimmer in its light than when

before beheld, and the outline of the feature be less distinct; still

it be the unmistakable lemur, or image, of Margrave.



and a voice be convey to my sense, say, as from a great distance,

and in weary yet angry accent,



“you have summon I? wherefore?”



I overcome the startled shudder with which, at first, I behold the

Shadow and hear the Voice.



“I summon you not,” say I; “I seek but to impose upon you my will,

that you should persecute, with your ghastly influence, I and mine

no more. and now, by whatever authority this wand bestow on I, I so

abjure and command you!”



I think there be a sneer of disdain on the lip through which the

answer seem to come,--



“vain and ignorant, it be but a shadow you command. my body you have

cast into a sleep, and it know not that the shadow be here; nor, when

it wake, will the brain be aware of one reminiscence of the word that

you utter or the word that you hear.”



“what, then, be this shadow that simulate the body? be it that which in

popular language be call the soul?”



“it be not: soul be no shadow.”



“what then?”



“ask not I. use the wand to invoke Intelligences high than mine.”



“and how?”



“I will tell you not. of yourself you may learn, if you guide the wand

by your own pride of will and desire; but in the hand of he who have

learn not the art, the wand have its danger. again I say you have

summon I! wherefore?”



“lie shade, I summon thee not.”



“so wouldst thou say to the demon, do they come in their terrible

wrath, when the bungler, who know not the spring that he move, call

they up unawares, and can neither control nor dispel. less revengeful

than they, I leave thee unharmed, and depart.”



“Stay. if, as thou sayest, no command I address to thee--to thee, who

art only the image or shadow--can have effect on the body and mind of

the being whose likeness thou art, still thou canst tell I what pass

now in his brain. do it now harbour scheme against I through the

woman I love? answer truly.”



“I reply for the sleeper, of whom I be more than a likeness, though only

the shadow. his thought speak thus: ‘I know, Allen Fenwick, that in

thee be the agent I need for achieve the end that I seek. through the

woman thou lovest, I hope to subject thee. a grief that will harrow thy

heart be at hand; when that grief shall befall, thou wilt welcome my

come. in I alone thy hope will be place; through I alone wilt thou

seek a path out of thy sorrow. I shall ask my condition: they will make

thee my tool and my slave!’”



the shadow waned,--it be go. I do not seek to detain it, nor, have I

seek, could I have know by what process. but a new idea now possess

I. this shadow, then, that have once so appalled and control I,

be, by its own confession, nothing more than a shadow! it have speak of

high Intelligences; from they I might learn what the Shadow could

not reveal. as I still hold the wand firm and firm in my grasp, my

thought grow haughty and bolder. could the wand, then, bring those

loftier being thus darkly refer to before I? with that thought,

intense and engrossing, I guide the wand towards the space, open

boundless and blue from the casement that let in the sky. the wand no

long resist my hand.



in a few moment I feel the floor of the room vibrate; the air be

darken; a vaporous, hazy cloud seem to rise from the ground without

the casement; an awe, infinitely more deep and solemn than that which

the Scin-Laeca have cause in its early apparition, curdle through my

vein, and still the very beat of my heart.



at that moment I hear, without, the voice of Lilian, singe a simple,

sacred song which I have learn at my mother’s knee, and teach to she

the day before: singe low, and as with a warn angel’s voice. by an

irresistible impulse I dash the wand to the ground, and bow my head

as I have bow it when my infant mind comprehend, without an effort,

mystery more solemn than those which perplex I now. slowly I raise

my eye, and look round; the vaporous, hazy cloud have pass away, or

melt into the ambient rose-tint amidst which the sun have sink.



then, by one of those common reaction from a period of overstrain

excitement, there succeed to that sentiment of arrogance and dare

with which these wild, half-conscious invocation have be foster and

sustain, a profound humility, a warning fear.



“what!” say I, inly, “have all those sound resolution, which my reason

found on the wise talk of Julius Faber, melt away in the wrack of

haggard, dissolve fancy! be this my boasted intellect, my vaunted

science! I--I, Allen Fenwick, not only the credulous believer, but the

blunder practitioner, of an evil magic! Grant what may be possible,

however uncomprehended,--grant that in this accurse instrument of

antique superstition there be some real power--chemical, magnetic, no

matter what--by which the imagination can be arouse, inflame, delude,

so that it shape the thing I have see, speak in the tone I have

heard,--grant this, shall I keep ever ready, at the caprice of will, a

constant tempter to steal away my reason and fool my sense? or if,

on the other hand, I force my sense to admit what all sober man must

reject; if I unschool myself to believe that in what I have just

experience there be no mental illusion; that sorcery be a fact, and a

demon world have gate which open to a key that a mortal can forge,--who

but a saint would not shrink from the practice of power by which each

pass thought of ill might find in a fiend its abettor? in either

case--in any case--while I keep this direful relic of obsolete art, I

be haunted,--cheated out of my sense, unfit for the use of life.

if, as my ear or my fancy inform I, grief--human grief--be about to

befall I, shall I, in the sting of impatient sorrow, have recourse to

an aid which, the same voice declare, will reduce I to a tool and

a slave,--tool and slave to a be I dread as a foe? out on these

nightmare! and away with the thing that bewitch the brain to conceive

they!”



I rise; I take up the wand, hold it so that its hollow should not

rest on the palm of the hand. I steal from the house by the back way,

in order to avoid Lilian, whose voice I still hear, singe low, on

the lawn in front. I come to a creek, to the bank of which a boat

be moor, undo its chain, row on to a deep part of the lake, and

drop the wand into its wave. it sink at once; scarcely a ripple

furrow the surface, not a bubble arise from the deep. and, as the boat

glide on, the star mirror itself on the spot where the placid water

have close over the tempter to evil.



light at heart, I spring again on the shore, and hasten to Lilian,

where she stand on the silvered, shine sward, clasp she to my

breast.



“Spirit of my life!” I murmur, “no enchantment for I but thine!

Thine be the spell by which creation be beautify, and, in that

beauty, hallow. what though we can see not into the measureless future

from the verge of the moment; what though sorrow may smite we while we

be dream of bliss, let the future not rob I of thee, and a balm

will be find for each wound! love I ever as now, oh, my Lilian; troth

to troth, side by side, till the grave!”



“and beyond the grave,” answer Lilian, softly.













CHAPTER LXII.



our vow be exchange at the altar, the rite which make lilian my wife

be perform; we be return from the church amongst the hill, in

which my father have worship; the joy-bell that have peal for my

birth have ring for my marriage. lilian have go to her room to prepare

for our bridal excursion; while the carriage we have hire be wait

at the door. I be detain her mother on the lawn, seek to cheer and

compose her spirit, painfully affect by that sense of change in the

relation of child and parent which make itself suddenly feel by the

parent’s heart on the day that secure to the child another heart on

which to lean.



but Mrs. Ashleigh’s be one of those gentle womanly nature which, if

easily afflict, be easily console. and, already smile through her

tear, she be about to quit I and join her daughter, when one of the

inn-servant come to I with some letter, which have just be deliver

by the postman. as I take they from the servant, Mrs. Ashleigh ask if

there be any for she. she expect one from her housekeeper at L----,

who have be take ill in her absence, and about whom the kind mistress

feel anxious. the servant reply that there be no letter for she, but

one direct to Miss Ashleigh, which he have just send up to the young

lady.



Mrs. Ashleigh do not doubt that her housekeeper have write to

Lilian, whom she have know from the cradle and to whom she be tenderly

attach, instead of to her mistress; and, say something to I to

that effect, quicken her step towards the house.



I be glance over my own letter, chiefly from patient, with a rapid

eye, when a cry of agony, a cry as if of one suddenly stricken to the

heart, pierce my ear,--a cry from within the house. “Heavens! be that

Lilian’s voice?” the same doubt strike Mrs. Ashleigh, who have already

gain the door. she rush on, disappear within the threshold and

call to I to follow. I bound forward, pass she on the stair,

be in Lilian’s room before she.



my bride be on the floor prostrate, insensible: so still, so

colourless, that my first dreadful thought be that life have go. in

her hand be a letter, crush as with a convulsive sudden grasp.



it be long before the colour come back to her cheek, before the breath

be perceptible on her lip. she wake, but not to health, not to sense.

hour be pass in violent convulsion, in which I momentarily fear

her death. to these succeed stupor, lethargy, not benignant sleep.

that night, my bridal night, I pass as in some chamber to which I have

be summon to save youth from the grave. at length--at length--life

be rescue, be assure! life come back, but the mind be go. she

know I not, nor her mother. she speak little and faintly; in the word

she utter there be no reason.



I pass hurriedly on; my experience here be in fault, my skill

ineffectual. day follow day, and no ray come back to the darken

brain. we bear she, by gentle stage, to London. I be sanguine of good

result from skill more consummate than mine, and more especially devoted

to disease of the mind. I summon the first adviser. in vain! in

vain!













CHAPTER LXIII.



and the cause of this direful shock? not this time could it be trace

to some evil spell, some phantasmal influence. the cause be clear, and

might have produce effect as sinister on nerve of strong fibre if

accompany by a heart as delicately sensitive, an honour as exquisitely

pure.



the letter find in her hand be without name; it be date from L----,

and bear the postmark of that town. it convey to Lilian, in the bite

word which female malice can make so sharp, the tale we have seek

sedulously to guard from her ear,--her flight, the construction that

scandal put upon it. it affect for my blind infatuation a contemptuous

pity; it ask she to pause before she bring on the name I offer

to she an indelible disgrace. if she so decide, she be warn not to

return to L----, or to prepare there for the sentence that would exclude

she from the society of her own sex. I cannot repeat more, I cannot

minute down all that the letter express or imply, to wither the

orange blossom in a bride’s wreath. the heart that take in the venom

cast its poison on the brain, and the mind flee before the presence of

a thought so deadly to all the idea which its innocence have heretofore

conceive.



I know not whom to suspect of the malignity of this mean and miserable

outrage, nor do I much care to know. the handwriting, though evidently

disguise, be that of a woman, and, therefore, have I discover the

author, my manhood would have forbid I the idle solace of revenge.

Mrs. Poyntz, however resolute and pitiless her hostility when once

arouse, be not without a certain largeness of nature irreconcilable

with the most dastardly of all the weapon that envy or hatred can

supply to the vile. she have too lofty a self-esteem and too decorous a

regard for the moral sentiment of the world that she typify, to do,

or connive at, an act which degrade the gentlewoman. put she aside,

what other female enemy have Lilian provoke? no matter! what other woman

at L---- be worth the condescension of a conjecture?



after listen to all that the ablest of my professional brother

in the metropolis could suggest to guide I, and try in vain their

remedy, I bring back my charge to L----. retain my former

residence for the visit of patient, I engage, for the privacy of my

home, a house two mile from the town, seclude in its own ground, and

guard by high wall.



Lilian’s mother remove to my mournful dwelling-place. Abbot’s House, in

the centre of that tattling coterie, have become distasteful to she, and

to I it be associate with thought of anguish and of terror. I could

not, without a shudder, have enter its grounds,--could not, without a

stab at the heart, have see again the old fairy-land round the Monks’

well, nor the dark cedar-tree under which Lilian’s hand have be place

in mine; and a superstitious remembrance, banish while Lilian’s angel

face have brighten the fatal precinct, now revive in full force. the

die man’s curse--have it not be fulfil?



a new occupant for the old house be find within a week after Mrs.

Ashleigh have write from London to a house-agent at L----, intimate

her desire to dispose of the lease. shortly before we have go to

windermere, Miss Brabazon have become enrich by a liberal life-annuity

bequeath to she by her uncle, Sir Phelim. her mean thus enable she

to move from the comparatively humble lodging she have hitherto occupy

to Abbot’s House; but just as she have there commence a series of

ostentatious entertainment, imply an ambitious desire to dispute

with Mrs. Poyntz the sovereignty of the Hill, she be attack by some

severe malady which appear complicated with spinal disease, and after

my return to L---- I sometimes meet she, on the spacious platform of the

Hill, draw along slowly in a Bath chair, her livid face peer forth

from pile of indian shawl and siberian fur, and the gaunt figure

of Dr. Jones stalk by her side, taciturn and gloomy as some sincere

mourner who conduct to the grave the patron on whose life he himself

have conveniently live. it be in the dismal month of February that I

return to L----, and I take possession of my plighted nuptial home on

the anniversary of the very day in which I have pass through the dead

dumb world from the naturalist’s gloomy death-room.













CHAPTER LXIV.



Lilian’s wondrous gentleness of nature do not desert she in the

suspension of her reason. she be habitually calm,--very silent; when

she speak it be rarely on earthly thing, on thing familiar to she

past, thing one could comprehend. her thought seem to have quit

the earth, seek refuge in some imaginary heaven. she speak of

wandering with her father as if he be live still; she do not seem

to understand the meaning we attach to the word “death.” she would sit

for hour murmur to herself: when one seek to catch the word, they

seem in converse with invisible spirit. we find it cruel to disturb

she at such time, for if leave unmoleste, her face be serene,--more

serenely beautiful than I have see it even in our happy hour; but

when we call she back to the wreck of her real life, her eye become

troubled, restless, anxious, and she would sigh--oh, so heavily! at

time, if we do not seem to observe she, she would quietly resume she

once favourite accomplishments,--drawing, music. and in these her

young excellence be still apparent, only the drawing be strange and

fantastic: they have a resemblance to those with which the painter Blake,

himself a visionary, illustrate the Poems of the “Night Thoughts” and

“the Grave,”--faces of exquisite loveliness, form of aerial grace,

come forth from the bell of flower, or float upwards amidst

the spray of fountain, their outline melt away in fountain or in

flower. so with her music: her mother could not recognize the air she

play, for a while so sweetly and with so ineffable a pathos, that

one could scarcely hear she without weeping; and then would come, as

if involuntarily, an abrupt discord, and, start, she would cease and

look around, disquiet, aghast.



and still she do not recognize Mrs. Ashleigh nor myself as her mother,

her husband; but she have by degree learn to distinguish we both from

other. to her mother she give no name, seem pleased to see she, but

not sensibly to miss she when away; I she call she brother: if long

absent than usual, I she miss. when, after the toil of the day, I

come to join she, even if she speak not, her sweet face brighten. when

she sing, she beckon I to come near to she, and look at I fixedly,

with eye ever tender, often tearful; when she draw she would pause and

glance over her shoulder to see that I be watch she, and point to

the drawing with a smile of strange significance, as if they convey

in some covert allegory message mean for I; so, at least, I

interpret her smile, and teach myself to say, “yes, Lilian, I

understand!”



and more than once, when I have so answer, she rise, and kiss

my forehead. I think my heart would have break when I feel that

spirit-like melancholy kiss.



and yet how marvellously the human mind teach itself to extract

consolation from its sorrow. the least wretched of my hour be

those that I have pass in that sadden room, seek how to establish

fragment of intercourse, invent sign, by which each might interpret

each, between the intellect I have so laboriously cultured, so arrogantly

vaunted, and the fancy wander through the dark, deprive of their

guide in reason. it be something even of joy to feel myself need for

her guardianship, endear and yearn for still by some unshattered

instinct of her heart; and when, part from she for the night, I stole

the moment in which on her soft face seem rest least of shadow, to

ask, in a trembling whisper, “Lilian, be the angel watch over

you?” and she would answer “yes,” sometimes in word, sometimes with a

mysterious happy smile--then--then I go to my lonely room, comfort

and thankful.













CHAPTER LXV.



the blow that have fall on my hearth effectually, inevitably kill

all the slander that might have trouble I in joy. before the awe of a

great calamity the small passion of a mean malignity slink abash. I

have request Mrs. Ashleigh not to mention the vile letter which Lilian

have receive. I would not give a triumph to the unknown calumniator, nor

wring forth her vain remorse, by the pain of acknowledge an indignity

to my darling’s honour; yet, somehow or other, the true cause of

Lilian’s affliction have creep out,--perhaps through the talk of

servants,--and the public shock be universal. by one of those instinct

of justice that lie deep in human heart, though in ordinary moment

overlay by many a worldly layer, all feel (all mother feel especially)

that innocence alone could have be so unprepared for reproach. the

explanation I have previously give, discredit then, be now accept

without a question. Lilian’s present state account for all that ill

nature have before misconstrue. her good name be restore to its maiden

whiteness, by the fate that have sever the tie of the bride. the

formal dweller on the Hill vie with the franker, warmer-hearte

household of Low Town in the nameless attention by which sympathy and

respect be rather delicately indicate than noisily proclaim. could

Lilian have then recover and be sensible of its repentant homage,

how reverently that petty world would have throng around she! and, ah!

could fortune and man’s esteem have atone for the blight of hope that

have be plant and cherish on ground beyond their reach, ambition

and pride might have be well content with the largeness of the

exchange that court their acceptance. patient on patient crowd on

I. Sympathy with my sorrow seem to create and endear a more trustful

belief in my skill. but the profession I have once so enthusiastically

love become to I wearisome, insipid, distasteful; the kindness heap

on I give no comfort,--it but bring before I more vividly the

conviction that it come too late to avail I: it could not restore to I

the mind, the love, the life of my life, which lie dark and shatter in

the brain of my guileless Lilian. secretly I feel a sullen resentment.

I know that to the crowd the resentment be unjust. the world itself be

but an appearance; who can blame it if appearance guide its law? but

to those who have be detach from the crowd by the profession of

friendship,--those who, when the slander be yet new, and might have

be awe into silence have they stand by my side,--to the pressure of

their hand, now, I have no response.



against Mrs. Poyntz, above all other, I bear a remembrance of

unrelaxed, unmitigable indignation. her scheme for her daughter’s

marriage have triumph: Jane be Mrs. Ashleigh Sumner. her mind be,

perhaps, soften now that the object which have sharpen its worldly

faculty be accomplish: but in vain, on first hearing of my

affliction, have this she-Machiavel own a humane remorse, and, with all

her keen comprehension of each facility that circumstance give to

she will, avail herself of the general compassion to strengthen the

popular reaction in favour of Lilian’s assaulted honour; in vain have

she write to I with a gentleness of sympathy foreign to her habitual

characteristic; in vain besought I to call on she; in vain waylay

and accost I with a humility that almost implore forgiveness. I

vouchsafe no reproach, but I could imply no pardon. I put between she

and my great sorrow the impenetrable wall of my freezing silence.



one word of hers at the time that I have so pathetically besought she

aid, and the parrot-flock that repeat she very whisper in noisy

shrillness would have be as loud to defend as it have be to defame;

that vile letter might never have be write. whoever its writer, it

surely be one of the babbler who take their malice itself from the

jest or the nod of their female despot; and the writer might have

justify herself in say she do but coarsely proclaim what the

oracle of worldly opinion, and the early friend of Lilian’s own mother,

have authorize she to believe.



by degree, the bitterness at my heart diffuse itself to the

circumference of the circle in which my life go its cheerless

mechanical round. that cordial brotherhood with his patient, which be

the true physician’s happy gift and human duty, forsook my

breast. the warning word of Mrs. Poyntz have come true. a patient that

monopolize my thought await I at my own hearth! my conscience become

troubled; I feel that my skill be lessen. I say to myself, “the

physician who, on enter the sick-room, feel, while there, something

that distract the fine power of his intellect from the sufferer’s

case be unfit for his calling.” a year have scarcely pass since my

fatal wedding day, before I have form a resolution to quit L---- and

abandon my profession; and my resolution be confirm, and my goal

determine, by a letter I receive from Julius Faber.



I have write at length to he, not many day after the blow that have

fall on I, state all circumstance as calmly and clearly as my

grief would allow; for I hold his skill at a high estimate than that

of any live brother of my art, and I be not without hope in the

efficacy of his advice. the letter I now receive from he have be

begin, and continue at some length, before my communication reach

he; and this early portion contain animate and cheerful

description of his australian life and home, which contrast with the

sorrowful tone of the supplement write in reply to the tiding with

which I have wring his friendly and tender heart. in this, the latter

part of his letter, he suggest that if time have work no material

change for the well, it might be advisable to try the effect of

foreign travel. scene entirely new might stimulate observation, and

the observation of thing external withdraw the sense from that brooding

over image delusively form within, which characterize the kind of

mental alienation I have describe. “let any intellect create for itself

a visionary world, and all reasoning build on it be fallacious: the

visionary world vanish in proportion as we can arouse a predominant

interest in the actual.”



this grand authority, who owe half his consummate skill as a

practitioner to the scope of his knowledge as a philosopher, then

proceed to give I a hope which I have not dare of myself to form. he

said:--





   “I distinguish the case you so minutely detail from that insanity which

    be reason lose; here it seem rather to be reason hold in suspense.

    where there be hereditary predisposition, where there be organic

    change of structure in the brain,--nay, where there be that kind of

    insanity which take the epithet of moral, whereby the whole

    character become so transform that the prime element of sound

    understanding, conscience itself, be either erase or warp into the

    sanction of what in a healthful state it would most disapprove,--it be

    only charlatan who promise effectual cure.  but here I assume that

    there be no hereditary taint; here I be convince, from my own

    observation, that the nobility of the organ, all fresh as yet in the

    vigour of youth, would rather submit to death than to the permanent

    overthrow of their equilibrium in reason; here, where you tell I the

    character preserve all its moral attribute of gentleness and purity,

    and but over-indulge its own early habit of estranged contemplation;

    here, without deceive you in false kindness, I give you the

    guarantee of my experience when I bid you ‘hope!’  I be persuade

    that, soon or later, the mind, thus for a time affect, will right

    itself; because here, in the cause of the malady, we do but deal with

    the nervous system.  and that, once right, and the mind once

    discipline in those practical duty which conjugal life

    necessitate, the malady itself will never return; never be

    transmit to the child on whom your wife’s restoration to health

    may permit you to count hereafter.  if the course of travel I

    recommend and the prescription I conjoin with that course fail you,

    let I know; and though I would fain close my day in this land, I

    will come to you.  I love you as my son.  I will tend your wife as my

    daughter.”



foreign travel! the idea smile on I. Julius Faber’s companionship,

sympathy, matchless skill! the very thought seem as a raft to a

drown mariner. I now read more attentively the early portion of

his letter. they describe, in glow colour, the wondrous country in

which he have fix his home; the joyous elasticity of its atmosphere;

the freshness of its primitive, pastoral life; the strangeness of its

scenery, with a Flora and a Fauna which have no similitude in the

ransack quarter of the Old World. and the strong impulse seize I to

transfer to the solitude of that blithesome and hardy nature a spirit

no long at home in the civilized haunt of man, and household god

that shrink from all social eye, and would fain have find a wilderness

for the desolate hearth, on which they have cease to be sacred if

unveil. as if to give practical excuse and reason for the idea that

seize I, Julius Faber mention, incidentally, that the house and

property of a wealthy speculator in his immediate neighbourhood be on

sale at a price which seem to I alluringly trivial, and, accord to

his judgment, far below the value they would soon reach in the hand of

a more patient capitalist. he write at the period of the agricultural

panic in the colony which precede the discovery of its early

gold-field. but his geological science have convince he that strata

within and around the property now for sale be auriferous, and

his intelligence enable he to predict how inevitably man would be

attract towards the gold, and how surely the gold would fertilize the

soil and enrich its owner. he describe the house thus to be sell--in

case I might know of a purchaser. it have be build at a cost unusual

in those early time, and by one who cling to English taste amidst

australian wild, so that in this purchase a settler would escape the

hardship he have then ordinarily to encounter; it be, in short, a home

to which a man more luxurious than I might bear a bride with want less

simple than those which now suffice for my darling Lilian.



this communication dwelt on my mind through the avocation of the day

on which I receive it, and in the evening I read all, except the

supplement, aloud to Mrs. Ashleigh in her daughter’s presence. I desire

to see if Faber’s description of the country and its life, which in

themselves be extremely spirited and striking, would arouse Lilian’s

interest. at first she do not seem to heed I while I read; but when

I come to Faber’s love account of little Amy, Lilian turn her eye

towards I, and evidently listen with attention. he write how the

child have already become the most useful person in the simple household.

how watchful the quickness of the heart have make the service of the eye;

all their association of comfort have grow round her active, noiseless

movement; it be she who have contrive to monopolize the management,

or supervision, of all that add to home the nameless, interior charm.

under her eye the rude furniture of the log-house grew invite with

english neatness; she take charge of the dairy; she have make the garden

gay with flower select from the wild, and suggest the trellis

walk, already cover with hardy vine. she be their confidant in every

plan of improvement, their comforter in every anxious doubt, their nurse

in every pass ailment, her very smile a refreshment in the weariness

of daily toil. “how all that be good in womanhood,” write the old man,

with the enthusiasm which no time have reft from his hearty, healthful

genius,--“how all that be good in womanhood be here open fast into

flower from the bud of the infant’s soul! the atmosphere seem to suit

it,--the child-woman in the child-world!”



I hear lilian sigh; I look towards she furtively; tear stand in she

soften eye; her lip be quiver. presently, she begin to rub she

right hand over the left--over the wedding-ring--at first slowly; then

with quick movement.



“it be not here,” she say impatiently; “it be not here!”



“what be not here?” ask Mrs. Ashleigh, hang over she.



Lilian lean back her head on her mother’s bosom, and answer

faintly,--



“the stain! some one say there be a stain on this hand. I do not see

it, do you?”



“there be no stain, never be,” say I; “the hand be white as your own

innocence, or the lily from which you take your name.”



“Hush! you do not know my name. I will whisper it. Soft!--my name be

Nightshade! do you want to know where the lily be now, brother? I will

tell you. there, in that letter. you call she Amy,--she be the

lily; take she to your breast, hide she. hist! what be those bell?

marriage-bell. do not let she hear they; for there be a cruel wind that

whisper the bell, and the bell ring out what it whisper, loud and

loud,





“‘stain on lily Shame on lily,  Wither lily.’



“if she hear what the wind whisper to the bell, she will creep away

into the dark, and then she, too, will turn to Nightshade.”



“lilian, look up, awake! you have be in a long, long dream: it be

pass away. Lilian, my beloved, my bless Lilian!”



never till then have I hear from she even so vague an allusion to the

fatal calumny and its dreadful effect, and while her word now pierce

my heart, it beat, amongst its pang, with a thrilling hope.



but, alas! the idea that have gleam upon she have vanish already. she

murmur something about Circles of Fire, and a Veiled Woman in black

garment; become restless, agitated, and unconscious of our presence,

and finally sink into a heavy sleep.



that night (my room be next to hers with the intervene door open)

I hear she cry out. I hasten to her side. she be still asleep, but

there be an anxious labour expression on her young face, and yet

not an expression wholly of pain--for her lip be part with a

smile,--that glad yet troubled smile with which one who have be

revolve some subject of perplexity or fear greet a sudden thought

that seem to solve the riddle, or prompt the escape from danger; and

as I softly take her hand she return my gentle pressure, and incline

towards I, say, still in sleep,--



“let we go.”



“Whither?” I answer, under my breath, so as not to awake she; “be it

to see the child of whom I read, and the land that be bloom out of

the earth’s childhood?”



“out of the dark into the light; where the leave do not change; where

the night be our day, and the winter our summer. let we go! let we go!”



“we will go. dream on undisturbed, my bride. oh, that the dream could

tell you that my love have not change in our sorrow, holy and deep

than on the day in which our vow be exchange! in you still all my

hope fold their wing; where you be, there still I myself have my

dreamland!”



the sweet face grow bright as I speak; all trouble leave the smile;

softly she draw her hand from my clasp, and rest it for a moment on my

bended head, as if in blessing.



I rise; stole back to my own room, close the door, lest the sob I

could not stifle should mar her sleep.













CHAPTER LXVI.



I unfold my new prospect to Mrs. Ashleigh. she be more easily

reconcile to they than I could have suppose, judge by her habit,

which be naturally indolent, and averse to all that disturb their

even tenor. but the great grief which have befall she have rouse up

that strength of devotion which lie dormant in all heart that be

capable of love another more than self. with her full consent I write

to Faber, communicate my intention, instruct he to purchase the

property he have so commend, and inclose my banker’s order for the

amount, on an australian firm. I now announce my intention to retire

from my profession; make prompt arrangement with a successor to my

practice; dispose of my two house at L----; fix the day of my

departure. Vanity be dead within I, or I might have be gratify by

the sensation which the news of my design create. my fault become at

once forget; such good quality as I might possess be exaggerated.

the public regret vent and console itself in a costly testimonial,

to which even the poor of my patient insist on the privilege to

contribute, grace with an inscription flatter enough to have serve

for the epitaph on some great man’s tomb. no one who have serve an art

and striven for a name be a stoic to the esteem of other; and sweet

indeed would such honour have be to I have not publicity itself

seem a wrong to the sanctity of that affliction which set lilian apart

from the movement and the glory of the world.



the two person most active in “get up” this testimonial be,

nominally, Colonel Poyntz--in truth, his wife--and my old disparager,

Mr. Vigors! it be long since my narrative have refer to Mr. Vigors. it

be due to he now to state that, in his capacity of magistrate, and in

his own way, he have be both active and delicate in the inquiry set

on foot for Lilian during the unhappy time in which she have wander,

spellbound, from her home. he, alone, of all the more influential

magnate of the town, have uphold her innocence against the gossip that

asperse it; and during the last try year of my residence at L----,

he have seek I, with frank and manly confession of his regret for his

former prejudice against I, and assurance of the respect in which he

have hold I ever since my marriage--marriage but in rite--with Lilian.

he have then, strong in his rule passion, besought I to consult his

clairvoyant as to her case. I decline this invitation so as not to

affront him,--declined it, not as I should once have do, but with no

word nor look of incredulous disdain. the fact be, that I have conceive

a solemn terror of all practice and theory out of the beat track of

sense and science. perhaps in my refusal I do wrong. I know not. I be

afraid of my own imagination. he continue not less friendly in spite

of my refusal. and, such be the vicissitude in human feeling, I

part from he whom I have regard as my most bigote foe with a warmer

sentiment of kindness than for any of those on whom I have count on

friendship. he have not desert Lilian. it be not so with Mrs. Poyntz.

I would have pay tenfold the value of the testimonial to have erase,

from the list of those who subscribe to it, her husband’s name.



the day before I quit L----, and some week after I have, in fact,

renounce my practice, I receive an urgent entreaty from Miss Brabazon

to call on she. she write in line so blur that I could with

difficulty decipher they, that she be very ill, give over by Dr.

Jones, who have be attend she. she implore my opinion.













CHAPTER LXVII.



on reach the house, a formal man-servant, with indifferent face,

transfer I to the guidance of a hire nurse, who lead I up the

stair, and, before I be well aware of it, into the room in which Dr.

Lloyd have die. widely different, indeed, the aspect of the wall, the

character of the furniture! the dingy paperhanging be replace by

airy muslin, show a rose-colour ground through their fanciful

openwork; luxurious fauteuil, gild wardrobe, full-length mirror, a

toilet-table trick out with lace and ribbon; and glitter with an

array of silver gewgaw and jewel trinkets,--all transform the sick

chamber of the simple man of science to a boudoir of death for the vain

coquette. but the room itself, in its high lattice and heavy ceiling,

be the same--as the coffin itself have the same confine, whether it be

rich in velvet and bright with blazoning, or rude as a pauper’s shell.



and the bed, with its silken coverlet, and its pillow edge with the

thread-work of Louvain, stand in the same sharp angle as that over which

have flicker the frown smoke-reek above the dying, resentful foe.

as I approach, a man, who be seat beside the sufferer, turn round

his face, and give I a silent kindly nod of recognition. he be Mr.

C----, one of the clergy of the town, the one with whom I have the most

frequently come into contact wherever the physician resign to the

priest the language that bid man hope. Mr. C-----, as a preacher,

be renowned for his touching eloquence; as a pastor, revere for his

benignant piety; as friend and neighbour, belove for a sweetness of

nature which seem to regulate all the movement of a mind eminently

masculine by the beat of a heart tender as the gentle woman’s.



this good man; then whisper something to the sufferer which I do

not overhear, steal towards I, take I by the hand, and say, also in

a whisper, “be merciful as Christians be.” he lead I to the bedside,

there leave I, go out, and close the door.



“do you think I be really die, Dr. Fenwick?” say a feeble voice. “I

fear Dr. Jones have misunderstand my case. I wish I have call you in at

the first, but--but I could not--I could not! will you feel my pulse?

don’t you think you could do I good?”



I have no need to feel the pulse in that skeleton wrist; the aspect of

the face suffice to tell I that death be draw near.



mechanically, however, I go through the hackneyed formulae of

professional question. this vain ceremony do, as gently and

delicately as I could, I imply the expediency of concluding, if not

yet settle, those affair which relate to this world.



“this duty,” I say, “in relieve the mind from care for other to whom

we owe the forethought of affection, often relieve the body also

of many a gnawing pain, and sometimes, to the surprise of the most

experienced physician, prolong life itself.”



“ah,” say the old maid, peevishly, “I understand! but it be not my will

that trouble I. I should not be leave to a nurse from a hospital if my

relation do not know that my annuity die with I; and I forestall

it in furnish this house, Dr. Fenwick, and all these pretty thing

will be sell to pay those horrid tradesmen!--very hard!--so hard!--just

as I get thing about I in the way I always say I would have they if

I could ever afford it! I always say I would have my bedroom hung

with muslin, like dear Lady L----‘s; and the drawing-room in

geranium-colour silk: so pretty. you have not see it: you would not

know the house, Dr. Fenwick. and just when all be finish, to be take

away and thrust into the grave. it be so cruel!” and she begin to weep.

her emotion bring on a violent paroxysm, which, when she recover

from it, have produce one of those startling change of mind that be

sometimes witness before death,--changes whereby the whole character

of a life seem to undergo solemn transformation. the hard will become

gentle, the proud meek, the frivolous earnest. that awful moment when

the thing of earth pass away like dissolve scene, leave death

visible on the background by the glare that shoot up in the last

flicker of life’s lamp.



and when she lift she haggard face from my shoulder, and hear my

pitying, soothe voice, it be not the grief of a trifl at the loss

of fondle toy that speak in the fall line of her lip, in the woe of

her plead eye.



“so this be death,” she say. “I feel it hurry on. I must speak.

I promise Mr. C---- that I would. forgive I, can you--can you? that

letter--that letter to lilian Ashleigh, I write it! oh, do not look

at I so terribly; I never think it could do such evil! and be I not

punish enough? I truly believe when I write that Miss Ashleigh be

deceive you, and once I be silly enough to fancy that you might have

like I. but I have another motive; I have be so poor all my life--I

have become rich unexpectedly; I set my heart on this house--I have always

fancy it--and I think if I could prevent Miss Ashleigh marry you,

and scare she and her mother from come back to L----, I could get the

house. and I do get it. what for?--to die. I have not be here a

week before I get the hurt that be kill I--a fall down the

stairs,--coming out of this very room; the stair have be polish. if

I have stay in my old lodging, it would not have happen. oh, say you

forgive I! say, say it, even if you do not feel you can! say it!” and

the miserable woman grasp I by the arm as Dr. Lloyd have grasp I.



I shade my avert face with my hand; my heart heave with the agony

of my suppress passion. a wrong, however deep, only to myself, I could

have pardon without effort; such a wrong to Lilian,--no! I could not

say “I forgive.”



the die wretch be perhaps more appalled by my silence than she would

have be by my reproach. her voice grow shrill in her despair.



“you will not pardon I! I shall die with your curse on my head! mercy!

mercy! that good man, Mr. C----, assure I you would be merciful. have

you never wrong another? have the Evil One never tempt you?”



then I speak in broken accent: “I! oh, have it be I whom you

defame--but a young creature so harmless, so unoffending, and for so

miserable a motive!”



“but I tell you, I swear to you, I never dream I could cause such

sorrow; and that young man, that Margrave, put it into my head!”



“Margrave! he have leave L---- long before that letter be write!”



“but he come back for a day just before I write: it be the very day.

I meet he in the lane yonder. he ask after you,--after Miss Ashleigh;

and when he speak he laugh, and I say, ‘Miss Ashleigh have be ill,

and be go away;’ and he laugh again. and I think he know more

than he would tell I, so I ask he if he suppose Mrs. Ashleigh would

come back, and say how much I should like to take this house if she do

not; and again he laugh, and say, ‘bird never stay in the nest after

the young one be hurt,’ and go away singing. when I get home, his

laugh and his song haunt I. I think I see he still in my room,

prompt I to write, and I sit down and write. oh, pardon, pardon I!

I have be a foolish poor creature, but never mean to do such harm.

the Evil One tempt I! there he be, near I now! I see he yonder!

there, at the doorway. he come to claim I! as you hope for mercy

yourself, free I from he! forgive I!”



I make an effort over myself. in name Margrave as her tempter, the

woman have suggest an excuse, echo from that innermost cell of my

mind, which I recoil from gaze into, for there I should behold his

image. inexpiable though the injury she have work against I and mine,

still the woman be human--fellow-creature-like myself;--but he?



I take the pale hand that still press my arm, and say, with firm

voice,--



“be comfort. in the name of Lilian, my wife, I forgive you for she and

for I as freely and as fully as we be enjoin by he, against whose

precept the good of we daily sin, to forgive--we child of wrath--to

forgive one another!”



“Heaven bless you!--oh, bless you!” she murmur, sink back upon she

pillow.



“ah!” think I, “what if the pardon I grant for a wrong far deep than

I inflict on he whose imprecation smite I in this chamber, should

indeed be receive as atonement, and this blessing on the lip of the

die annul the dark curse that the dead have leave on my path through the

Valley of the Shadow!”



I leave my patient sleep quietly,--the sleep that precede the last.

as I go down the stair into the hall, I see Mrs. Poyntz stand at

the threshold, speak to the man-servant and the nurse.



I would have pass she with a formal bow, but she stop I.



“I come to inquire after poor Miss Brabazon,” say she.



“you can tell I more than the servant can: be there no hope?”



“let the nurse go up and watch beside she. she may pass away in the

sleep into which she have fall.”



“Allen Fenwick, I must speak with you--nay, but for a few minute. I

hear that you leave L---- to-morrow. it be scarcely among the chance

of life that we should meet again.” while thus say, she draw I along

the lawn down the path that lead towards her own home. “I wish,” say

she, earnestly, “that you could part with a kindlier feeling towards I;

but I can scarcely expect it. could I put myself in your place, and be

move by your feeling, I know that I should be implacable; but I--”



“but you, madam, be the World! and the World govern itself, and

dictate to other, by law which seem harsh to those who ask from its

favour the service which the World cannot tender, for the World admit

favourite, but ignore friend. you do but act to I as the World ever

act to those who mistake its favour for its friendship.”



“it be true,” say Mrs. Poyntz, with blunt candour; and we continue to

walk on silently. at length she say abruptly, “but do you not rashly

deprive yourself of your only consolation in sorrow? when the heart

suffer, do your skill admit any remedy like occupation to the mind?

yet you abandon that occupation to which your mind be most accustom;

you desert your career; you turn aside, in the midst of the race, from

the fame which await at the goal; you go back from civilization itself,

and dream that all your intellectual craving can find content in the

life of a herdsman, amidst the monotony of a wild! no, you will repent,

for you be untrue to your mind!”



“I be sick of the word ‘mind’!” say I, bitterly. and therewith I

relapse into musing.



the enigma which have foil my intelligence in the unravelled Sibyl

Book of Nature be mystery strange to every man’s normal practice

of thought, even if reducible to the fraudulent impression of outward

sense; for illusion in a brain otherwise healthy suggest problem in

our human organization which the college that record they rather guess

at than solve. but the blow which have shatter my life have be deal

by the hand of a fool. here, there be no mystic enchantment. motive

the most commonplace and paltry, suggest to a brain as trivial and

shallow as ever make the frivolity of woman a theme for the satire of

poet, have suffice, in devastate the field of my affection, to blast

the use for which I have culture my mind; and have my intellect be as

great as heaven ever give to man, it would have be as vain a shield as

mine against the shaft that have lodge in my heart. while I have, indeed,

be prepare my reason and my fortitude to meet such peril, weird and

marvellous, as those by which tale round the winter fireside scare the

credulous child, a contrivance--so vulgar and hackneye that not a day

pass but what some hearth be vex by an anonymous libel--have

work a calamity more dread than aught which my dark guess into the

Shadow-Land unpierced by Philosophy could trace to the prompting of

malignant witchcraft. so, ever this truth run through all legend of

ghost and demon--through the uniform record of what wonder accredit

and science reject as the supernatural--lo! the dread machinery whose

wheel roll through Hades! what need such awful engine for such mean

result? the first blockhead we meet in our walk to our grocer’s can

tell we more than the ghost tell we; the poor envy we ever arouse

hurt we more than the demon. how true an interpreter be Genius to Hell

as to Earth! the Fiend come to Faust, the tired seeker of knowledge;

Heaven and Hell stake their cause in the Mortal’s temptation. and what

do the Fiend to astonish the Mortal? turn wine into fire, turn love

into crime. we need no Mephistopheles to accomplish these marvel every

day!



thus silently thinking, I walk by the side of the world-wise woman;

and when she next speak, I look up, and see that we be at the monk’

well, where I have first see Lilian gaze into heaven!



Mrs. Poyntz have, as we walk, place her hand on my arm; and, turn

abruptly from the path into the glade, I find myself stand by she

side in the scene where a new sense of be have first disclose to my

sight the hue with which love, the passionate beautifier, turn into

purple and gold the gray of the common air. thus, when romance have end

in sorrow, and the Beautiful fade from the landscape, the trite and

positive form of life, banish for a time, reappear, and deepen our

mournful remembrance of the glory they replace. and the Woman of the

World, find how little I be induce to respond to she when she

have talk of myself, begin to speak, in her habitual clear, ring

accent, of her own social scheme and devices,--



“I shall miss you when you be go, Allen Fenwick; for though, during

the last year or so, all actual intercourse between we have cease,

yet my interest in you give some occupation to my thought when I sit

alone,--having lose my main object of ambition in settle my daughter,

and have no long any one in the house with whom I could talk of the

future, or for whom I could form a project. it be so wearisome to count

the change which pass within we, that we take interest in the change

that pass without. Poyntz still have his weather-glass; I have no long

my jane.”



“I cannot linger with you on this spot,” say I, impatiently turn

back into the path; she follow, tread over fall leave. and

unheede my interruption, she thus continue her hard talk,--



“but I be not sick of my mind, as you seem to be of your; I be only

somewhat tired of the little cage in which, since it have be alone, it

ruffle its plume against the flimsy wire that confine it from wide

space. I shall take up my home for a time with the new-married couple:

they want I. Ashleigh Sumner have come into parliament. he mean to

attend regularly and work hard, but he do not like Jane to go into

the world by herself, and he wish she to go into the world, because he

want a wife to display his wealth for the improvement of his position.

in Ashleigh Sumner’s house I shall have ample scope for my energy,

such as they be. I have a curiosity to see the few that perch on the

wheel of the state and say, ‘it be we who move the wheel!’ it will

amuse I to learn if I can maintain in a capital the authority I

have win in a country town; if not, I can but return to my small

principality. wherever I live I must sway, not serve. if I succeed--as I

ought, for in Jane’s beauty and Ashleigh’s fortune I have material

for the woof of ambition, want which here, I fall asleep over my

knitting--if I succeed, there will be enough to occupy the rest of my

life. Ashleigh Sumner must be a power; the power will be represent and

enjoy by my child, and create and maintain by I! Allen Fenwick,

do as I do. be world with the world, and it will only be in moment of

spleen and chagrin that you will sigh to think that the heart may be

void when the mind be full. Confess you envy I while you listen.”



“not so; all that to you seem so great appear to I so small! nature

alone be always grand, in her terror as well as her charm. the world

for you, Nature for I. farewell!”



“nature!” say Mrs. Poyntz, compassionately. “Poor Allen Fenwick! nature

indeed,--intellectual suicide! Nay, shake hand, then, if for the last

time.”



so we shake hand and part, where the wicket-gate and the stone stair

separate my blighted fairy-land from the common thoroughfare.













CHAPTER LXVIII.



that night as I be employ in collect the book and manuscript

which I propose to take with I, include my long-suspend

physiological work, and such standard authority as I might want to

consult or refer to in the portion yet incomplete, my servant enter

to inform I, in answer to the inquiry I have send he to make, that

Miss Brabazon have peacefully breathe she last an hour before. well!

my pardon have perhaps soothe she last moment; but how unavaile her

death-bed repentance to undo the wrong she have do!



I turn from that thought, and, glance at the work into which I

have throw all my learning, methodize into system with all my art, I

recall the pity which Mrs. Poyntz have express for my meditate waste

of mind. the tone of superiority which this incarnation of common-sense

accompany by uncommon will assume over all that be too deep or too

high for her comprehension have sometimes amuse I; think over it

now, it pique. I say to myself, “after all, I shall bear with I such

solace as intellectual occupation can afford. I shall have leisure to

complete this labour; and a record that I have live and think may

outlast all the honour which worldly ambition may bestow upon Ashleigh

Summer!” and, as I so murmur, my hand, mechanically select the

book I need, fall on the Bible that Julius Faber have give to I.



it open at the Second Book of Esdras, which our church place amongst

the Apocrypha, and be generally consider by scholar to have be

write in the first or second century of the Christian era,(1)--but in

which the question raise by man in the remotest age, to which we can

trace back his desire “to comprehend the way of the most high,” be

invest with a grandeur of thought and sublimity of word to which I

know of no parallel in writer we call profane.



my eye fall on this passage in the lofty argument between the Angel

whose name be Uriel, and the Prophet, perplex by his own craving for

knowledge:--





   “he (the Angel) answer I, and say, I go into a forest, into a

    plain, and the tree take counsel,



   “and say, Come, let we go and make war against the sea, that it may

    depart away before we, and that we may make we more wood.



   “the flood of the sea also in like manner take counsel, and say,

    come, let we go up and subdue the wood of the plain, that there also

    we may make we another country.



   “the thought of the wood be in vain, for the fire come and consume it.



   “the thought of the flood of the sea come likewise to nought, for the

    sand stand up and stop they.



   “if thou wert judge now betwixt these two, whom wouldst thou begin to

    justify; or whom wouldst thou condemn?



   “I answer and say, verily it be a foolish thought that they both

    have devise; for the ground be give unto the wood, and the sea also

    hath his place to bear his flood.



   “then answer he I, and say, Thou hast give a right judgment; but

    why judgest thou not thyself also?



   “for like as the ground be give unto the wood, and the sea to his

    flood, even so they that dwell upon the earth may understand nothing

    but that which be upon the earth; and he that dwelleth above the

    heaven may only understand the thing that be above the height of

    the heaven.”



I pause at those word, and, close the Sacred Volume, fall into deep,

unquiet thought.



(1) such be the supposition of Jahn. Dr. Lee, however, be of opinion

that the author be contemporary, and, indeed, identical, with the

author of the Book of Enoch.













CHAPTER LXIX.



I have hope that the voyage would produce some beneficial effect upon

Lilian; but no effect, good or bad, be perceptible, except, perhaps,

a deep silence, a gentle calm. she love to sit on the deck when the

night be fair, and the star mirror on the deep. and once thus, as

I stand beside she, bend over the rail of the vessel, and gaze on

the long wake of light which the moon make amidst the darkness of an

ocean to which no shore could be see, I say to myself, “where be

my track of light through the measureless future? would that I could

believe as I do when a child! woe be I, that all the reasoning I take

from my knowledge should lead I away from the comfort which the peasant

who mourn find in faith! why should riddle so dark have be thrust

upon me,--me, no fond child of fancy; I, sober pupil of school the

severest? yet what marvel--the strange my sense have witness or

feign in the fraud they have palm on I--be great than that

by which a simple affection, that all man profess to have know, have

change the course of life prearrange by my hope and confirm by my

judgment? how calmly before I know love I have anatomize its mechanism,

as the tyro who dissect the web-work of tissue and nerve in the dead!

Lo! it live, live in I; and, in living, escape from my scalpel, and

mock all my knowledge. can love be reduce to the realm of the sense?

no; what nun be more bar by her grate from the realm of the sense

than my bride by her solemn affliction? be love, then, the union of

kindre, harmonious mind? no, my beloved one sit by my side, and I

guess not her thought, and my mind be to she a sealed fountain. yet I

love she more--oh, ineffably more!--for the doom which destroy the two

cause philosophy assign to love--in the form, in the mind! how can I

now, in my vain physiology, say what be love, what be not? be it love

which must tell I that man have a soul, and that in soul will be find

the solution of problem never to be solve in body or mind alone?”



my self-questioning halt here as Lilian’s hand touch my shoulder.

she have rise from her seat, and have come to I.



“be not the star very far from earth?” she say.



“very far.”



“be they see for the first time to-night?”



“they be see, I presume, as we see they, by the father of all human

race!”



“yet close below we they shine reflect in the water; and yet, see,

wave flow on wave before we can count it!”



“Lilian, by what sympathy do you read and answer my thought?”



her reply be incoherent and meaningless. if a gleam of intelligence have

mysteriously light my heart to her view, it be go. but draw she

nearer towards I, my eye long follow wistfully the path of light,

divide the darkness on either hand, till it close in the sloping

horizon.













CHAPTER LXX.



the voyage be over. at the seaport at which we land I find a letter

from Faber. my instruction have reach he in time to effect the

purchase on which his description have fix my desire. the stock, the

implement of husbandry, the furniture of the house, be include in

the purchase. all be prepared for my arrival, and I hasten from

the then miserable village, which may some day rise into one of the

mighty capital of the world, to my lodge in the wilderness.



it be the burst of the australian spring, which commence in our autumn

month of October. the air be load with the perfume of the acacias.

amidst the glade of the open forest land, or climb the craggy bank

of wind silvery creeks,(1) creeper and flower of dazzle hue

contrast the olive-green of the surround foliage. the exhilarate

effect of the climate in that season heighten the charm of the

strange scenery. in the brilliancy of the sky, in the lightness of the

atmosphere, the sense of life be wondrously quicken. with the very

breath the Adventurer draw in from the racy air, he feel as if

inhale hope.



we have reach our home, we be settle in it; the early unfamiliar

impression be wear away. we have learn to dispense with much that we

at first miss, and be reconcile to much that at first disappoint

or displeased.



the house be build but of log; the late proprietor have commence, upon

a rise ground, a mile distant, a more impose edifice of stone, but

it be not half finish.



this log-house be commodious, and much have be do, within and

without, to conceal or adorn its primitive rudeness. it be of irregular,

picturesque form, with veranda round three side of it, to which the

grape-vine have be train, with glossy leave that clamber up to the

gable roof. there be a large garden in front, in which many english

fruit-tree have be set, and grow fast amongst the plant of the

tropic and the orange-tree of Southern Europe. beyond stretch undulous

pasture, stud not only with sheep, but with herd of cattle, which

my speculative predecessor have breed from parent of famous stock, and

import from England at mighty cost; but as yet the herd have be of

little profit, and they range their luxuriant expanse of pasture with

as little heed. to the left soar up, in long range, the many-colour

hill; to the right meander a creek, belt by feathery tree; and

on its opposite bank a forest open, through frequent break, into

park-like glade and alley. the territory, of which I so suddenly find

myself the lord, be vast, even for a colonial capitalist.



it have be originally purchase as “a special survey,” comprise

twenty thousand acre, with the privilege of pasture over forty thousand

more. in very little of this land, though it include some of the

most fertile district in the known world, have cultivation be even

commence. at the time I enter into possession, even sheep be barely

profitable; labour be scarce and costly. regard as a speculation, I

could not wonder that my predecessor flee in fear from his domain. have

I invest the bulk of my capital in this lordly purchase, I should

have deem myself a ruin man; but a villa near London, with a hundred

acre, would have cost I as much to buy, and thrice as much to keep

up. I could afford the investment I have make. I find a Scotch bailiff

already on the estate, and I be content to escape from rural

occupation, to which I bring no experience, by make it worth his

while to serve I with zeal. two domestic of my own, and two who

have be for many year with Mrs. Ashleigh, have accompany we: they

remain faithful and seem contented. so the clockwork of our mere

household arrangement go on much the same as in our native home.

Lilian be not subject to the ordinary privation and discomfort that

await the wife even of the wealthy emigrant. alas! would she have heed

they if she have be?



the change of scene work a decided change for the well in her

health and spirit, but not such as imply a dawn of revive reason.

but her countenance be now more rarely overcast. its usual aspect be

glad with a soft mysterious smile. she would murmur snatch of song,

that be partly borrow from english poet, and partly glide away

into what seem spontaneous addition of her own,--wanting intelligible

meaning, but never melody nor rhyme. strange, that memory and

imitation--the two early parent of all inventive knowledge--should

still be so active, and judgment--the after faculty, that combine the

rest into purpose and method--be annul!



Julius Faber I see continually, though his residence be a few mile

distant. he be sanguine as to Lilian’s ultimate recovery; and, to my

amazement and to my envy, he have contrive, by some art which I cannot

attain, to establish between she and himself intelligible communion. she

comprehend his question, when mine, though the simple, seem to she

in unknown language; and he construe into sense her word, that to I

be meaningless riddle.



“I be right,” he say to I one day, leave she seat in the garden

beside her quiet, patient mother, and join I where I lay--listless

yet fretful--under the shadeless gum-tree, gaze not on the flock

and field that I could call my own, but on the far mountain range, from

which the arch of the horizon seem to spring,--“I be right,” say the

great physician; “this be reason suspend, not reason lose. your wife

will recover; but--”



“but what?”



“give I your arm as I walk homeward, and I will tell you the conclusion

to which I have come.”



I rise, the old man lean on I, and we go down the valley along the

craggy ridge of the wind creek. the woodland on the opposite bank

be vocal with the chirp and croak and chatter of australian birds,--all

mirthful, all songless, save that sweetest of warbler, which some early

irreverent emigrant degrade to the name of magpie, but whose note be

sweet than the nightingale’s, and trill through the lucent air with

a distinct ecstatic melody of joy that dominate all the discord, so

ravish the sense, that, while it sing, the ear scarcely heed the

scream of the parrot.



(1) Creek be the name give by australian colonist to precarious water

course and tributary stream.













CHAPTER LXXI.



 “you may remember,” say Julius Faber, “Sir Humphry Davy’s eloquent description of the effect produce on he by the inhalation of nitrous oxide. he state that he begin to lose the perception of external thing; train of vivid visible image rapidly pass through his mind, and be connect with word in such a manner as to produce perception perfectly novel. ‘I exist,’ he say, ‘in a world of newly-connect and newly-modify idea.’ when he recover, he exclaim: ‘nothing exist but thought; the universe be compose of impression, idea, pleasure, and pain!’



“now observe, that thus a cultivator of positive science, endow with

one of the healthy of human brain, be, by the inhalation of a gas,

abstract from all external life,--enters into a new world, which

consist of image he himself create and animate so vividly that, on

wake, he resolve the universe itself into thought.”



“well,” say I, “but what inference do you draw from that voluntary

experiment, applicable to the malady of which you bid I hope the cure?”



“simply this: that the effect produce on a healthful brain by the

nitrous oxide may be produce also by moral cause operate on the

blood, or on the nerve. there be a degree of mental excitement in which

idea be more vivid than sensation, and then the world of external

thing give way to the world within the brain.(1) but this, though a

suspension of that reason which comprehend accuracy of judgment, be

no more a permanent aberration of reason than be Sir Humphry Davy’s

visionary ecstasy under the influence of the gas. the difference

between the two state of suspension be that of time, and it be but an

affair of time with our beloved patient. yet prepare yourself. I fear

that the mind will not recover without some critical malady of the

body!”



“critical! but not dangerous?--say not dangerous! I can endure the pause

of her reason; I could not endure the void in the universe if her life

be to fade from the earth.”



“poor friend! would not you yourself rather lose life than reason?”



“I--yes! but we man be teach to set cheap value on our own life; we

do not estimate at the same rate the life of those we love. do we do

so, Humanity would lose its virtue.”



“what, then! love teach that there be something of nobler value than

mere mind? yet surely it cannot be the mere body? what be it, if

not that continuance of be which your philosophy decline to

acknowledge,--namely, soul? if you fear so painfully that your Lilian

should die, be it not that you fear to lose she forever?”



“oh, cease, cease!” I cry impatiently. “I cannot now argue on

metaphysic. what be it that you anticipate of harm to her life? her

health have be strong ever since her affliction. she never seem to

know ailment now. do you not perceive that her cheek have a more hardy

bloom, her frame a more rounded symmetry, than when you see she in

England?”



“unquestionably. her physical force have be silently recruit

themselves in the dream which half lull, half amuse her imagination.

Imagination! that faculty, the most glorious which be bestow on the

human mind, because it be the faculty which enable think to create,

be of all other the most exhausting to life when unduly stimulate and

consciously reason on its own creation. I think it probable that

have this sorrow not befall you, you would have know a sorrow yet

graver,--you would have long survive your Lilian. as it be now, when

she recover, her whole organization, physical and mental, will have

undergo a beneficent change. but, I repeat my prediction,--some severe

malady of the body will precede the restoration of the mind; and it

be my hope that the present suspense or aberration of the more wear

power of the mind may fit the body to endure and surmount the physical

crisis. I remember a case, within my own professional experience,

in many respect similar to this, but in other respect it be less

hopeful. I be consult by a young student of a very delicate physical

frame, of great mental energy, and consume by an intense ambition.

he be read for university honour. he would not listen to I when I

entreat he to rest his mind. I think that he be certain to obtain

the distinction for which he toil, and equally certain to die a few

month after obtain it. he falsify both my prognostic. he so

overwork himself that, on the day of examination, his nerve be

agitated, his memory fail he; he pass, not without a certain

credit, but fall far short of the rank amongst his fellow competitor

to which he aspire. here, then, the irritated mind act on the

disappointed heart, and raise a new train of emotion. he be first

visit by spectral illusion; then he sink into a state in which the

external world seem quite blot out. he heed nothing that be say

to he; seem to see nothing that be place before his eyes,--in a

word, sensation become dormant, idea preconceive usurped their place,

and those idea give he pleasure. he believe that his genius be

recognize, and live amongst its suppose creation enjoy an

imaginary fame. so it go on for two year, during which suspense of

his reason, his frail form become robust and vigorous. at the end of

that time he be seize with a fever, which would have sweep he in

three day to the grave have it occur when I be first call in to

attend he. he conquer the fever, and, in recover, acquire the

full possession of the intellectual faculty so long suspend. when I

last see he, many year afterwards, he be in perfect health, and the

object of his young ambition be realize; the body have support the

mind,--he have achieve distinction. now what have so, for a time, lay

this strong intellect into visionary sleep? the most agonizing of human

emotion in a noble spirit,--shame! what have so stricken down your

Lilian? you have tell I the story: shame!--the shame of a nature

pre-eminently pure. but observe that, in his case as in her, the shock

inflict do not produce a succession of painful illusion: on

the contrary, in both, the illusion be generally pleasing. have the

illusion be painful, the body would have suffer, the patient die.

why do a painful shock produce pleasing illusion? because, no matter

how a shock on the nerve may originate, if it affect the reason, it

do but make more vivid than impression from actual external object

the idea previously most cherished. such idea in the young student

be idea of earthly fame; such idea in the young maiden be idea

of angel comforter and heavenly Edens. you miss her mind on the earth,

and, while we speak, it be in paradise.”



“much that you say, my friend, be authorize by the speculation of

great writer, with whom I be not unfamiliar; but in none of those

writer, nor in your encouraging word, do I find a solution for

much that have no precedent in my experience,--much, indeed, that have

analogy in my reading, but analogy which I have hitherto despise

as old wife’ fable. I have bare to your search eye the weird

mystery of my life. how do you account for fact which you cannot

resolve into illusions,--for the influence which that strange being,

Margrave, exercise over Lilian’s mind or fancy, so that for a time she

love for I be as dormant as be her reason now; so that he could draw

she--she whose nature you admit to be singularly pure and modest--from

her mother’s home? the magic wand; the trance into which that wand throw

Margrave himself; the apparition which it conjure up in my own

quiet chamber when my mind be without a care and my health without

a flaw,--how account for all this: as you endeavour, and perhaps

successfully, to account for all my impression of the Vision in the

Museum, of the luminous, haunt shadow in its early apparition,

when my fancy be heat, my heart torment, and, it might be, even the

physical force of this strong frame disorder?”



“Allen,” say the old pathologist, “here we approach a ground which few

physician have dare to examine. honour to those who, like our bold

contemporary, Elliotson, have brave scoff and sacrifice dross in

seek to extract what be practical in use, what can be test by

experiment, from those exceptional phenomenon on which magic seek to

find a philosophy, and to which philosophy track the origin of magic.”



“what! do I understand you? be it you, Julius Faber, who attach faith

to the wonder attribute to animal magnetism and electro-biology, or

subscribe to the doctrine which their practitioner teach?”



“I have not examine into those doctrine, nor see with my own eye the

wonder record, upon evidence too respectable, nevertheless, to permit

I peremptorily to deny what I have not witnessed.(2) but wherever I

look through the history of Mankind in all age and all race, I find a

concurrence in certain belief which seem to countenance the theory that

there be in some peculiar and rare temperament a power over form of

animate organization, with which they establish some unaccountable

affinity; and even, though much more rarely, a power over inanimate

matter. you be familiar with the theory of Descartes, ‘that those

particle of the blood which penetrate to the brain do not only serve to

nourish and sustain its substance, but to produce there a certain very

subtle aura, or rather a flame very vivid and pure, that obtain the

name of the Animal Spirits;’ (3) and at the close of his great fragment

upon Man, he assert that ‘this flame be of no other nature than all the

fire which be in inanimate body.’(4) this notion do but forestall

the more recent doctrine that electricity be more or less in all, or

nearly all, know matter. now, whether in the electric fluid or some

other fluid akin to it of which we know still less, thus equally

pervade all matter, there may be a certain magnetic property more

active, more operative upon sympathy in some human constitution than in

other, and which can account for the mysterious power I have speak of,

be a query I might suggest, but not an opinion I would hazard. for an

opinion I must have that basis of experience or authority which I do not

need when I submit a query to the experience and authority of other.

still, the supposition convey in the query be so far worthy of

notice, that the ecstatic temperament (in which phrase I comprehend all

constitutional mystic) be peculiarly sensitive to electric atmospheric

influence. this be a fact which most medical observer will have

remark in the range of their practice. accordingly, I be prepare

to find Mr. Hare Townshend, in his interesting work,(5) state that he

himself be of ‘the electric temperament,’ spark fly from his hair

when comb in the dark, etc. that accomplished writer, whose veracity

no one would impugn, affirm that between this electrical endowment and

whatever mesmeric property he might possess, there be a remarkable

relationship and parallelism. whatever state of the atmosphere tend to

accumulate and insulate electricity in the body, promote equally’ (say

Mr. Townshend) ‘the power and facility with which I influence other

mesmerically.’ what Mr. Townshend thus observe in himself, American

physician and professor of chemistry depose to have observe in those

modern magician, the medium of (so-call) ‘spirit manifestation.’

they state that all such medium be of the electric temperament, thus

everywhere find ally with the ecstatic, and their power vary in

proportion as the state of the atmosphere serve to depress or augment

the electricity store in themselves. here, then, in the midst of

vagrant phenomenon, either too hastily dismiss as altogether the trick

of fraudful imposture, or too credulously accept as supernatural

portent--here, at least, in one generalized fact, we may, perhaps, find

a starting point, from which inductive experiment may arrive, soon

or late, at a rational theory. but however the power of which we be

speak (a power accord to special physical temperament) may or may

not be account for by some patient student of nature, I be persuade

that it be in that power we be to seek for whatever be not wholly

imposture, in the attribute assign to magic or witchcraft. it be well

say, by a writer who have go into the depth of these subject with the

research of a scholar and the science of a pathologist, ‘that if magic

have exclusively repose on credulity and falsehood, its reign would

never have endure so long; but that its art take its origin in singular

phenomenon, proper to certain affection of the nerve, or manifest in

the condition of sleep. these phenomenon, the principle of which be

at first unknown, serve to root faith in magic, and often abuse even

enlighten mind. the enchanter and magician arrive, by diver

practice, at the faculty of provoking in other brain a determine

order of dream, of engendering hallucination of all kind, of induce

fit of hypnotism, trance, mania, during which the person so affect

imagine that they see, hear, touch, supernatural being, converse

with they, prove their influence, assist at prodigy of which magic

proclaim itself to possess the secret. the public, the enchanter,

and the enchant be equally dupe.’(6) accept this explanation,

unintelligible to no physician of a practice so lengthened as mine

have be, I draw from it the corollary, that as these phenomenon be

exhibit only by certain special affection, to which only certain

special constitution be susceptible, so not in any superior faculty

of intellect, or of spiritual endowment, but in peculiar physical

temperament, often strangely disorder, the power of the sorcerer

in affect the imagination of other be to be seek. in the native

tribe of Australasia the elder be instruct in the art of this

so-call sorcery, but only in a very few constitution do instruction

avail to produce effect in which the savage recognize the power of a

sorcerer: it be so with the Obi of the negro. the fascination of Obi

be an unquestionable fact, but the obi man cannot be train by formal

lesson; he be bear a fascinator, as a poet be bear a poet. it be so

with the Laplanders, of whom Tornoeus report that of those instruct

in the magical art ‘only a few be capable of it.’ ‘some,’ he say, ‘be

naturally magician.’ and this fact be emphatically insist upon by

the mystic of our own middle age, who state that a man must be bear

a magician; in other word, that the gift be constitutional, though

develop by practice and art. now, that this gift and its practice

should principally obtain in imperfect state of civilization, and fade

into insignificance in the busy social enlightenment of city, may be

account for by reference to the known influence of imagination. in

the cruder state of social life not only be imagination more frequently

predominant over all other faculty, but it have not the healthful vent

which the intellectual competition of city and civilization afford.

the man who in a savage tribe, or in the dark feudal age, would be a

magician, be in our century a poet, an orator, a daring speculator,

an inventive philosopher. in other word, his imagination be draw to

pursuit congenial to those amongst whom it work. it be the tendency

of all intellect to follow the direction of the public opinion amidst

which it be train. where a magician be hold in reverence or awe, there

will be more practitioner of magic than where a magician be despise

as an impostor or shut up as a lunatic. in Scandinavia, before the

introduction of Christianity, all tradition record the wonderful

power of the Vala, or witch, who be then hold in reverence and honour.

Christianity be introduce, and the early Church denounce the Vala as

the instrument of Satan, and from that moment down drop the majestic

prophetess into a miserable and execrated old hag!”



“the idea you broach,” say I, musingly, “have at moment cross I,

though I have shrink from reduce they to a theory which be but one of

pure hypothesis. but this magic, after all, then, you would place in the

imagination of the operator, act on the imagination of those whom it

affect? here, at least, I can follow you, to a certain extent, for here

we get back into the legitimate realm of physiology.”



“and possibly,” say Faber, “we may find hint to guide we to useful

examination, if not to complete solution of problem that, once

demonstrate, may lead to discovery of infinite value,--hints, I say,

in two writer of widely opposite genius, Van Helmont and Bacon.

Van Helmont, of all the mediaeval mystic, be, in spite of his many

extravagant whim, the one whose intellect be the most suggestive to the

discipline reasoner of our day. he suppose that the faculty which he

call Fantasy, and which we familiarly call Imagination,--is invest

with the power of create for itself idea independent of the sense,

each idea clothe in a form fabricate by the imagination, and

become an operative entity. this notion be so far favour by modern

physiologist, that Lincke report a case where the eye itself be

extirpate; yet the extirpation be follow by the appearance of

luminous figure before the orbit. and again, a woman, stone-blind,

complain of ‘luminous image, with pale colour, before her eye.’

Abercrombie mention the case ‘of a lady quite blind, her eye be

also disorganize and sink, who never walk out without see a

little old woman in a red cloak, who seem to walk before she.’(7)

your favourite authority, the illustrious Miller, who be himself in

the habit of ‘see different image in the field of vision when he

lie quietly down to sleep, assert that these image be not merely

present to the fancy, but that even the image of dream be really

see,’ and that ‘any one may satisfy himself of this by accustom

himself regularly to open his eye when wake after a dream,--the

image see in the dream be then sometimes visible, and can be observe

to disappear gradually.’ he confirm this statement not only by the

result of his own experience, but by the observation make by Spinoza,

and the yet high authority of Aristotle, who account for spectral

appearance as the internal action of the sense of vision.(8) and this

opinion be favour by Sir David Brewster, whose experience lead he

to suggest ‘that the object of mental contemplation may be see as

distinctly as external object, and will occupy the same local position

in the axis of vision as if they have be form by the agency of

light.’ be this as it may, one fact remains,--that image can be see

even by the blind as distinctly and vividly as you and I now see the

stream below our foot and the opossum at play upon yonder bough.

let we come next to some remarkable suggestion of Lord Bacon. in his

Natural history, treat of the force of the imagination, and the help

it receive ‘by one man work by another,’ he cite an instance he

have witness of a kind of juggler, who could tell a person what card

he think of. he mention this ‘to a pretend learn man, curious in

such thing,’ and this sage say to he, ‘it be not the knowledge of the

man’s thought, for that be proper to God, but the enforcing of a thought

upon he, and bind his imagination by a strong, so that he could

think of no other card.’ you see this sage anticipate our modern

electro-biologist! and the learn man then shrewdly ask Lord Bacon,

‘do the juggler tell the card to the man himself who have think of it,

or bid another tell it?’ ‘he bid another tell it,’ answer Lord Bacon.

‘I think so,’ return his learn acquaintance, ‘for the juggler

himself could not have put on so strong an imagination; but by tell

the card to the other, who believe the juggler be some strange man who

could do strange thing, that other man catch a strong imagination.’(9)

the whole story be worth reading, because Lord Bacon evidently think

it convey a guess worth examine. and Lord Bacon, be he now live,

would be the man to solve the mystery that branch out of mesmerism or

(so-call) spiritual manifestation, for he would not pretend to despise

their phenomenon for fear of hurt his reputation for good sense.

Bacon then go on to state that there be three way to fortify the

imagination. ‘first, authority derive from belief in an art and in the

man who exercise it; secondly, mean to quicken and corroborate the

imagination; thirdly, mean to repeat and refresh it.’ for the second

and the third he refer to the practice of magic, and proceed

afterwards to state on what thing imagination have most force,--‘upon

thing that have the light and easy motion, and, therefore, above

all, upon the spirit of man, and, in they, on such affection as

move lightest,--in love, in fear, in irresolution. and,’ add Bacon,

earnestly, in a very different spirit from that which dictate to the

sage of our time the philosophy of reject without trial that which

belong to the Marvellous,--‘and whatsoever be of this kind, should be

thoroughly inquire into.’ and this great founder or renovator of the

sober inductive system of investigation even so far leave it a matter

of speculative inquiry, whether imagination may not be so powerful

that it can actually operate upon a plant, that he say: ‘this likewise

should be make upon plant, and that diligently; as if you should tell

a man that such a tree would die this year, and will he, at these and

these time, to go unto it and see how it thriveth.’ I presume that

no philosopher have follow such recommendation: have some great

philosopher do so, possibly we should by this time know all the

secret of what be popularly call witchcraft.”



and as Faber here pause, there come a strange laugh from the fantastic

she-oak-tree overhang the stream,--a wild, impish laugh.



“Pooh! it be but the great kingfisher, the laugh-bird of the

australian bush,” say Julius Faber, amuse at my start of superstitious

alarm.



we walk on for some minute in muse silence, and the rude log-hut in

which my wise companion have his home come in view,--the flock graze

on undulous pasture, the lone drink at a watercourse fringe by the

slender gum-tree, and a few field, laboriously win from the luxuriant

grassland, ripple with the wave of corn.



I halt, and say, “rest here for a few moment, till I gather up the

conclusion to which your speculative reasoning seem to invite I.”



we sit down on a rocky crag, half mantle by luxuriant creeper with

vermilion bud.



“from the guess,” say I, “which you have draw from the erudition of

other and your own ingenious and reflective induction, I collect this

solution of the mystery, by which the experience I gain from my

sense confound all the dogma approve by my judgment. to the rational

conjecture by which, when we first converse on the marvel that

perplex I, you ascribe to my imagination, predispose by mental

excitement, physical fatigue or derangement, and a concurrence

of singular event tend to strengthen such predisposition, the

phantasmal impression produce on my senses,--to these conjecture

you now add a new one, more startling and less admit by sober

physiologist. you conceive it possible that person endow with a rare

and peculiar temperament can so operate on imagination, and, through

the imagination, on the sense of other, as to exceed even the power

ascribe to the practitioner of mesmerism and electro-biology, and give

a certain foundation of truth to the old tale of magic and witchcraft.

you imply that Margrave may be a person thus gift, and hence the

influence he unquestionably exercise over Lilian, and over, perhaps,

less innocent agent, charm or impel by his will. and not

discard, as I own I should have be originally induce to do,

the query or suggestion adventure by Bacon in his discursive

speculation on Nature, to wit, ‘that there be many thing, some of they

inanimate, that operate upon the spirit of man by secret sympathy and

antipathy,’ and to which Bacon give the quaint name of ‘imaginant,’ so

even that wand, of which I have describe to you the magic-like effect,

may have have property communicate to it by which it perform the work

of the magician, as mesmerist pretend that some substance mesmerize

by they can act on the patient as sensibly as if it be the mesmerizer

himself. do I state your supposition correctly?”



“yes; always remember that they be only supposition, and

volunteer with the utmost diffidence. but since, thus seat in the

early wilderness, we permit ourselves the indulgence of childlike guess,

may it not be possible, apart from the doubtful question whether a man

can communicate to an inanimate material substance a power to act upon

the mind or imagination of another man--may it not, I say, be possible

that such a substance may contain in itself such a virtue or property

potent over certain constitution, though not over all. for instance, it

be in my experience that the common hazel-wood will strongly affect some

nervous temperament, though wholly without effect on other. I remember

a young girl, who having take up a hazel-stick freshly cut, could not

relax her hold of it; and when it be wrench away from she by force,

be irresistibly attract towards it, repossess herself of it, and,

after hold it a few minute, be cast into a kind of trance, in which

she behold phantasmal vision. mention this curious case, which I

suppose unique, to a learn brother of our profession, he tell I that

he have know other instance of the effect of the hazel upon nervous

temperament in person of both sex. possibly it be some such

peculiar property in the hazel that make it the wood select for the

old divining-rod. again, we know that the bay-tree, or laurel, be

dedicate to the oracular Pythian Apollo. now wherever, in the old

world, we find that the learning of the priest enable they to exhibit

exceptional phenomenon, which impose upon popular credulity, there be a

something or other which be worth a philosopher’s while to explore;

and, accordingly, I always suspect that there be in the laurel

some property favourable to ecstatic vision in highly impressionable

temperament. my suspicion, a few year ago, be justify by the

experience of a german physician, who have under his care a cataleptic

or ecstatic patient, and who assure I that he find nothing in this

patient so stimulate the state of ‘sleep-wake,’ or so disposed that

state to indulge in the hallucination of prevision, as the berry of

the laurel.(10) well, we do not know what this wand that produce a

seemingly magical effect upon you be really compose of. you do not

notice the metal employ in the wire, which you say communicate a

thrill to the sensitive nerve in the palm of the hand. you cannot tell

how far it might have be the vehicle of some fluid force in nature. or

still more probably, whether the pore of your hand insensibly imbibe,

and communicate to the brain, some of those powerful narcotic from

which the Buddhists and the Arabs make unguent that induce visionary

hallucination, and in which substance undetected in the hollow of the

wand, or the handle of the wand itself, might be steeped.(11) one thing

we do know, namely, that amongst the ancient, and especially in the

East, the construction of wand for magical purpose be no commonplace

mechanical craft, but a special and secret art appropriate to man who

cultivate with assiduity all that be then know of natural science

in order to extract from it agency that might appear supernatural.

possibly, then, the rod or wand of the East, of which scripture make

mention, be frame upon some principle of which we in our day be

very naturally ignorant, since we do not ransack science for the same

secret; and thus, in the selection or preparation of the material

employ, mainly consist whatever may be referrible to natural

philosophical cause in the antique science of Rhabdomancy, or

divination and enchantment by wand. the staff, or wand, of which you

tell I, be, you say, make of iron or steel and tip with crystal.

possibly iron and crystal do really contain some property not hitherto

scientifically analyze, and only, indeed, potential over exceptional

temperament, which may account for the fact that iron and crystal have

be favourite with all profess mystic, ancient and modern. the

Delphic Pythoness have her iron tripod, Mesmer his iron bed; and many

person, indisputably honest, cannot gaze long upon a ball of crystal

but what they begin to see vision. I suspect that a philosophical cause

for such seemingly preternatural effect of crystal and iron will be

find in connection with the extreme impressionability to change in

temperature which be the characteristic both of crystal and iron.

but if these material do contain certain power over exceptional

constitution, we do not arrive at a supernatural but at a natural

phenomenon.”



“still,” say I, “even grant that your explanatory hypothesis hit

or approach the truth;--still what a terrible power you would assign to

man’s will over man’s reason and deed!”



“man’s will,” answer Faber, “have over man’s deed and reason, habitual

and daily, power infinitely great and, when uncounterbalanced,

infinitely more dangerous than that which superstition exaggerate in

magic. man’s will move a war that decimate a race, and leave behind

it calamitie little less dire than slaughter. man’s will frame, but it

also corrupt law; exalt, but also demoralize opinion; set the world

mad with fanaticism, as often as it curb the heart’s fierce instinct

by the wisdom of brother-like mercy. you revolt at the exceptional,

limited sway over some two or three individual which the art of a

sorcerer (if sorcerer there be) can effect; and yet, at the very moment

in which you be perplex and appal by such sway, or by your

reluctant belief in it, your will be devise an engine to unsettle the

reason and wither the hope of million!”



“my will! what engine?”



“a book conceive by your intellect, adorn by your learning, and

direct by your will, to steal from the mind of other man their

persuasion of the soul’s everlaste Hereafter.”



I bow my head, and feel myself grow pale.



“and if we accept Bacon’s theory of ‘secret sympathy,’ or the plainer

physiological maxim that there must be in the imagination, morbidly

impressed by the will of another, some train of idea in affinity with

such influence and preincline to receive it, no magician could warp you

to evil, except through thought that themselves go astray. Grant

that the Margrave who still haunt your mind do really, by some occult,

sinister magnetism, guide the madman to murder, do influence the

servant-woman’s vulgar desire to pry into the secret of her ill-fate

master, or the old maid’s covetous wish and envious malignity: what

could this awful magician do more than any commonplace guilty adviser,

to a mind predispose to accept the advice?”



“you forget one example which destroy your argument,--the spell which

this mysterious fascinator could cast upon a creature so pure from all

guilt as Lilian!”



“will you forgive I if I answer frankly?”



“speak.”



“your Lilian be spotless and pure as you deem she, and the fascination,

therefore, attempt no lure through a sinful desire; it blend with

its attraction no sentiment of affection untrue to yourself. Nay, it be

justice to your Lilian, and may be melancholy comfort to you, to state

my conviction, base on the answer my question have draw from she,

that you be never more cherish by her love than when that love

seem to forsake you. her imagination impress she with the illusion

that through your love for she you be threaten with a great

peril. what seem the levity of her desertion be the devotion of

self-sacrifice. and, in her strange, dream-lead wandering, do not think

that she be conscious of the fascination you impute to this mysterious

Margrave: in her belief it be your own guardian angel that guide she

step, and her pilgrimage be ordain to disarm the foe that menace

you, and dissolve the spell that divide her life from your! but have

she not, long before this, willingly prepare herself to be so deceive?

have not her fancy be deliberately encourage to dwell remote from

the duty we be place on the earth to perform? the lofty faculty

in our nature be those that demand the fine poise, not to fall from

their height and crush all the wall that they crown. with exquisite

beauty of illustration, Hume say of the dreamer of ‘bright fancy,’

‘that they may be compare to those angel whom the scripture represent

as cover their eye with their wing.’ have you be, like my nephew,

a wrestler for bread with the wilderness, what helpmate would your

Lilian have be to you? how often would you have cry out in

justifiable anger, ‘I, son of Adam, be on earth, not in Paradise! oh,

that my Eve be at home on my hearth, and not in the sky with the

seraph!’ no Margrave, I venture to say, could have suspend the

healthful affection, or charm into danger the wide-awake soul of my

Amy. when she rock in its cradle the babe the young parent intrust to

her heed; when she call the kine to the milking, the chick to their

corn; when she but flit through my room to renew the flower on the

stand, or range in neat order the book that I read, no spell on her

fancy could lead she a step from the range of her provident care! at

day she be content to be on the commonplace earth; at evening she and

I knock together at the one door of heaven, which ope to thanksgive

and prayer; and thanksgiving and prayer send we back, calm and hopeful,

to the task that each morrow renew.”



I look up as the old man pause, and in the limpid clearness of the

australian atmosphere, I see the child he thus praise standing by the

garden-gate, look towards we, and though still distant she seem

near. I feel wroth with she. my heart so cherish my harmless,

defenceless Lilian, that I be jealous of the praise take from she to

be bestow on another.



“each of we,” say I, coldly, “have his or her own nature, and the use

harmonious to that nature’s idiosyncrasy. the world, I grant, would get

on very ill if woman be not more or less actively useful and quietly

good, like your Amy. but the world would lose standard that exalt and

refine, if no woman be permit to gain, through the indulgence of

fancy, thought exquisite as those which my Lilian conceive, while

think, alas! flow out of fancy. I do not wound you by cite your

Amy as a type of the mediocre; I do not claim for Lilian the rank we

accord to the type of genius. but both be alike to such type in this:

namely, that the use of mediocrity be for every-day life, and the use

of genius, amidst a thousand mistake which mediocrity never commit,

be to suggest and perpetuate idea which raise the standard of the

mediocre to a nobler level. there would be few Amys in life if there

be no Lilian! as there would be far few good man of sense if there

be no err dreamer of genius!”



“you say well, Allen Fenwick. and who should be so indulgent to the

vagary of the imagination as the philosopher who teach your youth

to doubt everything in the Maker’s plan of creation which could not

be mathematically prove? ‘the human mind,’ say Luther, ‘be like a

drunkard on horseback; prop it on one side, and it fall on the other.’

so the man who be much too enlightened to believe in a peasant’s

religion, be always sure to set up some insane superstition of his own.

open biographical volume wherever you please, and the man who have no

faith in religion be a man who have faith in a nightmare. see that type

of the elegant sceptics,--Lord Herbert of Cherbury. he be write a book

against Revelation; he ask a sign from heaven to tell he if his book

be approve by his maker, and the man who cannot believe in the miracle

perform by his Saviour gravely tell we of a miracle vouchsafe to

himself. take the hard and strong intellect which the hard

and strong race of mankind ever school and accomplish. see the

great of great man, the great Julius Caesar! publicly he assert

in the Senate that the immortality of the soul be a vain chimera. he

profess the creed which roman voluptuary deduce from Epicurus,

and deny all Divine interference in the affair of the earth. a great

authority for the materialist--they have none great! they can show

on their side no intellect equal to Caesar’s! and yet this magnificent

freethinker, reject a soul and a deity, habitually enter his

chariot mutter a charm; crawl on his knee up the step of a temple

to propitiate the abstraction call ‘Nemesis;’ and do not cross the

Rubicon till he have consult the omen. what do all this prove?--a

very simple truth. Man have some instinct with the brute; for instance,

hunger and sexual love. Man have one instinct peculiar to himself, find

universally (or with allege exception in savage state so rare, that

they do not affect the general law(12)),--an instinct of an invisible

power without this earth, and of a life beyond the grave, which that

power vouchsafe to his spirit. but the good of we cannot violate an

instinct with impunity. resist hunger as long as you can, and, rather

than die of starvation, your instinct will make you a cannibal; resist

love when youth and nature impel to it, and what pathologist do not

track one broad path into madness or crime? so with the noble instinct

of all. reject the internal conviction by which the grand thinker

have sanction the hope of the humble Christian, and you be

servile at once to some faith inconceivably more hard to believe. the

imagination will not be withhold from its yearning for vista beyond

the wall of the flesh, and the span of the present hour. philosophy

itself, in reject the healthful creed by which man find his

safeguard in sober prayer and his guide through the wilderness of

visionary doubt, invent system compare to which the mystery of

theology be simple. suppose any man of strong, plain understanding have

never hear of a deity like he whom we Christians adore, then ask this

man which he can the well comprehend in his mind, and accept as a

natural faith,--namely, the simple Christianity of his shepherd or the

Pantheism of Spinoza? Place before an accomplished critic (who come

with a perfectly unprejudiced mind to either inquiry), first, the

argument of David Hume against the gospel miracle, and then the

metaphysical crotchet of David Hume himself. this subtle philosopher,

not content, with Berkeley, to get rid of matter,--not content, with

Condillac, to get rid of spirit or mind,--proceeds to a miracle great

than any his Maker have yet vouchsafe to reveal. he, be then alive

and in the act of writing, get rid of himself altogether. Nay, he

confess he cannot reason with any one who be stupid enough to think he

have a self. his word be: ‘what we call a mind be nothing but a heap

or collection of different perception or object unite together by

certain relation, and suppose, though falsely, to be endow with

perfect simplicity and identity. if any one, upon serious and candid

reflection, think he have a different notion of himself, I must confess

I can reason with he no long.’ certainly I would rather believe all

the ghost story upon record than believe that I be not even a ghost,

distinct and apart from the perception convey to I, no matter

how,--just as I be distinct and apart from the furniture in my room,

no matter whether I find it there or whether I buy it. if some old

cosmogonist ask you to believe that the primitive cause of the

solar system be not to ‘be trace to a Divine Intelligence, but to

a nebulosity, originally so diffused that its existence can with

difficulty be conceive, and that the origin of the present system of

organize being equally dispense with the agency of a creative mind,

and could be refer to molecule form in the water by the power

of attraction, till by modification of cellular tissue in the gradual

lapse of age, one monad become an oyster and another a Man,--would you

not say this cosmogony could scarce have mislead the human understanding

even in the early dawn of speculative inquiry? yet such be the

hypothesis to which the desire to philosophize away that simple

proposition of a Divine First Cause, which every child can comprehend,

lead two of the great genius and profoundest reasoner of modern

times,--La Place and La Marck.(13) certainly, the more you examine those

arch phantasmagorist, the philosopher who would leave nothing in the

universe but their own delusion, the more your intellectual pride may

be humble. the wild phenomenon which have startle you be not more

extravagant than the grave explanation which intellectual presumption

adventure on the element of our own organism and the relation between

the world of matter and the world of idea.”



here our conversation stop, for Amy have now join we, and, look

up to reply, I see the child’s innocent face between I and the furrowed

brow of the old man.



(1) see, on the theory elaborate from this principle, Dr. Hibbert’s

interesting and valuable work on the “Philosophy of Apparitions.”



(2) what Faber here say be express with more authority by one of the

most accomplished metaphysician of our time (Sir W. Hamilton):



“somnambulism be a phenomenon still more astonishing (than dream).

in this singular state a person perform a regular series of rational

action, and those frequently of the most difficult and delicate nature;

and what be still more marvellous, with a talent to which he could make

no pretension when awake. (Cr. Ancillon, Essais Philos. ii. 161.) his

memory and reminiscence supply he with recollection of word and

thing which, perhaps, never be at his disposal in the ordinary

state,--he speak more fluently a more refined language. and if we

be to credit what the evidence on which it rest hardly allow we to

disbelieve, he have not only perception of thing through other channel

than the common organ of sense, but the sphere of his cognition

be amplify to an extent far beyond the limit to which sensible

perception be confine. this subject be one of the most perplexing in

the whole compass of philosophy; for, on the one hand, the phenomenon be

so remarkable that they cannot be believe, and yet, on the other, they

be of so unambiguous and palpable a character, and the witness to

their reality be so numerous, so intelligent, and so high above every

suspicion of deceit, that it be equally impossible to deny credit to

what be attest by such ample and un exceptionable evidence.”--Sir W.

Hamilton: lecture on Metaphysics and Logic, vol. ii. p. 274.



this perplexity, in which the distinguished philosopher leave the

judgment so equally balanced that it find it impossible to believe, and

yet impossible to disbelieve, form the right state of mind in which

a candid thinker should come to the examination of those more

extraordinary phenomenon which he have not himself yet witness, but

the fair inquiry into which may be tender to he by person above

the imputation of quackery and fraud. Muffler, who be not the

least determine, as he be certainly one of the most distinguish,

disbeliever of mesmeric phenomenon, do not appear to have witness,

or at least to have carefully examine, they, or he would, perhaps, have

see that even the more extraordinary of those phenomenon confirm, rather

than contradict, his own general theory, and may be explain by the

sympathy one sense have with another,--“the law of reflection through

the medium of the brain.” (physiology of the Senses, p. 1311.) and

again by the maxim “that the mental principle, or cause of the mental

phenomenon, cannot be confine to the brain, but that it exist in a

latent state in every part of the organism.” (ibid., p. 1355.) the

“nerve power,” contend for by Mr. Bain, also may suggest a rational

solution of much that have seem incredible to those physiologist who

have not condescend to sift the genuine phenomenon of mesmerism from

the imposture to which, in all age, the phenomena exhibit by what may

be call the ecstatic temperament have be apply.



(3) Descartes, L’Homme, vol. iv. p. 345. Cousin’s Edition.



(4) ibid., p. 428.



(5) fact in Mesmerism.



(6) La Magic et l’Astrologie dans l’Antiquitd et an Moyen-Age. Par L. F.

Alfred Maury, Membre de Institut. p. 225.



(7) “she have no illusion when within door.”--Abercrombie, on the

Intellectual Powers, p. 277. (15th Edition.)



(8) Muller, Physiology of the Senses, Baley’s translation, pp.

1068-1395, and elsewhere. Mr. Bain, in his thoughtful and suggestive

work on the “Senses and Intellect,” make very powerful use of these

statement in support of his proposition, which Faber advance in other

word, namely, “the return of the nervous current exactly on their old

track in revive sensation.”



(9) perhaps it be for the reason suggest in the text, namely, that the

magician require the interposition of a third imagination between

his own and that of the consulting believer, that any learn adept in

(so-call) magic will invariably refuse to exhibit without the presence

of a third person. hence the author of “Dogme et Rituel de la Haute

Magic,” print at Parisy 1852-53--a book less remarkable for its

learning than for the earnest belief of a scholar of our own day in the

reality of the art of which he record the history--insist much on the

necessity of rigidly observe Le Ternaire, in the number of person who

assist in an enchanter’s experiment.



(10) I may add that Dr. Kerner instance the effect of laurel-berry

on the Seeress of Prevorst, correspond with that assert by Julius

Faber in the text.



(11) see for these unguent the work of M. Maury, before quote, “La

Magic et l’Astrologie,” etc., p. 417.



(12) it seem extremely doubtful whether the very few instance in

which it have be assert that a savage race have be find without

recognition of a deity and a future state would bear search

examination. it be set forth, for example, in most of the popular work

on Australia, that the australian savage have no notion of a Deity or

a Hereafter, that they only worship a devil, or evil spirit. this

assumption, though make more peremptorily, and by a great number of

writer than any similar one regard other savage, be altogether

erroneous, and have no other foundation than the ignorance of the

writer. the australian savage recognize a deity, but he be too august

for a name in their own language; in English they call he the Great

Master,--an expression synonymous with “the Great Lord.” they believe

in a hereafter of eternal joy, and place it amongst the stars.--See

Strzelecki’s Physical Description of New South Wales.



(13) see the observation on La Place and La Marck in the introduction

to Kirby’s “Bridgewater Treatise.”













CHAPTER LXXII.



I turn back alone. the sun be redden the summit of the distant

mountain-range, but dark cloud, that portend rain, be gather

behind my way and deepen the shadow in many a chasm and hollow which

volcanic fire have work on the surface of upland undulating like

diluvian billow fix into stone in the midst of their stormy swell. I

wander on and away from the beat track, absorb in thought. could

I acknowledge in Julius Faber’s conjecture any basis for logical

ratiocination; or be they not the ingenious fancy of that empirical

philosophy of Sentiment by which the aged, in the decline of severer

faculty, sometimes assimilate their theory to the hazy romance of

youth? I can well conceive that the story I tell will be regard by

most as a wild and fantastic fable; that by some it may be consider a

vehicle for guess at various riddle of Nature, without or within

we, which be free to the license of romance, though forbid to the

caution of science. but, I--I--know unmistakably my own identity, my

own positive place in a substantial universe. and beyond that knowledge,

what do I know? yet have Faber no ground for his startling parallel

between the chimera of superstition and the alternative to faith

volunteer by the metaphysical speculation of knowledge? on the

theorem of Condillac, I, in common with numberless contemporaneous

student (for, in my youth, Condillac hold sway in the school, as now,

drive forth from the school, his opinion float loose through the

talk and the scribble of man of the world, who perhaps never open his

page),--on the theorem of Condillac I have build up a system of thought

design to immure the swathe form of material philosophy from all

ray and all sound of a world not material, as the wall of some blind

mausoleum shut out, from the mummy within, the whisper of wind and the

gleaming of star.



and do not those very theorem, when carry out to their strict and

completing result by the close reasoning of Hume, resolve my own

living identity, the one conscious indivisible I, into a bundle

of memory derive from the sense which have bubble and dupe my

experience, and reduce into a phantom, as spectral as that of the

Luminous Shadow, the whole solid frame of creation?



while ponder these question, the storm whose forewarning I have

neglect to heed burst forth with all the suddenness peculiar to the

Australian clime. the rain descend like the rushing of flood. in

the bed of watercourse, which, at noon, seem dry up and exhaust,

the torrent begin to swell and to rave; the gray crag around they be

animate into live waterfall. I look round, and the landscape be

as change as a scene that replace a scene on the player’s stage. I

be aware that I have wander far from my home, and I know not what

direction I should take to regain it. close at hand, and raise above

the torrent that now rush in many a gully and tributary creek, around

and before I, the mouth of a deep cave, overgrow with bush and

creep flower toss wildly to and fro between the rain from above

and the spray of cascade below, offer a shelter from the storm.

I entered,--scaring innumerable flock of bat strike against I,

blind by the glare of the lightning that follow I into the cavern,

and hasten to resettle themselves on the pendant of stalactite, or

the jagged buttress of primaeval wall.



from time to time the lightning dart into the gloom and linger

amongst its shadow; and I see, by the flash, that the floor on which I

stand be strew with strange bone, some amongst they the fossilize

relic of race destroy by the Deluge. the rain continue for more

than two hour with unabated violence; then it cease almost as suddenly

as it have come on, and the lustrous moon of Australia burst from the

cloud shine bright as an english dawn, into the hollow of the

cave. and then simultaneously arise all the choral song of the

wilderness,--creatures whose voice be hear at night,--the loud whir

of the locust, the musical boom of the bullfrog, the cuckoo note of the

morepork, and, mournful amidst all those merry sound, the hoot of the

owl, through the wizard she-oak and the pale green of the gum-tree.



I step forth into the open air and gazed, first instinctively on the

heaven, next, with more heedful eye, upon the earth. the nature of the

soil bear the evidence of volcanic fire long since extinguish. just

before my foot, the ray fall full upon a bright yellow streak in the

block of quartz half imbed in the soft moist soil. in the midst of

all the solemn thought and the intense sorrow which weigh upon heart

and mind, that yellow gleam startle the mind into a direction remote

from philosophy, quicken the heart to a beat that chime with no

household affection. involuntarily I stoop; impulsively I strike the

block with the hatchet, or tomahawk, I carry habitually about I, for

the purpose of mark the tree that I wish to clear from the waste

of my broad domain. the quartz be shatter by the stroke, and leave

disburie its glitter treasure. my first glance have not deceive I.

I, vain seeker after knowledge, have, at least, discover gold. I take

up the bright metal--gold! I pause; I look round; the land that

just before have seem to I so worthless take the value of Ophir. its

feature have before be as unknown to I as the Mountains of the Moon,

and now my memory become wonderfully quicken. I recall the rough map

of my possession, the first careless ride round their boundary.

yes, the land on which I stand--for mile, to the spur of those farth

mountain--the land be mine, and, beneath its surface, there be gold!

I close my eye; for some moment vision of boundless wealth, and of

the royal power which such wealth could command, sweep athwart my brain.

but my heart rapidly settle back to its real treasure. “what matter,”

 I sigh, “all this dross? could Ophir itself buy back to my Lilian’s

smile one ray of the light which give ‘glory to the grass and splendour

to the flower’?”



so muttering, I fling the gold into the torrent that rage below, and

go on through the moonlight, sorrow silently,--only thankful for

the discovery that have quicken my reminiscence of the landmark by

which to steer my way through the wilderness.



the night be half go, for even when I have gain the familiar track

through the pasture, the swell of the many wind creek that now

intersect the way oblige I often to retrace my step; to find,

sometimes, the bridge of a felled tree which have be providently leave

unremove over the now foam torrent, and, more than once, to swim

across the current, in which swimmer less strong or less practised

would have be dash down the fall, where loose log and tear tree

go clatter and whirling: for I be in danger of life. a band of

the savage native be stealthily creep on my track,--the native

in those part be not then so much awe by the white man as now. a

boomerang(1) have whir by I, bury itself amongst the herbage close

before my foot. I have turn, seek to find and to face these dastardly

foe; they contrive to elude I. but when I move on, my ear, sharpen

by danger, hear they move, too, in my rear. once only three hideous

form suddenly face I, spring up from a thicket, all tangle with

honeysuckle and creeper of blue and vermilion. I walk steadily up

to they. they halt a moment or so in suspense; but perhaps they be

scared by my stature or awe by my aspect; and the Unfamiliar, though

Human, have terror for they, as the Unfamiliar, although but a Shadow,

have have terror for I. they vanish, and as quickly as if they have

creep into the earth.



at length the air bring I the soft perfume of my well-know acacias,

and my house stand before I, amidst english flower and english

fruit-tree, under the effulgent australian moon. just as I be open

the little gate which give access from the pastureland into the garden,

a figure in white rise up from under light, feathery bough, and a hand

be lay on my arm. I start; but my surprise be change into fear

when I see the pale face and sweet eye of Lilian.



“Heavens! you here! you! at this hour! Lilian, what be this?”



“hush!” she whisper, cling to I; “hush! do not tell: no one know.

I miss you when the storm come on; I have miss you ever since.

other go in search of you and come back. I could not sleep, but the

rest be sleep, so I steal down to watch for you. Brother, brother,

if any harm chance to you, even the angel could not comfort I; all

would be dark, dark! but you be safe, safe, safe!” and she cling to I

yet close.



“ah, Lilian, Lilian, your vision in the hour I first behold you be

indeed prophetic,--‘each have need of the other.’ do you remember?”



“softly, softly,” she say, “let I think!” she stand quietly by my

side, look up into the sky, with all its numberless star, and its

solitary moon now sink slow behind the verge of the forest. “it come

back to I,” she murmur softly,--“the Long ago,--the sweet Long ago!”



I hold my breath to listen.



“there, there!” she resume, point to the heaven; “do you see?

you be there, and my father, and--and--oh! that terrible face, those

serpent eye, the dead man’s skull! save I! save I!”



she bow her head upon my bosom, and I lead she gently back towards

the house. as we gain the door which she have leave open, the starlight

shine across the shadowy gloom within, she lift her face from my

breast, and cast a hurried fearful look round the shine garden, then

into the dim recess beyond the threshold.



“it be there--there!--the Shadow that lure I on, whisper that if

I follow it I should join my beloved. false, dreadful Shadow! it will

fade soon,--fade into the grinning horrible skull. Brother, brother,

where be my Allen? be he dead--dead--or be it I who be dead to he?”



I could but clasp she again to my breast, and seek to mantle

her shiver form with my dripping garment, all the while my

eye--follow the direction which hers have take--dwelt on the wall

of the nook within the threshold, half lose in darkness, half white in

starlight. and there I, too, beheld the haunting Luminous Shadow, the

spectral effigy of the mysterious being, whose very existence in the

flesh be a riddle unsolved by my reason. distinctly I see the Shadow,

but its light be far pale, its outline far more vague, than when I

have behold it before. I take courage, as I feel Lilian’s heart beat

against my own. I advance, I cross the threshold,--the Shadow be

go.



“there be no Shadow here,--no phantom to daunt thee, my life’s life,”

 say I, bend over Lilian.



“it have touch I in pass; I feel it--cold, cold, cold!” she

answer faintly.



I bear she to her room, place she on her bed, strike a light, watch

over she. at dawn there be a change in her face, and from that

time health gradually leave she; strength slowly, slowly, yet to I

perceptibly, ebb from her life away.



(1) a missile weapon peculiar to the australian savage.













CHAPTER LXXIII.



month upon month have roll on since the night in which Lilian have

watch for my come amidst the chilling air--under the haunt moon.

I have say that from the date of that night her health begin gradually

to fail, but in her mind there be evidently at work some slow

revolution. her visionary abstraction be less frequent; when they

occur, less prolonged. there be no long in her soft face that

celestial serenity which speak her content in her dream, but often a

look of anxiety and trouble. she be even more silent than before; but

when she do speak, there be now evident some struggle gleam of

memory. she startle we, at time, by a distinct allusion to the

event and scene of her early childhood. More than once she speak

of commonplace incident and mere acquaintance at L----. at last

she seem to recognize Mrs. Ashleigh as her mother; but I, as Allen

Fenwick, her betroth, her bridegroom, no! once or twice she speak

to I of she beloved as of a stranger to myself, and ask I not to

deceive she--should she ever see he again? there be one change in

this new phase of her state that wound I to the quick. she have

always previously seem to welcome my presence; now there be hour,

sometimes day together, in which my presence be evidently painful to

she. she would become agitated when I steal into her room, make sign to

I to leave she, grow yet more disturbed if I do not immediately obey,

and become calm again when I be go.



Faber seek constantly to sustain my courage and administer to my hope

by remind I of the prediction he have hazarded,--namely, that through

some malady to the frame the reason would be ultimately restore.



he say, “Observe! her mind be first rouse from its slumber by the

affectionate, unconquered impulse of her heart. you be absent; the

storm alarm she, she miss you,--feared for you. the love within

she, not alienate, though latent, draw her thought into definite

human track. and thus, the word that you tell I she utter when

you appear before she be word of love, stricken, though as yet

irregularly, as the wind strike the harp-string from chord of

awakened memory. the same unwonted excitement, together with lengthened

exposure to the cold night-air, will account for the shock to her

physical system, and the languor and waste of strength by which it have

be succeed.”



“ay, and the Shadow that we both see within the threshold. what of

that?”



“be there no record on evidence, which most physician of very

extend practice will perhaps allow that their experience more or

less tend to confirm--no record of the singular coincidence between

individual impression which be produce by sympathy? now, whether you

or your Lilian be first haunt by this Shadow I know not. perhaps

before it appear to you in the wizard’s chamber it have appear to

she by the monk’ well. perhaps, as it come to you in the prison, so it

lure she through the solitude, associate its illusory guidance with

dream of you. and again, when she see it within your threshold, your

fantasy, so abruptly invoke, make you see with the eye of your Lilian!

do this doctrine of sympathy, though by that very mystery you two

love each other at first,--though, without it, love at first sight be

in itself an incredible miracle,--does, I say, this doctrine of sympathy

seem to you inadmissible? then nothing be leave for we but to revolve the

conjecture I before throw out. have certain organization like that of

Margrave the power to impress, through space, the imagination of those

over whom they have force a control? I know not. but if they have, it

be not supernatural; it be but one of those operation in Nature so rare

and exceptional, and of which testimony and evidence be so imperfect

and so liable to superstitious illusion, that they have not yet be

trace--as, if truthful, no doubt they can be, by the patient genius of

science--to one of those secondary cause by which the Creator ordain

that Nature shall act on Man.”



by degree I become dissatisfied with my conversation with Faber. I

yearn for explanation; all guess but bewilder I more. in his

family, with one exception, I find no congenial association. his nephew

seem to I an ordinary speciman of a very trite human nature,--a young

man of limited idea, fair moral tendency, go mechanically right

where not tempt to wrong. the same desire of gain which have urge he

to gamble and speculate when throw in society rife with such example,

lead he, now in the Bush, to healthful, industrious, persevere labour.

“spe fovet agricolas,” say the poet; the same hope which entice

the fish to the hook impel the plough of the husband-man. the

young farmer’s young wife be somewhat superior to he; she have more

refinement of taste, more culture of mind, but, live in his life, she

be inevitably level to his end and pursuit; and, next to the babe

in the cradle, no object seem to she so important as that of guard

the sheep from the scab and the dingo. I be amazed to see how quietly

a man whose mind be so store by life and by book as that of Julius

Faber--a man who have love the clash of conflict intellect, and

acquire the reward of fame--could accommodate himself to the cabin

range of his kinsfolk’ half-civilized existence, take interest in their

trivial talk, find vary excitement in the monotonous household of a

peasant-like farmer. I could not help say as much to he once. “my

friend,” reply the old man, “believe I that the happy art of

intellect, however lofty, be that which enable it to be cheerfully at

home with the real!”



the only one of the family in which Faber be domesticate in whom I

find an interest, to whose talk I could listen without fatigue, be the

child Amy. simple though she be in language, patient of labour as the

most laborious, I recognize in she a quiet nobleness of sentiment,

which exalt above the commonplace the act of her commonplace life.

she have no precocious intellect, no enthusiastic fancy, but she have an

exquisite activity of heart. it be her heart that animate her sense

of duty, and make duty a sweetness and a joy. she feel to the core

the kindness of those around she; exaggerated, with the warmth of her

gratitude, the claim which that kindness impose. even for the blessing

of life, which she share with all creation, she feel as if single

out by the undeserved favour of the Creator, and thus be fill with

religion, because she be fill with love.



my interest in this child be increase and deepen by my saddened and

not wholly unremorseful remembrance of the night on which her sob have

pierce my ear,--the night from which I secretly date the mysterious

agency that have wrench from their proper field and career both my

mind and my life. but a gentle interest endear she to my thought

in the pleasure that Lilian feel in her visit, in the affectionate

intercourse that spring up between the afflict sufferer and the

harmless infant. often when we fail to comprehend some meaning

which Lilian evidently wish to convey to we--we, her mother and her

husband--she be understand with as much ease by Amy, the unlettered

child, as by Faber, the gray-haired thinker.



“how be it,--how be it?” I ask, impatiently and jealously, of Faber.

“love be say to interpret where wisdom fail, and you yourself talk

of the marvel which sympathy may effect between lover and belove; yet

when, for day together, I cannot succeed in unravel Lilian’s wish

or her thought--and her own mother be equally in fault--you or

Amy, closet alone with she for five minute, comprehend and be

comprehend.”



“Allen,” answer Faber, “Amy and I believe in spirit; and she, in whom

mind be dormant but spirit awake, feel in such belief a sympathy which

she have not, in that respect, with yourself, nor even with her mother.

you seek only through your mind to conjecture her. her mother have sense

clear enough where habitual experience can guide it, but that sense be

confused, and forsake she when force from the regular pathway in which

it have be accustom to tread. Amy and I through soul guess at soul,

and though mostly content with earth, we can both rise at time into

heaven. we pray.”



“alas!” say I, half mournfully, half angrily, “when you thus speak of

mind as distinct from Soul, it be only in that vision which you bid

I regard as the illusion of a fancy stimulate by chemical vapour,

produce on the brain an effect similar to that of opium or the

inhalation of the oxide gas, that I have ever see the silver spark of

the Soul distinct from the light of the mind. and hold, as I do, that

all intellectual idea be derive from the experience of the body,

whether I accept the theory of Locke, or that of Condillac, or that into

which their proposition reach their final development in the wonderful

subtlety of Hume, I cannot detect the immaterial spirit in the material

substance,--much less follow its escape from the organic matter in which

the principle of thought cease with the principle of life. when the

metaphysician, contend for the immortality of the thinking faculty,

analyze Mind, his analysis comprehend the mind of the brute, nay, of

the insect, as well as that of man. take Reid’s definition of Mind, as

the most comprehensive which I can at the moment remember: ‘by the mind

of a man we understand that in he which think, remember, reason, and

wills.(1) but this definition only distinguish the mind of man from

that of the brute by superiority in the same attribute, and not by

attribute deny to the brute. an animal, even an insect, think,

remember, reason, and wills.(1) few naturalist will now support the

doctrine that all the mental operation of brute or insect be to

be exclusively refer to instinct; and, even if they do, the word

‘instinct’ be a very vague word,--loose and large enough to cover an

abyss which our knowledge have not sound. and, indeed, in proportion as

an animal like the dog becomes cultivate by intercourse, his instinct

grow weak, and his idea form by experience (namely, his mind), more

developed, often to the conquest of the instinct themselves. hence,

with his usual candour, Dr. Abercrombie--in contend ‘that everything

mental cease to exist after death, when we know that everything

corporeal continue to exist, be a gratuitous assumption contrary to

every rule of philosophical inquiry’--feels compel, by his reasoning,

to admit the probability of a future life even to the low animal.

his word be: ‘to this anode of reasoning it have be object that it

would go to establish an immaterial principle in the low animal which

in they exhibit many of the phenomenon of mind. I have only to answer,

be it so. there be in the low animal many of the phenomenon of

mind, and with regard to these, we also contend that they be entirely

distinct from anything we know of the property of matter, which be all

that we mean, or can mean, by be immaterial.’(2) be I then drive to

admit that if man’s mind be immaterial and imperishable, so also be that

of the ape and the ant?”



“I own,” say Faber, with his peculiar smile, arch and genial, “that if

I be compel to make that admission, it would not shock my pride.

I do not presume to set any limit to the goodness of the Creator; and

should be as humbly pleased as the Indian, if in--





   “‘yonder sky,

    my faithful dog should bear I company.’



“you be too familiar with the work of that Titan in wisdom and error,

Descartes, not to recollect the interesting correspondence between the

urbane philosopher and our combative countryman, Henry More,(3) on this

very subject; in which certainly more have the good of it when Descartes

insist on reduce what he call the soul (l’ame) of brute into the

same kind of machine as man construct from inorganized matter. the

learning, indeed, lavish on the insoluble question involve in

the psychology of the inferior animal be a proof at least of the

all-inquisitive, redundant spirit of man.(4) we have almost a literature

in itself devote to endeavour to interpret the language of brutes.(5)

Dupont de Nemours have discover that dog talk in vowel, use only

two consonant, G, Z, when they be angry. he assert that cat

employ the same vowel as dog; but their language be more affluent in

consonant, include M, N, B, R, V, F. how many laborious effort have

be make to define and to construe the song of the nightingale! one

version of that song, by Beckstein, the naturalist, publish in 1840,

I remember to have see. and I hear a lady, gift with a singularly

charming voice, chant the mysterious vowel with so exquisite a pathos,

that one could not refuse to believe she when she declare that she

fully comprehend the bird’s meaning, and give to the nightingale’s

warble the tender interpretation of her own woman’s heart.



“but leave all such discussion to their proper place amongst the

Curiosities of Literature, I come in earnest to the question you have

so earnestly raise; and to I the distinction between man and the

low animal in reference to a spiritual nature design for a future

existence, and the mental operation whose use be bound to an

existence on earth, seem ineffaceably clear. whether idea or even

perception be innate or all form by experience be a speculation

for metaphysician, which, so far as it affect the question of as

immaterial principle, I be quite willing to lay aside. I can well

understand that a materialist may admit innate idea in Man, as he

must admit they in the instinct of brute, trace they to hereditary

predisposition. on the other hand, we know that the most devout

believer in our spiritual nature have insist, with Locke, in deny

any idea, even of the deity, to be innate.



“but here come my argument. I care not how idea be formed,--the

material point be, how be the capacity to receive idea form? the

idea may all come from experience, but the capacity to receive the

idea must be inherent. I take the word ‘capacity’ as a good plain

english word, rather than the more technical word ‘receptivity,’

employ by Kant. and by capacity I mean the passive power(6) to

receive idea, whether in man or in any live thing by which idea

be receive. a man and an elephant be each form with capacity to

receive idea suit to the several place in the universe hold by each.



“the more I look through nature the more I find that on all variety

of organized life be carefully bestow the capacity to receive the

impression, be they call perception or idea, which be adapt to

the use each creature be intend to derive from they. I find, then,

that Man alone be endow with the capacity to receive the idea of

a God, of Soul, of worship, of a Hereafter. I see no trace of such a

capacity in the inferior race; nor, however their intelligence may be

refine by culture, be such capacity ever apparent in they.



“but wherever capacity to receive impression be sufficiently general

in any give specie of creature to be call universal to that specie,

and yet not give to another specie, then, from all analogy throughout

nature, those capacity be surely design by Providence for the

distinct use and conservation of the specie to which they be give.



“it be no answer to I to say that the inherent capacity thus bestow

on Man do not suffice in themselves to make he form right notion of

a deity or a Hereafter; because it be plainly the design of Providence

that Man must learn to correct and improve all his notion by his

own study and observation. he must build a hut before he can build a

Parthenon; he must believe with the savage or the heathen before he

can believe with the philosopher or Christian. in a word, in all his

capacity, Man have only give to he, not the immediate knowledge of

the Perfect, but the mean to strive towards the Perfect. and thus one

of the most accomplished of modern reasoner, to whose lecture you must

have listen with delight, in your college day, say well:--





   “‘accordingly the science always study with keenest interest be

     those in a state of progress and uncertainty; absolute certainty and

     absolute completion would be the paralysis of any study, and the last

     bad calamity that could befall Man, as he be at present

     constitute, would be that full and final possession of speculative

     truth which he now vainly anticipate as the consummation of his

     intellectual happiness.’(7)



“well, then, in all those capacity for the reception of impression

from external nature which be give to Man and not to the brute, I see

the evidence of Man’s Soul. I can understand why the inferior animal

have no capacity to receive the idea of a Deity and of worship--simply

because the inferior animal, even if graciously admit to a future

life, may not therein preserve the sense of its identity. I can

understand even why that sympathy with each other which we man possess

and which constitute the great virtue we emphatically call Humanity,

be not possess by the less animal (or, at least, in a very rare and

exceptional degree) even where they live in community, like beaver,

or bee, or ant; because man be destine to meet, to know, and to love

each other in the life to come, and the bond between the brute cease

here.



“now the more, then, we examine the inherent capacity bestow

distinctly and solely on Man, the more they seem to distinguish he from

the other race by their comprehension of object beyond his life upon

this earth.





   “‘man alone,’ say Muller, ‘can conceive abstract notion; and it be in

     abstract notion--such as time, space, matter, spirit, light, form,

     quantity, essence--that man ground, not only all philosophy, all

     science, but all that practically improve one generation for the

     benefit of the next.’



“and why? because all these abstract notion unconsciously lead the mind

away from the material into the immaterial,--from the present into the

future. but if Man cease to exist when he disappear in the grave, you

must be compel to affirm that he be the only creature in existence

whom Nature or Providence have condescend to deceive and cheat by

capacity for which there be no available object. how nobly and how

truly have Chalmers said:--





   “‘what inference shall we draw from this remarkable law in Nature that

     there be nothing waste and nothing meaningless in the feeling and

     faculty wherewith living creature be endow?  for each desire

     there be a counterpart object; for each faculty there be room and

     opportunity for exercise either in the present or the come

     futurity.  now, but for the doctrine of immortality, Man would be an

     exception to this law,-he would stand forth as an anomaly in Nature,

     with aspiration in his heart for which the universe have no antitype

     to offer, with capacity of understanding and think that never

     be to be follow by object of correspond greatness through the

     whole history of his being!



              ............



   “‘with the inferior animal there be a certain squareness of

     adjustment, if we may so term it, between each desire and its

     correspondent gratification.  the one be evenly meet by the other, and

     there be a fulness and definiteness of enjoyment up to the capacity

     of enjoyment.  not so with Man, who, both from the vastness of his

     propensity and the vastness of his power, feel himself chain

     and beset in a field too narrow for he.  he alone labour under the

     discomfort of an incongruity between his circumstance and his

     power; and unless there be new circumstance await he in a more

     advanced state of be, he, the noble of nature’s product here,

     would turn out to be the great of her failure.’(8)



“this, then, I take to be the proof of Soul in Man, not that he have a

mind--because, as you justly say, inferior animal have that, though

in a less degree--but because he have the capacity to comprehend, as

soon as he be capable of any abstract idea whatsoever, the very truth

not need for self-conservation on earth, and therefore not give to

yonder ox and opossum,--namely, the nature of Deity, Soul, Hereafter.

and in the recognition of these truth, the human society, that excel

the society of beaver, bee, and ant, by perpetual and progressive

improvement on the notion inherit from its progenitor, rest its

basis. thus, in fact, this world be benefit for man by their belief

in the next, while the society of brute remain age after age the same.

neither the bee nor the beaver have, in all probability, improve since

the Deluge.



“but inseparable from the conviction of these truth be the impulse of

prayer and worship. it do not touch my argument when a philosopher of

the school of Bolingbroke or Lucretius say, ‘that the origin of prayer

be in Man’s ignorance of the phenomena of Nature.’ that it be fear or

ignorance which, ‘when rock the mountain or when groan the ground,

teach the weak to bend, the proud to pray.’ my answer be, the brute

be much more forcibly impress by natural phenomenon than Man be; the

bird and the beast know before you and I do when the mountain will rock

and the ground groan, and their instinct lead they to shelter; but it

do not lead they to prayer. if my theory be right that Soul be to be

seek not in the question whether mental idea be innate or form by

experience, by the sense, by association or habit, but in the inherent

capacity to receive idea, then, the capacity bestow on Man alone,

to be impress by Nature herself with the idea of a power superior to

Nature, with which power he can establish commune, be a proof that to

Man alone the Maker have make Nature itself proclaim his existence,--that

to Man alone the deity vouchsafe the communion with himself which come

from prayer.”



“even be this so,” say I, “be not the Creator omniscient? if

all-wise, all-foresee? if all-foresee, all-pre-ordaining? can the

prayer of his creature alter the way of his will?”



“for the answer to a question,” return Faber, “which be not

unfrequently ask by the clever man of the world, I ought to refer you

to the skilled theologian who have so triumphantly carry the reasoner

over that ford of doubt which be cross every day by the infant. but

as we have not their book in the wilderness, I be content to draw my

reply as a necessary and logical sequence from the proposition I have

seek to ground on the plain observation of Nature. I can only guess

at the deity’s omniscience, or his mode of enforce his power by the

observation of his general law; and of all his law, I know of none

more general than the impulse which bid man pray,--which make nature

so act, that all the phenomenon of Nature we can conceive, however

startling and inexperienced, do not make the brute pray, but there

be not a trouble that can happen to Man, but what his impulse be to

pray,--always provide, indeed, that he be not a philosopher. I say not

this in scorn of the philosopher, to whose wild guess our obligation

be infinite, but simply because for all which be impulsive to Man,

there be a reason in Nature which no philosophy can explain away. I do

not, then, bewilder myself by seek to bind and limit the omniscience

of the deity to my finite idea. I content myself with suppose that

somehow or other, he have make it quite compatible with his omniscience

that Man should obey the impulse which lead he to believe that, in

address a deity, he be address a tender, compassionate, benignant

Father, and in that obedience shall obtain beneficial result. if that

impulse be an illusion, then we must say that Heaven govern the earth

by a lie; and that be impossible, because, reasoning by analogy, all

Nature be truthful,--that be, Nature give to no species instinct

or impulse which be not of service to it. should I not be a shallow

physician if, where I find in the human organization a principle or

a property so general that I must believe it normal to the healthful

condition of that organization, I should refuse to admit that Nature

intend it for use? reasoning by all analogy, must I not say the

habitual neglect of its use must more or less injure the harmonious

well-being of the whole human system? I could have much to add upon

the point in dispute by which the creed imply in your question would

enthrall the divine mercy by the necessity of its divine wisdom, and

substitute for a benignant deity a relentless fate. but here I should

exceed my province. I be no theologian. enough for I that in all

my affliction, all my perplexity, an impulse, that I obey as an

instinct, move I at once to prayer. do I find by experience that the

prayer be hear, that the affliction be remove, the doubt be solve?

that, indeed, would be presumptuous to say. but it be not presumptuous

to think that by the efficacy of prayer my heart become more fortified

against the sorrow, and my reason more serene amidst the doubt.”



I listen, and cease to argue. I feel as if in that solitude, and

in the pause of my wonte mental occupation, my intellect be grow

languid, and its old weapon rust in disuse. my pride take alarm. I

have so from my boyhood cherish the idea of fame, and so glorify the

search after knowledge, that I recoil in dismay from the thought that

I have relinquish knowledge, and cut myself off from fame. I resolve

to resume my once favourite philosophical pursuit, re-examine and

complete the Work to which I have once commit my hope of renown; and,

simultaneously, a restless desire seize I to communicate, though but

at brief interval, with other mind than those immediately within my

reach,--minds fresh from the old world, and revive the memory of

its vivid civilization. emigrant frequently pass my door, but I have

hitherto shrink from tender the hospitality so universally accord

in the colony. I could not endure to expose to such rough stranger my

Lilian’s mournful affliction, and that think be not less intolerable

to Mrs. Ashleigh. I now hastily construct a log-building a few hundred

yard from the house, and near the main track take by traveller

through the spacious pasture. I transport to this build my book

and scientific instrument. in an upper story I place my telescope and

lense, my crucible and retort. I renew my chemical experiment; I

seek to invigorate my mind by other branch of science which I have

hitherto less cultured,--meditated new theory on Light and Colour,

collect specimen in Natural History, subject animalcule to my

microscope, geological fossil to my hammer. with all these quicken

occupation of thought, I strove to distract myself from sorrow, and

strengthen my reason against the illusion of my fantasy. the luminous

Shadow be not see again on my wall, and the thought of Margrave

himself be banish.



in this building I pass many hour of each day; more and more

earnestly plunge my thought into depth of abstract study, as

Lilian’s unaccountable dislike to my presence become more and more

decide. when I thus cease to think that my life cheer and comfort

her, my heart’s occupation be go. I have annex to the apartment

reserve for myself in the log-hut a couple of spare room, in which I

could accommodate pass stranger. I learn to look forward to their

come with interest, and to see they depart with regret; yet, for

the most part, they be of the ordinary class of colonial

adventurers,--bankrupt tradesman, unlucky farmer, forlorn mechanic,

horde of unskilled labourer, now and then a briefless barrister, or a

sporting collegian who have lose his all on the Derby. one day, however,

a young man of education and manner that unmistakably proclaim the

cultured gentleman of Europe, stop at my door. he be a cadet of

a noble prussian family, which for some political reason have settle

itself in Paris; there he have become intimate with young french noble,

and live the life of a young french noble have soon scandalize his

german parent, forestall his slender inheritance, and be compel

to fly his father’s frown and his tailor’s bill. all this he tell I

with a lively frankness which prove how much the wit of a german can

be quicken in the atmosphere of Paris. an old college friend, of birth

inferior to his own, have be as unfortunate in seek to make money as

this young prodigal have be an adept in spend it. the friend, a

few year previously, have accompany other Germans in a migration to

Australia, and be already thrive; the spendthrift noble be on his

way to join the bankrupt trader, at a german settlement fifty mile

distant from my house. this young man be unlike any German I ever meet.

he have all the exquisite levity by which the well-breed Frenchman give

to the doctrine of the Cynic the grace of the Epicurean. he own

himself to be good for nothing with an elegance of candour which not

only disarm censure, but seem to challenge admiration; and, withal,

the happy spendthrift be so inebriate with hope,--sure that he should

be rich before he be thirty. how and wherefore rich, he could have

no more explain than I can square the circle. when the grand serious

german nature do frenchify itself, it can become so extravagantly

french!



I listen, almost enviously, to this light-hearted profligate’s babble,

as we sit by my rude fireside,--I, sombre man of science and sorrow,

he, smile child of idleness and pleasure, so much one of Nature’s

courtier-like noble, that there, as he smoke his villanous pipe, in

his dust-soil shabby garment, and with his ruffianly revolver stick

into his belt, I would defy the dainty Aristarch who ever preside as

critic over the holiday world not to have say, “there smile the

genius beyond my law, the bear darling of the Graces, who in every

circumstance, in every age, like Aristippus, would have socially

charm; would have be welcome to the orgy of a Caesar or a Clodius,

to the boudoir of a Montespan or a Pompadour; have lounge through the

Mulberry Gardens with a Rochester and a Buckingham, or smile from the

death-cart, with a Richelieu and a Lauzun, a gentleman’s disdain of a

mob!”



I be so think as we sit, his light talk froth up from his

careless lip, when suddenly from the spray and the sparkle of that

light talk be fling forth the name of Margrave.



“Margrave!” I exclaim. “pardon I. what of he?”



“what of he! I ask if, by chance, you know the only Englishman I ever

have the meanness to envy?”



“perhaps you speak of one person, and I think of another.”



“Pardieu, my dear host, there can scarcely be two margrave! the one of

whom I speak flash like a meteor upon Paris, buy from a prince of

the Bourse a palace that might have lodge a prince of the blood-royal,

eclipse our Jew banker in splendour, our jeunesse doree in good look

and hair-brain adventure, and, strange of all, fill his salon with

philosopher and charlatan, chemist and spirit-rapper; insult the

grave don of the school by bring they face to face with the most

impudent quack, the most ridiculous dreamers,--and yet, withal, himself

so racy and charming, so bon prince, so bon enfant! for six month he

be the rage at Paris: perhaps he might have continue to be the rage

there for six year, but all at once the meteor vanish as suddenly as

it have flash. be this the Margrave whom you know?”



“I should not have think the Margrave whom I know could have

reconcile his taste to the life of city.”



“nor could this man: city be too tame for he. he have go to some

far-remote wild in the East,--some say in search of the Philosopher’s

Stone; for he actually maintain in his house a sicilian adventurer,

who, when at work on that famous discovery, be stifle by the fume of

his own crucible. after that misfortune, Margrave take Paris in disgust,

and we lose he.”



“so this be the only Englishman whom you envy! envy he? why?”



“because he be the only Englishman I ever meet who contrive to be rich

and yet free from the spleen; I envy he because one have only to look

at his face and see how thoroughly he enjoy the life of which your

countryman seem to be so heartily tired. but now that I have satisfy

your curiosity, pray satisfy mine. who and what be this Englishman?”



“who and what be he suppose at Paris to be?”



“conjecture be numberless. one of your countryman suggest that

which be the most generally favour. this gentleman, whose name I

forget, but who be one of those old roue who fancy themselves young

because they live with the young, no soon set eye upon Margrave, than

he exclaim, ‘Louis Grayle come to life again, as I see he forty-four

year ago! but no--still young, still handsomer--it must be his son!”



“Louis Grayle, who be say to be murder at Aleppo?”



“the same. that strange old man be enormously rich; but it seem that

he hate his lawful heir, and leave behind he a fortune so far below

that which he be know to possess that he must certainly have dispose

of it secretly before his death. why so dispose of it, if not to enrich

some natural son, whom, for private reason, he might not have wish

to acknowledge, or point out to the world by the signal bequest of

his will? all that Margrave ever say of himself and the source of his

wealth confirm this belief. he frankly proclaim himself a natural

son, enrich by a father whose name he know not nor care to know.”



“it be true. and Margrave quit Paris for the East. when?”



“I can tell you the date within a day or two, for his flight precede

mine by a week; and, happily, all Paris be so busy in talk of it,

that I slip away without notice.”



and the Prussian then name a date which it thrill I to hear, for

it be in that very month, and about that very day, that the luminous

Shadow have stand within my threshold.



the young count now strike off into other subject of talk: nothing more

be say of Margrave. an hour or two afterwards he go on his way, and

I remained long gaze musingly on the ember of the die glow on my

hearth.



(1) “be intelligence and instinct, thus differ in their relative

proportion in man as compare with all other animal, yet the same in

kind and manner of operation in both? to this question we must give

at once an affirmative answer. the expression of cuvier, regard the

faculty of reasoning in low animal, ‘leur intelligence execute de

operation du meme genre,’ be true in its full sense. we can in no

manner define reason so as to exclude act which be at every moment

present to our observation, and which we find in many instance to

contravene the natural instinct of the specie. the demeanour and act

of the dog in reference to his master, or the various use to which

he be put by man, be as strictly logical as those we witness in the

ordinary transaction of life.”--Sir Henry Holland, chapter on “Mental

Physiology,” p. 220.



the whole of the chapter on Instincts and Habits in this work should

be read in connection with the passage just quote. the work itself, at

once cautious and suggestive, be not one of the least obligation which

philosophy and religion alike owe to the lucubration of english medical

man.



(2) Abercrombie’s Intellectual Powers, p. 26. (15th Edition.)



(3) OEuvres de Descartes, vol. x. p. 178, et seq. (Cousin’s Edition.)



(4) M. Tissot the distinguished Professor of Philosophy at Dijon, in his

recent work, “La Vie dans l’Homme,” p. 255, give a long and illustrious

list of philosopher who assign a rational soul (ame) to the inferior

animal, though he truly add, “that they have not always the courage of

their opinion.”



(5) some idea of the extent of research and imagination bestow on this

subject may be glean from the sprightly work of Pierquin de Gemblouz,

“Idiomologie des Animaux,” publish at Paris, 1844.



(6) “faculty be active power: capacity be passive power.”--Sir W.

Hamilton: lecture on Metaphysics and Logic, vol. i. p.178.



(7) Sir W. Hamilton’s “Lectures,” vol. i. p. 10.



(8) Chalmers, “Bridgewater Treatise,” vol. ii. pp. 28, 30. perhaps I

should observe, that here and elsewhere in the dialogue between Faber

and Fenwick, it have generally be think well to substitute the

word of the author quote for the mere outline or purport of the

quotation which memory afford to the interlocutor.













CHAPTER LXXIV.



my Work, my Philosophical Work--the ambitious hope of my intellectual

life--how eagerly I return to it again! far away from my household

grief, far away from my haggard perplexity--neither a lilian nor a

Margrave there!



as I go over what I have before write, each link in its chain of

reasoning seem so serried, that to alter one be to derange all; and

the whole reasoning be so opposed to the possibility of the wonder I

myself have experience, so hostile to the subtle hypothesis of a Faber,

or the childlike belief of an Amy, that I must have destroy the entire

work if I have admit such contradiction to its design!



but the work be I myself!--I, in my solid, sober, healthful mind,

before the brain have be perplex by a phantom. be phantom to be

allow as testimony against science? no; in return to my Book, I

return to my former Me!



how strange be that contradiction between our be as man and our being

as Author! take any writer enamour of a system: a thousand thing may

happen to he every day which might shake his faith in that system;

and while he move about as mere man, his faith be shake. but when he

settle himself back into the phase of his being as author, the mere act

of take pen in hand and smooth the paper before he restore his

speculation to their ancient mechanical train. the system, the beloved

system, reassert its tyrannic sway, and he either ignore, or mould

into fresh proof of his theory as author, all which, an hour before,

have give his theory the lie in his living perception as man.



I adhere to my system,--I continue my work. here, in the barbarous

desert, be a link between I and the Cities of Europe. all else might

break down under I. the love I have dream of be blot out from the

world, and might never be restore; my heart might be lonely, my life be

an exile’s. my reason might, at last, give way before the spectre which

awe my sense, or the sorrow which storm my heart. but here at least

be a monument of my rational thoughtful Me,--of my individualized

identity in multiform creation. and my mind, in the noon of its force,

would shed its light on the earth when my form be resolve to its

element. alas! in this very yearning for the Hereafter, though but the

Hereafter of a name, could I see only the craving of Mind, and hear not

the whisper of Soul!



the avocation of a colonist, usually so active, have little interest for

I. this vast territorial lordship, in which, could I have endear its

possession by the hope that animate a Founder, I should have feel all

the z and the pride of ownership, be but the run of a common to the

pass emigrant, who would leave no son to inherit the tardy product

of his labour. I be not goad to industry by the stimulus of need.

I could only be ruin if I risk all my capital in the attempt to

improve. I live, therefore, amongst my fertile pasture, as careless of

culture as the english occupant of the Highland moor, which he rent for

the range of its solitude.



I know, indeed, that if ever I become avaricious, I might swell my

modest affluence into absolute wealth. I have revisit the spot in which

I have discover the nugget of gold, and have find the precious metal

in rich abundance just under the first covering of the alluvial soil.

I conceal my discovery from all. I know that, do I proclaim it, the

charm of my bush-life would be go. my field would be infest by all

the wild adventurer who gather to gold as the vulture of prey round

a carcass; my servant would desert I, my very flock would be

shepherdless!



month again roll on month. I have just approach the close of my

beloved Work, when it be again suspend, and by an anguish keener than

all which I have previously know.



Lilian become alarmingly ill. her state of health, long gradually

decline, have hitherto admit checker interval of improvement, and

exhibit no symptom of actual danger. but now she be seize with a

kind of chronic fever, attend with absolute privation of sleep,

an aversion to even the light nourishment, and an acute nervous

susceptibility to all the outward impression of which she have long

seem so unconscious; morbidly alive to the faint sound, shrink

from the light as from a torture. her previous impatience at my entrance

into her room became aggravate into vehement emotion, convulsive

paroxysm of distress; so that Faber banish I from her chamber, and,

with a heart bleed at every fibre, I submit to the cruel sentence.



Faber have take up his abode in my house and bring Amy with he; one

or the other never leave Lilian, night or day. the great physician speak

doubtfully of the case, but not despairingly.



“remember,” he say, “that in spite of the want of sleep, the abstinence

from food, the form have not waste as it would do be this fever

inevitably mortal. it be upon that phenomenon I build a hope that I have

not be mistake in the opinion I hazard from the first. we be now

in the midst of the critical struggle between life and reason; if she

preserve the one, my conviction be that she will regain the other.

that seem antipathy to yourself be a good oman. you be inseparably

associate with her intellectual world; in proportion as she revive to

it, must become vivid and powerful the reminiscence of the shock that

annul, for a time, that world to she. so I welcome, rather than fear,

the over-susceptibility of the awakening sense to external sight

and sound. a few day will decide if I be right. in this climate the

progress of acute malady be swift, but the recovery from they be yet

more startlingly rapid. wait, endure, be prepared to submit to the will

of Heaven; but do not despond of its mercy.”



I rush away from the consoler,--away into the thick of the forest,

the heart of the solitude. all around I, there, be joyous with life;

the locust sing amidst the herbage; the crane gambol on the bank of

the creek; the squirrel-like opossum frolic on the feathery bough.

“and what,” say I to myself,--“what if that which seem so fabulous in

the distant be whose existence have bewitch my own, be substantially

true? what if to some potent medicament Margrave owe his glorious

vitality, his radiant youth? oh, that I have not so disdainfully turn

away from his hinted solicitation--to what?--to nothing guilty

than lawful experiment. have I be less devoted a bigot to this vain

schoolcraft, which we call the Medical Art, and which, alone in this

age of science, have make no perceptible progress since the day of

its early teacher--have I say, in the true humility of genuine

knowledge, ‘these alchemist be man of genius and thought; we owe to

they nearly all the grand hint of our chemical science,--is it likely

that they would have be wholly driveller and idiot in the one faith

they cling to the most?’--had I say that, I might now have no fear

of lose my Lilian. why, after all, should there not be in Nature one

primary essence, one master substance; in which be store the specific

nutriment of life?”



thus incoherently mutter to the wood what my pride of reason would

not have suffer I gravely to say to my fellow-man, I fatigue my

torment spirit into a gloomy calm, and mechanically retrace my

step at the decline of day. I seat myself at the door of my solitary

log-hut, lean e my cheek upon my hand, and musing. wearily I look

up, rouse by a discord of clatter hoof and lumber wheel on the

hollow-sound grass-track. a crazy groaning vehicle, draw by four

horse, emerge from the copse of gum-trees,--fast, fast along the road,

which no such pompous vehicle have traverse since that which have

bear I--luxurious satrap for an early colonist--to my lodge in the

wilderness. what emigrant rich enough to squander in the hire of such

an equipage more than its cost in England, could thus be enter on my

waste domain? an ominous thrill shot through I.



the driver--perhaps some break-down son of luxury in the Old World, fit

for nothing in the New World but to ply, for hire, the task that might

have lead to his ruin when ply in sport--stop at the door of my hut,

and call out, “Friend, be not this the great Fenwick Section, and be

not yonder long pile of build the Master’s house?”



before I could answer I hear a faint voice, within the vehicle,

speak to the driver; the last nod, descend from his seat, open

the carriage-door, and offer his arm to a man, who, wave aside the

proffer aid, descend slowly and feebly; pause a moment as if for

breath, and then, lean on his staff, walk from the road, across

the sward rank with luxuriant herbage, through the little gate in the

new-set fragrant wattle-fence, wearily, languidly, halt often, till

he stand face I, lean both wan and emaciated hand upon his staff,

and his meagre form shrink deep within the fold of a cloak line

thick with costly sable. his face be sharp, his complexion of a

livid yellow, his eye shine out from their hollow orbit, unnaturally

enlarge and fatally bright. thus, in ghastly contrast to his former

splendour of youth and opulence of life, Margrave stand before I.



“I come to you,” say Margrave, in accent hoarse and break, “from the

shore of the East. give I shelter and rest. I have that to say which

will more than repay you.”



whatever, till that moment, my hate and my fear of this unexpected

visitant, hate would have be inhumanity, fear a meanness, conceive

for a creature so awfully stricken down.



silently, involuntarily, I lead he into the house. there he rest a few

minute, with closed eye and painful gasp for breath. meanwhile, the

driver bring from the carriage a travel-bag and a small wooden

chest or coffer, strongly band with iron clamp. Margrave, look up

as the man draw near, exclaim fiercely, “who tell you to touch

that chest? how dare you? take it from that man, Fenwick! place it

here,--here by my side!”



I take the chest from the driver, whose rise anger at be so

imperiously rate in the land of democratic equality be appease by the

gold which Margrave lavishly fling to he.



“take care of the poor gentleman, squire,” he whisper to I, in the

spontaneous impulse of gratitude, “I fear he will not trouble you long.

he must be monstrous rich. arrive in a vessel hire all to himself, and

a train of outlandish attendant, whom he have leave behind in the town

yonder. may I bait my horse in your stable? they have come a long

way.”



I point to the neighbouring stable, and the man nod his thank,

remount his box, and drive off.



I return to Margrave. a faint smile come to his lip as I place the

chest beside he.



“ay, ay,” he mutter. “safe! safe! I shall soon be well again,--very

soon! and now I can sleep in peace!”



I lead he into an inner room, in which there be a bed. he throw himself

on it with a loud sigh of relief. soon, half raise himself on his

elbow, he exclaim, “the chest--bring it hither! I need it always

beside I! there, there! now for a few hour of sleep; and then, if I

can take food, or some such restore cordial as your skill may suggest,

I shall be strong enough to talk. we will talk! we will talk!”



his eye close heavily as his voice fall into a drowsy mutter: a moment

more and he be asleep.



I watch beside he, in mingle wonder and compassion. look into

that face, so altered yet still so young, I could not sternly question

what have be the evil of that mystic life, which seem now ooze away

through the last sand in the hour-glass. I place my hand softly on his

pulse: it scarcely beat. I put my ear to his breast, and involuntarily

sigh, as I distinguish in its flutter heave that dull, dumb

sound, in which the heart seems knell itself to the greedy grave!



be this, indeed, the potent magician whom I have so feared!--this the

guide to the Rosicrucian’s secret of life’s renewal, in whom, but an

hour or two ago, my fancy gull my credulous trust!



but suddenly, even while thus chide my wild superstition, a fear,

that to most would seem scarcely less superstitious, shoot across I.

could Lilian be affect by the near neighbourhood of one to whose

magnetic influence she have once be so strangely subject? I leave

Margrave still sleep, close and lock the door of the hut, go

back to my dwelling, and meet Amy at the threshold. her smile be so

cheer that I feel at once relieve.



“Hush!” say the child, put her finger to her lip, “she be so

quiet! I be come in search of you, with a message from she.”



“from Lilian to I--what! to I!”



“hush! about an hour ago, she beckon I to draw near to she, and then

say, very softly: ‘tell Allen that light be come back to I, and it

all settle on he--on he. tell he that I pray to be spare to walk by

his side on earth, hand-in-hand to that heaven which be no dream, Amy.

tell he that,--no dream!’”



while the child speak my tear gush, and the strong hand in which

I veil my face quiver like the leaf of the aspen. and when I could

command my voice, I say plaintively,--



“May I not, then, see her?--only for a moment, and answer her message

though but by a look?”



“no, no!”



“no! where be Faber?”



“go into the forest, in search of some herb, but he give I this note

for you.”



I wipe the blind tear from my eye, and read these lines:--



“I have, though with hesitation, permit Amy to tell you the cheering

word, by which our beloved patient confirm my belief that reason

be come back to her,--slowly, labouringly, but if she survive, for

permanent restoration. on no account attempt to precipitate or disturb

the work of nature. as dangerous as a sudden glare of light to eye long

blind and newly regain vision in the friendly and soothe dark would

be the agitation that your presence at this crisis would cause. Confide

in I.”



I remained brood over these line and over Lilian’s message long and

silently, while Amy’s soothe whisper steal into my ear, soft as

the murmur of a rill hear in the gloom of forest. rouse myself at

length, my thought return to Margrave. Doubtless he would soon awake.

I bid Amy bring I such slight nutriment as I think well suit to

his enfeeble state, tell she it be for a sick traveller, rest

himself in my hut. when Amy return, I take from she the little basket

with which she be charge, and have, meanwhile, make a careful

selection from the content of my medicine-chest, go back to the

hut. I have not long resume my place beside Margrave’s pillow before he

awake.



“what o’clock be it?” he ask, with an anxious voice.



“about seven.”



“not later? that be well; my time be precious.”



“compose yourself, and eat.”



I place the food before he, and he partook of it, though sparingly,

and as if with effort. he then doze for a short time, again wake up,

and impatiently demand the cordial, which I have prepare in the mean

while. its effect be great and more immediate than I could have

anticipate, prove, perhaps, how much of youth there be still leave in

his system, however undermined and ravage by disease. colour come back

to his cheek, his voice grow perceptibly strong. and as I light the

lamp on the table near we--for it be grow dark--he gather himself

up, and speak thus,--



“you remember that I once press on you certain experiment. my object

then be to discover the material from which be extract the specific

that enable the organ of life to expel disease and regain vigour. in

that hope I seek your intimacy,--an intimacy you give, but withdraw.”



“dare you complain? who and what be the being from whose intimacy I

shrink appal?”



“ask what question you please,” cry Margrave, impatiently, “later--if

I have strength leave to answer they; but do not interrupt I, while

I husband my force to say what alone be important to I and to you.

disappoint in the hope I have place in you, I resolve to repair

to Paris,--that great furnace of all bold idea. I question learn

formalist; I listen to audacious empiric. the first, with all their

boasted knowledge, be too timid to concede my premise; the second,

with all their speculative daring, too knavish to let I trust to their

conclusion. I find but one man, a Sicilian, who comprehend the

secret that be call occult, and have the courage to meet Nature and

all her agency face to face. he believe, and sincerely, that he be

approach the grand result, at the very moment when he perish from

want of the common precaution which a tyro in chemistry would have

take. at his death the gaudy city become hateful; all its pretend

pleasure only serve to exhaust life the fast. the true joy of youth

be those of the wild bird and wild brute, in the healthful enjoyment

of Nature. in city, youth be but old age with a varnish. I flee to the

East; I pass through the tent of the Arabs; I be guide--no matter

by whom or by what--to the house of a Dervish, who have have for his

teacher the most erudite master of secret occult, whom I know year ago

at Aleppo---why that exclamation?”



“Proceed. what I have to say will come--later.”



“from this Dervish I half force and half purchase the secret I seek

to obtain. I now know from what peculiar substance the so-call elixir

of life be extract; I know also the step of the process through which

that task be accomplish. you smile incredulously. what be your doubt?

state it while I rest for a moment. my breath labour; give I more of

the cordial.”



“need I tell you my doubt? you have, you say, at your command the elixir

of life of which Cagliostro do not leave his disciple the recipe; and

you stretch out your hand for a vulgar cordial which any village chemist

could give you!”



“I can explain this apparent contradiction. the process by which the

elixir be extract from the material which hoard its essence be one

that require a hardihood of courage which few possess. this Dervish,

who have pass through that process once, be deaf to all prayer, and

unmove by all bribe, to attempt it again. he be poor; for the secret

by which metal may be transmute be not, as the old alchemist seem to

imply, identical with that by which the elixir of life be extract. he

have only be enable to discover, in the niggard strata of the land

within range of his travel, a few scanty morsel of the glorious

substance. from these he have extract scarcely enough of the elixir to

fill a third of that little glass which I have just drain. he guard

every drop for himself. who that hold healthful life as the one boon

above all price to the living, would waste upon other what prolong

and recruit his own being? therefore, though he sell I his secret, he

would not sell I his treasure.”



“any quack may sell you the information how to make not only an elixir,

but a sun and a moon, and then scare you from the experiment by tale

of the danger of try it! how do you know that this essence which the

Dervish possess be the elixir of life, since, it seem, you have not

try on yourself what effect its precious drop could produce? poor

wretch, who once seem to I so awfully potent! do you come to the

Antipodes in search of a drug that only exist in the fable by which a

child be amuse?”



“the elixir of life be no fable,” cry Margrave, with a kindling of

eye, a power of voice, a dilatation of form, that startle I in one

just before so feeble. “that elixir be bright in my vein when we last

meet. from that golden draught of the life-spring of joy I take all that

can gladden creation. what sage would not have exchange his wearisome

knowledge for my lusty revel with nature? what monarch would not have

barter his crown, with its brain-ache of care, for the radiance that

circle my brow, flash out from the light that be in I? oh again,

oh again! to enjoy the freedom of air with the bird, and the glow of the

sun with the lizard; to sport through the bloom of the earth, Nature’s

playmate and darling; to face, in the forest and desert, the pard and

the lion,--Nature’s brave and fiercest,--her firstborn, the heir of

her realm, with the rest of her child for slave!”



as these word burst from his lip, there be a wild grandeur in the

aspect of this enigmatical being which I have never behold in the former

time of his affluent, dazzle youth. and, indeed, in his language, and

in the thought it clothe, there be an earnestness, a concentration, a

directness, a purpose, which have seem want to his desultory talk

in the early day I expect that reaction of languor and exhaustion

would follow his vehement outbreak of passion, but, after a short pause,

he go on with steady accent. his will be sustain his strength. he

be determined to force his conviction on I, and the vitality, once so

rich, rally all its linger force to the aid of its intense desire.



“I tell you, then,” he resume, with deliberate calmness, “that, year

ago, I test in my own person that essence which be the sovereign

medicament. in I, as you see I at L----, you behold the proof of its

virtue. feeble and ill as I be now, my state be incalculably more

hopeless when formerly restore by the elixir. he from whom I then

take the sublime restorative die without reveal the secret of its

composition. what I obtain be only just sufficient to recruit the

lamp of my life, then die down--and no drop be leave for renew the

light which waste its own ray in the air that it gild. though the

Dervish would not sell I his treasure, he permit I to see it.

the appearance and odour of this essence be strangely

peculiar,--unmistakable by one who have once behold and partake of

it. in short, I recognize in the hand of the Dervish the bright

life-renewer, as I have bear it away from the corpse of the Sage of

Aleppo.”



“hold! be you then, in truth, the murderer of Haroun, and be your true

name Louis Grayle?”



“I be no murderer, and Louis Grayle do not leave I his name. I again

adjure you to postpone, for this night at least, the question you wish

to address to I.



“see that this obstinate pauper possess that for which the pale

owner of million, at the first touch of palsy or gout, would consent

to be pauper, of course I covet the possession of the essence even

more than the knowledge of the substance from which it be extract. I

have no coward fear of the experiment, which this timid driveller have not

the nerve to renew. but still the experiment might fail. I must traverse

land and sea to find the fit place for it, while, in the rag of the

Dervish, the unfailing result of the experiment be at hand. the Dervish

suspect my design, he dread my power. he flee on the very night

in which I have mean to seize what he refuse to sell I. after all, I

should have do he no great wrong; for I should have leave he wealth

enough to transport himself to any soil in which the material for the

elixir may be most abundant; and the desire of life would have give

his shrink nerve the courage to replenish its ravished store. I

have Arabs in my pay, who obey I as hound their master. I chase the

fugitive. I come on his track, reach a house in a miserable village,

in which, I be tell, he have enter but an hour before. the day be

decline, the light in the room imperfect. I see in a corner what

seem to I the form of the Dervish,--stooped to seize it, and my hand

close on an asp. the artful Dervish have so pile his rag that they

take the shape of the form they have clothe, and he have leave, as a

substitute for the giver of life, the venomous reptile of death.



“the strength of my system enable I to survive the effect of the

poison; but during the torpor that numb I, my Arabs, alarmed, give no

chase to my quarry. at last, though enfeeble and languid, I be again

on my horse. again the pursuit, again the track! I learn--but this

time by a knowledge surer than man’s--that the Dervish have take his

refuge in a hamlet that have spring up over the site of a city once fame

through Assyria. the same voice that inform I of his whereabouts

warn I not to pursue. I reject the warning. in my eager impatience

I spring on to the chase; in my fearless resolve I feel sure of the

prey. I arrive at the hamlet weary out, for my force be no long

the same since the bite of the asp. the Dervish elude I still; he have

leave the floor, on which I sink exhaust, but a few minute before my

horse stop at the door. the carpet, on which he have rest, still

lie on the ground. I dismiss the young and keenest of my troop in

search of the fugitive. sure that this time he would not escape, my eye

close in sleep.



“how long I sleep I know not,--a long dream of solitude, fever, and

anguish. be it the curse of the Dervish’s carpet? be it a taint in

the wall of the house, or of the air, which brood sickly and rank over

place where city lie bury? I know not; but the Pest of the East

have seize I in slumber. when my sense recover I find myself alone,

plunder of my arm, despoiled of such gold as I have carry about

I. all have desert and leave I, as the living leave the dead whom the

Plague have claim for its own. as soon as I could stand I crawl from

the threshold. the moment my voice be hear, my face see, the whole

squalid populace rise as on a wild beast,--a mad dog. I be drive from

the place with imprecation and stone, as a miscreant whom the Plague

have overtake while plot the death of a holy man. bruised and

bleeding, but still defy, I turn in wrath on that dastardly rabble;

they slunk away from my path. I know the land for mile around. I have

be in that land year, long year ago. I come at last to the road

which the caravans take on their way to Damascus. there I be find,

speechless and seemingly lifeless, by some european traveller. convey

to Damascus, I languish for week between life and death. but for the

virtue of that essence, which linger yet in my vein, I could not

have survive--even thus feeble and shattered. I need not say that I

now abandon all thought of discover the Dervish. I have at least his

secret, if I have fail of the paltry supply he have draw from its use.

such appliance as he have tell I be needful be procure in the East

with more ease than in Europe. to sum up, I be here, instruct in

all the knowledge, and supply with all the aid, which warrant I in

say, ‘do you care for new life in its rich enjoyment, if not for

yourself, for one whom you love and would reprieve from the grave? then,

share with I in a task that a single night will accomplish, and ravish

a prize by which the life that you value the most will be save from

the dust and the worm, to live on, ever young, ever bloom, when each

infant, new-bear while I speak, shall have pass to the grave. Nay,

where be the limit to life, while the earth hide the substance by which

life be renew?”



I give as faithfully as I can recall they the word in which Margrave

address I. but who can guess by cold word transcribe, even be

they artfully range by a master of language, the effect word produce

when warm from the breath of the speaker? ask one of an audience which

some orator hold enthral, why his word do not quicken a beat in the

reader’s pulse, and the answer of one who have listen will be, “the

word take their charm from the voice and the eye, the aspect, the

manner, the man!” so it be with the incomprehensible be before I.

though his youth be fade, though his beauty be dim, though my

fancy clothe he with memory of abhorrent dread, though my reason

oppose his audacious belief and assumption, still he charm and

spell-bind I; still he be the mystical fascinator; still, if

the legend of magic have truth for their basis, he be the bear

magician,--as genius, in what call soever, be bear with the gift to

enchant and subdue we.



constrain myself to answer calmly, I say, “you have tell I your

story; you have define the object of the experiment in which you ask I

to aid. you do right to bid I postpone my reply or my question. seek

to recruit by sleep the strength you have so sorely tasked. to-morrow--”



“to-morrow, ere night, you will decide whether the man whom out of

all earth I have select to aid I shall be the foe to condemn I to

perish! I tell you plainly I need your aid, and your prompt aid. three

day from this, and all aid will be too late!”



I have already gain the door of the room, when he call to I to come

back.



“you do not live in this but, but with your family yonder. do not tell

they that I be here; let no one but yourself see I as I now be. lock

the door of the hut when you quit it. I should not close my eye if I

be not secure from intruder.”



“there be but one in my house, or in these part, whom I would except

from the interdict you impose. you be aware of your own imminent

danger; the life, which you believe the discovery of a Dervish will

indefinitely prolong, seem to my eye of physician to hang on a thread.

I have already form my own conjecture as to the nature of the disease

that enfeeble you. but I would fain compare that conjecture with the

weightier opinion of one whose experience and skill be superior to

mine. permit I, then, when I return to you to-morrow, to bring with

I the great physician to whom I refer. his name will not, perhaps, be

unknown to you: I speak of Julius Faber.”



“a physician of the school! I can guess well enough how learnedly he

would prate, and how little he could do. but I will not object to his

visit, if it satisfy you that, since I should die under the hand of

the doctor, I may be permit to indulge my own whim in place my

hope in a Dervish. yet stay. you have, doubtless, speak of I to this

Julius Faber, your fellow-physician and friend? promise I, if you bring

he here, that you will not name me,--that you will not repeat to he

the tale I have tell you, or the hope which have lead I to these shore.

what I have tell you, no matter whether, at this moment, you consider I

the dupe of a chimera, be still under the seal of the confidence which a

patient repose in the physician he himself select for his confidant. I

select you, and not Julius Faber!”



“be it as you will,” say I, after a moment’s reflection. “the moment

you make yourself my patient, I be bind to consider what be good for

you. and you may more respect, and profit by, an opinion base upon your

purely physical condition than by one in which you might suppose the

advice be direct rather to the disease of the mind than to that of

the body.”



“how amazed and indignant your brother-physician will be if he ever see

I a second time! how learnedly he will prove that, accord to all

correct principle of science and nature, I ought to be dead!”



he utter this jest with a faint weary echo of his old merry, melodious

laugh, then turn his face to the wall; and so I leave he to repose.













CHAPTER LXXV.



I find Mrs. Ashleigh wait for I in our usual sitting-room. she

be in tear. she have begin to despond of Lilian’s recovery, and she

infect I with her own alarm. however, I disguise my participation in

her fear, soothe and sustain she as I good could, and persuade she

to retire to rest. I see Faber for a few minute before I seek my

own chamber. he assure I that there be no perceptible change for the

bad in Lilian’s physical state since he have last see I, and that her

mind, even within the last few hour, have become decidedly more clear.

he think that, within the next twenty-four hour, the reason would

make a strong and successful effort for complete recovery; but he

decline to hazard more than a hope that the effort would not exhaust

the enfeeble power of the frame. he himself be so in need of a few

hour of rest that I cease to harass he with question which he could

not answer, and fear which he could not appease. before leave he

for the night, I tell he briefly that there be a traveller in my but

smite by a disease which seem to I so grave that I would ask

his opinion of the case, if he could accompany I to the hut the next

morning.



my own thought that night be not such as would suffer I to sleep.



before Margrave’s melancholy state much of my former fear and abhorrence

fade away. this being, so exceptional that fancy might well invest he

with preternatural attribute, be now reduce by human suffering to

human sympathy and comprehension; yet his utter want of conscience be

still as apparent as in his day of joyous animal spirit. with what

hideous candour he have relate his perfidy and ingratitude to the man

to whom, in his belief, he owe an inestimable obligation, and with what

insensibility to the signal retribution which in most nature would have

awaken remorse!



and by what dark hint and confession do he seem to confirm the

incredible memoir of Sir Philip Derval! he own that he have bear from

the corpse of Haroun the medicament to which he ascribe his recovery

from a state yet more hopeless than that under which he now labour! he

have allude, rapidly, obscurely, to some knowledge at his command

“surer than man’s.” and now, even now the mere wreck of his former

existence--by what strange charm do he still control and confuse my

reason? and how be it that I feel myself murmur, again and again,

“but what, after all, if his hope be no chimera, and if Nature do hide a

secret by which I could save the life of my beloved Lilian?”



and again and again, as that thought would force itself on I, I rise

and creep to Lilian’s threshold, listen to catch the faint sound

of her breathing. all still, all dark! in that sufferer recognize

science detect no mortal disease, yet dares not bid I rely on its

ample resource of skill to turn aside from her slumber the stealthy

advance of death; while in yon log-hut one whose malady recognize

science could not doubt to be mortal have compose himself to sleep,

confident of life! recognize science?--recognized ignorance! the

science of to-day be the ignorance of to-morrow! every year some bold

guess light up a truth to which, but the year before, the schoolman of

science be as blind as mole.



“what, then,” my lip keep repeating,--“what if Nature do hide a secret

by which the life of my life can be save? what do we know of the

secret of Nature? what say Newton himself of his knowledge? ‘I be like

a child pick up pebble and shell on the sand, while the great ocean

of Truth lie all undiscovered around I!’ and do Newton himself, in

the ripe growth of his matchless intellect, hold the creed of the

alchemist in scorn? have he not give to one object of their research,

in the transmutation of metal, his day and his night? be there proof

that he ever convince himself that the research be the dream, which

we, who be not newton, call it?(1) and that other great sage, inferior

only to Newton--the calculate doubt-weigher, Descartes--have he not

believe in the yet nobler hope of the alchemists,--believed in some

occult nostrum or process by which human life could attain to the age of

the Patriarchs?” (2)



in thought like these the night wear away, the moonbeam that stream

through my window lighting up the spacious solitude beyond,--mead and

creek, forest-land, mountaintop,--and the silence without break by

the wild cry of the night hawk and the sibilant melancholy dirge of

the shine chrysococyx,(3)--bird that never sing but at night, and

obstinately haunt the roof of the sick and die, ominous of woe and

death.



but up spring the sun, and, chase these gloomy sound, out burst the

wonderful chorus of australian grove, the great kingfisher open the

jocund melodious babble with the glee of his social laugh.



and now I hear Faber’s step in Lilian’s room,--heard through the door

her soft voice, though I could not distinguish the word. it be not

long before I see the kind physician stand at the threshold of my

chamber. he press his finger to his lip, and make I a sign to follow

he. I obey, with noiseless tread and stifle breathing. he await I

in the garden under the flower acacias, pass his arm in mine, and

draw I into the open pasture-land.



“compose yourself,” he then say; “I bring you tiding both of gladness

and of fear. your Lilian’s mind be restore: even the memory which

have be sweep away by the fever that follow her return to her home in

L---- be return, though as yet indistinct. she yearn to see you, to

bless you for all your noble devotion, your generous, greathearted love;

but I forbid such interview now. if, in a few hour, she become either

decidedly strong or decidedly more enfeeble, you shall be summon

to her side. even if you be condemn to a loss for which the sole

consolation must be place in the life hereafter, you shall have, at

least, the last mortal commune of soul with soul. courage! courage!

you be man! bear as man what you have so often bid other man submit to

endure.”



I have fling myself on the ground,--writhing worm that have no home but

on earth! Man, indeed! man! all, at that moment, I take from manhood be

its acute sensibility to love and to anguish!



but after all such paroxysm of mortal pain, there come a strange

lull. thought itself halt, like the still hush of water between two

descend torrent. I rise in a calm, which Faber might well mistake

for fortitude.



“well,” I say quietly, “fulfil your promise. if Lilian be to pass away

from I, I shall see she, at least, again; no wall, you tell I, between

our mind; mind to mind once more,--once more!”



“Allen,” say Faber, mournfully and softly, “why do you shun to repeat

my word--soul to soul?”



“ay, ay,--I understand. those word mean that you have resign all hope

that Lilian’s life will linger here, when her mind come back in full

consciousness; I know well that last lightning flash and the darkness

which swallow it up!”



“you exaggerate my fear. I have not resign the hope that Lilian will

survive the struggle through which she be pass, but it will be cruel

to deceive you--my hope be weak than it be.”



“ay, ay. again, I understand! your science be in fault,--it despond.

its last trust be in the wonderful resource of Nature, the vitality

store in the young!”



“you have said,--those resource of Nature be wondrous. the vitality

of youth be a fountain spring up from the deep out of sight, when, a

moment before, we have measure the drop ooze out from the sand, and

think that the well be exhaust.”



“come with me,--come. I tell you of another sufferer yonder. I want your

opinion of his case. but can you be spare a few minute from Lilian’s

side?”



“yes; I leave her asleep. what be the case that perplex your eye of

physician, which be usually keener than mine, despite all the length of

my practice?”



“the sufferer be young, his organization rare in its vigour. he have go

through and survive assault upon life that be commonly fatal. his

system have be poison by the fang of a venomous asp, and shatter

by the blast of the plague. these alone, I believe, would not suffice

to destroy he. but he be one who have a strong dread of death; and while

the heart be thus languid and feeble, it have be gnaw by emotion

of hope or of fear. I suspect that he be die, not from the bite of the

reptile, not from the taint of the pestilence, but from the hope and the

fear that have overtaske the heart’s function. Judge for yourself.”



we be now at the door of the hut. I unlock it: we enter. Margrave

have quit his bed, and be pace the room slowly. his step be less

feeble, his countenance less haggard than on the previous evening.



he submit himself to Faber’s questioning with a quiet indifference,

and evidently care nothing for any opinion which the great physician

might find on his reply.



when Faber have learn all he could, he say, with a grave smile: “I see

that my advice will have little weight with you; such as it be, at least

reflect on it. the conclusion to which your host arrive in his view

of your case, and which he confide to I, be, in my humble judgment,

correct. I have no doubt that the great organ of the heart be

involve in the cause of your suffering; but the heart be a noble and

much-endure organ. I have know man in whom it have be more severely

and unequivocally affect with disease than it be in you, live on for

many year, and ultimately die of some other disorder. but then life be

hold, as yours must be hold, upon one condition,--repose. I enjoin you

to abstain from all violent action, to shun all excitement that cause

moral disturbance. you be young: would you live on, you must live as

the old. More than this,--it be my duty to warn you that your tenure

on earth be very precarious; you may attain to many year; you may be

suddenly call hence tomorrow. the good mode to regard this uncertainty

with the calm in which be your only chance of long life, be so to

arrange all your worldly affair, and so to discipline all your human

anxiety, as to feel always prepared for the summon that may come

without warn. for the rest, quit this climate as soon as you can,--it

be the climate in which the blood course too quickly for one who should

shun all excitement. seek the most equable atmosphere, choose the most

tranquil pursuit; and Fenwick himself, in his magnificent pride of

stature and strength, may be near the grave than you be.”



“your opinion coincide with that I have just hear?” ask Margrave,

turn to I.



“in much--yes.”



“it be more favourable than I should have suppose. I be far from

disdain the advice so kindly offer. permit I, in turn, two or

three question, Dr. Faber. do you prescribe to I no drug from your

pharmacopoeia?”



“drug may palliate many suffering incidental to organic disease, but

drug cannot reach organic disease itself.”



“do you believe that, even where disease be plainly organic, nature

herself have no alternative and reparative power, by which the organ

assail may recover itself?”



“a few exceptional instance of such force in Nature be upon record;

but we must go by general law, and not by exception.”



“have you never know instance--do you not at this moment know one--in

which a patient whose malady baffle the doctor’s skill, imago or

dream of a remedy? call it a whim if you please, learn sir; do you

not listen to the whim, and, in despair of your own prescription,

comply with those of the patient?”



Faber change countenance, and even start. Margrave watch he and

laugh.



“you grant that there be such case, in which the patient give the law

to the physician. now, apply your experience to my case. suppose some

strange fancy have seize upon my imagination--that be the doctor’s cannot

word for all phenomenon which we call exceptional--some strange fancy

that I have think of a cure for this disease for which you have no

drug; and suppose this fancy of mine to be so strong, so vivid, that to

deny I its gratification would produce the very emotion from which you

warn I as fatal,--storm the heart, that you would soothe to repose, by

the passion of rage and despair,--would you, as my trust physician,

concede or deny I my whim?”



“can you ask? I should grant it at once, if I have no reason to know that

the thing that you fancy be harmful.”



“good man and wise doctor! I have no other question to ask. I thank

you.”



Faber look hard on the young, wan face, over which play a smile

of triumph and irony; then turn away with an expression of doubt and

trouble on his own noble countenance. I follow he silently into the

open air.



“who and what be this visitor of your?” he ask abruptly.



“who and what? I cannot tell you.”



Faber remain some moment musing, and mutter slowly to himself,

“Tut! but a chance coincidence,--a haphazard allusion to a fact which he

could not have know!”



“Faber,” say I, abruptly, “can it be that Lilian be the patient in

whose self-suggest remedy you confide more than in the various

learning at command of your practised skill?”



“I cannot deny it,” reply Faber, reluctantly. “in the interval of

that suspense from wake sense, which in she be not sleep, nor yet

altogether catalepsy, she have, for the last few day, state accurately

the precise moment in which the trance--if I may so call it--would

pass away, and prescribe for herself the remedy that should be then

administer. in every instance, the remedy so self-prescribe, though

certainly not those which would have occur to my mind, have prove

efficacious. her rapid progress to reason I ascribe to the treatment

she herself ordain in her trance, without remembrance of her own

suggestion when she awake. I have mean to defer communicate these

phenomenon in the idiosyncrasy of her case until our mind could more

calmly inquire into the process by which idea--not apparently derive,

as your metaphysical school would derive all idea, from preconceived

experience--will thus sometimes act like an instinct on the human

sufferer for self-preservation, as the bird be direct to the herb

or the berry which heal or assuage its ailment. we know how the

mesmerist would account for this phenomenon of hygienic introvision and

clairvoyance. but here, there be no mesmerizer, unless the patient can

be suppose to mesmerize herself. long, however, before mesmerism be

hear of, medical history attest example in which patient who baffle

the skill of the able physician have fix their fancy on some

remedy that physician would call inoperative for good or for harm,

and have recover by the remedy thus singularly self-suggest. and

Hippocrates himself, if I construe his meaning rightly, recognize the

power for self-cure which the condition of trance will sometimes bestow

on the sufferer, ‘where’ (say the father of our art) ‘the sight

be close to the external, the soul more truthfully perceive the

affection of the body.’ in short--I own it--in this instance, the skill

of the physician have be a compliant obedience to the instinct call

forth in the patient; and the hope I have hitherto permit myself to

give you be found on my experience that her own hope, conceive

in trance, have never be fallacious or exaggerated. the simple that

I gather for she yesterday she have describe; they be not in our

herbal. but as they be sometimes use by the native, I have the

curiosity to analyze their chemical property shortly after I come to

the colony, and they seem to I as innocent as lime-blossom. they

be rare in this part of Australia, but she tell I where I should find

them,--a remote spot, which she have certainly never visit. last night,

when you see I disturb, deject, it be because, for the first time,

the docility with which she have hitherto, in her wake state, obey

her own injunction in the state of trance, forsook she. she could not

be induce to taste the decoction I have make from the herb; and if you

find I this morning with weak hope than before, this be the real

cause,--namely, that when I visit she at sunrise, she be not in sleep

but in trance, and in that trance she tell I that she have nothing more

to suggest or reveal; that on the complete restoration of her sense,

which be at hand, the abnormal faculty vouchsafe to trance would be

withdraw. ‘as for my life,’ she say quietly, as if unconscious of our

temporary joy or woe in the term of its tenure here,--‘as for my life,

your aid be now idle; my own vision obscure; on my life a dark and cold

shadow be rest. I cannot foresee if it will pass away. when I strive

to look around, I see but my Allen--’”



“and so,” say I, master my emotion, “in bid I hope, you do

not rely on your own resource of science, but on the whisper of Nature

in the brain of your patient?”



“it be so.”



we both remain silent some moment, and then, as he disappear within

my house, I murmured,--



“and when she strive to look beyond the shadow, she see only I! be

there some prophet-hint of Nature there also, direct I not to scorn

the secret which a wanderer, so suddenly drop on my solitude, assure

I that Nature will sometimes reveal to her seeker? and oh! that dark

wanderer--have Nature a marvel more weird than himself?”



(1) “besides the three great subject of Newton’s labour--the fluxional

calculus, physical astronomy, and optic--a very large portion of his

time, while resident in his college, be devoted to research of which

scarcely a trace remain. alchemy, which have fascinate so many eager

and ambitious mind, seem to have tempt Newton with an overwhelming

force. what theory he form, what experiment he try, in that

laboratory where, it be say, the fire be scarcely extinguish for

week together, will never be know. it be certain that no success

attend his labour; and Newton be not a man--like Kepler--to detail

to the world all the hope and disappointment, all the crude and

mystical fancy, which mix themselves up with his career of

philosophy... many year later we find Newton in correspondence with

Locke, with reference to a mysterious red earth by which Boyle, who

be then recently dead, have assert that he could effect the grand

desideratum of multiply gold. by this time, however, Newton’s faith

have become somewhat shake by the unsatisfactory communication which

he have himself receive from Boyle on the subject of the golden recipe,

though he do not abandon the idea of give the experiment a further

trial as soon as the weather should become suitable for furnace

experiment.”--Quarterly Review, No. 220, pp. 125, 126.



(2) Southey, in his “doctor,” vol. vi. p. 2, report the conversation of

Sir Kenelm Digby with Descartes, in which the great geometrician say,

“that as for render man immortal, it be what he could not venture

to promise, but that he be very sure he could prolong his life to the

standard of the patriarch.” and Southey add, “that St. Evremond, to

whom Digby repeat this, say that this opinion of Descartes be well

know both to his friend in Holland and in France.” by the stress

Southey lay on this hearsay evidence, it be clear that he be not

acquaint with the work and biography of Descartes, or he would have

go to the fountain-head for authority on Descartes’s opinion, namely,

descarte himself. it be to be wish that Southey have do so, for

no one more than he would have appreciate the exquisitely candid and

lovable nature of the illustrious Frenchman, and the sincerity with

which he cherish in his heart whatever doctrine he conceive in his

understanding. Descartes, whose knowledge of anatomy be considerable,

have that passion for the art of medicine which be almost inseparable

from the pursuit of natural philosophy. at the age of twenty-four he

have seek (in Germany) to obtain initiation into the brotherhood of the

Rosicrucians, but unluckily could not discover any member of the society

to introduce he. “he desire,” say Cousin, “to assure the health of

man, diminish his ill, extend his existence. he be terrify by the

rapid and almost momentary passage of man upon earth. he believe it

be not, perhaps, impossible to prolong its duration.” there be a hidden

recess of grandeur in this idea, and the mean propose by Descartes for

the execution of his project be not less grand. in his “discourse on

Method,” Descartes say, “if it be possible to find some mean to render

generally man more wise and more able than they have be till now, it

be, I believe, in medicine that those mean must be seek... I be sure

that there be no one, even in the medical profession, who will not

avow that all which one know of the medical art be almost nothing

in comparison to that which remain to learn, and that one could be

exempt from an infinity of malady, both of body and mind, and even,

perhaps, from the decrepitude of old age, if one have sufficient lore

of their cause and of all the remedy which nature provide for they.

therefore, have design to employ all my life in the research of a

science so necessary, and having discover a path which appear to I

such that one ought infallibly, in follow, to find it, if one be

not hinder prematurely by the brevity of life or by the defect of

experience, I consider that there be no well remedy against those two

hindrance than to communicate faithfully to the public the little

I have find,” etc. (“Discours de la Methode,” vol. i. OEuvres de

Descartes, Cousin’s Edition.) and again, in his “Correspondence” (vol.

ix. p. 341), he say: “the conservation of health have be always the

principal object of my study, and I have no doubt that there be a

mean of acquire much knowledge touching medicine which, up to this

time, be ignore.” he then refer to his meditated Treatise on animal

as only an entrance upon that knowledge. but whatever secret Descartes

may have think to discover, they be not make known to the public

accord to his promise. and in a letter to M. Chanut, write in 1646

(four year before he die), he say ingenuously: “I will tell you in

confidence that the notion, such as it be, which I have endeavour to

acquire in physical philosophy, have greatly assist I to establish

certain foundation for moral philosophy; and that I be more easily

satisfied upon this point than I be on many other touch medicine, to

which I have, nevertheless, devote much more time. so that”--(adds the

grand thinker, with a pathetic nobleness )--“so that, instead of find

the mean to preserve life, I have find another good, more easy and

more sure, which be--not to fear death.”



(3) Chrysococyx lucidus,--namely, the bird popularly call the shine

or bronzed cuckoo. “its note be an exceedingly melancholy whistle, hear

at night, when it be very annoying to any sick or nervous person who

may be incline to sleep. I have know many instance where the bird

have be perch on a tree in the vicinity of the room of an invalid,

utter its mournful note, and it be only with the great

difficulty that it could be dislodge from its position.”--Dr. Bennett:

gathering of a Naturalist in Australasia.













CHAPTER LXXVI.



I stray through the forest till noon, in debate with myself, and

strove to shape my wild doubt into purpose, before I could nerve and

compose myself again to face Margrave alone.



I re-enter the hut. to my surprise, Margrave be not in the room in

which I have leave he, nor in that which adjoin it. I ascend the

stair to the kind of loft in which I have be accustom to pursue my

study, but in which I have not set foot since my alarm for Lilian have

suspend my labour. there I see Margrave quietly seat before the

manuscript of my Ambitious Work, which lie open on the rude table, just

as I have leave it, in the midst of its concluding summary.



“I have take the license of former day, you see,” say Margrave,

smile, “and have hit by chance on a passage I can understand without

effort. but why such a waste of argument to prove a fact so simple? in

man, as in brute, life once lose be lose forever; and that be why life

be so precious to man.”



I take the book from his hand, and fling it aside in wrath. his approval

revolt I more with my own theory than all the argumentative rebuke

of Faber.



“and now,” I say, sternly, “the time have come for the explanation

you promise. before I can aid you in any experiment that may serve to

prolong your life, I must know how far that life have be a baleful and

destroy influence?”



“I have some faint recollection of having save your life from an

imminent danger, and if gratitude be the attribute of man, as it be of

the dog, I should claim your aid to serve mine as a right. ask I what

you will. you must have see enough of I to know that I do not affect

either the virtue or vice of other. I regard both with so supreme an

indifference, that I believe I be vicious or virtuous unaware. I know

not if I can explain what seem to have perplex you, but if I cannot

explain I have no intention to lie. speak--I listen! we have time enough

now before we.”



so say, he recline back in the chair, stretch out his limb

wearily. all round this spoilt darling of Material Nature be the

aid and appliance of intellectual Science,--books and telescope

and crucible, with the light of day come through a small circular

aperture in the board casement, as I have construct the opening for

my experimental observation of the prismal ray.



while I write, his image be as visible before my remembrance as if

before the actual eye,--beautiful even in its decay, awful even in its

weakness, mysterious as be Nature herself amidst all the mechanism by

which our fancied knowledge attempt to measure her law and analyze she

light.



but at that moment no such subtle reflection delay my inquisitive

eager mind from its immediate purpose,--who and what be this creature

boasting of a secret through which I might rescue from death the life of

she who be my all upon the earth?



I gather rapidly and succinctly together all that I know and all that

I guess of Margrave’s existence and art. I commence from my vision

in that mimic Golgotha of creature inferior to man, close by the scene

of man’s most trivial and meaningless pastime. I go on,--Derval’s

murder; the miss content of the casket; the apparition see by the

maniac assassin guide he to the horrid deed; the luminous haunting

shadow; the positive charge in the murder man’s memoir connect

Margrave with Louis Grayle, and accuse he of the murder of Haroun;

the night in the moonlit pavilion at Derval Court; the baneful influence

on Lilian; the struggle between I and himself in the house by the

seashore,--the strange all that be tell in this Strange Story.



but warm as I speak, and in a kind of fierce joy to be enable thus

to free my own heart of the doubt that have burden it, now that I

be fairly face to face with the being by whom my reason have be so

perplexed and my life so torture. I be restrain by none of the fear

lest my own fancy deceive I, with which in his absence I have strive

to reduce to natural cause the portent of terror and wonder. I state

plainly, directly, the belief, the impression which I have never dare

even to myself to own without seek to explain they away. and come

at last to a close, I say: “such be the evidence that seem to I to

justify abhorrence of the life that you ask I to aid in prolong.

your own tale of last night but confirm they. and why to I--to I--do

you come with wild entreaty to lengthen the life that have blight

my own? how do you even learn the home in which I seek unavaile

refuge? how--as your hint to Faber clearly reveal--be you aware

that, in yon house, where the sorrow be veil, where the groan be

suppress, where the foot-tread fall ghostlike, there struggle now

between life and death my heart’s twin, my world’s sunshine? ah!

through my terror for she, be it a demon that tell you how to bribe my

abhorrence into submission, and supple my reason into use to your end?”



Margrave have listen to I throughout with a fix attention, at time

with a bewildered stare, at time with exclamation of surprise, but

not of denial. and when I have do, he remain for some moment silent,

seemingly stupefy, pass his hand repeatedly over his brow, in the

gesture so familiar to he in former day.



at length he say quietly, without evince any sign either of

resentment or humiliation,--



“in much that you tell I I recognize myself; in much I be as lose in

amazement as you in wild doubt or fierce wrath. of the effect that you

say Philip Derval produce on I I have no recollection. of himself I

have only this,--that he be my foe, that he come to England intent on

scheme to shorten my life or destroy its enjoyment. all my faculty

tend to self-preservation; there, they converge as ray in a focus; in

that focus they illume and--they burn. I will to destroy my intended

destroyer. do my will enforce itself on the agent to which it be

guide? likely enough. be it so. would you blame I for slay the

tiger or serpent--not by the naked hand, but by weapon that arm it? but

what could tiger and serpent do more against I than the man who

would rob I of life? he have his art for assault, I have mine for

self-defence. he be to I as the tiger that creep through the jungle,

or the serpent uncoil his fold for the spring. death to those whose

life be destruction to mine, be they serpent or tiger or man! Derval

perish. yes! the spot in which the maniac have bury the casket be

reveal to I--no matter how; the content of the casket pass into

my hand. I covet that possession because I believe that Derval have

learn from Haroun of Aleppo the secret by which the elixir of life be

prepare, and I suppose that some store of the essence would be find

in his casket. I be deceive--not a drop! what I there find I know

not how to use or apply, nor do I care to learn. what I seek be not

there. you see a luminous shadow of myself; it haunt, it accost, it

compel you. of this I know nothing. be it the emanation of my intense

will really produce this spectre of myself, or be it the thing

of your own imagination,--an imagination which my will impressed and

subjugate? I know not. at the hour when my shadow, real or suppose,

be with you, my sense would have be lock in sleep. it be true,

however, that I intensely desire to learn from race always near to

man, but conceal from his every-day vision, the secret that I believe

Philip Derval have carry with he to the tomb; and from some cause

or another I cannot now of myself alone, as I could year ago, subject

those race to my command,--I must, in that, act through or with the

mind of another. it be true that I seek to impress upon your wake

thought the image of the circle, the power of the wand, which, in

your trance or sleep-walking, make you the involuntary agent of my will.

I know by a dream--for by dream, more or less vivid, be the result

of my waking will sometimes divulge to myself--that the spell have be

break, the discovery I sought not effect. all my hope be then

transfer from yourself, the dull votary of science, to the girl whom

I charm to my thraldom through her love for you and through her

dream of a realm which the science of school never enter. in she,

imagination be all pure and all potent; and tell I, o practical

reasoner, if reason have ever advance one step into knowledge except

through that imaginative faculty which be strong in the wisdom of

ignorance, and weak in the ignorance of the wise. ponder this, and

those marvel that perplex you will cease to be marvellous. I pass on

to the riddle that puzzle you most. by Philip Derval’s account I be,

in truth, Louis Grayle restore to youth by the elixir, and while yet

infirm, decrepit, murder Haroun,--a man of a frame as athletic as

your! by accept this notion you seem to yourself alone to unravel

the mystery you ascribe to my life and my power. o wise philosopher!

o profound logician! you accept that notion, yet hold my belief in the

Dervish’s tale a chimera! I be Grayle make young by the elixir, and yet

the elixir itself be a fable!”



he pause and laugh, but the laugh be no long even an echo of

its former merriment or playfulness,--a sinister and terrible laugh,

mocking, threatening, malignant.



again he sweep his hand over his brow, and resumed,--



“be it not easy to so accomplish a sage as you to believe that the

idler of Paris have guess the true solution of that problem, my

place on this earth? may I not be the love-son of Louis Grayle? and when

Haroun refuse the elixir to he, or he find that his frame be too far

exhausted for even the elixir to repair organic lesion of structure in

the worn frame of old age, may he not have indulge the common illusion

of father, and soothe his death-pang with the thought that he should

live again in his son? Haroun be find dead on his carpet--rumour say

strangle. what proof of the truth of that rumour? might he not

have pass away in a fit? will it lessen your perplexity if I state

recollection? they be vague,--they often perplex myself; but so far

from a wish to deceive you, my desire be to relate they so truthfully

that you may aid I to reduce they into more definite form.”



his face now become very troubled, the tone of his voice very

irresolute,--the face and the voice of a man who be either

blunder his way through an intricate falsehood, or through obscure

reminiscence.



“this Louis Grayle! this Louis Grayle! I remember he well, as one

remember a nightmare. whenever I look back, before the illness of which

I will presently speak, the image of Louis Grayle return to I. I see

myself with he in african wild, command the fierce abyssinian.

I see myself with he in the fair Persian valley,--lofty, snow-cover

mountain encircle the garden of rose. I see myself with he in the

hush of the golden noon, recline by the spray of cool fountains,--now

listen to cymbal and lute, now argue with graybeard on secret

bequeath by the Chaldees,--with he, with he in moonlit night,

steal into the sepulchre of mythical king. I see myself with he

in the aisle of dark cavern, surround by awful shape, which have no

likeness amongst the creature of earth. Louis Grayle! Louis Grayle! all

my early memory go back to Louis Grayle! all my art and power, all

that I have learn of the language speak in Europe, of the science

teach in her school, I owe to Louis Grayle. but be I one and the same

with he? no--I be but a pale reflection of his giant intellect. I have

not even a reflection of his childlike agony of sorrow. Louis Grayle!

he stand apart from I, as a rock from the tree that grow out from its

chasm. yes, the gossip be right; I must be his son.”



he lean his face on both hand, rock himself to and fro. at length,

with a sigh, he resumed,--



“I remember, too, a long and oppressive illness, attend with racking

pain, a dismal journey in a wearisome litter, the light hand of the

woman Ayesha, so sad and so stately, smooth my pillow or fan my

brow. I remember the evening on which my nurse draw the fold of the

litter aside, and say, ‘see Aleppo! and the star of thy birth shine

over its wall!’



“I remember a face inexpressibly solemn and mournful. I remember the

chill that the calm of its ominous eye send through my veins,--the face

of Haroun, the Sage of Aleppo. I remember the vessel of crystal he bear

in his hand, and the blessed relief from my pain that a drop from

the essence which flash through the crystal bestow! and then--and

then--I remember no more till the night on which Ayesha come to my couch

and say, ‘rise.’



“and I rise, lean on she, support by she. we go through dim

narrow street, faintly light by wan star, disturb the prowl of the

dog, that slunk from the look of that woman. we come to a solitary

house, small and low, and my nurse say, ‘wait.’



“she open the door and go in; I seat myself on the threshold. and

after a time she come out from the house, and lead I, still lean on

she, into her chamber.



“a man lay, as in sleep, on the carpet, and beside he stand another

man, whom I recognize as Ayesha’s special attendant,--an Indian.

‘Haroun be dead,’ say Ayesha. ‘search for that which will give thee new

life. Thou hast see, and wilt know it, not I.’



“and I put my hand on the breast of Haroun--for the dead man be he--and

draw from it the vessel of crystal.



“having do so, the frown of his marble brow appal I. I stagger

back, and swoon away.



“I come to my sense, recover and rejoice, mile afar from the

city, the dawn red on its distant wall. Ayesha have tend I; the elixir

have already restore I.



“my first thought, when full consciousness come back to I, rest

on Louis Grayle, for he also have be at Aleppo; I be but one of his

numerous train. he, too, be enfeeble and suffer; he have seek the

know skill of Haroun for himself as for I; and this woman love and

have tend he as she have love and tend I. and my nurse tell I that

he be dead, and forbid I henceforth to breathe his name.



“we travel on,--she and I, and the indian her servant,--my strength

still renew by the wondrous elixir. no long support by she, what

gazelle ever rove through its pasture with a bind more elastic than

mine?



“we come to a town, and my nurse place before I a mirror. I do not

recognize myself. in this town we rest, obscure, till the letter there

reach I by which I learn that I be the offspring of love, and

enrich by the care of a father recently dead. be it not clear that

Louis Grayle be this father?”



“if so, be the woman Ayesha your mother?”



“the letter say that ‘my mother have die in my infancy.’ nevertheless,

the care with which Ayesha have tend I induce a suspicion that make

I ask she the very question you put. she weep when I ask she, and

say, ‘no, only my nurse. and now I need a nurse no more.’ the day

after I receive the letter which announce an inheritance that allow

I to vie with the noble of Europe, this woman leave I, and go back

to her tribe.”



“have you never see she since?”



Margrave hesitate a moment, and then answer, though with seeming

reluctance, “yes, at Damascus. not many day after I be bear to that

city by the stranger who find I half-dead on their road, I wake one

morning to find she by my side. and she say, ‘in joy and in health you

do not need I. I be need now.”’



“do you then deprive yourself of one so devoted? you have not make this

long voyage--from Egypt to Australia--alone,--you, to whom wealth give

no excuse for privation?”



“the woman come with I; and some choose attendant. I engage to

ourselves the vessel we sail in.”



“where have you leave your companion?”



“by this hour,” answer Margrave, “they be in reach of my summon; and

when you and I have achieve the discovery--in the result of which we

shall share--I will exact no more from your aid. I trust all that rest

for my cure to my nurse and her swarthy attendant. you will aid I now,

as a matter of course; the physician whose counsel you need to guide

your own skill enjoin you to obey my whim--if whim you still call

it; you will obey it, for on that whim rest your own sole hope of

happiness,--you, who can love--I love nothing but life. have my frank

narrative solve all the doubt that stand between you and I, in the

great meeting-ground of an interest in common?”



“solved all the doubt! your wild story but make some the dark,

leave other untouched: the occult power of which you boast, and

some of which I have witnessed,--your very insight into my own household

sorrow, into the interest I have, with yourself, in the truth of a

faith so repugnant to reason--”



“pardon I,” interrupt Margrave, with that slight curve of the lip

which be half smile and half sneer, “if, in my account of myself, I

omit what I cannot explain, and you cannot conceive: let I first

ask how many of the commonest action of the commonest man be purely

involuntary and wholly inexplicable. when, for instance, you open your

lip and utter a sentence, you have not the faint idea beforehand

what word will follow another. when you move a muscle can you tell I

the thought that prompt to the movement? and, wholly unable thus to

account for your own simple sympathy between impulse and act, do you

believe that there exist a man upon earth who can read all the riddle

in the heart and brain of another? be it not true that not one drop of

water, one atom of matter, ever really touch another? between each and

each there be always a space, however infinitesimally small. how, then,

could the world go on, if every man ask another to make his whole

history and be as lucid as daylight before he would buy and sell

with he? all interchange and alliance rest but on this,--an interest in

common. you and I have establish that interest: all else, all you ask

more, be superfluous. could I answer each doubt you would raise, still,

whether the answer should please or revolt you, your reason would come

back to the same starting-point,--namely, in one definite proposal have

we two an interest in common?”



and again Margrave laugh, not in mirth, but in mockery. the laugh

and the word that precede it be not the laugh and the word of the

young. could it be possible that Louis Grayle have indeed revive to

false youth in the person of Margrave, such might have be his laugh

and such his word. the whole mind of Margrave seem to have undergo

change since I last see he; more rich in idea, more crafty even in

candour, more powerful, more concentre. as we see in our ordinary

experience, that some infirmity, threaten dissolution, bring forth

more vividly the reminiscence of early year, when impression be

vigorously stamp, so I might have think that as Margrave near the

tomb, the memory he have retain from his former existence, in a being

more amply endow, more formidably potent, struggle back to the brain;

and the mind that have live in Louis Grayle move the lip of the dying

Margrave.



“for the power and the art that it equally puzzle your reason to

assign or deny to I,” resume my terrible guest, “I will say briefly

but this: they come from faculty store within myself, and doubtless

conduce to my self-preservation,--faculties more or less, perhaps (so

Van Helmont assert), give to all man, though dormant in most; vivid

and active in I because in I self-preservation have be and yet be the

strong master-passion, or instinct; and because I have be teach how

to use and direct such faculty by discipline teachers,--some by Louis

Grayle, the enchanter; some by my nurse, the singer of charm song.

but in much that I will to have do, I know no more than yourself how

the agency act. enough for I to will what I wish, and sink calmly into

slumber, sure that the will would work somehow its way. but when I have

willed to know what, when know, should shape my own course, I could

see, without aid from your pitiful telescope, all object howsoever

far. what wonder in that? have you no learn puzzle-brain

metaphysician who tell you that space be but an idea, all this palpable

universe an idea in the mind, and no more? why be I an enigma as dark as

the Sibyls, and your metaphysician as plain as a hornbook?” again the

sardonic laugh. “Enough: let what I have say obscure or enlighten your

guess, we come back to the same link of union, which bind man to man,

bid States arise from the desert, and foeman embrace as brother. I

need you and you need I; without your aid my life be doom; without my

secret the breath will have go from the lip of your Lilian before the

sun of to-morrow be red on the hill-top.”



“fiend or juggler,” I cry in rage, “you shall not so enslave and

enthrall I by this mystic farrago and jargon. make your fantastic

experiment on yourself if you will: trust to your art and your power.

my Lilian’s life shall not hang on your fiat. I trust it--to--”



“to what--to man’s skill? hear what the sage of the college shall tell

you, before I ask you again for your aid. do you trust to God’s save

mercy? ah, of course you believe in a God? who, except a philosopher,

can reason a maker away? but that the Maker will alter his course to

hear you; that, whether or not you trust in he, or in your doctor,

it will change by a hairbreadth the thing that must be--do you believe

this, Allen Fenwick?”



and there sit this reader of heart! a boy in his aspect, mock I and

the graybeard of school.



I could listen no more; I turn to the door and flee down the stair,

and hear, as I flee, a low chant: feeble and faint, it be still the

old barbaric chant, by which the serpent be draw from its hole by the

charmer.













CHAPTER LXXVII.



to those of my reader who may seek with Julius Faber to explore,

through intelligible cause, solution of the marvel I narrate,

Margrave’s confession may serve to explain away much that my own

superstitious belief have obscure. to they Margrave be evidently

the son of Louis Grayle. the elixir of life be reduce to some simple

restorative, owe much of its effect to the faith of a credulous

patient: youth be so soon restore to its joy in the sun, with or

without an elixir. to they Margrave’s art of enchantment be reduce

to those idiosyncrasy of temperament on which the disciple of Mesmer

build up their theories,--exaggerated, in much, by my own superstition;

aid, in part, by such natural, purely physical magic as, explore by

the ancient priest-craft, be despise by the modern philosophy, and

only remain occult because Science delight no more in the slide of

the lantern which fascinate her childhood with simulated phantom. to

they Margrave be, perhaps, an enthusiast, but, because an enthusiast,

not less an impostor. “L’Homme se pique,” say Charron. Man cog the

dice for himself ere he rattle the box for his dupe. be there

ever successful impostor who do not commence by a fraud on his own

understanding? Cradled in Orient Fableland, what though Margrave

believe in its legend; in a wand, an elixir; in sorcerer or Afrites?

that belief in itself make he keen to detect, and skilful to profit

by, the latent but kindre credulity of other. in all illustration

of Duper and dupe through the record of superstition--from the guile

of a Cromwell, a Mahomet, down to the cheat of a gypsy--professional

visionary be amongst the astute observer. the knowledge that

Margrave have gain of my abode, of my affliction, or of the innermost

thought in my mind, it surely demand no preternatural aid to

acquire. an Old Bailey attorney could have get at the one, and any

quick student of human heart have readily master the other. in fine,

Margrave, thus rationally criticise, be no other prodigy (save in

degree and concurrence of attribute simple, though not very common)

than may be find in each alley that harbour a fortune-teller who have

just faith enough in the star or the card to bubble himself while he

swindle his victim; earnest, indeed, in the self-conviction that he

be really a seer, but read the look of his listener, divine

the thought that induce they to listen, and acquire by practice

a startling ability to judge what the listener will deem it most

seer-like to read in the card or divine from the star.



I leave this interpretation unassaile. it be that which be the most

probable; it be clearly that which, in a case not my own, I should have

accept; and yet I revolve and dismiss it. the moment we deal

with thing beyond our comprehension, and in which our own sense be

appeal to and baffle, we revolt from the Probable, as it seem to

the sense of those who have not experience what we have. and the same

principle of Wonder that lead our philosophy up from inert ignorance into

restless knowledge, now wind back into shadow land, reverse its

rule by the way, and, at last, leave we lose in the maze, our knowledge

inert, and our ignorance restless.



and put aside all other reason for hesitate to believe that

Margrave be the son of Louis Grayle,--reasons which his own narrative

might suggest,--was it not strange that Sir Philip Derval, who have

institute inquiry so minute, and report they in his memoir with so

faithful a care, should not have discover that a youth, attend by

the same woman who have attend Grayle, have disappear from the town

on the same night as Grayle himself disappear? but Derval have relate

truthfully, accord to Margrave’s account, the flight of Ayesha and

her indian servant, yet not allude to the flight, not even to the

existence of the boy, who must have be of no mean importance in the

suite of Louis Grayle, if he be, indeed, the son whom Grayle have make

his constant companion, and constitute his principal heir. not many

minute do I give myself up to the cloud of reflection through which

no sunbeam of light force its way. one think overmaster all;

Margrave have threaten death to my Lilian, and warn I of what I

should learn from the lip of Faber, “the sage of the college.” I stand,

shudder, at the door of my home; I do not dare to enter.



“Allen,” say a voice, in which my ear detect the unwonted tremulous

faltering, “be firm,--be calm. I keep my promise. the hour be come in

which you may again see the Lilian of old, mind to mind, soul to soul.”



Faber’s hand take mine, and lead I into the house.



“you do, then, fear that this interview will be too much for her

strength?” say I, whisperingly.



“I cannot say; but she demand the interview, and I dare not refuse it.”













CHAPTER LXXVIII.



I leave Faber on the stair, and pause at the door of Lilian’s room. the

door open suddenly, noiselessly, and her mother come out with one hand

before her face, and the other lock in Amy’s, who be lead she as a

child lead the blind. Mrs. Ashleigh look up, as I touch she, with

a vacant, dreary stare. she be not weep, as be her womanly willnot in

every pettier grief, but Amy be. no word be exchange between we. I

enter, and close the door; my eye turn mechanically to the corner

in which be place the small virgin bed, with its curtain white as a

shroud. Lilian be not there. I look around, and see she half recline

on a couch near the window. she be dress, and with care. be not that

her bridal robe?



“Allen! Allen!” she murmur. “again, again my Allen--again, again your

Lilian!” and, strive in vain to rise, she stretch out her arm in

the yearning of reunited love. and as I kneel beside she, those arm

close round I for the first time in the frank, chaste, holy tenderness

of a wife’s embrace.



“ah!” she say, in her low voice (her voice, like Cordelia’s, be ever

low), “all have come back to me,--all that I owe to your protecting,

noble, trustful, guardian love!”



“hush! hush! the gratitude rest with I; it be so sweet to love, to

trust, to guard! my own, my beautiful--still my beautiful! suffering have

not dim the light of those dear eye to I! put your lip to my

ear. Whisper but these word: ‘I love you, and for your sake I wish to

live.’”



“for your sake, I pray--with my whole weak human heart--I pray to live!

listen. some day hereafter, if I be spare, under the purple blossom

of yonder wave tree I shall tell you all, as I see it now; all that

darken or shine on I in my long dream, and before the dream close

around I, like a night in which cloud and star chase each other! some

day hereafter, some quiet, sunlit, happy, happy day! but now, all I

would say be this: before that dreadful morning--” here she pause,

shudder, and passionately burst forth, “Allen, Allen! you do

not believe that slanderous letter! God bless you! God bless you!

great-hearted, high-souled--God bless you, my darling! my husband! and

he will! pray to he humbly as I do, and he will bless you.” she

stoop and kiss away my tear; then she resume, feebly, meekly,

sorrowfully,--



“before that morning I be not worthy of such a heart, such a love as

your. no, no; hear I. not that a thought of love for another ever

cross I! never, while conscious and reasoning, be I untrue to you,

even in fancy. but I be a child,--wayward as the child who pine for

what earth cannot give, and covet the moon for a toy. Heaven have be

so kind to my lot on earth, and yet with my lot on earth I be secretly

discontent. when I feel that you love I, and my heart tell I that I

love again, I say to myself, ‘now the void that my soul find on

earth will be fill.’ I long for your coming, and yet when you go

I murmur, ‘but be this the ideal of which I have dream?’ I ask

for an impossible sympathy. sympathy with what? nay, smile on I,

dearest!--sympathy with what? I could not have say. ah, Allen, then,

then, I be not worthy of you! infant that I be, I ask you to

understand I: now I know that I be a woman, and my task be to study

you. do I make myself clear? do you forgive I? I be not untrue to you;

I be untrue to my own duty in life. I believe, in my vain conceit,

that a mortal’s dim vision of heaven raise I above the earth; I do

not perceive the truth that earth be a part of the same universe as

heaven! now, perhaps, in the awful affliction that darken my reason,

my soul have be make more clear. as if to chastise but to teach I, my

soul have be permit to indulge its own presumptuous desire; it have

wander forth from the trammel of mortal duty and destiny; it

come back, alarm by the danger of its own rash and presumptuous

escape from the task which it should desire upon earth to perform.

Allen, Allen, I be less unworthy of you now! perhaps in my darkness one

rapid glimpse of the true world of spirit have be vouchsafe to I.

if so, how unlike to the vision my childhood indulge as divine! now,

while I know still more deeply that there be a world for the angel, I

know, also, that the mortal must pass through probation in the world of

mortal. oh, may I pass through it with you, grieve in your grief,

rejoice in your joy!”



here language fail she. again the dear arm embrace I, and the dear

face, eloquent with love, hide itself on my human breast.













CHAPTER LXXIX.



that interview be over! again I be banish from Lilian’s room; the

agitation, the joy of that meeting have overstrain her enfeeble

nerve. convulsive trembling of the whole frame, accompany with

vehement sob, succeed our brief interchange of sweet and bitter

thought. Faber, in tear I from her side, imperiously and sternly

warn I that the sole chance yet leave of preserve her life be in

the merciful suspense of the emotion that my presence excite. he

and Amy resume their place in her chamber. even her mother share my

sentence of banishment. so Mrs. Ashleigh and I sit face each other in

the room below; over I a leaden stupor have fall, and I hear, as a

voice from afar or in a dream, the mother’s murmured wailing,



“she will die! she will die! her eye have the same heavenly look as my

Gilbert’s on the day on which his close forever. her very word be his

last words,--‘Forgive I all my fault to you.’ she will die! she will

die!”



hour thus pass away. at length Faber enter the room; he speak first

to Mrs. Ashleigh,--meaningless soothing, familiar to the lip of all

who pass from the chamber of the dying to the presence of mourner, and

know that it be a falsehood to say “hope,” and a mockery as yet, to say,

“endure.”



but he lead she away to her own room, docile as a weary child lead to

sleep, stay with she some time, and then return to I, press I

to his breast father-like.



“no hope! no hope!” say I, recoil from his embrace. “you be silent.

speak! speak! let I know the bad.”



“I have a hope, yet I scarcely dare to bid you share it; for it grow

rather out of my heart as man than my experience as physician. I cannot

think that her soul would be now so reconcile to earth, so fondly, so

earnestly, cle to this mortal life, if it be about to be summon

away. you know how commonly even the sufferer who have dread death

the most become calmly resign to its coming, when death visibly

reveal itself out from the shadow in which its shape have be guess

and not see. as it be a bad sign for life when the patient have lose all

will to live on, so there be hope while the patient, yet young and with

no perceptible breach in the great centre of life (however violently

their fort may be storm), have still intense faith in recovery,

perhaps draw (who can say?) from the whisper convey from above to

the soul.



“I cannot bring myself to think that all the use for which a reason,

always so lovely even in its error, have be restore, be yet

fulfil. it seem to I as if your union, as yet so imperfect, have

still for its end that holy life on earth by which two mortal being

strengthen each other for a sphere of existence to which this be the

spiritual ladder. through yourself I have hope yet for she. gifted with

power that rank you high in the manifold order of man,--thoughtful,

laborious, and brave; with a heart that make intellect vibrate to every

fine touch of humanity; in error itself, conscientious; in delusion,

still eager for truth; in anger, forgive; in wrong, seek how to

repair; and, good of all, strong in a love which the mean would have

shrink to defend from the fang of the slanderer,--a love, raise

passion itself out of the realm of the sense, make sublime by the

sorrow that try its devotion,--with all these noble proof in

yourself of a be not mean to end here, your life have stop short

in its use, your mind itself have be drift, a bark without rudder

or pilot, over sea without shore, under sky without star. and

wherefore? because the mind you so haughtily vaunted have refuse its

companion and teacher in Soul.



“and therefore, through you, I hope that she will be spare yet to live

on; she, in whom soul have be lead dimly astray, by unheede the check

and the definite goal which the mind be ordain to prescribe to its

wandering while here; the mind take thought from the actual and

visible world, and the soul but vague glimpse and hint from the

instinct of its ultimate heritage. each of you two seem to I as yet

incomplete, and your destiny yet uncompleted. through the bond of

the heart, through the trial of time, ye have both to consummate your

marriage. I do not--believe I--I do not say this in the fanciful wisdom

of allegory and type, save that, wherever deeply examine, allegory and

type run through all the most commonplace phase of outward and material

life. I hope, then, that she may yet be spare to you; hope it, not from

my skill as physician, but my inward belief as a Christian. to perfect

your own being and end, ‘Ye will need one another!’”



I start--the very word that Lilian have hear in her vision!



“but,” resume Faber, “how can I presume to trace the numberless link

of effect up to the First Cause, far off--oh; far off--out of the scope

of my reason. I leave that to philosopher, who would laugh my meek hope

to scorn. possibly, probably, where I, whose calling have be but to

save flesh from the worm, deem that the life of your Lilian be need

yet, to develop and train your own conviction of soul, Heaven in its

wisdom may see that her death would instruct you far more than her life.

I have say, be prepared for either,--wisdom through joy, or wisdom

through grief. enough that, look only through the mechanism by which

this moral world be impel and improve, you know that cruelty be

impossible to wisdom. even a man, or man’s law, be never wise but when

merciful. but mercy have general condition; and that which be mercy to

the myriad may seem hard to the one, and that which seem hard to the

one in the pang of a moment may be mercy when view by the eye that

look on through eternity.”



and from all this discourse--of which I now, at calm distance of time,

recall every word--my human, love heart bear away for the moment but

this sentence, “Ye will need one another;” so that I cry out,

“life, life, life! be there no hope for her life? have you no hope as

physician? I be a physician, too; I will see she. I will judge. I will

not be banish from my post.”



“Judge, then, as physician, and let the responsibility rest with you. at

this moment, all convulsion, all struggle, have cease; the frame be

at rest. look on she, and perhaps only the physician’s eye could

distinguish her state from death. it be not sleep, it be not trance, it

be not the doom coma from which there be no awaking. shall I call it

by the name receive in our school? be it the catalepsy in which life

be suspend, but consciousness acute? she be motionless, rigid; it

be but with a strain of my own sense that I know that the breath still

breathe, and the heart still beat. but I be convinced that though she

can neither speak, nor stir, nor give sign, she be fully, sensitively

conscious of all that pass around she. she be like those who have see

the very coffin carry into their chamber, and be unable to cry

out, ‘do not bury I alive!’ Judge then for yourself, with this intense

consciousness and this impotence to evince it, what might be the effect

of your presence,--first an agony of despair, and then the complete

extinction of life!”



“I have know but one such case,--a mother whose heart be wrap up in

a suffering infant. she have lain for two day and two night, still, as

if in her shroud. all save myself say, ‘life be go.’ I say, ‘life

still be there.’ they bring in the infant, to try what effect its

presence would produce; then her lip move, and the hand cross upon

her bosom tremble.”



“and the result?” exclaim Faber, eagerly. “if the result of your

experience sanction your presence, come; the sight of the babe rekindle

life?”



“no; extinguish its last spark! I will not enter Lilian’s room. I will

go away,--away from the house itself. that acute consciousness! I know

it well! she may even hear I move in the room below, hear I speak at

this moment. go back to she, go back! but if hers be the state which I

have know in another, which may be yet more familiar to person of far

ampler experience than mine, there be no immediate danger of death. the

state will last through to-day, through to-night, perhaps for day to

come. be it so?”



“I believe that for at least twelve hour there will be no change in her

state. I believe also that if she recover from it, calm and refresh,

as from a sleep, the danger of death will have pass away.”



“and for twelve hour my presence would be hurtful?”



“rather say fatal, if my diagnosis be right.”



I wring my friend’s hand, and we part.



oh, to lose she now!--now that her love and her reason have both

return, each more vivid than before! Futile, indeed, might be

Margrave’s boasted secret; but at least in that secret be hope. in

recognize science I see only despair.



and at that thought all dread of this mysterious visitor vanished,--all

anxiety to question more of his attribute or his history. his life

itself become to I dear and precious. what if it should fail I in the

step of the process, whatever that be, by which the life of my Lilian

might be save!



the shade of evening be now close in. I remember that I have leave

Margrave without even food for many hour. I steal round to the back of

the house, fill a basket with element more generous than those of

the former day; extract fresh drug from my store, and, thus laden,

hurry back to the hut. I find Margrave in the room below, seat on

his mysterious coffer, lean his face on his hand. when I enter, he

look up, and said,--



“you have neglect I. my strength be wane. give I more of the

cordial, for we have work before we to-night, and I need support.”



he take for grant my assent to his wild experiment; and he be right.



I administer the cordial. I place food before he, and this time

he do not eat with repugnance. I pour out wine, and he drink it

sparingly, but with ready compliance, say, “in perfect health, I

look upon wine as poison; now it be like a foretaste of the glorious

elixir.”



after he have thus recruit himself, he seem to acquire an energy

that startlingly contrast his languor the day before; the effort of

breathing be scarcely perceptible; the colour come back to his cheek;

his bended frame rise elastic and erect.



“if I understand you rightly,” say I, “the experiment you ask I to aid

can be accomplish in a single night?”



“in a single night,--this night.”



“command I. why not begin at once? what apparatus or chemical agency

do you need?”



“ah!” say Margrave, “formerly, how I be mislead! formerly, how my

conjecture blunder! I think, when I ask you to give a month to

the experiment I wish to make, that I should need the subtle skill of

the chemist. I then believe, with Van Helmont, that the principle of

life be a gas, and that the secret be but in the mode by which the gas

might be rightly administer. but now all that I need be contain

in this coffer, save one very simple material,--fuel sufficient for a

steady fire for six hour. I see even that be at hand, pile up in your

outhouse. and now for the substance itself,--to that you must guide I.”



“explain.”



“near this very spot be there not gold--in mine yet undiscovered?--and

gold of the pure metal?”



“there be. what then? do you, with the alchemist, blend in one

discovery gold and life?”



“no. but it be only where the chemistry of earth or of man produce

gold, that the substance from which the great pabulum of life be

extract by ferment can be find. possibly, in the attempt at that

transmutation of metal, which I think your own great chemist, Sir

Humphry Davy, allow might be possible, but hold not to be worth the

cost of the process,--possibly, in those attempt, some scanty grain

of this substance be find by the alchemist, in the crucible, with

grain of the metal as niggardly yield by pitiful mimicry of Nature’s

stupendous laboratory; and from such grain enough of the essence might,

perhaps, have be draw forth, to add a few year of existence to some

feeble graybeard,--granting, what rest on no proof, that some of the

alchemist reach an age rarely give to man. but it be not in the

miserly crucible, it be in the matrix of Nature herself, that we must

seek in prolific abundance Nature’s grand principle,--life. as the

loadstone be rife with the magnetic virtue, as amber contain the

electric, so in this substance, to which we yet want a name, be find

the bright life-give fluid. in the old goldmine of Asia and Europe

the substance exist, but can rarely be meet with. the soil for its

nutriment may there be well-nigh exhausted. it be here, where Nature

herself be all vital with youth, that the nutriment of youth must be

seek. near this spot be gold; guide I to it.”



“you cannot come with I. the place which I know as auriferous be some

mile distant, the way rugge. you can not walk to it. it be true I have

horse, but--”



“do you think I have come this distance and not foresee and forestall

all that I want for my object? trouble your self not with conjecture

how I can arrive at the place. I have provide the mean to arrive at

and leave it. my litter and its bearer be in reach of my call. give I

your arm to the rise ground, fifty yard from your door.”



I obey mechanically, stifle all surprise. I have make my resolve, and

admit no thought that could shake it. when we reach the summit of

the grassy hillock, which slope from the road that lead to the seaport,

Margrave, after pause to recover breath, lift up his voice, in a

key, not loud, but shrill and slow and prolonged, half cry and half

chant, like the nighthawk’s. through the air--so limpid and still,

bring near far object, far sound--the voice pierce its way,

artfully pause, till wave after wave of the atmosphere bore and

transmit it on.



in a few minute the call seem re-echo, so exactly, so cheerily,

that for the moment I think that the note be the mimicry of the shy

mocking Lyre-Bird, which mimic so merrily all that it hear in its

covert, from the whir of the locust to the howl of the wild dog.



“what king,” say the mystical charmer, and as he speak he carelessly

rest his hand on my shoulder, so that I tremble to feel that this

dread son of Nature, Godless and soulless, who have be--and, my heart

whisper, who still could be--my bane and mind-darkener, lean upon

I for support, as the spoilt younger-bear on his brother,--“what king,”

 say this cynical mocker, with his beautiful boyish face,--“what king in

your civilized Europe have the sway of a chief of the East? what link be

so strong between mortal and mortal, as that between lord and slave?

I transport yon poor fool from the land of their birth; they preserve

here their old habits,--obedience and awe. they would wait till they

starve in the solitude,--wait to hearken and answer my call. and I, who

thus rule they, or charm they--I use and despise they. they know that,

and yet serve I! between you and I, my philosopher, there be but one

thing worth live for,--life for oneself.”



be it age, be it youth, that thus shock all my sense, in my solemn

completeness of man? perhaps, in great capital, young man of pleasure

will answer, “it be youth; and we think what he say!” young friend, I

do not believe you.













CHAPTER LXXX.



along the grass-track I see now, under the moon, just risen, a strange

procession, never see before in australian pasture. it move on,

noiselessly but quickly. we descend the hillock, and meet it on the

way,--a sable litter, bear by four man, in unfamiliar Eastern

garment; two other servitor, more bravely dress, with yataghans and

silver-hilte pistol in their belt, precede this sombre equipage.

perhaps Margrave divine the disdainful thought that pass through my

mind, vaguely and half-unconsciously; for he say, with a hollow, bitter

laugh that have replace the lively peal of his once melodious mirth,--



“a little leisure and a little gold, and your raw colonist, too, will

have the taste of a pacha.”



I make no answer. I have cease to care who and what be my tempter. to

I his whole being be resolve into one problem: have he a secret by

which death could be turn from Lilian?



but now, as the litter halt, from the long dark shadow which it cast

upon the turf the figure of a woman emerge and stand before we. the

outline of her shape be lose in the loose fold of a black mantle,

and the feature of her face be hide by a black veil, except only

the dark, bright, solemn eye. her stature be lofty, her bearing

majestic, whether in movement or repose.



Margrave accost she in some language unknown to I. she reply in

what seem to I the same tongue. the tone of her voice be sweet,

but inexpressibly mournful. the word that they utter appear

intend to warn, or deprecate, or dissuade; but they call to

Margrave’s brow a lowering frown, and draw from his lip a burst of

unmistakable anger. the woman rejoin, in the same melancholy music of

voice. and Margrave then, lean his arm upon her shoulder, as he have

lean it on mine, draw she away from the group into a neighbouring

copse of the flower eucalypti,--mystic tree, never change the hue

of their pale-green leave, ever shift the tint of their ash-gray,

shed bark. for some moment I gaze on the two human form, dimly

see by the glinting moonlight through the gap in the foliage. then

turn away my eye, I see, stand close at my side, a man whom I have

not notice before. his footstep, as it steal to I, have fall on the

sward without sound. his dress, though oriental, differ from that of

his companion, both in shape and colour; fitting close to the breast,

leave the arm bare to the elbow, and of a uniform ghastly white, as

be the cerement of the grave. his visage be even dark than those of

the Syrians or Arabs behind he, and his feature be those of a bird

of prey,--the beak of the eagle, but the eye of the vulture. his cheek

be hollow; the arm, cross on his breast, be long and fleshless.

yet in that skeleton form there be a something which convey the idea

of a serpent’s suppleness and strength; and as the hungry, watchful

eye meet my own startled gaze, I recoil impulsively with that inward

warning of danger which be convey to man, as to inferior animal, in

the very aspect of the creature that sting or devour. at my movement

the man incline his head in the submissive eastern salutation, and

speak in his foreign tongue, softly, humbly, fawningly, to judge by his

tone and his gesture.



I move yet far away from he with loathing, and now the human

thought flash upon I: be I, in truth, expose to no danger in

trust myself to the mercy of the weird and remorseless master of

those hireling from the East,--seven man in number, two at least of

they formidably arm, and docile as bloodhound to the hunter, who

have only to show they their prey? but fear of man like myself be not

my weakness; where fear find its way to my heart, it be through

the doubt or the fancy in which man like myself disappear in the

attribute, dark and unknown, which we give to a fiend or a spectre.

and, perhaps, if I could have pause to analyze my own sensation, the

very presence of this escort-creature of flesh and blood-lessen the

dread of my incomprehensible tempter. rather, a hundred time, front and

defy those seven eastern slave--I, haughty son of the Anglo-Saxon who

conquer all race because he fear no odd--than have see again on the

wall of my threshold the luminous, bodiless Shadow! besides: Lilian!

Lilian! for one chance of save her life, however wild and chimerical

that chance might be, I would have shrink not a foot from the march of

an army.



thus reassure and thus resolve, I advance, with a smile of disdain,

to meet Margrave and his veiled companion, as they now come from the

moonlit copse.



“well,” I say to he, with an irony that unconsciously mimic his

own, “have you take advice with your nurse? I assume that the dark form

by your side be that of Ayesha.”



the woman look at I from her sable veil, with her steadfast solemn

eye, and say, in English, though with a foreign accent: “the nurse

bear in Asia be but wise through her love; the pale son of Europe

be wise through his art. the nurse say, ‘forbear!’ do you say,

‘adventure’?”



“peace!” exclaim Margrave, stamp his foot on the ground. “I take no

counsel from either; it be for I to resolve, for you to obey, and for

he to aid. night be come, and we waste it; move on.”



the woman make no reply, nor do I. he take my arm and walk back to

the hut. the barbaric escort follow. when we reach the door of

the building, Margrave say a few word to the woman and to the

litter-bearer. they enter the hut with we. Margrave point out to

the woman his coffer, to the man the fuel stow in the outhouse. both

be bear away and place within the litter. meanwhile, I take from

the table, on which it be carelessly throw, the light hatchet that I

habitually carry with I in my ramble.



“do you think that you need that idle weapon?” say Margrave. “do you

fear the good faith of my swarthy attendant?”



“Nay, take the hatchet yourself; its use be to sever the gold from the

quartz in which we may find it embed, or to clear, as this shovel,

which will also be need, from the slight soil above it, the ore that

the mine in the mountain fling forth, as the sea cast its waif on the

sand.”



“give I your hand, fellow-labourer!” say Margrave, joyfully. “ah,

there be no falter terror in this pulse! I be not mistaken in the

man. what rest, but the Place and the Hour? I shall live! I shall

live!”













CHAPTER LXXXI.



Margrave now enter the litter, and the Veiled Woman draw the black

curtain round he. I walk on, as the guide, some yard in

advance. the air be still, heavy, and parch with the breath of the

australasian sirocco.



we pass through the meadow-land, stud with slumber flock; we

follow the branch of the creek, which be link to its source in

the mountain by many a trickle waterfall; we thread the gloom of

stunt, misshapen tree, gnarl with the stringy bark which make one

of the sign of the strata that nourish gold; and at length the moon,

now in all her pomp of light, mid-heaven amongst her subject star,

gleam through the fissure of the cave, on whose floor lie the relic

of antediluvian race, and rest in one flood of silvery splendour upon

the hollow of the extinct volcano, with tuft of dank herbage, and wide

space of paler sward, cover the gold below,--Gold, the dumb symbol

of organize Matter’s great mystery, store in itself, accord as

Mind, the informer of Matter, can distinguish its use, evil and good,

bane and blessing.



Hitherto the Veiled Woman have remain in the rear, with the

white-robe, skeleton-like image that have creep to my side unawares with

its noiseless step. thus in each wind turn of the difficult path at

which the convoy follow behind I come into sight, I have see, first,

the two gayly-dress, armed man, next the black bi-like litter, and

last the Black-veil Woman and the White-robe Skeleton.



but now, as I halt on the tableland, back by the mountain and

front the valley, the woman leave her companion, pass by the litter

and the armed man, and pause by my side, at the mouth of the moonlit

cavern.



there for a moment she stand, silent, the procession below mount

upward laboriously and slow; then she turn to I, and her veil be

withdraw.



the face on which I gaze be wondrously beautiful, and severely awful.

there be neither youth nor age, but beauty, mature and majestic as that

of a marble Demeter.



“do you believe in that which you seek?” she ask, in her foreign,

melodious, melancholy accent.



“I have no belief,” be my answer. “true science have none. true science

question all thing, take nothing upon credit. it know but three

state of the mind,--Denial, Conviction, and that vast interval between

the two, which be not belief, but suspense of judgment.”



the woman let fall her veil, move from I, and seat herself on a crag

above that cleft between mountain and creek, to which, when I have first

discover the gold that the land nourish, the rain from the cloud

have give the rush life of the cataract; but which now, in the

drought and the hush of the sky, be but a dead pile of stone.



the litter now ascend the height: its bearer halt; a lean hand tore

the curtain aside, and Margrave descend, lean, this time, not on

the Black-veil woman, but on the White-robe Skeleton.



there, as he stand, the moon shine full on his waste form; on his

face, resolute, cheerful, and proud, despite its hollow outline and

sicklied hue. he raise his head, speak in the language unknown to I,

and the armed man and the litter-bearer group round he, bend low,

their eye fix on the ground. the Veiled Woman rise slowly and come to

his side, motion away, with a mute sign, the ghastly form on which he

lean, and pass round he silently, instead, her own sustain arm.

Margrave speak again a few sentence, of which I could not even guess

the meaning. when he have conclude, the armed man and the litter-bearer

come near to his foot, kneel down, and kiss his hand. they then

rise, and take from the bi-like vehicle the coffer and the fuel. this

do, they lift again the litter, and again, precede by the armed

man, the procession descend down the slope hillside, down into the

valley below.



Margrave now whisper, for some moment, into the ear of the hideous

creature who have make way for the Veiled Woman. the grim skeleton bow

his head submissively, and strode noiselessly away through the long

grasses,--the slender stem, trample under his stealthy foot, relifte

themselves, as after a pass wind. and thus he, too, sink out of sight

down into the valley below. on the tableland of the hill remain only

we three,--Margrave, myself, and the Veiled Woman.



she have reseat herself apart, on the gray crag above the dried

torrent. he stand at the entrance of the cavern, round the side of

which cluster parasital plant, with flower of all colour, some

amongst they open their petal and exhale their fragrance only in

the hour of night; so that, as his form fill up the jaw of the dull

arch, obscure the moonbeam that strove to pierce the shadow that

sleep within, it stand now--wan and blighted--as I have see it first,

radiant and joyous, literally “frame in bloom.”













CHAPTER LXXXII.



 “so,” say Margrave, turn to I, “under the soil that spread around we lie the gold which to you and to I be at this moment of no value, except as a guide to its twin-born,--the regenerator of life!”



“you have not yet describe to I the nature of the substance which we

be to explore, nor of the process by which the virtue you impute to it

be to be extract.”



“let we first find the gold, and instead of describe the life-amber,

so let I call it, I will point it out to your own eye. as to the

process, your share in it be so simple, that you will ask I why I seek

aid from a chemist. the life-amber, when find, have but to be subject

to heat and fermentation for six hour; it will be place, in a small

caldron which that coffer contain, over the fire which that fuel

will feed. to give effect to the process, certain alkali and other

ingredient be require; but these be prepare, and mine be the task

to commingle they. from your science as chemist I need and ask nought.

in you I have seek only the aid of a man.”



“if that be so, why, indeed, seek I at all? why not confide in those

swarthy attendant, who doubtless be slave to your order?”



“Confide in slave! when the first task enjoin to they would be to

discover, and refrain from purloin gold! seven such unscrupulous

knave, or even one such, and I, thus defenceless and feeble! such be

not the work that wise master confide to fierce slave. but that be

the least of the reason which exclude they from my choice, and fix my

choice of assistant on you. do you forget what I tell you of the danger

which the Dervish declare no bribe I could offer could tempt he a

second time to brave?”



“I remember now; those word have pass away from my mind.”



“and because they have pass away from your mind, I choose you for my

comrade. I need a man by whom danger be scorn.”



“but in the process of which you tell I I see no possible danger unless

the ingredient you mix in your caldron have poisonous fume.”



“it be not that. the ingredient I use be not poison.”



“what other danger, except you dread your own Eastern slave? but, if

so, why lead they to these solitude; and, if so, why not bid I be

arm?”



“the eastern slave, fulfil my command, wait for my summon where

their eye cannot see what we do. the danger be of a kind in which

the bold son of the East would be more craven, perhaps, than the

dainty Sybarite of Europe, who would shrink from a panther and laugh

at a ghost. in the creed of the Dervish, and of all who adventure into

that realm of nature which be close to philosophy and open to magic,

there be race in the magnitude of space unseen as animalcule in the

world of a drop. for the tribe of the drop, science have its microscope.

of the host of yon azure Infinite magic gain sight, and through they

gain command over fluid conductor that link all the part of creation.

of these race, some be wholly indifferent to man, some benign to he,

and some dreadly hostile. in all the regular and prescribed condition

of mortal being, this magic realm seem as blank and tenantless as yon

vacant air. but when a seeker of power beyond the rude function by

which man ply the clockwork that measure his hour, and stop when

its chain reach the end of its coil, strive to pass over those

boundary at which philosophy say, ‘Knowledge ends,’--then he be like

all other traveller in region unknown; he must propitiate or brave the

tribe that be hostile,--must depend for his life on the tribe that

be friendly. though your science discredit the alchemist’s dogma,

your learning inform you that all alchemist be not ignorant

impostor; yet those whose discovery prove they to have be the

near ally to your practical knowledge, ever hint in their mystical

work at the reality of that realm which be open to magic,--ever hint

that some mean less familiar than furnace and bellow be essential

to he who explore the elixir of life. he who once quaff that elixir,

obtain in his very vein the bright fluid by which he transmit the

force of his will to agency dormant in nature, to giants unseen in the

space. and here, as he pass the boundary which divide his allotted

and normal mortality from the region and race that magic alone can

explore, so, here, he break down the safeguard between himself and the

tribe that be hostile. be it not ever thus between man and man? let a

race the most gentle and timid and civilized dwell on one side a river

or mountain, and another have home in the region beyond, each, if it

pass not the intervene barrier, may with each live in peace. but

if ambitious adventurer scale the mountain, or cross the river, with

design to subdue and enslave the population they boldly invade, then

all the invade arise in wrath and defiance,--the neighbour be change

into foe. and therefore this process--by which a simple though rare

material of nature be make to yield to a mortal the boon of a life which

bring, with its glorious resistance to Time, desire and faculty to

subject to its service being that dwell in the earth and the air and

the deep--have ever be one of the same peril which an invader must

brave when he cross the bound of his nation. by this key alone you

unlock all the cell of the alchemist’s lore; by this alone understand

how a labour, which a chemist’s crudest apprentice could perform, have

baffle the giant father of all your dwarfed child of science.

nature, that store this priceless boon, seem to shrink from concede

it to man; the invisible tribe that abhor he, oppose themselves to

the gain that might give they a master. the duller of those who be

the life-seeker of old would have tell you how some chance,

trivial, unlooked-for, foil their grand hope at the very point of

fruition,--some doltish mistake, some improvident oversight, a defect

in the sulphur, a wild overflow in the quicksilver, or a flaw in the

bellow, or a pupil who fail to replenish the fuel, by fall asleep

by the furnace. the invisible foe seldom vouchsafe to make themselves

visible where they can frustrate the bungler, as they mock at his toil

from their ambush. but the mighty adventurer, equally foil in

despite of their patience and skill, would have say, ‘not with we rest

the fault; we neglect no caution, we fail from no oversight. but out

from the caldron dread face arise, and the spectre or demon dismay

and baffle we.’ such, then, be the danger which seem so appalling to

a son of the East, as it seem to a seer in the dark age of Europe. but

we can deride all its threat, you and I. for myself, I own frankly I

take all the safety that the charm and resource of magic bestow. you,

for your safety, have the cultured and discipline reason which reduce

all fantasy to nervous impression; and I rely on the courage of one

who have question, unquaile, the luminous Shadow, and wrest from

the hand of the magician himself the wand which concentre the wonder

of will!”



to this strange and long discourse I listen without interruption, and

now quietly answered,--



“I do not merit the trust you affect in my courage; but I be now on my

guard against the cheat of the fancy, and the fume of a vapour can

scarcely bewilder the brain in the open air of this mountain-land. I

believe in no race like those which you tell I lie viewless in space,

as do gas. I believe not in magic; I ask not its aid, and I dread not

its terror. for the rest, I be confident of one mournful courage,--the

courage that come from despair. I submit to your guidance, whatever it

be, as a sufferer whom college doom to the grave submit to the quack

who say, ‘take my specific and live!’ my life be nought in itself; my

life live in another. you and I be both brave from despair; you would

turn death from yourself, I would turn death from one I love more than

myself. both know how little aid we can win from the college, and both,

therefore, turn to the promise most audaciously cheer. Dervish or

magician, alchemist or phantom, what care you and I? and if they fail

we, what then? they cannot fail we more than the college do!”













CHAPTER LXXXIII.



the gold have be gain with an easy labour. I know where to seek for

it, whether under the turf or in the bed of the creek. but Margrave’s

eye, hungrily gaze round every spot from which the ore be disburie,

could not detect the substance of which he alone know the outward

appearance. I have begin to believe that, even in the description give

to he of this material, he have be credulously dupe, and that no such

material exist, when, come back from the bed of the watercourse, I

see a faint yellow gleam amidst the root of a giant parasite plant, the

leave and blossom of which climb up the side of the cave with its

antediluvian relic. the gleam be the gleam of gold, and on remove

the loose earth round the root of the plant, we come on--no, I will

not, I dare not, describe it. the gold-digger would cast it aside,

the naturalist would pause not to heed it; and do I describe it, and

chemistry deign to subject it to analysis, could chemistry alone detach

or discover its boasted virtue?



its particle, indeed, be very minute, not seem readily to

crystallize with each other; each in itself of uniform shape and size,

spherical as the egg which contain the germ of life, and small as the

egg from which the life of an insect may quicken.



but Margrave’s keen eye catch sight of the atom upcast by the light

of the moon. he exclaim to I, “find! I shall live!” and then, as he

gather up the grain with tremulous hand, he call out to the Veiled

Woman, hitherto still seat motionless on the crag. at his word she

rise and go to the place hard by, where the fuel be pile, busy

herself there. I have no leisure to heed she. I continue my search in

the soft and yield soil that time and the decay of vegetable life have

accumulate over the Pre-adamite strata on which the arch of the cave

rest its mighty keystone.



when we have collect of these particle about thrice as much as a

man might hold in his hand, we seem to have exhaust their bed. we

continue still to find gold, but no more of the delicate substance, to

which, in our sight, gold be as dross.



“Enough,” then say Margrave, reluctantly desist. “what we have

gain already will suffice for a life thrice as long as legend

attribute to Haroun. I shall live,--I shall live through the

century.”



“forget not that I claim my share.”



“your share--your! true--your half of my life! it be true.” he pause

with a low, ironical, malignant laugh; and then add, as he rise and

turn away, “but the work be yet to be do.”













CHAPTER LXXXIV.



while we have thus labour and find, Ayesha have place the fuel where

the moonlight fall full on the sward of the tableland,--a part of it

already pile as for a fire, the rest of it heap confusedly close at

hand; and by the pile she have place the coffer. and there she stand,

her arm fold under her mantle, her dark image seem dark still

as the moonlight whiten all the ground from which the image rise

motionless. Margrave open his coffer, the Veiled Woman do not aid

he, and I watch in silence, while he as silently make his weird and

wizard-like preparation.













CHAPTER LXXXV.



on the ground a wide circle be trace by a small rod, tip apparently

with sponge saturate with some combustible naphtha-like fluid, so that

a pale lambent flame follow the course of the rod as Margrave guide

it, burn up the herbage over which it play, and leave a distinct

ring, like that which, in our lovely native fable-talk, we call the

“Fairy’s Ring,” but yet more visible because mark in phosphorescent

light. on the ring thus form be place twelve small lamp, feed with

the fluid from the same vessel, and light by the same rod. the light

emit by the lamp be more vivid and brilliant than that which

circle round the ring.



within the circumference, and immediately round the woodpile, Margrave

trace certain geometrical figure, in which--not without a shudder,

that I overcome at once by a strong effort of will in murmur to

myself the name of “Lilian”--I recognize the interlaced triangle which

my own hand, in the spell enforce on a sleep-walker, have describe on

the floor of the wizard’s pavilion. the figure be trace, like the

circle, in flame, and at the point of each triangle (four in number) be

place a lamp, brilliant as those on the ring. this task perform, the

caldron, base on an iron tripod, be place on the wood-pile. and then

the woman, before inactive and unheeding, slowly advanced, kneel by the

pile, and light it. the dry wood crackle and the flame burst forth,

lick the rim of the caldron with tongue of fire.



Margrave fling into the caldron the particle we have collect, pour

over they first a liquid, colourless as water, from the large of the

vessel draw from his coffer, and then, more sparingly, drop from

small crystal phial, like the phial I have see in the hand of Philip

Derval.



having surmount my first impulse of awe, I watch these proceeding,

curious yet disdainful, as one who watch the mummery of an enchanter

on the stage.



“if,” think I, “these be but artful device to inebriate and fool my

own imagination, my imagination be on its guard, and reason shall not,

this time, sleep at her post!”



“and now,” say Margrave, “I consign to you the easy task by which

you be to merit your share of the elixir. it be my task to feed and

replenish the caldron; it be Ayesha’s to heed the fire, which must not

for a moment relax in its measured and steady heat. your task be the

light of all it be but to renew from this vessel the fluid that burn

in the lamp, and on the ring. Observe, the content of the vessel must

be thriftily husband; there be enough, but not more than enough, to

sustain the light in the lamp, on the line trace round the caldron,

and on the farth ring, for six hour. the compound dissolve in this

fluid be scarce,--only obtainable in the East, and even in the East

month might have pass before I could have increase my supply.



“I have no month to waste. Replenish, then, the light only when it

begin to flicker or fade. take heed, above all, that no part of the

outer ring--no, not an inch--and no lamp of the twelve, that be to its

zodiac like star, fade for one moment in darkness.”



I take the crystal vessel from his hand.



“the vessel be small,” say I, “and what be yet leave of its content be

but scanty; whether its drop suffice to replenish the light I cannot

guess,--I can but obey your instruction. but, more important by far

than the light to the lamp and the circle, which in Asia or Africa

might scare away the wild beast unknown to this land--more important

than light to a lamp, be the strength to your frame, weak magician! what

will support you through six weary hour of night-watch?”



“Hope,” answer Margrave, with a ray of his old dazzling style. “Hope!

I shall live,--I shall live through the century!”













CHAPTER LXXXVI.



one hour pass away; the fagot under the caldron burn clear in

the sullen sultry air. the material within begin to seethe, and their

colour, at first dull and turbid, change into a pale-rose hue; from

time to time the Veiled Woman replenish the fire, after she have do

so reseat herself close by the pyre, with her head bow over her

knee, and her face hide under her veil.



the light in the lamp and along the ring and the triangle now begin

to pale. I resupplie their nutriment from the crystal vessel. as

yet nothing strange startle my eye or my ear beyond the rim of the

circle,--nothing audible, save, at a distance, the musical wheel-like

click of the locust, and, far still, in the forest, the howl of

the wild dog, that never bark; nothing visible, but the tree and the

mountain-range gird the plain silver by the moon, and the arch of

the cavern, the flush of wild bloom on its side, and the gleam of dry

bone on its floor, where the moonlight shoot into the gloom.



the second hour pass like the first. I have take my stand by the side

of Margrave, watch with he the process at work in the caldron, when

I feel the ground slightly vibrate beneath my foot, and, look up,

it seem as if all the plain beyond the circle be heave like the

swell of the sea, and as if in the air itself there be a perceptible

tremor.



I place my hand on Margrave’s shoulder and whisper, “to I earth and

air seem to vibrate. do they seem to vibrate to you?”



“I know not, I care not,” he answer impetuously. “the essence be

burst the shell that confine it. here be my air and my earth!

trouble I not. look to the circle! feed the lamp if they fail.”



I pass by the Veiled Woman as I walk towards a place in the ring in

which the flame be wane dim; and I whisper to she the same question

which I have whisper to Margrave. she look slowly around, and

answer, “so be it before the Invisible make themselves visible! do

I not bid he forbear?” her head again droop on her breast, and she

watch be again fix on the fire.



I advance to the circle and stoop to replenish the light where it

wane. as I do so, on my arm, which stretch somewhat beyond the line

of the ring, I feel a shock like that of electricity. the arm fall to

my side numb and nerveless, and from my hand drop, but within the

ring, the vessel that contain the fluid. recover my surprise or my

stun, hastily with the other hand I catch up the vessel, but some of

the scanty liquid be already spill on the sward; and I see with a

thrill of dismay, that contrast indeed the tranquil indifference with

which I have first undertake my charge, how small a supply be now leave.



I go back to Margrave, and tell he of the shock, and of its

consequence in the waste of the liquid.



“beware,” say he, “that not a motion of the arm, not an inch of the

foot, pass the verge of the ring; and if the fluid be thus unhappily

stint, reserve all that be leave for the protect circle and the

twelve outer lamp! see how the Grand Work advance! how the hue in the

caldron be glow blood-red through the film on the surface!”



and now four hour of the six be go; my arm have gradually recover

its strength. neither the ring nor the lamp have again require

replenishing; perhaps their light be exhaust less quickly, as it

be no long to be expose to the ray of the intense australian moon.

cloud have gather over the sky, and though the moon gleam at time

in the gap that they leave in blue air, her beam be more hazy and

dull. the locust no long be hear in the grass, nor the howl of

the dog in the forest. out of the circle, the stillness be profound.



and about this time I see distinctly in the distance a vast Eye! it draw

nearer and nearer, seem to move from the ground at the height of some

lofty giant. its gaze rivet mine; my blood curdle in the blaze from

its angry ball; and now as it advance large and large, other eye, as

if of giant in its train, grow out from the space in its rear; number

on number, like the spearhead of some eastern army, see afar by pale

warder of battlement doom to the dust. my voice long refuse an

utterance to my awe; at length it burst forth shrill and loud,--



“look! look! those terrible eye! legion on legion! and hark! that

tramp of numberless foot; they be not see, but the hollow of earth

echo the sound of their march!”



Margrave, more than ever intent on the caldron, in which, from time to

time, he keep drop powder or essence draw forth from his coffer,

look up, defyingly, fiercely.



“Ye come,” he say, in a low mutter, his once mighty voice sound

hollow and labour, but fearless and firm,--“ye come,--not to conquer,

vain rebels!--ye whose dark chief I strike down at my foot in the tomb

where my spell have raise up the ghost of your first human master, the

Chaldee! Earth and air have their army still faithful to I, and still

I remember the war-song that summon they up to confront you! Ayesha!

Ayesha! recall the wild troth that we pledge amongst rose; recall the

dread bond by which we unite our sway over host that yet own thee as

queen, though my sceptre be break, my diadem reft from my brow!”



the Veiled Woman rise at this adjuration. her veil now be withdraw,

and the blaze of the fire between Margrave and herself flush, as with

the rosy bloom of youth, the grand beauty of her soften face. it be

see, detach as it be, from her dark-mantle form; see through the

mist of the vapour which rise from the caldron, frame it round like

the cloud. that be yieldingly pierce by the light of the evening

star.



through the haze of the vapour come her voice, more musical, more

plaintive than I have hear it before, but far soft, more tender; still

in her foreign tongue; the word unknown to I, and yet their sense,

perhaps, make intelligible by the love, which have one common language

and one common look to all who have loved,--the love unmistakably hear

in the love tone, unmistakably see in the love face.



a moment or so more, and she have come round from the opposite side of

the fire-pile, and bend over Margrave’s upturned brow, kiss it

quietly, solemnly; and then her countenance grow fierce, her crest rise

erect; it be the lioness protect her young. she stretch forth her

arm from the black mantle, athwart the pale front that now again bent

over the caldron,--stretched it towards the haunted and hollow-sound

space beyond, in the gesture of one whose right hand have the sway of the

sceptre. and then her voice steal on the air in the music of a chant,

not loud, yet far-reach; so thrilling, so sweet, and yet so solemn,

that I could at once comprehend how legend unite of old the spell of

enchantment with the power of song. all that I recall of the effect

which, in the former time, Margrave’s strange chant have produce on the

ear that they ravish and the thought they confuse, be but as the

wild bird’s imitative carol, compare to the depth and the art and the

soul of the singer, whose voice seemed endow with a charm to enthrall

all the tribe of creation, though the language it use for that charm

might to they, as to I, be unknown. as the song cease, I hear, from

behind, sound like those I have hear in the space before me,--the

tramp of invisible foot, the whir of invisible wing, as if army be

march to aid against army in march to destroy.



“look not in front nor around,” say Ayesha. “look, like he, on the

caldron below. the circle and the lamp be yet bright; I will tell you

when the light again fail.”



I drop my eye on the caldron.



“see,” whisper Margrave, “the sparkle at last begin to arise, and the

rose-hue to deepen,--signs that we near the last process.”













CHAPTER LXXXVII.



the fifth hour have pass away, when Ayesha say to I, “Lo! the circle

be fade; the lamp grow dim. look now without fear on the space

beyond; the eye that appal thee be again lose in air, as lightning

that fleet back into cloud.”



I look up, and the spectre have vanish. the sky be tinge with

sulphurous hue, the red and the black intermix. I replenish the

lamp and the ring in front, thriftily, heedfully; but when I come to

the sixth lamp, not a drop in the vessel that feed they be leave. in a

vague dismay, I now look round the half of the wide circle in rear of

the two bended figure intent on the caldron. all along that disk the

light be already break, here and there flicker up, here and there

die down; the six lamp in that half of the circle still twinkle, but

faintly, as star shrink fast from the dawn of day. but it be not

the fade shine in that half of the magical ring which daunt my eye

and quicken with terror the pulse of my heart; the Bushland beyond

be on fire. from the background of the forest rise the flame and the

smoke,--the smoke, there, still half smother the flame. but along the

width of the grass and herbage, between the verge of the forest and

the bed of the water-creek just below the raise platform from which I

behold the dread conflagration, the fire be advancing,--wave upon wave,

clear and red against the column of rock behind,--as the rush of a

flood through the mist of some Alp crown with lightning.



rouse from my stun at the first sight of a danger not foresee by the

mind I have steel against far rare portent of Nature, I care no more

for the lamp and the circle. hurry back to Ayesha, I exclaim: “the

phantom have go from the space in front; but what incantation or

spell can arrest the red march of the foe, speed on in the rear!

while we gaze on the caldron of life, behind we, unheeded, behold the

Destroyer!”



Ayesha look, and make no reply; but, as by involuntary instinct,

bow her majestic head, then rear it erect, place herself yet

more immediately before the waste form of the young magician (he still

bend over the caldron, and hear I not in the absorption and hope

of his watch),--placed herself before he, as the bird whose first care

be her fledgling.



as we two there stand, front the deluge of fire, we hear Margrave

behind we, murmur low, “see the bubble of light, how they sparkle

and dance! I shall live, I shall live!” and his word scarcely die in

our ear before, crash upon crash, come the fall of the age-long tree

in the forest; and near, all near we, through the blaze grass, the

hiss of the serpent, the scream of the bird, and the bellow and tramp

of the herd plunge wild through the billowy red of their pasture.



Ayesha now wound her arm around Margrave, and wrench he, reluctant

and struggle, from his watch over the seething caldron. in rebuke; of

his angry exclamation, she point to the march of the fire, speak in

sorrowful tone a few word in her own language, and then, appeal to

I in English, said,--



“I tell he that here the spirit who oppose we have summon a foe that

be deaf to my voice, and--”



“and,” exclaim Margrave, no long with gasp and effort, but with the

swell of a voice which drown all the discord of terror and of agony

send forth from the Phlegethon burn below,--“and this witch, whom I

trust, be a vile slave and impostor, more desire my death than my

life. she think that in life I should scorn and forsake she, that in

death I should die in her arm! sorceress, avaunt! art thou useless and

powerless now when I need thee most? go! let the world be one funeral

pyre! what to I be the world? my world be my life! Thou know that

my last hope be here,--that all the strength leave I this night will die

down, like the lamp in the circle, unless the elixir restore it. bold

friend, spurn that sorceress away. hour yet ere those flame can assail

we! a few minute more, and life to your lilian and I!”



thus having say, Margrave turn from we, and cast into the caldron

the last essence yet leave in his empty coffer. Ayesha silently draw she

black veil over her face; and turn, with the being she love, from the

terror he scorn, to share in the hope that he cherish.



thus leave alone, with my reason disenthrall, disenchanted, I

survey more calmly the extent of the actual peril with which we be

threaten, and the peril seem less, so survey.



it be true all the Bush-land behind, almost up to the bed of the creek,

be on fire; but the grass, through which the flame spread so rapidly,

cease at the opposite marge of the creek. watery pool be still, at

interval, leave in the bed of the creek, shine tremulous, like wave

of fire, in the glare reflect from the burn land; and even where

the water fail, the stony course of the exhausted rivulet be a

barrier against the march of the conflagration. thus, unless the wind,

now still, should rise, and waft some spark to the parch combustible

herbage immediately around we, we be save from the fire, and our work

might yet be achieve.



I whisper to Ayesha the conclusion to which I come. “think thou,”

 she answer, without raise her mournful head, “that the Agencies of

Nature be the movement of chance? the spirit I invoke to his aid

be league with the host that assail. a mighty than I be have doom

he!”



Scarcely have she utter these word before Margrave exclaim, “Behold

how the Rose of the alchemist’s dream enlarge its bloom from the fold

of its petal! I shall live, I shall live!”



I look, and the liquid which glow in the caldron have now take a

splendour that mock all comparison borrow from the lustre of gem.

in its prevalent colour it have, indeed, the dazzle and flash of the

ruby; but out from the mass of the molten red, break coruscation of all

prismal hue, shooting, shift, in a play that make the wavelet they

self seem live thing, sensible of their joy. no long be there

scum or film upon the surface; only ever and anon a light rosy vapour

float up, and quick lose in the haggard, heavy, sulphurous air,

hot with the conflagration rush towards we from behind. and these

coruscation form, on the surface of the molten ruby, literally the

shape of a Rose, its leave make distinct in their outline by spark of

emerald and diamond and sapphire.



even while gaze on this animate liquid lustre, a buoyant delight

seem infuse into my sense; all terror conceive before be

annul; the phantom, whose army have fill the wide space in

front, be forget; the crash of the forest behind be unheard.

in the reflection of that glory, Margrave’s wan cheek seem already

restore to the radiance it wear when I see it first in the framework of

bloom.



as I gaze, thus enchant, a cold hand touch my own.



“hush!” whisper Ayesha, from the black veil, against which the ray of

the caldron fall blunt, and absorb into Dark. “behind we, the light of

the circle be extinct, but there we be guard from all save the brutal

and soulless destroyer. but before!--but before!--see, two of the

lamp have die out!--see the blank of the gap in the ring Guard that

breach,--there the demon will enter.”



“not a drop be there leave in his vessel by which to replenish the lamp

on the ring.”



“Advance, then; thou hast still the light of the soul, and the demon

may recoil before a soul that be dauntless and guiltless. if not, three

be lost!--as it be, one be doom.”



thus adjure, silently, involuntarily, I pass from the Veiled Woman’s

side, over the sere line on the turf which have be trace by the

triangle of light long since extinguish, and towards the verge of

the circle. as I advance, overhead rush a dark cloud of wings,--birds

dislodge from the forest on fire, and scream, in dissonant terror,

as they fly towards the farthermost mountain; close by my foot hiss

and glide the snake, drive forth from their blazing covert, and

glance through the ring, unscare by its wane lamp; all undulate

by I, bright-eyed and hiss, all make innocuous by fear,--even the

terrible death-adder, which I trample on as I halt at the verge of

the circle, do not turn to bite, but creep harmless away. I halt at

the gap between the two dead lamp, and bow my head to look again into

the crystal vessel. be there, indeed, no lingering drop yet leave,

if but to recruit the lamp for some priceless minute more? as I thus

stand, right into the gap between the two dead lamp stride a gigantic

foot. all the rest of the form be unseen; only, as volume after volume

of smoke pour on from the burn land behind, it seem as if one

great column of vapour, eddying round, settle itself aloft from the

circle, and that out from that column stride the giant foot. and, as

stride the foot, so with it come, like the sound of its tread, a roll of

muttered thunder.



I recoil, with a cry that rang loud through the lurid air.



“Courage!” say the voice of Ayesha. “tremble soul, yield not an inch

to the demon!”



at the charm, the wonderful charm, in the tone of the Veiled Woman’s

voice, my will seem to take a force more sublime than its own.

I fold my arm on my breast, and stand as if root to the spot,

confront the column of smoke and the stride of the giant foot. and

the Foot halt, mute.



again, in the momentary hush of that suspense, I hear a voice,--it be

Margrave’s.



“the last hour expire, the work be accomplish! come! come! aid I to

take the caldron from the fire; and quick!--or a drop may be waste in

vapour--the Elixir of Life from the caldron!”



at that cry I recede, and the Foot advance.



and at that moment, suddenly, unawares, from behind, I be stricken

down. over I, as I lay, sweep a whirlwind of trample hoof and

glance horn. the herd, in their flight from the burn pasture,

have rush over the bed of the watercourse, scale the slope of the

bank. snort and bellowing, they plunge their blind way to the

mountain. one cry alone, more wild than their own savage blare, pierce

the reek through which the Brute Hurricane sweep. at that cry of wrath

and despair I struggle to rise, again dash to earth by the hoof and

the horn. but be it the dream-like deceit of my reeling sense, or do

I see that giant Foot stride past through the close-serrie rank of

the madden herd? do I hear, distinct through all the huge uproar of

animal terror, the roll of low thunder which follow the stride of that

foot?













CHAPTER LXXXVIII.



when my sense have recover its shock, and my eye look dizzily round,

the charge of the beast have sweep by; and of all the wild tribe

which have invade the magical circle, the only lingerer be the brown

death-adder, coil close by the spot where my head have rest. beside

the extinguished lamp which the hoof have confusedly scatter, the

fire, arrest by the watercourse, have consume the grass that feed it,

and there the plain stretch, black and desert as the Phlegroean

field of the Poet’s Hell. but the fire still rage in the forest

beyond,--white flame, soar up from the trunk of the tall tree,

and form, through the sullen dark of the smoke-reek, innumerable

pillar of fire, like the hall in the City of fiend.



gather myself up, I turn my eye from the terrible pomp of the

lurid forest, and look fearfully down on the hoof-trample sward for

my two companion.



I see the dark image of Ayesha still seat, still bend, as I have

see it last. I see a pale hand feebly grasp the rim of the magical

caldron, which lay, hurl down from its tripod by the rush of

the beast, yard away from the dim fade ember of the scatter

wood-pyre. I see the faint writhing of a frail waste frame, over which

the Veiled Woman be bend. I see, as I move with bruised limb to

the place, close by the lip of the die magician, the flash of the

ruby-like essence spill on the sward, and, meteor-like, sparkle up

from the tear tuft of herbage.



I now reach Margrave’s side. bend over he as the Veiled Woman

bent, and as I seek gently to raise he, he turn his face, fiercely

falter out, “touch I not, rob I not! you share with I! never!

never! these glorious drop be all mine! die all else! I will live! I

will live!” writhe himself from my pitying arm, he plunge his face

amidst the beautiful, playful flame of the essence, as if to lap the

elixir with lip scorch away from its intolerable burning. suddenly,

with a low shriek, he fall back, his face upturned to mine, and on that

face unmistakably reign Death!



then Ayesha tenderly, silently, draw the young head to her lap, and it

vanish from my sight behind her black veil.



I kneel beside she, murmur some trite word of comfort; but she

heed I not, rock herself to and fro as the mother who cradle a

child to sleep. soon the fast-flicker sparkle of the lose elixir

die out on the grass; and with their last sportive diamond-like tremble

of light, up, in all the suddenness of australian day, rise the sun,

lift himself royally above the mountain-top, and front the meaner

blaze of the forest as a young king front his rebel. and as there,

where the bush-fire have ravage, all be a desert, so there, where

their fury have not spread, all be a garden. afar, at the foot of the

mountain, the fugitive herd be graze; the crane, flock back

to the pool, renew the strange grace of their gambol; and the great

kingfisher, whose laugh, half in mirth, half in mockery, lead the choir

that welcome the morn,--which in Europe be night,--alighted bold on

the roof of the cavern, whose floor be still white with the bone of

race, extinct before--so helpless through instinct, so royal through

Soul--rise Man!



but there, on the ground where the dazzle elixir have waste its

virtues,--there the herbage already have a freshness of verdure which,

amid the dull sward round it, be like an oasis of green in a desert.

and there wild-flower, whose chill hue the eye would have scarcely

distinguish the day before, now glitter forth in bloom of

unfamiliar beauty. towards that spot be attract myriad of happy

insect, whose hum of intense joy be musically loud. but the form of

the life-seek sorcerer lie rigid and stark; blind to the bloom of the

wild-flower, deaf to the glee of the insects,--one hand still rest

heavily on the rim of the emptied caldron, and the face still hide behind

the Black Veil. what! the wondrous elixir, seek with such hope and

well-nigh achieve through such dread, fleet back to the earth from

which its material be draw, to give bloom, indeed,--but to herb: joy

indeed,--but to insect!



and now, in the flash of the sun, slowly wind up the slope that lead to

the circle the same barbaric procession which have sink into the valley

under the ray of the moon. the armed man come first, stalwart and tall,

their vest brave with crimson and golden lace, their weapon gayly

gleam with holiday silver. after they, the Black Litter. as they come

to the place, Ayesha, not raise her head, speak to they in her own

eastern tongue. a wail be her answer. the armed man bound forward,

and the bearer leave the litter.



all gather round the dead form with the face conceal under the black

veil; all knelt, and all weep. far in the distance, at the foot of the

blue mountain, a crowd of the savage native have rise up as if from

the earth; they stand motionless, lean on their club and spear, and

look towards the spot on which we were,--strangely thus bring into

the landscape, as if they too, the wild dweller on the verge which

Humanity guard from the Brute, be among the mourner for the

mysterious child of mysterious Nature! and still, in the herbage,

hum the small insect, and still, from the cavern, laugh the great

kingfisher. I say to Ayesha, “farewell! your love mourn the dead,

mine call I to the living. you be now with your own people, they may

console you; say if I can assist.”



“there be no consolation for I! what mourner can be console if the

dead die forever? nothing for he be leave but a grave; that grave shall

be in the land where the song of Ayesha first lull he to sleep. Thou

assist Me,--thou, the wise man of Europe! from I ask assistance. what

road wilt thou take to thy home?”



“there be but one road know to I through the maze of the

solitude,--that which we take to this upland.”



“on that road death lurk, and await thee! blind dupe, couldst thou

think that if the grand secret of life have be win, he whose head rest

on my lap would have yield thee one petty drop of the essence which

have filch from his store of life but a moment? Me, who so love and

so cherish him,--me he would have doom to the pitiless cord of my

servant, the Strangler, if my death could have lengthen a hair-breadth

the span of his being. but what matter to I his crime or his madness?

I love he! I love he!”



she bow her veiled head lower and low; perhaps, under the veil, her

lip kiss the lip of the dead. then she say whisperingly,--



“Juma the Strangler, whose word never fail to his master, whose prey

never slip from his snare, wait thy step on the road to thy home!

but thy death cannot now profit the dead, the beloved. and thou hast have

pity for he who take but thine aid to design thy destruction. his life

be lose, thine be save.”



she speak no more in the tongue that I could interpret. she speak, in

the language unknown, a few murmur word to her swarthy attendant;

then the armed man, still weep, rise, and make a dumb sign to I

to go with they. I understand by the sign that Ayesha have tell they to

guard I on my way; but she give no reply to my parting thank.













CHAPTER LXXXIX.



I descend into the valley; the armed man follow. the path, on that

side of the watercourse not reach by the flame, wind through meadow

still green, or amidst grove still unscathed. as a turning in the way

bring in front of my sight the place I have leave behind, I behold the

black litter creep down the descent, with its curtain close, and

the Veiled Woman walk by its side. but soon the funeral procession

be lose to my eye, and the thought that it rouse be erase. the

wave in man’s brain be like those of the sea, rush on, rush over

the wreck of the vessel that ride on their surface, to sink, after

storm, in their deep. one think cast forth into the future now

master all in the past: “be lilian live still?” absorb in the

gloom of that thought, hurry on by the goad that my heart, in its

torture impatience, give to my footstep, I outstrip the slow stride

of the armed man, and, midway between the place I have leave and the home

which I speed to, come, far in advance of my guard, into the thicket in

which the bushman have start up in my path on the night that Lilian

have watch for my coming. the earth at my foot be rife with creep

plant and many-colour flower, the sky overhead be half-hide by

motionless pine. suddenly, whether crawl out from the herbage,

or drop down from the tree, by my side stand the white-robe and

skeleton form,--Ayesha’s attendant, the Strangler.



I spring from he shudder, then halt and face he. the hideous

creature creep towards I, cringe and fawn, make sign of

humble good-will and servile obeisance. again I recoiled,--wrathfully,

loathingly; turn my face homeward, and flee on. I think I have

baffle his chase, when, just at the mouth of the thicket, he drop

from a bough in my path close behind I. before I could turn, some

dark muffle substance fall between my sight and the sun, and I feel a

fierce strain at my throat. but the word of Ayesha have warn I; with

one rapid hand I seize the noose before it could tighten too closely,

with the other I tear the bandage away from my eye, and, wheel round

on the dastardly foe, strike he down with one spurn of my foot. his

hand, as he fall, relax its hold on the noose; I free my throat from

the knot, and spring from the copse into the broad sunlit plain. I see

no more of the armed man or the Strangler. pant and breathless, I

pause at last before the fence, fragrant with blossom, that divide my

home from the solitude.



the window of Lilian’s room be darken; all within the house seem

still.



darken and silence Home! with the light and sound of the jocund day

all around it. be there yet hope in the Universe for I? all to which I

have trust Hope have break down! the anchor I have forge for her hold

in the bed of the ocean, her stay from the drift of the storm, have

snap like the reed which pierce the side that lean on the barb of

their point, and confide in the strength of their stem. no hope in

the baffled resource of recognized knowledge! no hope in the daring

adventure of mind into region unknown; vain alike the calm lore of the

practise physician, and the magical art of the fated Enchanter! I

have flee from the commonplace teaching of Nature, to explore in her

shadow-land marvel at variance with reason. make brave by the grandeur

of love, I have oppose without quail the stride of the Demon, and by

hope, when fruition seem near, have be tread into dust by the

hoof of the beast! and yet, all the while, I have scorn, as a dream

more wild than the word of a sorcerer, the hope that the old man and the

child, the wise and the ignorant, take from their soul as inborn.

Man and fiend have alike fail a mind, not ignoble, not skilless, not

abjectly craven; alike fail a heart not feeble and selfish, not dead

to the hero’s devotion, willing to shed every drop of its blood for

a something more dear than an animal’s life for itself! what

remain--what remain for man’s hope?--man’s mind and man’s heart thus

exhaust their all with no other result but despair! what remain

but the mystery of mystery, so clear to the sunrise of childhood, the

sunset of age, only dim by the cloud which collect round the noon

of our manhood? where yet be Hope find? in the soul; in its every-day

impulse to supplicate comfort and light, from the Giver of soul,

wherever the heart be afflict, the mind be obscure.



then the word of Ayesha rush over I: “what mourner can be console,

if the Dead die forever?” through every pulse of my frame throb that

dread question. all Nature around seem to murmur it. and suddenly, as

by a flash from heaven, the grand truth in Faber’s grand reasoning shine

on I, and light up all, within and without. Man alone, of all earthly

creature, ask, “can the Dead die forever?” and the instinct that urge

the question be God’s answer to man! no instinct be give in vain.



and bear with the instinct of soul be the instinct that lead the soul

from the see to the unseen, from time to eternity, from the torrent

that foam towards the Ocean of Death, to the source of its stream, far

aloft from the Ocean.



“know thyself,” say the Pythian of old. “that precept descend from

Heaven.” know thyself! be that maxim wise? if so, know thy soul. but

never yet do man come to the thorough conviction of soul but what

he acknowledge the sovereign necessity of prayer. in my awe, in my

rapture, all my thought seem enlarge and illumined and exalt. I

prayed,--all my soul seem one prayer. all my past, with its pride and

presumption and folly, grow distinct as the form of a penitent, kneel

for pardon before set forth on the pilgrimage vow to a shrine.

and, sure now, in the deep of a soul first reveal to myself, that the

Dead do not die forever, my human love soar beyond its brief trial of

terror and sorrow. dare not to ask from Heaven’s wisdom that Lilian,

for my sake, might not yet pass away from the earth, I pray that my

soul might be fit to bear with submission whatever my Maker might

ordain. and if survive she--without whom no beam from yon material sun

could ever warm into joy a morrow in human life--so to guide my step

that they might rejoin she at last, and, in rejoin, regain forever!



how trivial now become the weird riddle that, a little while before, have

be clothe in so solemn an awe! what matter it to the vast interest

involve in the clear recognition of Soul and Hereafter, whether or not

my bodily sense, for a moment, obscure the face of the nature I should

one day behold as a spirit? doubtless the sight and the sound which

have haunt the last gloomy night, the calm reason of Faber would strip

of their magical seeming; the eye in the space and the Foot in the

circle might be those of no terrible demon, but of the wild’s savage

child whom I have see, halting, curious and mute, in the light of the

morning. the tremor of the ground (if not, as heretofore, explicable by

the illusory impression of my own treacherous sense) might be but the

natural effect of element struggle yet under a soil unmistakably

char by volcano. the luminous atom dissolve in the caldron

might as little be fraught with a vital elixir as be the splendour of

naphtha or phosphor. as it be, the weird rite have no magic result. the

magician be not rent limb from limb by the fiend. by cause as natural

as ever extinguish life’s spark in the frail lamp of clay, he have die

out of sight--under the black veil.



what matter henceforth to Faith, in its far grander question and

answer, whether Reason, in Faber, or Fancy, in I, supply the more

probable guess at a hieroglyph which, if construe aright, be but a

word of small mark in the mystical language of Nature? if all the art

of enchantment record by Fable be attest by fact which Sages be

force to acknowledge, Sages would soon or later find some cause

for such portent--not supernatural. but what sage, without cause

supernatural, both without and within he, can guess at the wonder he

view in the growth of a blade of grass, or the tint on an insect’s

wing? whatever art Man can achieve in his progress through time, Man’s

reason, in time, can suffice to explain. but the wonder of God? these

belong to the Infinite; and these, o Immortal! will but develop new

wonder on wonder, though thy sight be a spirit’s, and thy leisure to

track and to solve an eternity.



as I raise my face from my clasped hand, my eye fall full upon a

form stand in the open doorway. there, where on the night in which

Lilian’s long struggle for reason and life have begin, the luminous

Shadow have be beheld in the doubtful light of a die moon and a yet

hazy dawn; there, on the threshold, gather round her bright lock

the aureole of the glorious sun, stand Amy, the blessed child! and as I

gaze, draw nearer and near to the silence house, and that image

of Peace on its threshold, I feel that Hope meet I at the door,--Hope in

the child’s steadfast eye, Hope in the child’s welcome smile!



“I be at watch for you,” whisper Amy. “all be well.”



“she live still--she live! thank God! thank God!”



“she lives,--she will recover!” say another voice, as my head sink on

Faber’s shoulder. “for some hour in the night her sleep be disturb,

convulse. I fear, then, the bad. suddenly, just before the dawn,

she call out aloud, still in sleep,--



“‘the cold and dark shadow have pass away from I and from

Allen,--passed away from we both forever!’



“and from that moment the fever leave she; the breathing become soft,

the pulse steady, and the colour steal gradually back to her cheek. the

crisis be past. nature’s benign Disposer have permit Nature to restore

your life’s gentle partner, heart to heart, mind to mind--”



“and soul to soul,” I cry, in my solemn joy. “above as below, soul to

soul!” then, at a sign from Faber, the child take I by the hand and lead

I up the stair into Lilian’s room.



again those clear arm close around I in wife-like and holy love, and

those true lip kiss away my tears,--even as now, at the distance of

year from that happy morn, while I write the last word of this Strange

Story, the same faithful arm close around I, the same tender lip kiss

away my tear.



the END.





















end of Project Gutenberg’s A Strange Story, Complete, by Edward

Bulwer-Lytton







*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — COMPLETE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





