The project Gutenberg eBook of a Strange Story — Volume 01

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a Strange Story — Volume 01



author: Baron Edward Bulwer Lytton Lytton



Release date: March 1, 2005 [ebook #7692]

                most recently update: December 30, 2020



language: English



credit: this eBook be produce by Andrew Heath and David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — volume 01 ***





this eBook be produce by Andrew Heath

and David Widger











a strange story



by Edward Bulwer Lytton

(Lord Lytton)







PREFACE.



of the many illustrious thinker whom the school of France have

contribute to the intellectual philosophy of our age, Victor Cousin,

the most accomplish, assign to Maine de Biran the rank of the most

original.



in the successive development of his own mind, Maine de Biran may,

indeed, be say to represent the change that have be silently at work

throughout the general mind of Europe since the close of the last

century.  he begin his career of philosopher with blind faith in

Condillac and Materialism.  as an intellect severely conscientious in

the pursuit of truth expand amidst the perplexity it revolve,

phenomenon which cannot be account for by Condillac's sensuous theory

open to his eye.  to the first rudimentary life of man, the animal life,

"characterize by impression, appetite, movement, organic in their

origin and rule by the Law of Necessity," [1] he be compel to add,

"the second, or human life, from which free-will and self-consciousness

emerge."  he thus arrive at the union of mind and matter; but still a

something be wanted,--some key to the marvel which neither of these

condition of vital being suffice to explain.  and at last the

grand self-complete Thinker attain to the Third Life of Man in Man's

Soul.



   "there be not," say this philosopher, towards the close of his last

    and lofty work,--"there be not only two principle oppose to

    each other in Man,--there be three.  for there be in he three

    life and three order of faculty.  though all should be in accord

    and in harmony between the sensitive and the active faculty

    which constitute Man, there would still be a nature superior, a

    third life which would not be satisfy; which would make feel

    (ferait sentir) the truth that there be another happiness, another

    wisdom, another perfection, at once above the great human

    happiness, above the high wisdom, or intellectual and moral

    perfection of which the human being be susceptible." [2]



now, as Philosophy and Romance both take their origin in the Principle of

Wonder, so in the "Strange Story" submit to the Public it will be

see that Romance, through the free exercise of its wild vagary,

conduct its bewildered hero towards the same goal to which philosophy

lead its luminous student, through far grander portent of Nature, far

high vision of Supernatural Power, than Fable can yield to Fancy.

that goal be define in these noble words:--



   "the relation (rapport) which exist between the element and the

    product of the three life of Man be the subject of meditation,

    the fairest and fine, but also the most difficult.  the Stoic

    Philosophy show we all which can be most elevated in active life;

    but it make abstraction of the animal nature, and absolutely fail

    to recognize all which belong to the life of the spirit.

    its practical morality be beyond the force of humanity.  christianity

    alone embrace the whole man.  it dissimulate none of the side of

    his nature, and avail itself of his misery and his weakness in

    order to conduct he to his end in show he all the want that he

    have of a succor more exalted." [3]



in the passage thus quote, I imply one of the object for which

this tale have be write; and I cite they, with a wish to acknowledge

one of those priceless obligation which writing the light and most

fantastic often incur to reasoner the most serious and profound.



but I here construct a romance which should have, as a romance,

some interest for the general reader.  I do not elaborate a treatise

submit to the logic of sage.  and it be only when "in fairy fiction

dr" that Romance give admission to "truth severe."



I venture to assume that none will question my privilege to avail

myself of the marvellous agency which have ever be at the legitimate

command of the fabulist.



to the high form of romantic narrative, the Epic, critic, indeed,

have declare that a supernatural machinery be indispensable.  that the

Drama have avail itself of the same license as the Epic, it would be

unnecessary to say to the countryman of Shakspeare, or to the generation

that be yet study the enigma of Goethe's "Faust."  Prose Romance have

immemorially assert, no less than the Epic or the Drama, its heritage

in the Realm of the Marvellous.  the interest which attach to the

supernatural be seek in the early Prose Romance which modern time

take from the ancient, and which, perhaps, have its origin in the lost

Novels of Miletus; [4] and the right to invoke such interest have, ever

since, be maintain by Romance through all variety of form and

fancy,--from the majestic epopee of "Telemaque" to the graceful fantasy

of "Undine," or the mighty mockery of "Gulliver's Travels" down to

such comparatively commonplace element of wonder as yet preserve

from oblivion "the Castle of Otranto" and "The Old English Baron."



now, to my mind, the true reason why a supernatural agency be

indispensable to the conception of the Epic, be that the Epic be the

high and the complete form in which art can express either Man or

Nature, and that without some gleam of the supernatural, Man be not

man nor Nature, nature.



it be say, by a writer to whom an eminent philosophical

critic justly apply the epithet of "pious and profound:" [5]



   "be it unreasonable to confess that we believe in God, not by reason

    of the nature which conceal he, but by reason of the Supernatural

    in Man which alone reveal and prove he to exist?...  Man reveal

    God: for Man, by his intelligence, rise above Nature; and in virtue

    of this intelligence be conscious of himself as a power not only

    independent of, but oppose to, Nature, and capable of resist,

    conquering, and control she."[6]





if the meaning involve in the argument, of which I have here make

but scanty extract, be carefully study, I think that we shall find

deep reason than the critic who dictate canon of taste to the last

century discovered,--why the supernatural be indispensable to the Epic,

and why it be allowable to all work of imagination, in which art look

on Nature with Man's inner sense of a something beyond and above she.



but the Writer who, whether in verse or prose, would avail himself

of such source of pity or terror as flow from the marvellous, can

only attain his object in proportion as the wonder he narrate be of a

kind to excite the curiosity of the age he address.



in the brain of our time, the faculty of Causation be very markedly

developed.  People nowadays do not delight in the Marvellous accord

to the old childlike spirit.  they say in one breath, "very extraordinary!"

and in the next breath ask, "how do you account for it?"  if the Author of

this work have presume to borrow from science some element of interest for

Romance, he venture to hope that no thoughtful reader--and certainly no

true son of science--will be dispose to reproach he.  in fact, such

illustration from the master of Thought be essential to the

completion of the purpose which pervade the work.



that purpose, I trust, will develop itself in proportion as the story

approach the close; and whatever may appear violent or melodramatic in

the catastrophe, will, perhaps, be find, by a reader capable

of perceive the various symbolical meaning convey in the story,

essential to the end in which those meaning converge, and towards

which the incident that give they the character and interest of

of fiction, have be plan and direct from the commencement.



of course, accord to the most obvious principle of art, the

narrator of a fiction must be as thoroughly in earnest as if he be

the narrator of fact.  one could not tell the most extravagant

fairy-tale so as to rouse and sustain the attention of the most

infantine listener, if the tale be tell as if the taleteller do not

believe in it.  but when the reader lay down this "Strange Story,"

perhaps he will detect, through all the haze of romance, the outline of

these image suggest to his reason:  firstly, the image of sensuous,

soulless Nature, such as the Materialist have conceive it; secondly, the

image of Intellect, obstinately separate all its inquiry from

the belief in the spiritual essence and destiny of man, and incur all

kind of perplexity and resort to all kind of visionary speculation

before it settle at last into the simple faith which unite the

philosopher and the infant; and thirdly, the image of the erring but

pure-thoughte visionary, seek over-much on this earth to separate

soul from mind, till innocence itself be lead astray by a phantom, and

reason be lose in the space between earth and the star.  whether in

these picture there be any truth worth the implying, every reader

must judge for himself; and if he doubt or deny that there be any

such truth, still, in the process of thought which the doubt or

denial enforce, he may chance on a truth which it please himself

to discover.



   "Most of the Fables of AEsop,"--thus say Montaigne in his

    charming essay "of Books"[7]--"have several sense and meaning, of

    which the Mythologists choose some one that tally with the fable.

    but for the most part 't be only what present itself at the first

    view, and be superficial; there be other more lively, essential,

    and internal, into which they have not be able to penetrate;

    and"--adds Montaigne--"the case be the very same with I."



[1] OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. i.  see introduction.



[2] OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. iii. p. 546 (Anthropologie).



[3] OEuvres inedite de Maine de Biran, vol. iii. p. 524.



[4] "the Golden Ass" of Apuleius.



[5] Sir William Hamilton: lecture on Metaphysics, p. 40.



[6] jacobi: Von der Gottlichen Dingen; Werke, p. 424-426.



[7] translation, 1776, Yol. ii. p. 103.









CHAPTER I.



in the year 18-- I settle as a physician at one of the wealthy

of our great english town, which I will designate by the initial L----.

I be yet young, but I have acquire some reputation by a professional

work, which be, I believe, still amongst the received authority on

the subject of which it treat.  I have study at Edinburgh and at

Paris, and have bear away from both those illustrious school of medicine

whatever guarantee for future distinction the praise of professor

may concede to the ambition of student.  on become a member of

the College of Physicians, I make a tour of the principal city of

Europe, take letter of introduction to eminent medical man, and

gathering from many theory and mode of treatment hint to enlarge

the foundation of unprejudiced and comprehensive' practice.  I have

resolve to fix my ultimate residence in London.  but before this

preparatory tour be complete, my resolve be change by one of

those unexpected event which determine the fate man in vain would work

out for himself.  in pass through the Tyro, on my way into the

north of Italy, I find in a small inn, remote from medical attendance, an

english traveller seize with acute inflammation of the lung, and

in a state of imminent danger.  I devote myself to he night and

day; and, perhaps more through careful nursing than active remedy, I

have the happiness to effect his complete recovery.  the traveller

prove to be Julius Faber, a physician of great distinction, content

to reside, where he be bear, in the provincial city of L----, but whose

reputation as a profound and original pathologist be widely spread, and

whose writing have form no unimportant part of my special study.  it

be during a short holiday excursion, from which he be about to return

with renovated vigour, that he have be thus stricken down.  the patient

so accidentally meet with become the founder of my professional fortune.

he conceive a warm attachment for me,--perhaps the more affectionate

because he be a childless bachelor, and the nephew who would succeed

to his wealth evince no desire to succeed to the toil by which the

wealth have be acquire.  thus, have an heir for the one, he have

long look about for an heir to the other, and now resolve on find

that heir in I.  so when we part Dr. Faber make I promise to

correspond with he regularly, and it be not long before he disclose

by letter the plan he have form in my favour.  he say that he be

grow old; his practice be beyond his strength; he need a partner;

he be not disposed to put up to sale the health of patient whom he have

learn to regard as his child: money be no object to he, but it be

an object close at his heart that the humanity he have serve, and the

reputation he have acquire, should suffer no loss in his choice of

a successor.  in fine, he propose that I should at once come to

L---- as his partner, with the view of succeed to his entire

practice at the end of two year, when it be his intention to retire.



the opening into fortune thus afford to I be one that rarely

present itself to a young man enter upon an overcrowded profession;

and to an aspirant less allure by the desire of fortune than the hope of

distinction, the fame of the physician who thus generously offer

to I the inestimable benefit of his long experience and his cordial

introduction be in itself an assurance that a metropolitan practice

be not essential to a national renown.



I go, then, to L----, and before the two year of my partnership

have expire, my success justify my kind friend's selection, and far

more than realize my own expectation.  I be fortunate in effecting

some notable cure in the early case submit to I, and it be

everything in the career of a physician when good luck win betime for

he that confidence which patient rarely accord except to lengthen

experience.  to the rapid facility with which my way be make, some

circumstance apart from professional skill probably contribute.  I be

save from the suspicion of a medical adventurer by the accident of

birth and fortune.  I belong to an ancient family (a branch of the

once powerful border-clan of the Fenwicks) that have for many generation

hold a fair estate in the neighbourhood of windermere.  as an only

son I have succeed to that estate on attain my majority, and have

sell it to pay off the debt which have be make by my father, who have

the costly taste of an antiquary and collector.  the residue on the

sale insure I a modest independence apart from the profit of a

profession; and as I have not be legally bind to defray my father's

debt, so I obtain that character for disinterestedness and integrity

which always in England tend to propitiate the public to the success

achieve by industry or talent.  perhaps, too, any professional ability

I might possess be the more readily concede, because I have cultivate

with assiduity the science and the scholarship which be collaterally

connect with the study of medicine.  thus, in a word, I establish a

social position which come in aid of my professional repute, and

silence much of that envy which usually embitter and sometimes impede

success.



Dr. Faber retire at the end of the two year agree upon.  he go

abroad; and be, though advance in year, of a frame still robust, and

habit of mind still inquire and eager, he commence a lengthened

course of foreign travel, during which our correspondence, at first

frequent, gradually languish, and finally die away.



I succeed at once to the large part of the practice which the labour

of thirty year have secure to my predecessor.  my chief rival be a Dr.

Lloyd, a benevolent, fervid man, not without genius, if genius be present

where judgment be absent; not without science, if that may be science which

fail in precision,--one of those clever desultory man who, in adopt

a profession, do not give up to it the whole force and heat of their

mind.  man of that kind habitually accept a mechanical

routine, because in the exercise of their ostensible call their

imaginative faculty be draw away to pursuit more alluring.

therefore, in their proper vocation they be seldom bold or

inventive,--out of it they be sometimes both to excess.  and when they do

take up a novelty in their own profession they cherish it with an obstinate

tenacity, and an extravagant passion, unknown to those quiet

 philosopher who take up novelty every day, examine they with the

sobriety of practised eye, to lay down altogether, modify in part, or

accept in whole, accord as inductive experiment support or destroy

conjecture.



Dr. Lloyd have be esteem a learn naturalist long before he be

admit to be a tolerable physician.  amidst the privation of his youth

he have contrive to form, and with each succeed year he have

perseveringly increase, a zoological collection of creature, not

alive, but, happily for the be holder, stuff or embalmed.  from what I

have say, it will be truly infer that Dr. Lloyd's early career as a

physician have not be brilliant; but of late year he have gradually

rather aged than work himself into that professional authority and

station which time confer on a thoroughly respectable man whom no one

be disposed to envy, and all be disposed to like.



now in L---- there be two distinct social circles,--that of the

wealthy merchant and trader, and that of a few privileged family

inhabit a part of the town aloof from the mart of commerce, and

call the Abbey Hill.  these superb areopagite exercise over the

wife and daughter of the inferior citizen to whom all of L----,

except the Abbey Hill, owe its prosperity, the same kind of mysterious

influence which the fine lady of May Fair and Belgravia be report

to hold over the female denizen of Bloomsbury and Marylebone.



Abbey Hill be not opulent; but it be powerful by a concentration of

its resource in all matter of patronage.  Abbey Hill have its own

milliner and its own draper, its own confectioner, butcher, baker, and

tea-dealer; and the patronage of Abbey Hill be like the patronage of

royalty,--less lucrative in itself than as a solemn certificate of

general merit.  the shop on which Abbey Hill confer its custom be

certainly not the cheap, possibly not the good; but they be

undeniably the most imposing.  the proprietor be decorously pompous,

the shopman superciliously polite.  they could not be more so if they have

belong to the State, and be pay by a public which they benefit and

despise.  the lady of Low Town (as the city subjacent to the Hill have

be style from a date remote in the feudal age) enter those shop

with a certain awe, and leave they with a certain pride.  there they have

learn what the Hill approve; there they have buy what the Hill have

purchase.  it be much in this life to be quite sure that we be in the

right, whatever that conviction may cost we.  Abbey Hill have be in the

habit of appoint, amongst other object of patronage, its own

physician.  but that habit have fall into disuse during the latter year

of my predecessor's practice.  his superiority over all other medical man

in the town have become so incontestable, that, though he be emphatically

the doctor of Low Town, the head of its hospital and infirmary, and by

birth relate to its principal trader, still as Abbey Hill be

occasionally subject to the physical infirmity of mean mortal, so on

those occasion it deem it well not to push the point of honour to the

wanton sacrifice of life.  since Low Town possess one of the most

famous physician in England, Abbey Hill magnanimously resolve not to

crush he by a rival.  Abbey Hill let he feel its pulse.



when my predecessor retire, I have presumptuously expect that the

Hill would have continue to suspend its normal right to a special

physician, and show to I the same generous favour it have show to he,

who have declare I worthy to succeed to his honour.  I have the more

excuse for this presumption because the Hill have already allow I to

visit a fair proportion of its invalid, have say some very gracious

thing to I about the great respectability of the Fenwick family, and

send I some invitation to dinner, and a great many invitation to tea.



but my self-conceit receive a notable check.  Abbey Hill declare

that the time have come to reassert its dormant privilege; it must have a

doctor of its own choosing,--a doctor who might, indeed, be permit to

visit Low Town from motive of humanity or gain, but who must

emphatically assert his special allegiance to Abbey Hill by fix his

home on that venerable promontory.  Miss Brabazon, a spinster of

uncertain age but undoubted pedigree, with small fortune but high nose,

which she would pleasantly observe be a proof of her descent from

Humphrey Duke of Gloucester (with whom, indeed, I have no doubt, in spite

of chronology, that she very often dine), be commission to inquire of

I diplomatically, and without commit Abbey Hill too much by the

overture, whether I would take a large and antiquated mansion, in which

abbot be say to have live many century ago, and which be still

popularly style Abbots' House, situate on the verge of the Hill, as in

that case the "Hill" would think of I.



"it be a large house for a single man, I allow," say Miss Brabazon,

candidly; and then add, with a sidelong glance of alarm sweetness,

"but when Dr. Fenwick have take his true position (so old a family!)

amongst we, he need not long remain single, unless he prefer it."



I reply, with more asperity than the occasion call for, that I have

no thought of change my residence at present, and if the Hill want I,

the Hill must send for I.



two day afterwards Dr. Lloyd take Abbots' House, and in less than a

week be proclaim medical adviser to the Hill.  the election have be

decide by the fiat of a great lady, who reign supreme on the sacred

eminence, under the name and title of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



"Dr. Fenwick," say this lady, "be a clever young man and a

gentleman, but he give himself airs,--the Hill do not allow any air

but its own.  besides, he be a new comer: resistance to new corner, and,

indeed, to all thing new, except cap and novel, be one of the bond that

keep old establish society together.  accordingly, it be by my advice

that Dr. Lloyd have take Abbots' House; the rent would be too high for his

mean if the Hill do not feel bind in honour to justify the trust he

have place in its patronage.  I tell he that all my friend, when they

be in want of a doctor, would send for he; those who be my friend

will do so.  what the Hill do, plenty of common people down there will

do also,--so that question be settle!"  and it be settle.



Dr. Lloyd, thus take by the hand, soon extend the range of his

visit beyond the Hill, which be not precisely a mountain of gold to

doctor, and share with myself, though in a comparatively small degree,

the much more lucrative practice of Low Town.



I have no cause to grudge his success, nor do I.  but to my theory

of medicine his diagnosis be shallow, and his prescription obsolete.

when we be summon to a joint consultation, our view as to the proper

course of treatment seldom agree.  Doubtless he think I ought to have

defer to his seniority in year; but I hold the doctrine which youth

deem a truth and age a paradox,--namely, that in science the young man

be the practical elder, inasmuch as they be school in the late

experience science have gather up, while their senior be cramp by

the dogma they be school to believe when the world be some decade

the young.



meanwhile my reputation continue rapidly to advance; it become more

than local; my advice be seek even by patient from the metropolis.

that ambition, which, conceive in early youth, have decide my career and

sweeten all its labours,--the ambition to take a rank and leave a name

as one of the great pathologist to whom humanity accord a grateful, if

calm, renown,--saw before it a level field and a certain goal.



I know not whether a success far beyond that usually attain at the

age I have reach serve to increase, but it seem to myself to

justify, the main characteristic of my moral organization,--intellectual

pride.



though mild and gentle to the sufferer under my care, as a necessary

element of professional duty, I be intolerant of contradiction from

those who belong to my calling, or even from those who, in general

opinion, oppose my favourite theory.  I have espouse a school of

medical philosophy severely rigid in its inductive logic.  my creed be

that of stern materialism.  I have a contempt for the understanding of man

who accept with credulity what they could not explain by reason.  my

favourite phrase be "common-sense."  at the same time I have no prejudice

against bold discovery, and discovery necessitate conjecture, but

I dismiss as idle all conjecture that could not be bring to a

practical test.



as in medicine I have be the pupil of Broussais, so in

metaphysics I be the disciple of Condillac.  I believe with that

philosopher that "all our knowledge we owe to nature; that in the

beginning we can only instruct ourselves through her lesson; and that

the whole art of reasoning consist in continue as she have compel we

to commence."  keep natural philosophy apart from the doctrine of

revelation, I never assail the last; but I contend that by the first

no accurate reasoner could arrive at the existence of the soul as a third

principle of be equally distinct from mind and body.  that by a

miracle man might live again, be a question of faith and not of

understanding.  I leave faith to religion, and banish it from

philosophy.  how define with a precision to satisfy the logic of

philosophy what be to live again?  the body?  we know that the

body rest in its grave till by the process of decomposition its

elemental part enter into other form of matter.  the mind?  but the

mind be as clearly the result of the bodily organization as the music of

the harpsichord be the result of the instrumental mechanism.  the mind

share the decrepitude of the body in extreme old age, and in the

full vigour of youth a sudden injury to the brain might forever destroy

the intellect of a Plato or a Shakspeare.  but the third principle,--the

soul,--the something lodge within the body, which yet be to survive it?

where be that soul hide out of the ken of the anatomist?  when

philosopher attempt to define it, be they not compel to confound

its nature and its action with those of the mind?  could they reduce it

to the mere moral sense, vary accord to education, circumstance,

and physical constitution?  but even the moral sense in the most virtuous

of man may be sweep away by a fever.  such at the time I now speak of

be the view I held,--views certainly not original nor pleasing; but I

cherish they with as fond a tenacity as if they have be consolatory

truth of which I be the first discoverer.  I be intolerant to those who

maintain opposite doctrines,--despised they as irrational, or dislike

they as insincere.  certainly if I have fulfil the career which my

ambition predicted,--become the founder of a new school in pathology, and

sum up my theory in academical lectures,--I should have add

another authority, however feeble, to the sect which circumscribe the

interest of man to the life that have its close in his grave.



possibly that which I have call my intellectual pride be more

nourish than I should have be willing to grant by the self-reliance

which an unusual degree of physical power be apt to bestow.  Nature have

bless I with the thews of an athlete.  among the hardy youth of the

Northern Athens I have be preeminently distinguish for feat of

activity and strength.  my mental labour, and the anxiety which be

inseparable from the conscientious responsibility of the medical

profession, keep my health below the par of keen enjoyment, but have in no

way diminish my rare muscular force.  I walk through the crowd with

the firm step and lofty crest of the mail knight of old, who feel

himself, in his casement of iron, a match against number.  thus the

sense of a robust individuality, strong alike in discipline reason and

animal vigour, habituate to aid other, need no aid for itself,

contribute to render I imperious in will and arrogant in opinion.  nor

be such defect injurious to I in my profession; on the contrary,

aid as they be by a calm manner, and a presence not without that kind

of dignity which be the livery of self-esteem, they serve to impose

respect and to inspire trust.









CHAPTER II.



I have be about six year at L---- when I became suddenly involve

in a controversy with Dr. Lloyd.  just as this ill-fate man appear at

the culminate point of his professional fortune, he have the imprudence

to proclaim himself not only an enthusiastic advocate of mesmerism as

a curative process, but an ardent believer of the reality of somnambular

clairvoyance as an invaluable gift of certain privileged organization.

to these doctrine I sternly oppose myself,--the more sternly, perhaps,

because on these doctrine Dr. Lloyd found an argument for the

existence of soul, independent of mind, as of matter, and build thereon a

superstructure of physiological fantasy, which, could it be

substantiate, would replace every system of metaphysic on which

recognize philosophy condescend to dispute.



about two year before he become a disciple rather of Puysegur than

Mesmer (for Mesmer hard little faith in that gift of clairvoyance of

which Puysegur be, I believe, at least in modern time, the first

audacious asserter), Dr. Lloyd have be afflict with the loss of a wife

many year young than himself, and to whom he have be tenderly

attach.  and this bereavement, in direct the hope that console he

to a world beyond the grave, have serve perhaps to render he more

credulous of the phenomenon in which he greet additional proof of

purely spiritual existence.  certainly, if, in controvert the

notion of another physiologist, I have restrict myself to that

fair antagonism which belong to scientific disputant anxious only for

the truth, I should need no apology for sincere conviction and honest

argument; but when, with condescend good-nature, as if to a man

much young than himself, who be ignorant of the phenomenon which he

nevertheless deny, Dr. Lloyd invite I to attend his seance and

witness his cure, my amour propre became arouse and nettle, and it

seem to I necessary to put down what I assert to be too gross an

outrage on common-sense to justify the ceremony of examination.  I write,

therefore, a small pamphlet on the subject, in which I exhaust all the

weapon that irony can lend to contempt.  Dr. Lloyd reply; and as he be

no very skilful arguer, his reply injure he perhaps more than my

assault.  meanwhile, I have make some inquiry as to the moral character

of his favourite clairvoyant.  I imagine that I have learn enough to

justify I in treat they as flagrant cheat, and himself as their

egregious dupe.



Low Town soon range itself, with very few exception, on my side.

the Hill at first seem disposed to rally round its insult physician,

and to make the dispute a party question, in which the Hill would have

be signally worst, when suddenly the same lady paramount, who have

secure to Dr. Lloyd the smile of the Eminence, speak forth against he,

and the Eminence frown.



"Dr. Lloyd," say the Queen of the Hill, "be an amiable creature,

but on this subject decidedly crack.  crack poet may be all the

well for be cracked,--cracked doctor be dangerous.  besides, in

desert that old-fashioned routine, his adherence to which make his

claim to the Hill's approbation, and unsettle the mind of the Hill with

wild revolutionary theory, Dr. Lloyd have betray the principle on

which the Hill itself rest its social foundation.  of those principle

Dr. Fenwick have make himself champion; and the Hill be bind to support

he.  there, the question be settle!"



and it be settle.



from the moment Mrs. Colonel Poyntz thus issue the word of

command, Dr. Lloyd be demolish.  his practice be go, as well as his

repute.  mortification or anger bring on a stroke of paralysis which,

disable my opponent, put an end to our controversy.  an obscure

Dr. Jones, who have be the special pupil and protege of Dr. Lloyd,

offer himself as a candidate for the Hill's tongue and pulse.  the

Hill give he little encouragement.  it once more suspend its electoral

privilege, and, without insist on call I up to it, the Hill

quietly call I in whenever its health need other advice than that of

its visit apothecary.  again it invite I, sometimes to dinner,

often to tea; and again Miss Brabazon assure I by a sidelong glance

that it be no fault of hers if I be still single.



I have almost forget the dispute which have obtain for I so

conspicuous a triumph, when one winter's night I be rouse from sleep by

a summon to attend Dr Lloyd, who, attack by a second stroke a few

hour previously, have, on recover sense, express a vehement desire

to consult the rival by whom he have suffer so severely.  I dress

myself in haste and hurry to his house.



a February night, sharp and bitter; an iron-gray frost below, a

spectral melancholy moon above.  I have to ascend the Abbey Hill by a

steep, blind lane between high wall.  I pass through stately gate,

which stand wide open, into the garden ground that surround the old

Abbots' House.  at the end of a short carriage-drive the dark and

gloomy building clear itself from leafless skeleton trees,--the moon

rest keen and cold on its abrupt gable and lofty chimney-stack.

an old woman-servant receive I at the door, and, without say a

word, lead I through a long low hall, and up dreary oak stair, to a

broad landing, at which she pause for a moment, listen.  Round

and about hall, staircase, and landing be range the dead specimen

of the savage world which it have be the pride of the naturalist's

life to collect.  close where I stand yawn the open jaw of the fall

anaconda, its low coil hide, as they rest on the floor

below, by the winding of the massive stair.  against the dull wainscot

wall be pendent case store with grotesque unfamiliar mummy, see

imperfectly by the moon that shoot through the window-pane, and the

candle in the old woman's hand.  and as now she turn towards I,

nod her signal to follow, and go on up the shadowy passage,

row of gigantic bird--ibis and vulture, and huge sea glaucus--glare

at I in the false light of their hungry eye.



so I enter the sick-room, and the first glance tell I that my

art be powerless there.



the child of the stricken widower be group round his bed, the

eld apparently about fifteen, the young four; one little girl--the

only female child--be cling to her father's neck, her face press

to his bosom, and in that room her sob alone be loud.



as I pass the threshold, Dr. Lloyd lift his face, which have be

bent over the weeping child, and gaze on I with an aspect of strange

glee, which I fail to interpret.  then as I stole towards he softly

and slowly, he press his lip on the long fair tress that stream

wild over his breast, motion to a nurse who stand beside his pillow to

take the child away, and in a voice clear than I could have expect in

one on whose brow lie the unmistakable hand of death, he bid the nurse

and the child quit the room.  all go sorrowfully, but silently, save

the little girl, who, bear off in the nurse's arm, continue to sob as

if her heart be break.



I be not prepare for a scene so affect; it move I to the

quick.  my eye wistfully follow the child so soon to be orphan, as

one after one go out into the dark chill shadow, and amidst the

bloodless form of the dumb brute nature, range in grisly vista beyond

the death-room of man.  and when the last infant shape have vanish, and

the door close with a jarring click, my sight wander loiteringly

around the chamber before I could bring myself to fix it on the break

form, beside which I now stand in all that glorious vigour of frame which

have foster the pride of my mind.  in the moment consume by my mournful

survey, the whole aspect of the place impress itself ineffaceably on

lifelong remembrance.  through the high, deepsunken casement, across

which the thin, faded curtain be but half draw, the moonlight rush,

and then settle on the floor in one shroud of white glimmer, lose under

the gloom of the death-bed.  the roof be low, and seem low still by

heavy intersecting beam, which I might have touch with my lift hand.

and the tall gutter candle by the bedside, and the flicker from the

fire struggle out through the fuel but newly heap on it, throw their

reflection on the ceiling just over my head in a reek of quivering

blackness, like an angry cloud.



suddenly I feel my arm grasp; with his left hand (the right side be

already lifeless) the die man draw I towards he nearer and nearer,

till his lip almost touch my ear, and, in a voice now firm, now

split into gasp and hiss, thus he say, "I have summon you to gaze

on your own work!  you have stricken down my life at the moment when it

be most need by my child, and most serviceable to mankind.  have I

live a few year long, my child would have enter on manhood, safe

from the temptation of want and undejecte by the charity of stranger.

thank to you, they will be penniless orphan.  fellow-creature

afflict by malady your pharmacopoeia have fail to reach come to I

for relief, and they find it.  'the effect of imagination,' you say.

what matter, if I direct the imagination to cure?  now you have mock

the unhappy one out of their last chance of life.  they will suffer and

perish.  do you believe I in error?  still you know that my object be

research into truth.  you employ against your brother in art venomous

drug and a poisoned probe.  look at I!  be you satisfied with your

work?"



I seek to draw back and pluck my arm from the die man's grasp.  I

could not do so without use a force that would have be inhuman.  his

lip draw nearer still to my ear.



"vain pretender, do not boast that you bring a genius for epigram to

the service of science.  Science be lenient to all who offer experiment

as the test of conjecture.  you be of the stuff of which inquisitor be

make.  you cry that truth be profane when your dogma be question.

in your shallow presumption you have mete the dominion of nature, and

where your eye halt its vision, you say, 'there nature must close;' in

the bigotry which add crime to presumption, you would stone the

discoverer who, in annex new realm to her chart, unsettle your

arbitrary landmark.  verily, retribution shall await you!  in those

space which your sight have disdain to explore you shall yourself be a

lose and bewildered straggler.  Hist!  I see they already!  the gibbering

phantom be gather round you!"



the man's voice stop abruptly; his eye fix in a glazing stare;

his hand relax its hold; he fall back on his pillow.  I steal from the

room; on the landing-place I meet the nurse and the old woman-servant.

happily the child be not there.  but I hear the wail of the female

child from some room not far distant.



I whisper hurriedly to the nurse, "all be over!" pass again under

the jaw of the vast anaconda, and on through the blind lane between the

dead wall, on through the ghastly street, under the ghastly moon, go

back to my solitary home.









CHAPTER III.



it be some time before I could shake off the impression make on I by

the word and the look of that die man.



it be not that my conscience upbraid I.  what have I do?

denounce that which I hold, in common with most man of sense in or out

of my profession, to be one of those illusion by which quackery draw

profit from the wonder of ignorance.  be I to blame if I refuse to

treat with the grave respect due to assert discovery in legitimate

science pretension to power akin to the fable of wizard?  be I to

descend from the academe of decorous science to examine whether a

slumber sibyl could read from a book place at she back, or tell I at

L---- what at that moment be be do by my friend at the Antipodes?



and what though Dr. Lloyd himself might be a worthy and honest man,

and a sincere believer in the extravagance for which he demand an

equal credulity in other, do not honest man every day incur the penalty

of ridicule if, from a defect of good sense, they make themselves

ridiculous?  could I have foresee that a satire so justly provoke would

inflict so deadly a wound?  be I inhumanly barbarous because the

antagonist destroy be morbidly sensitive?  my conscience, therefore,

make I no reproach, and the public be as little severe as my conscience.

the public have be with I in our contest; the public know nothing of my

opponent's deathbed accusation; the public know only that I have attend

he in his last moment; it see I walk beside the bi that bear he to

his grave; it admire the respect to his memory which I evince in the

simple tomb that I place over his remain, inscribe with an epitaph that

do justice to his unquestionable benevolence and integrity; above all, it

praise the energy with which I set on foot a subscription for his orphan

child, and the generosity with which I head that subscription by a

sum that be large in proportion to my mean.



to that sum I do not, indeed, limit my contribution.  the sob of the

poor female child ring still on my heart.  as her grief have be keener

than that of her brother, so she might be subject to sharp trial

than they, when the time come for she to fight her own way through the

world; therefore I secure to she, but with such precaution that the

gift could not be trace to my hand, a sum to accumulate till she be

of marriageable age, and which then might suffice for a small wedding

portion; or if she remain single, for an income that would place she

beyond the temptation of want, or the bitterness of a servile dependence.



that Dr. Lloyd should have die in poverty be a matter of

surprise at first, for his profit during the last few year have be

considerable, and his mode of life far from extravagant.  but just before

the date of our controversy he have be induce to assist the brother of

his lost wife, who be a junior partner in a London bank, with the loan

of his accumulate saving.  this man prove dishonest; he embezzle that

and other sum intrust to he, and flee the country.  the same sentiment

of conjugal affection which have cost Dr. Lloyd his fortune keep he

silent as to the cause of the loss.  it be reserve for his executor to

discover the treachery of the brother-in-law whom he, poor man, would

have generously screen from additional disgrace.



the Mayor of L----, a wealthy and public-spirited merchant, purchase the

museum, which Dr. Lloyd's passion for natural history have induce he to

form; and the sum thus obtain, together with that raise by subscription,

suffice not only to discharge all debt due by the deceased, but to

insure to the orphan the benefit of an education that might fit at

least the boy to enter fairly armed into that game, more of skill than

of chance, in which Fortune be really so little blind that we see, in

each turn of her wheel, wealth and its honour pass away from the lax

finger of ignorance and sloth, to the resolute grasp of labour and

knowledge.



meanwhile a relation in a distant county undertake the charge of the

orphan; they disappear from the scene, and the tide of life in a

commercial community soon flow over the place which the dead man have

occupy in the thought of his bustling townsfolk.



one person at L----, and only one, appear to share and inherit the

rancour with which the poor physician have denounce I on his death-bed.

it be a gentleman name Vigors, distantly related to the deceased, and who

have be, in point of station, the most eminent of Dr. Lloyd's partisan

in the controversy with myself, a man of no great scholastic

acquirement, but of respectable ability.  he have that kind of power

which the world concede to respectable ability when accompany

with a temper more than usually stern, and a moral character more than

usually austere.  his rule passion be to sit in judgment upon other;

and be a magistrate, he be the most active and the most rigid of all

the magistrate L---- have ever know.



Mr. Vigors at first speak of I with great bitterness, as having

ruin, and in fact kill, his friend, by the uncharitable and unfair

acerbity which he declare I have bring into what ought to have be an

unprejudiced examination of simple matter of fact.  but find no

sympathy in these charge, he have the discretion to cease from make they,

content himself with a solemn shake of his head if he hear my

name mention in term of praise, and an oracular sentence or two, such

as "Time will show," "all's well that end well," etc.  Mr. Vigors,

however, mix very little in the more convivial intercourse of the

townspeople.  he call himself domestic; but, in truth, he be

ungenial,--a stiff man, starch with self-esteem.  he think that his

dignity of station be not sufficiently acknowledge by the merchant of

Low Town, and his superiority of intellect not sufficiently recognize by

the exclusive of the Hill.  his visit be, therefore, chiefly confine

to the house of neighbouring squire, to whom his reputation as a

magistrate, conjoin with his solemn exterior, make he one of

those oracle by which man consent to be awe on condition that the awe be

not often inflict.  and though he open his house three time a week,

it be only to a select few, whom he first feed and then biologize.

Electro-biology be very naturally the special entertainment of a man whom

no intercourse ever pleased in which his will be not impose upon other.

therefore he only invite to his table person whom he could stare into

the abnegation of their sense, willing to say that beef be lamb, or

brandy be coffee, accord as he will they to say.  and, no doubt, the

person ask would have say anything he will, so long as they have, in

substance, as well as in idea, the beef and the brandy, the lamb and the

coffee.  I do not, then, often meet Mr. Vigors at the house in which I

occasionally spend my evening.  I hear of his enmity as a man safe in

his home hear the sough of a wind on a common without.  if now and then

we chance to pass in the street, he look up at I (he be a small man

walk on tiptoe) with a sullen scowl of dislike; and from the height of

my stature, I drop upon the small man and sullen scowl the affable

smile of supreme indifference.









CHAPTER IV.



I have now arrive at that age when an ambitious man, satisfied with

his progress in the world without, begin to feel in the craving of

unsatisfied affection the void of a solitary hearth.  I resolve to marry,

and look out for a wife.  I have never hitherto admit into my life the

passion of love.  in fact, I have regard that passion, even in my early

youth, with a certain superb contempt,--as a malady engender by an

effeminate idleness, and foster by a sickly imagination.



I wish to find in a wife a rational companion, an affectionate and

trustworthy friend.  no view of matrimony could be less romantic, more

soberly sensible, than those which I conceive.  nor be my requirement

mercenary or presumptuous.  I care not for fortune; I ask nothing from

connection.  my ambition be exclusively professional; it could be

serve by no title kindre, accelerate by no wealthy dower.  I be no

slave to beauty.  I do not seek in a wife the accomplishment of a

finish-school teacher.



having decide that the time have come to select my helpmate, I imagine

that I should find no difficulty in a choice that my reason would approve.

but day upon day, week upon week, pass away, and though among the

family I visit there be many young lady who possess more than

the qualification with which I conceive that I should be amply

content, and by whom I might flatter myself that my proposal would not

be disdain, I see not one to whose lifelong companionship I should not

infinitely have prefer the solitude I find so irksome.



one evening, in return home from visit a poor female patient

whom I attend gratuitously, and whose case demand more thought than

that of any other in my list,--for though it have be consider hopeless

in the hospital, and she have come home to die, I feel certain that I

could save she, and she seem recover under my care,--one evening--it

be the fifteenth of May--I find myself just before the gate of the

house that have be inhabit by Dr. Lloyd.  since his death the house

have be unoccupied; the rent ask for it by the proprietor be

consider high; and from the sacred Hill on which it be situate,

shyness or pride banish the wealthy trader.  the garden gate stand

wide open, as they have stand on the winter night on which I have pass

through they to the chamber of death.  the remembrance of that deathbe

come vividly before I, and the die man's fantastic threat ring again in

my startled ear.  an irresistible impulse, which I could not then account

for, and which I cannot account for now,--an impulse the reverse of that

which usually make we turn away with quickened step from a spot that

recall association of pain,--urged I on through the open gate up the

neglect grass-grow road, urge I to look, under the weltering sun of

the joyous spring, at that house which I bad never see but in the gloom

of a winter night, under the melancholy moon.  as the building come in

sight, with dark-red brick, partially overgrown with ivy, I perceive

that it be no long unoccupied.  I see form pass athwart the open

window; a van laden with article of furniture stand before the door; a

servant in livery be beside it give direction to the man who be

unload.  evidently some family be just enter into possession.  I

feel somewhat ashamed of my trespass, and turn round quickly to retrace

my step.  I have retreat but a few yard, when I see before I, at

the entrance gate, Mr. Vigors, walk beside a lady apparently of middle

age; while, just at hand, a path cut through the shrub give view of a

small wicketgate at the end of the ground.  I feel unwilling not only to

meet the lady, whom I guess to be the new occupier, and to whom I should

have to make a somewhat awkward apology for intrusion, but still more to

encounter the scornful look of Mr. Vigors in what appear to my pride a

false or undignified position.  involuntarily, therefore, I turn down

the path which would favour my escape unobserved.  when about half way

between the house and the wicket-gate, the shrub that have clothe the

path on either side suddenly open to the left, bring into view a

circle of sward, surround by irregular fragment of old brickwork

partially cover with fern, creeper, or rockplant, weed, or wild

flower; and, in the centre of the circle, a fountain, or rather well,

over which be build a Gothic monastic dome, or canopy, rest on small

Norman column, time-wear, dilapidate.  a large willow overhang this

unmistakable relic of the ancient abbey.  there be an air of antiquity,

romance, legend about this spot, so abruptly disclose amidst the delicate

green of the young shrubbery.  but it be not the ruin wall nor the

Gothic well that chain my footstep and charm my eye.



it be a solitary human form, seat amidst the mournful ruin.



the form be so slight, the face so young, that at the first

glance I murmur to myself, "what a lovely child!"  but as my eye

linger it recognize in the upturned thoughtful brow, in the sweet,

serious aspect, in the rounded outline of that slender shape, the

inexpressible dignity of virgin woman.



a book be on her lap, at her foot a little basket, half-fill

with violet and blossom cull from the rock-plant that nestle amidst

the ruin.  behind she, the willow, like an emerald waterfall, shower

down its arch abundant green, bough after bough, from the tree-top to

the sward, descend in wavy verdure, bright towards the summit, in the

smile of the set sun, and darken into shadow as it near the

earth.



she do not notice, she do not see I; her eye be fix upon the

horizon, where it slope farth into space, above the treetops and the

ruins,--fixed so intently that mechanically I turn my own gaze to follow

the flight of her.  it be as if she watch for some expect, familiar

sign to grow out from the depth of heaven; perhaps to greet, before

other eye behold it, the ray of the early star.



the bird drop from the bough on the turf around her so fearlessly

that one alight amidst the flower in the little basket at her foot.

there be a famous german poem, which I have read in my youth, call the

Maiden from abroad, variously suppose to be an allegory of Spring, or of

Poetry, accord to the choice of commentator: it seem to I as if the

poem have be make for she.  verily, indeed, in she, poet or painter might

have see an image equally true to either of those adornment of the

earth; both outwardly a delight to sense, yet both waken up thought

within we, not sad, but akin to sadness.



I hear now a step behind I, and a voice which I recognize to be that

of Mr. Vigors.  I break from the charm by which I have be so lingeringly

spell-bind, hurry on confusedly, gain the wicket-gate, from which a

short flight of stair descend into the common thoroughfare.  and there

the every-day life lie again before I.  on the opposite side, house,

shop, church-spire; a few step more, and the bustling street!  how

immeasurably far from, yet how familiarly near to, the world in which we

move and have be be that fairy-land of romance which open out from the

hard earth before we, when Love steal at first to our side, fade back

into the hard earth again as Love smile or sigh its farewell!









CHAPTER V.



and before that evening I have look on Mr. Vigors with supreme

indifference!  what importance he now assume in my eye!  the lady with

whom I have see he be doubtless the new tenant of that house in which

the young creature by whom my heart be so strangely move evidently have

her home.  Most probably the relation between the two lady be that of

mother and daughter.  Mr. Vigors, the friend of one, might himself be

relate to both, might prejudice they against I, might--here, start

up, I snap the thread of conjecture, for right before my eye, on the

table beside which I have seat myself on enter my room, lie a card

of invitation:--



            MRS. POYNTZ.

              at home,

         Wednesday, May 15th.

      early.





Mrs. Poyntz,--Mrs. Colonel Poyntz, the queen of the Hill?  there,

at her house, I could not fail to learn all about the new comer, who

could never without her sanction have settle on her domain.



I hastily change my dress, and, with beat heart, wound my way up the

venerable eminence.



I do not pass through the lane which lead direct to Abbots' House

(for that old building stand solitary amidst its ground a little apart

from the spacious platform on which the society of the Hill be

concentrated), but up the broad causeway, with vistaed gaslamp; the gayer

shop still-unclosed, the tide of busy life only slowly ebb from the

still-animate street, on to a square, in which the four main

thoroughfare of the city converge, and which form the boundary of Low

Town.  a huge dark archway, popularly call Monk's Gate, at the angle of

this square, make the entrance to Abbey Hill.  when the arch be pass,

one feel at once that one be in the town of a former day.  the pavement

be narrow and rugged; the shop small, their upper story project,

with here and there plaster front, quaintly arabesque.  an ascent,

short, but steep and tortuous, conduct at once to the old Abbey Church,

nobly situate in a vast quadrangle, round which be the genteel and

gloomy dwelling of the Areopagites of the Hill.  more genteel and less

gloomy than the rest--light at the window and flower on the

balcony--stand forth, flank by a garden wall at either side, the mansion

of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



as I enter the drawing-room, I hear the voice of the hostess; it

be a voice clear, decide, metallic, bell-like, utter these word:

"take Abbots' House?  I will tell you."









CHAPTER VI.



Mrs. Poyntz be seat on the sofa; at her right sit fat Mrs. Bruce,

who be a Scotch lord's grand-daughter; at she leave thin Miss Brabazon,

who be an irish baronet's niece.  around she--a few seat, many

standing--have group all the guest, save two old gentleman, who have

remain aloof with Colonel Poyntz near the whist-table, wait for the

fourth old gentleman who be to make up the rubber, but who be at that

moment spell-bind in the magic circle which curiosity, that strong of

social demon, have attract round the hostess.



"take Abbots' House?  I will tell you.--Ah, Dr. Fenwick, charm to

see you.  you know Abbots' House be let at last?  well, Miss Brabazon,

dear, you ask who have take it.  I will inform you,--a particular friend

of mine."



"indeed!  dear I!" say Miss Brabazon, look confused.  "I hope I

do not say anything to--"



"wound my feeling.  not in the least.  you say your uncle Sir

Phelim employ a coachmaker name Ashleigh, that Ashleigh be an uncommon

name, though Ashley be a common one; you intimate an appalling suspicion

that the Mrs. Ashleigh who have come to the Hill be the coach maker's

widow.  I relieve your mind,--she be not; she be the widow of Gilbert

Ashleigh, of Kirby Hall."



"gilbert ashleigh," say one of the guest, a bachelor, whose parent

have rear he for the Church, but who, like poor Goldsmith, do not think

himself good enough for it, a mistake of over-modesty, for he mature into

a very harmless creature.  "Gilbert Ashleigh?  I be at Oxford with

him,--a gentleman commoner of Christ Church.  good-look man, very;

sapped--"



"sap! what's that?--Oh, study.  that he do all his life.  he

marry young,--Anne Chaloner; she and I be girl together; marry the

same year.  they settle at Kirby Hall--nice place, but dull.  Poyntz and

I spend a Christmas there.  ashleigh when he talk be charming, but he

talk very little.  Anne, when she talk, be commonplace, and she

talk very much.  naturally, poor thing,---she be so happy.  Poyntz and

I do not spend another Christmas there.  friendship be long, but life be

short.  Gilbert Ashleigh's life be short indeed; he die in the seventh

year of his marriage, leave only one child, a girl.  since then, though

I never spend another Christmas at Kirby Hall, I have frequently spend a

day there, do my good to cheer up Anne.  she be no long talkative,

poor dear.  wrap up in her child, who have now grow into a beautiful

girl of eighteen--such eye, her father's--the real dark blue--rare; sweet

creature, but delicate; not, I hope, consumptive, but delicate; quiet,

want life.  my girl Jane adore she.  Jane have life enough for two."



"be Miss Ashleigh the heiress to Kirby Hall?" ask Mrs. Bruce, who

have an unmarried son.



"no.  Kirby Hall pass to Ashleigh Sumner, the male heir, a cousin.

and the lucky of cousin!  Gilbert's sister, showy woman (indeed all

show), have contrive to marry her kinsman, Sir Walter Ashleigh Haughton,

the head of the Ashleigh family,--just the man make to be the reflector of

a showy woman!  he die year ago, leave an only son, Sir James, who be

kill last winter, by a fall from his horse.  and here, again, Ashleigh

Summer prove to be the male heir-at-law.  during the minority of this

fortunate youth, Mrs. Ashleigh have rent Kirby Hall of his guardian.  he

be now just come of age, and that be why she leave.  lilian Ashleigh

will have, however, a very good fortune,--is what we genteel pauper call

an heiress.  be there anything more you want to know?"



say thin Miss Brabazon, who take advantage of her thinness to wedge

herself into every one's affair, "a most interesting account.  what a

nice place Abbots' House could be make with a little taste!  so

aristocratic!  just what I should like if I could afford it!  the

drawing-room should be do up in the moorish style, with

geranium-colour silk curtain, like dear Lady L----'s boudoir at

Twickenham.  and Mrs. Ashleigh have take the house on lease too, I

suppose!"  here Miss Brabazon flutter her fan angrily, and then

exclaim, "but what on earth bring Mrs. Ashleigh here?"



Answered Mrs. Colonel Poyntz, with the military frankness by which she

keep her company in good humour, as well as awe,--



"why do any of we come here?  can any one tell I?"



there be a blank silence, which the hostess herself be the first to

break.



"none of we present can say why we come here.  I can tell you why

Mrs. Ashleigh come.  our neighbour, Mr. Vigors, be a distant connection of

the late Gilbert Ashleigh, one of the executor to his will, and the

guardian to the heir-at-law.  about ten day ago Mr. Vigors call on I,

for the first time since I feel it my duty to express my disapprobation of

the strange vagary so unhappily conceive by our poor dear friend Dr.

Lloyd.  and when he have take his chair, just where you now sit,

Dr. Fenwick, he say in a sepulchral voice, stretch out two finger,

so,--as if I be one of the what-do-you-call-'ems who go to sleep when he

bid they, 'Marm, you know Mrs. Ashleigh?  you correspond with she?'

'yes, Mr. Vigors; be there any crime in that?  you look as if there be.'

'no crime, marm,' say the man, quite seriously.  'Mrs. Ashleigh be a lady

of amiable temper, and you be a woman of masculine understanding.'"



here there be a general titter.  Mrs. Colonel Poyntz hush it

with a look of severe surprise.  "what be there to laugh at?  all woman

would be man if they could.  if my understanding be masculine, so much the

well for I.  I thank Mr. Vigors for his very handsome compliment, and

he then go on to say that though Mrs. Ashleigh would now have to leave

Kirby Hall in a very few week, she seem quite unable to make up her

mind where to go; that it have occur to he that, as Miss Ashleigh be

of an age to see a little of the world, she ought not to remain bury in

the country; while, be of quiet mind, she recoil from the dissipation

of London.  between the seclusion of the one and the turmoil of the other,

the society of L---- be a happy medium.  he should be glad of my opinion.

he have put off ask for it, because he own his belief that I have

behave unkindly to his lamented friend, Dr. Lloyd; but he now find

himself in rather an awkward position.  his ward, young Sumner, have

prudently resolve on fix his country residence at Kirby Hall, rather

than at Haughton Park, the much large seat which have so suddenly pass

to his inheritance, and which he could not occupy without a vast

establishment, that to a single man, so young, would be but a cumbersome

and costly trouble.  Mr. Vigors be pledge to his ward to obtain he

possession of Kirby Hall, the precise day agree upon, but Mrs. Ashleigh

do not seem disposed to stir,--could not decide where else to go.  Mr.

Vigors be loth to press hard on his old friend's widow and child.  it be

a thousand pity Mrs Ashleigh could not make up her mind; she have have

ample time for preparation.  a word from I at this moment would be an

effective kindness.  Abbots' House be vacant, with a garden so extensive

that the lady would not miss the country.  another party be after it,

but--'Say no more,' I cry; 'no party but my dear old friend Anne

Ashleigh shall have Abbots' House.  so that question be settle.'  I

dismiss Mr. Vigors, send for my carriage, that is, for Mr. Barker's

yellow fly and his good horses,--and drive that very day to Kirby Hall,

which, though not in this county, be only twenty-five mile distant.  I

sleep there that night.  by nine o'clock the next morning I have secure

Mrs. Ashleigh's consent, on the promise to save she all trouble; come

back, send for the landlord, settle the rent, lease, agreement; engage

Forbes' van to remove the furniture from Kirby Hall; tell Forbes to begin

with the bed.  when her own bed come, which be last night, Anne Ashleigh

come too.  I have see she this morning.  she like the place, so do

Lilian.  I ask they to meet you all here to-night; but Mrs. Ashleigh

be tired.  the last of the furniture be to arrive today; and though dear

Mrs. Ashleigh be an undecided character, she be not inactive.  but it be

not only the planning where to put table and chair that would have

try she today: she have have Mr.  Vigors on her hand all the afternoon,

and he have be--here's her little note--what be the word?  no doubt

'most overpowering and oppressive;' no, 'most kind and attentive,'--

different word, but, as apply to Mr. Vigors, they mean the same thing.



"and now, next Monday---we must leave they in peace till then--you

will all call on the Ashleighs.  the Hill know what be due to itself; it

cannot delegate to Mr.  Vigors, a respectable man indeed, but who do

not belong to its set, its own proper course of action towards those

who would shelter themselves on its bosom.  the Hill cannot be kind and

attentive, overpower or oppressive by proxy.  to those newborn

into its family circle it cannot be an indifferent godmother; it have

towards they all the feeling of a mother,--or of a stepmother, as

the case may be.  where it say 'this can be no child of mine,' it be a

stepmother indeed; but in all those whom I have present to its

arm, it have hitherto, I be proud to say, recognize desirable

acquaintance, and to they the Hill have be a mother.  and now,

my dear Mr. Sloman, go to your rubber; Poyntz be impatient, though he

don't show it.  Miss Brabazon, love, we all long to see you seat

at the piano,--you play so divinely!  something gay, if you please;

something gay, but not very noisy,--Mr. Leopold Symthe will turn the

leave for you.  Mrs. Bruce, your own favourite set at vingt-un, with

four new recruit.  Dr. Fenwick, you be like I, don't play card, and

don't care for music; sit here, and talk or not, as you please, while I

knit."



the other guest thus dispose of, some at the card-table, some round

the piano, I place myself at Mrs. Poyntz's side, on a seat niche in the

recess of a window which an evening unusually warm for the month of May

permit to be leave open.  I be next to one who have know Lilian as a

child, one from whom I have learn by what sweet name to call the image

which my thought have already shrine.  how much that I still long to

know she could tell I!  but in what form of question could I lead to the

subject, yet not betray my absorbing interest in it?  longing to speak, I

feel as if stricken dumb; steal an unquiet glance towards the face

beside I, and deeply impressed with that truth which the Hill have long

ago reverently acknowledged,--namely, that Mrs. Colonel Poyntz be a very

superior woman, a very powerful creature.



and there she sit knitting, rapidly, firmly; a woman somewhat on

the other side of forty, complexion a bronze paleness, hair a bronze

brown, in strong ringlet crop short behind,--handsome hair for a man;

lip that, when close, show inflexible decision, when speak, became

supple and flexible with an easy humour and a vigilant finesse; eye of a

red hazel, quick but steady,--observing, pierce, dauntless eye;

altogether a fine countenance,--would have be a very fine countenance in

a man; profile sharp, straight, clear-cut, with an expression, when in

repose, like that of a sphinx; a frame robust, not corpulent; of middle

height, but with an air and carriage that make she appear tall; peculiarly

white firm hand, indicative of vigorous health, not a vein visible on the

surface.



there she sit knitting, knitting, and I by her side, gaze now on

herself, now on her work, with a vague idea that the thread in the skein

of my own web of love or of life be pass quick through those

noiseless finger.  and, indeed, in every web of romance, the fond, one

of the Parcae be sure to be some matter-of-fact she, Social Destiny, as

little akin to romance herself as be this worldly queen of the Hill.









CHAPTER VII.



I have give a sketch of the outward woman of Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.  the

inner woman be a recondite mystery deep as that of the sphinx, whose

feature her own resemble.  but between the outward and the inward woman

there be ever a third woman,--the conventional woman,--such as the whole

human being appear to the world,--always mantle, sometimes mask.



I be tell that the fine people of London do not recognize the

title of "Mrs. Colonel."  if that be true, the fine people of London must

be clearly in the wrong, for no people in the universe could be fine than

the fine people of Abbey Hill; and they consider their sovereign have

as good a right to the title of Mrs. Colonel as the Queen of England

have to that of "our Gracious Lady."  but Mrs. Poyntz herself never

assume the title of Mrs. Colonel; it never appear on her cards,--any

more than the title of "Gracious Lady" appear on the card which

convey the invitation that a Lord Steward or Lord Chamberlain be

command by her Majesty to issue.  to title, indeed, Mrs. Poyntz

evince no superstitious reverence.  two peeress, relate to she, not

distantly, be in the habit of pay she a yearly visit which

last two or three day.  the Hill consider these visit an honour to

its eminence.  Mrs. Poyntz never seem to esteem they an honour to

herself; never boast of they; never seek to show off her grand

relation, nor put herself the least out of the way to receive

they.  her mode of life be free from ostentation.  she have the advantage

of be a few hundred a year rich than any other inhabitant of

the Hill; but she do not devote her superior resource to the

invidious exhibition of superior splendour.  like a wise sovereign, the

revenue of her exchequer be apply to the benefit of her subject, and

not to the vanity of egotistical parade.  as no one else on the Hill

keep a carriage, she decline to keep one.  her entertainment be

simple, but numerous.  twice a week she receive the Hill, and be

genuinely at home to it.  she contrive to make her party proverbially

agreeable.  the refreshment be of the same kind as those which the

poor of her old maid of honour might proffer; but they be well of

their kind, the good of their kind,--the good tea, the good lemonade, the

good cake.  her room have an air of comfort, which be peculiar to they.

they look like room accustom to receive, and receive in a friendly

way; well warm, well light, card-table and piano each in the place

that make card and music inviting; on the wall a few old family

portrait, and three or four other picture say to be valuable and

certainly pleasing,--two Watteaus, a Canaletti, a Weenix; plenty of

easy-chair and settee cover with a cheerful chintz,--in the

arrangement of the furniture generally an indescribable careless elegance.

she herself be studiously plain in dress, more conspicuously free from

jewelry and trinket than any married lady on the Hill.  but I have hear

from those who be authority on such a subject that she be never

see in a dress of the last year's fashion.  she adopt the mode as it

come out, just enough to show that she be aware it be out; but

with a sober reserve, as much as to say, "I adopt the fashion as far as

it suit myself; I do not permit the fashion to adopt I."  in short,

Mrs. Colonel Poyntz be sometimes rough, sometimes coarse, always

masculine, and yet somehow or other masculine in a womanly way;

but she be never vulgar because never affect.  it be impossible

not to allow that she be a thorough gentlewoman, and she could do thing

that low other gentlewoman, without any loss of dignity.  thus

she be an admirable mimic, certainly in itself the least ladylike

condescension of humour.  but when she mimic, it be with so

tranquil a gravity, or so royal a good humour, that one could only

say, "what talent for society dear Mrs. Colonel have!"  as she be

a gentlewoman emphatically, so the other colonel, the he-colonel,

be emphatically a gentleman; rather shy, but not cold; hate trouble

of every kind, please to seem a cipher in his own house.  if the

sole study of Mrs. Colonel have be to make her husband comfortable,

she could not have succeed well than by bring friend about he

and then take they off his hand.  Colonel Poyntz, the he-colonel,

have see, in his youth, actual service; but have retire from his

profession many year ago, shortly after his marriage.  he be a

young brother of one of the principal squire in the country;

inherit the house he live in, with some other valuable property

in and about L----, from an uncle; be consider a good landlord; and

popular in Low Town, though he never interfere in its affair.  he be

punctiliously neat in his dress; a thin youthful figure, crown with a

thick youthful wig.  he never seem to read anything but the newspaper

and the "Meteorological Journal:" be suppose to be the most weatherwise

man in all L----.  he have another intellectual predilection,--whist;

but in that he have less reputation for wisdom.  perhaps it require a

rarer combination of mental faculty to win an odd trick than to

divine a fall in the glass.  for the rest, the he-colonel, many

year old than his wife, despite the thin youthful figure, be an

admirable aid-de-camp to the general in command, Mrs. Colonel; and

she could not have find one more obedient, more devoted, or more

proud of a distinguished chief.



in give to Mrs. Colonel Poyntz the appellation of queen of the

Hill, let there be no mistake.  she be not a constitutional sovereign;

her monarchy be absolute.  all her proclamation have the force of law.



such ascendancy could not have be attain without considerable

talent for acquire and keep it.  amidst all her off-hand, brisk,

imperious frankness, she have the ineffable discrimination of tact.

whether civil or rude, she be never civil or rude but what she carry

public opinion along with she.  her knowledge of general society must

have be limit, as must be that of all female sovereign; but she

seem gifted with an intuitive knowledge of human nature, which she

apply to her special ambition of rule it.  I have not a doubt that if

she have be suddenly transfer, a perfect stranger, to the world of

London, she would have soon force her way to its select circle,

and, when once there, hold she own against a duchess.



I have say that she be not affect: this might be one cause of

her sway over a set in which nearly every other woman be try rather to

seem, than to be, a somebody.



put if Mrs. Colonel Poyntz be not artificial, she be artful, or

perhaps I might more justly say artistic.  in all she say and do there

be conduct, system, plan.  she could be a most serviceable friend, a

most damaging enemy; yet I believe she seldom indulge in strong liking

or strong hatred.  all be policy,--a policy akin to that of a grand

party chief, determine to raise up those whom, for any reason of state,

it be prudent to favour, and to put down those whom, for any reason of

state, it be expedient to humble or to crush.



ever since the controversy with Dr. Lloyd, this lady have honour I

with her benignest countenance; and nothing could be more adroit than the

manner in which, while impose I on other as an oracular authority, she

seek to subject to she will the oracle itself.



she be in the habit of address I in a sort of motherly way,

as if she have the deep interest in my welfare, happiness, and

reputation.  and thus, in every compliment, in every seeming mark of

respect, she maintain the superior dignity of one who take from

responsible station the duty to encourage rise merit; so that, somehow

or other, despite all that pride which make I believe that I need no

help and to advance or to clear my way through the world, I could not

shake off from my mind the impression that I be mysteriously patronize

by Mrs. Colonel Poyntz.



we might have sit together five minute, side by side in silence as

complete as if in the cave of Trophonius--when without look up from her

work, Mrs. Poyntz say abruptly,--



"I be think about you, Dr. Fenwick.  and you--be think

about some other woman.  ungrateful man!"



"unjust accusation!  my very silence should prove how intently my

thought be fix on you, and on the weird web which spring under your

hand in mesh that bewilder the gaze and snare the attention."



Mrs. Poyntz look up at I for a moment--one rapid glance of the

bright red hazel eye--and said,--



"be I really in your thought?  Answer truly."



"truly, I answer, you be."



"that be strange!  who can it be?"



"who can it be?  what do you mean?"



"if you be think of I, it be in connection with some other

person,--some other person of my own sex.  it be certainly not poor dear

Miss Brabazon.  who else can it be?"



again the red eye shoot over I, and I feel my cheek redden beneath it.



"Hush!" she say, lower her voice; "you be in love!"



"in love!--I!  permit I to ask you why you think so?"



"the sign be unmistakable; you be alter in your manner, even in

the expression of your face, since I last see you; your manner be

generally quiet and observant,--it be now restless and distract; your

expression of face be generally proud and serene,--it be now humble and

troubled.  you have something on your mind!  it be not anxiety for your

reputation,--that be establish; nor for your fortune,--that be make; it

be not anxiety for a patient or you would scarcely be here.  but anxiety

it is,--an anxiety that be remote from your profession, that touch your

heart and be new to it!"



I be startle, almost awed; but I try to cover my confusion with a

force laugh.



"Profound observer!  subtle analyst!  you have convince I that I must

be in love, though I do not suspect it before.  but when I strive to

conjecture the object, I be as much perplex as yourself; and with you, I

ask, who can it be?"



"whoever it be," say Mrs. Poyntz, who have pause, while I speak, from

her knitting, and now resume it very slowly and very carefully, as if her

mind and her knitting work in unison together,--"whoever it be, love in

you would be serious; and, with or without love, marriage be a serious

thing to we all.  it be not every pretty girl that would suit Allen

Fenwick."



"alas! be there any pretty girl whom Allen Fenwick would suit?"



"Tut!  you should be above the fretful vanity that lay trap for a

compliment.  yes; the time have come in your life and your career when you

would do well to marry.  I give my consent to that," she add with a

smile as if in jest, and a slight nod as if in earnest.  the knitting here

go on more decidedly, more quickly.  "but I do not yet see the person.

no!  't be a pity, Allen Fenwick" (whenever Mrs. Poyntz call I by my

christian name, she always assume her majestic motherly manner),--"a

pity that, with your birth, energy, perseverance, talent, and, let I

add, your advantage of manner and person,--a pity that you do not choose

a career that might achieve high fortune and loud fame than the most

brilliant success can give to a provincial physician.  but in that very

choice you interest I.  my choice have be much thesame,--a small circle,

but the first in it.  yet, have I be a man, or have my dear Colonel be a

man whom it be in the power of a woman's art to raise one step high in

that metaphorical ladder which be not the ladder of the angel, why,

then--what then?  no matter!  I be content.  I transfer my ambition to

Jane.  do you not think her handsome?"



"there can be no doubt of that," say I, carelessly and naturally.



"I have settle Jane's lot in my own mind," resume Mrs. Poyntz,

strike firm into another row of knitting.  "she will marry a country

gentleman of large estate.  he will go into parliament.  she will study

his advancement as I study Poyntz's comfort.  if he be clever, she will

help to make he a minister; if he be not clever, his wealth will make

she a personage, and lift he into a personage's husband.  and, now that

you see I have no matrimonial design on you, Allen Fenwick, think if it

will be worth while to confide in I.  possibly I may be useful--"



"I know not how to thank you; but, as yet, I have nothing to confide."



while thus say, I turn my eye towards the open window beside

which I sit.  it be a beautiful soft night, the May moon in all her

splendour.  the town stretch, far and wide, below with all its

numberless lights,--below, but somewhat distant; an intervene space be

cover, here, by the broad quadrangle (in the midst of which stand,

massive and lonely, the grand old church), and, there, by the garden and

scatter cottage or mansion that clothe the side of the hill.



"be not that house," I say, after a short pause, "yonder with the

three gable, the one in which--in which poor Dr. Lloyd live--Abbots'

House?"



I speak abruptly, as if to intimate my desire to change the

subject of conversation.  my hostess stop her knitting, half rise,

look forth.



"yes.  but what a lovely night!  how be it that the moon blend

into harmony thing of which the sun only mark the contrast?  that

stately old church tower, gray with its thousand year, those vulgar

tile-roof and chimney-pot raw in the freshness of yesterday,--now,

under the moonlight, all melt into one indivisible charm!"



as my hostess thus speak, she have leave her seat, take her work

with she, and pass from the window into the balcony.  it be not often

that Mrs. Poyntz condescend to admit what be call "sentiment" into the

range of her sharp, practical, worldly talk; but she do so at

times,--always, when she do, give I the notion of an intellect much

too comprehensive not to allow that sentiment have a place in this life,

but keep it in its proper place, by that mixture of affability and

indifference with which some high-bear beauty allow the genius, but

check the presumption, of a charming and penniless poet.  for a few

minute her eye rove over the scene in evident enjoyment; then, as they

slowly settle upon the three gable of Abbots' House, her face regain

that something of hardness which belong to its decide character; her

finger again mechanically resume her knitting, and she say, in she

clear, unsoftened, metallic chime of voice, "can you guess why I take so

much trouble to oblige Mr. Vigors and locate Mrs. Ashleigh yonder?"



"you favour we with a full explanation of your reason."



"some of my reason; not the main one.  People who undertake the task

of govern other, as I do, be their rule a kingdom or a hamlet, must

adopt a principle of government and adhere to it.  the principle that

suit well with the Hill be respect for the Proprieties.  we have not much

money; entre nous, we have no great rank.  our policy be, then, to set up

the Proprieties as an influence which money must court and rank be afraid

of.  I have learn just before Mr. Vigors call on I that Lady Sarah

Bellasis entertain the idea of hire Abbots' House.  London have set its

face against she; a provincial town would be more charitable.  an earl's

daughter, with a good income and an awfully bad name, of the good manner

and of the bad moral, would have make sad havoc among the Proprieties.

how many of our prim old maid would have desert tea and Mrs. Poyntz

for champagne and her ladyship!  the Hill be never in so imminenta

danger.  rather than Lady Sarah Bellasis should have have that house, I

would have take it myself, and stock it with owl.



"Mrs. Ashleigh turn up just in the critical moment.  Lady Sarah be

foil, the Proprieties safe, and so that question be settle."



"and it will be pleasant to have your early friend so near you."



Mrs. Poyntz lift her eye full upon I.



"do you know Mrs. Ashleigh?"



"not in the least."



"she have many virtue and few idea.  she be commonplace weak, as I be

commonplace strong.  but commonplace weak can be very lovable.  her

husband, a man of genius and learning, give she his whole heart,--a heart

worth have; but he be not ambitious, and he despise the world."



"I think you say your daughter be very much attach to Miss

Ashleigh?  do her character resemble her mother's?"



I be afraid while I speak that I should again meet Mrs. Poyntz's

search gaze, but she do not this time look up from her work.



"no; Lilian be anything but commonplace."



"you describe she as have delicate health; you imply a hope

that she be not consumptive.  I trust that there be no serious reason for

apprehend a constitutional tendency which at her age would require the

most careful watching!"



"I trust not.  if she be to die--Dr. Fenwick, what be the matter?"



so terrible have be the picture which this woman's word have bring

before I, that I start as if my own life have receive a shock.



"I beg pardon," I say falteringly, press my hand to my heart; "a

sudden spasm here,--it be over now.  you be say that--that--"



"I be about to say-" and here Mrs. Poyntz lay her hand lightly

on mine,--"I be about to say that if lilian Ashleigh be to die, I

should mourn for she less than I might for one who value the thing of

the earth more.  but I believe there be no cause for the alarm my word so

inconsiderately excited in you.  her mother be watchful and devoted; and

if the least thing ail Lilian, she would call in medical advice.  Mr.

Vigors would, I know, recommend Dr. Jones."



close our conference with those stinging word, Mrs. Poyntz here

turn back into the drawing-room.



I remain some minute on the balcony, disconcerted, enraged.  with

what consummate art have this practise diplomatist wound herself into my

secret!  that she have read my heart well than myself be evident from

that parthian shaft, barb with Dr. Jones, which she have shoot over her

shoulder in retreat.  that from the first moment in which she have decoy

I to her side, she have detect "the something" on my mind, be perhaps

but the ordinary quickness of female penetration.  but it be with no

ordinary craft that the whole conversation afterwards have be so shaped

as to learn the something, and lead I to reveal the some one to whom the

something be link.  for what purpose?  what be it to she?  what motive

could she have beyond the mere gratification of curiosity?  perhaps, at

first, she think I have be catch by her daughter's showy beauty, and

hence the half-friendly, half-cynical frankness with which she have avow

her ambitious project for that young lady's matrimonial advancement.

satisfy by my manner that I cherish no presumptuous hope in that

quarter, her scrutiny be doubtless continue from that pleasure in the

exercise of a wily intellect which impel schemer and politician to an

activity for which, without that pleasure itself, there would seem no

adequate inducement.  and besides, the rule passion of this petty

sovereign be power; and if knowledge be power, there be no well

instrument of power over a contumacious subject than that hold on his

heart which be gain in the knowledge of its secret.



but "secret"!  have it really come to this?  be it possible that the

mere sight of a human face, never beheld before, could disturb the whole

tenor of my life,--a stranger of whose mind and character I know nothing,

whose very voice I have never hear?  it be only by the intolerable pang

of anguish that have rent my heart in the word, carelessly, abruptly

speak, "if she be to die," that I have feel how the world would be

change to I, if indeed that face be see in it no more!  yes, secret

it be no long to myself, I love!  and like all on whom love descend,

sometimes softly, slowly, with the gradual wing of the cushat settle

down into its nest, sometimes with the swoop of the eagle on his

unsuspecting quarry, I believe that none ever before love as I love;

that such love be an abnormal wonder, make solely for I, and I for it.

then my mind insensibly hush its angry and more turbulent thought, as

my gaze rest upon the roof-top of Lilian's home, and the shimmering

silver of the moonlit willow, under which I have see she gaze into the

roseate heaven.









CHAPTER VIII.



when I return to the drawing-room, the party be evidently about to

break up.  those who have group round the piano be now assemble round

the refreshment-table.  the cardplayer have rise, and be settle or

discuss gain and loss.  while I be search for my hat, which I

have somewhere mislay, a poor gentleman, torment by tic-doloureux, creep

timidly up to me,--the proud and the poor of all the hidalgo

settle on the Hill.  he could not afford a fee for a physician's advice;

but pain have humble his pride, and I see at a glance that he be

consider how to take a surreptitious advantage of social intercourse,

and obtain the advice without pay the fee.  the old man discover the

hat before I do, stoop, take it up, extend it to I with the profound

bow of the old school, while the other hand, clench and quivering, be

press into the hollow of his cheek, and his eye meet mine with wistful

mute entreaty.  the instinct of my profession seize I at once.  I could

never behold suffering without forget all else in the desire to

relieve it.



"you be in pain," say I, softly.  "sit down and describe the

symptom.  here, it be true, I be no professional doctor, but I be a

friend who be fond of doctoring, and know something about it."



so we sit down a little apart from the other guest, and after a

few question and answer, I be pleased to find that his "tic" do not

belong to the less curable kind of that agonizing neuralgia.  I be

especially successful in my treatment of similar suffering, for which I

have discover an anodyne that be almost specific.  I write on a leaf of

my pocketbook a prescription which I feel sure would be efficacious, and

as I tear it out and place it in his hand, I chance to look up, and see

the hazel eye of my hostess fix upon I with a kind and soft

expression than they often condescend to admit into their cold and

penetrate lustre.  at that moment, however, her attention be draw from

I to a servant, who enter with a note, and I hear he say, though in

an undertone, "from Mrs. Ashleigh."



she open the note, read it hastily, order the servant to wait

without the door, retire to her writing-table, which stand near the place

at which I still linger, rest her face on her hand, and seem muse.

her meditation be very soon over.  she turn her head, and to my

surprise, beckon to I.  I approach.



"sit here," she whisper: "turn your back towards those people, who be no

doubt watch we.  read this."



she place in my hand the note she have just receive.  it contain but

a few word, to this effect:--



   DEAR MARGARET,--I be so distressed.  since I write to you a few

   hour ago, Lilian be take suddenly ill, and I fear seriously.  what

   medical man should I send for?  let my servant have his name and

   address.



                                                    A.  A.



I spring from my seat.



"stay," say Mrs. Poyntz.  "would you much care if I send the servant to

Dr. Jones?"



"ah, madam, you be cruel!  what have I do that you should become my

enemy?"



"Enemy!  no.  you have just befriend one of my friend.  in this world

of fool intellect should ally itself with intellect.  no; I be not your

enemy!  but you have not yet ask I to be your friend."



here she put into my hand a note she have write while thus speak.

"receive your credential.  if there be any cause for alarm, or if I can

be of use, send for I."  resume the work she have suspend, but with

linger, uncertain finger, she add, "so far, then, this be settle.

Nay, no thank; it be but little that be settle as yet."









CHAPTER IX.



in a very few minute I be once more in the ground of that old gable

house; the servant, who go before I, enter they by the stair and

the wicket-gate of the private entrance; that way be the short.  so

again I pass by the circling glade and the monastic well,--sward, tree,

and ruin all suffuse in the limpid moonlight.



and now I be in the house; the servant take up-stair the note

with which I be charge, and a minute or two afterwards return and

conduct I to the corridor above, in which Mrs. Ashleigh receive I.  I

be the first to speak.



"your daughter--be--be--not seriously ill, I hope.  what be it?"



"hush!" she say, under her breath.  "will you step this way for

a moment?"  she pass through a doorway to the right.  I follow she,

and as she place on the table the light she have be hold, I look

round with a chill at the heart,--it be the room in which Dr. Lloyd have

die.  impossible to mistake.  the furniture indeed be change, there be

no bed in the chamber; but the shape of the room, the position of the high

casement, which be now wide open, and through which the moonlight

stream more softly than on that drear winter night, the great square

beam intersect the low ceiling,--all be impress vividly on my

memory.  the chair to which Mrs. Ashleigh beckon I be place just on

the spot where I have stand by the bedhead of the die man.



I shrink back,--I could not have seat myself there.  so I remained

lean against the chimney-piece, while Mrs. Ashleigh tell her story.



she say that on their arrival the day before, Lilian have be in more

than usually good health and spirit, delight with the old house, the

ground, and especially the nook by the Monk's Well, at which Mrs.

Ashleigh have leave she that evening in order to make some purchase in the

town, in company with Mr. Vigors.  when Mrs. Ashleigh return, she and

Mr. Vigors have seek Lilian in that nook, and Mrs. Ashleigh then

detect, with a mother's eye, some change in Lilian which alarm she.

she seem listless and deject, and be very pale; but she deny that

she feel unwell.  on regain the house she have sit down in the room in

which we then were,--"which," say Mrs. Ashleigh, "as it be not require

for a sleeping-room, my daughter, who be fond of reading, wish to fit up

as her own morning-room, or study.  I leave she here and go into the

drawing-room below with Mr. Vigors.  when he quit I, which he do very

soon, I remain for nearly an hour give direction about the placing of

furniture, which have just arrive, from our late residence.  I then go

up-stair to join my daughter, and to my terror find she apparently

lifeless in her chair.  she have faint away."



I interrupt Mrs. Ashleigh here.  "have Miss Ashleigh be subject

to fainting fit?"



"no, never.  when she recover she seem bewildered, disincline

to speak.  I get she to bed, and as she then fall quietly to sleep, my

mind be relieve.  I think it only a pass effect of excitement, in a

change of abode; or cause by something like malaria in the atmosphere of

that part of the ground in which I have find she seat."



"very likely.  the hour of sunset at this time of year be try to

delicate constitution.  go on."



"about three quarter of an hour ago she wake up with a loud cry, and

have be ever since in a state of great agitation, weep violently, and

answer none of my question.  yet she do not seem light-headed,

but rather what we call hysterical."



"you will permit I now to see she.  take comfort; in all you tell I I

see nothing to warrant serious alarm."









CHAPTER X.



to the true physician there be an inexpressible sanctity in the sick

chamber.  at its threshold the more human passion quit their hold on his

heart.  love there would be profanation; even the grief permit to

other he must put aside.  he must enter that room--a calm intelligence.

he be disabled for his mission if he suffer aught to obscure the keen

quiet glance of his science.  age or youth, beauty or deformity, innocence

or guilt, merge their distinction in one common attribute,-human

suffering appeal to human skill.



Woe to the household in which the trust Healer feel not on his

conscience the solemn obligation of his glorious art!  reverently as in a

temple, I stand in the virgin's chamber.  when her mother place her hand

in mine, and I feel the throb of its pulse, I be aware of no quick beat

of my own heart.  I look with a steady eye on the face more beautiful

from the flush that deepen the delicate hue of the young cheek, and the

lustre that brighten the dark blue of the wander eye.  she do not

at first heed I, do not seem aware of my presence; but keep murmur to

herself word which I could not distinguish.



at length, when I speak to she, in that low, soothe tone which we

learn at the sick-bed, the expression of her face alter suddenly; she

pass the hand I do not hold over her forehead, turn round, look at

I full and long, with unmistakable surprise, yet not as if the surprise

displease her,--less the surprise which recoil from the sight of a

strange than that which seem doubtfully to recognize an unexpected

friend.  yet on the surprise there seem to creep something of

apprehension, of fear; her hand tremble, her voice quiver, as she

said,--



"can it be, can it be?  be I awake?  Mother, who be this?"



"only a kind visitor, Dr. Fenwick, send by Mrs. Poyntz, for I be uneasy

about you, darling.  how be you now?"



"Better.  strangely well."



she remove her hand gently from mine, and with an involuntary modest

shrinking turn towards Mrs. Ashleigh, draw her mother towards

herself, so that she become at once hide from I.



satisfy that there be here no delirium, nor even more than the

slight and temporary fever which often accompany a sudden nervous attack

in constitution peculiarly sensitive, I retire noiselessly from the

room, and go, not into that which have be occupy by the ill-fate

Naturalist, but down-stair into the drawing-room, to write my

prescription.  I have already send the servant off with it to the chemist's

before Mrs. Ashleigh join I.



"she seem recover surprisingly; her forehead be cool; she be

perfectly self-possess, only she cannot account for her own

seizure,--cannot account either for the fainting or the agitation with

which she awake from sleep."



"I think I can account for both.  the first room in which she

enter--that in which she faint--have its window open; the side of the

window be overgrow with rank creep plant in full blossom.  Miss

Ashleigh have already predispose herself to injurious effect from the

effluvia by fatigue, excitement, imprudence in sit out at the fall of

a heavy dew.  the sleep after the fainting fit be the more disturbed,

because nature, always alert and active in subject so young, be make

its own effort to right itself from an injury.  Nature have nearly

succeed.  what I have prescribe will a little aid and accelerate that

which nature have yet to do, and in a day or two I do not doubt that your

daughter will be perfectly restore.  only let I recommend care to avoid

exposure to the open air during the close of the day.  let she avoid also

the room in which she be first seize, for it be a strange phenomenon in

nervous temperament that a nervous attack may, without visible cause, be

repeat in the same place where it be first experienced.  you have well

shut up the chamber for at least some week, burn fire in it, repaint and

paper it, sprinkle chloroform.  you be not, perhaps, aware that Dr. Lloyd

die in that room after a prolonged illness.  suffer I to wait till your

servant return with the medicine, and let I employ the interval in

ask you a few question.  Miss Ashleigh, you say, never have a fainting

fit before.  I should presume that she be not what we call strong.  but

have she ever have any illness that alarm you?"



"never."



"no great liability to cold and cough, to attack of the chest or lung?"



"certainly not.  still I have fear that she may have a tendency to

consumption.  do you think so?  your question alarm I!"



"I do not think so; but before I pronounce a positive opinion, one

question more.  you say you have fear a tendency to consumption.  be

that disease in her family?  she certainly do not inherit it from you.

but on her father's side?"



"her father," say Mrs. Ashleigh, with tear in her eye, "die young,

but of brain fever, which the medical man say be bring on by over

study."



"Enough, my dear madam.  what you say confirm my belief that your

daughter's constitution be the very opposite to that in which the seed of

consumption lurk.  it be rather that far nobler constitution, which the

keenness of the nervous susceptibility render delicate but elastic,--as

quick to recover as it be to suffer."



"thank you, thank you, Dr. Fenwick, for what you say.  you take a load

from my heart; for Mr. Vigors, I know, think lilian consumptive, and Mrs.

Poyntz have rather frighten I at time by hint to the same effect.  but

when you speak of nervous susceptibility, I do not quite understand you.

my daughter be not what be commonly call nervous.  her temper be

singularly even."



"but if not excitable, should you also say that she be not

impressionable?  the thing which do not disturb her temper may, perhaps,

deject her spirit.  do I make myself understand?"



"yes, I think I understand your distinction; but I be not quite sure if

it apply.  to most thing that affect the spirit she be not more

sensitive than other girl, perhaps less so; but she be certainly

very impressionable in some thing."



"in what?"



"she be more moved than any one I ever know by object in external

nature, rural scenery, rural sound, by music, by the book that she

reads,--even book that be not work of imagination.  perhaps in all this

she take after her poor father, but in a more marked degree,--at least, I

observe it more in she; for he be very silent and reserve.  and perhaps

also her peculiarity have be foster by the seclusion in which she

have be bring up.  it be with a view to make she a little more like

girl of her own age that our friend, Mrs. Poyntz, induce I to come

here.  Lilian be reconcile to this change; but she shrink from the

thought of London, which I should have prefer.  her poor father could

not endure London."



"Miss Ashleigh be fond of reading?"



"yes, she be fond of reading, but more fond of musing.  she will sit by

herself for hour without book or work, and seem as abstract as if in a

dream.  she be so even in her early childhood.  then she would tell I

what she have be conjure up to herself.  she would say that she have

see--positively see--beautiful land far away from earth; flower and

tree not like ours.  as she grow old this visionary talk displease I,

and I scold she, and say that if other hear she, they would think

that she be not only silly but very untruthful.  so of late year she

never venture to tell I what, in such dreamy moment, she suffer

herself to imagine; but the habit of musing continue still.  do you not

agree with Mrs. Poyntz that the good cure would be a little cheerful

society amongst other young people?"



"certainly," say I, honestly, though with a jealous pang.  "but here

come the medicine.  will you take it up to she, and then sit with she

half an hour or so?  by that time I expect she will be asleep.  I will

wait here till you return.  oh, I can amuse myself with the newspaper and

book on your table.  stay! one caution: be sure there be no flower in

Miss Ashleigh's sleeping-room.  I think I see a treacherous rose-tree in a

stand by the window.  if so, banish it."



leave alone, I examine the room in which, oh, thought of joy!  I have

surely now win the claim to become a privileged guest.  I touch the

book Lilian must have touch; in the article of furniture, as yet so

hastily dispose that the settle look of home be not about they, I

still know that I be gaze on thing which her mind must associate with

the history of her young life.  that luteharp must be surely her, and the

scarf, with a girl's favourite colours,--pure white and pale blue,--and

the bird-cage, and the childish ivory work-case, with implement too

pretty for use,--all speak of she.



it be a blissful, intoxicate revery, which Mrs. Ashleigh's entrance

disturb.



Lilian be sleep calmly.  I have no excuse to linger there any long.



"I leave you, I trust, with your mind quite at ease," say I.  "you will

allow I to call to-morrow, in the afternoon?"



"oh, yes, gratefully."



Mrs. Ashleigh hold out her hand as I make towards the door.



be there a physician who have not feel at time how that ceremonious fee

throw he back from the garden-land of humanity into the market-place of

money,--seems to put he out of the pale of equal friendship, and say,

"true, you have give health and life.  Adieu! there, you be pay for

it!"  with a poor person there would have be no dilemma, but Mrs.

Ashleigh be affluent: to depart from custom here be almost impertinence.

but have the penalty of my refusal be the doom of never again behold

Lilian, I could not have take her mother's gold.  so I do not appear to

notice the hand hold out to I, and pass by with a quickened step.



"but, Dr. Fenwick, stop!"



"no, ma'am, no!  Miss Ashleigh would have recover as soon without I.

whenever my aid be really want, then--but Heaven grant that time may

never come!  we will talk again about she to-morrow."



I be gone,--now in the garden ground, odorous with blossom; now in

the lane, inclose by the narrow wall; now in the deserted street, over

which the moon shine full as in that winter night when I hurry from the

chamber of death.  but the street be not ghastly now, and the moon be

no long Hecate, that dreary goddess of awe and spectre, but the sweet,

simple Lady of the Stars, on whose gentle face lover have gaze ever

since (if that guess of astronomer be true) she be part from earth to

rule the tide of its deep from afar, even as love, from love divide,

rule the heart that yearn towards it with mysterious law.









CHAPTER XI.



with what increase benignity I listen to the patient who visit I

the next morning!  the whole human race seem to be worthy of love, and

I long to diffuse amongst all some ray of the glorious hope that have

dawn upon my heart.  my first call, when I go forth, be on the poor

young woman from whom I have be return the day before, when an

impulse, which seem like a fate, have lure I into the ground where I

have first see Lilian.  I feel grateful to this poor patient; without her

Lilian herself might be yet unknown to rue.



the girl's brother, a young man employ in the police, and whose pay

support a widow mother and the suffer sister, receive I at the

threshold of the cottage.



"oh, sir, she be so much well to-day; almost free from pain.  will

she live now; can she live?"



"if my treatment have really do the good you say; if she be really

well under it, I think her recovery may be pronounce.  but I must first

see she."



the girl be indeed wonderfully well.  I feel that my skill be

achieve a signal triumph; but that day even my intellectual pride be

forget in the luxurious unfolding of that sense of heart which have so

newly wake into blossom.



as I recrosse the threshold, I smile on the brother, who be still

linger there,--



"your sister be save, Wady.  she need now chiefly wine, and good

though light nourishment; these you will find at my house; call there for

they every day."



"God bless you, sir!  if ever I can serve you--"  his tongue falter,

he could say no more.



serve I, Allen Fenwick--that poor policeman!  Me, whom a king could not

serve!  what do I ask from earth but Fame and Lilian's heart?  throne

and bread man win from the aid of other; fame and woman's heart he can

only gain through himself.



so I stride gayly up the hill, through the iron gate, into the fairy

ground, and stand before Lilian's home.



the man-servant, on open the door, seem somewhat confused, and

say hastily before I spoke,--



"not at home, sir; a note for you."



I turn the note mechanically in my hand; I feel stunned.



"not at home!  Miss Ashleigh cannot be out.  how be she?"



"well, sir, thank you."



I still could not open the note; my eye turn wistfully towards the

window of the house, and there--at the drawing-room window--I encounter

the scowl of Mr. Vigors.  I colour with resentment, divine that I be

dismiss, and walk away with a proud crest and a firm step.



when I be out of the gate, in the blind lane, I open the note.  it

begin formally.  "Mrs. Ashleigh present her compliment," and go on to

thank I, civilly enough, for my attendance the night before, would not

give I the trouble to repeat my visit, and inclose a fee, double the

amount of the fee prescribe by custom.  I fling the money, as an asp that

have sting I, over the high wall, and tear the note into shred.  having

thus idly vent my rage, a dull gnawing sorrow come heavily down upon all

other emotion, stifle and replace they.  at the mouth of the lane I

halt.  I shrink from the thought of the crowded street beyond; I shrank

yet more from the routine of duty, which stretch before I in the

desert into which daily life be so suddenly smite.  I sit down by the

roadside, shade my dejected face with a nervous hand.  I look up as

the sound of step reach my ear, and see Dr. Jones come briskly along

the lane, evidently from Abbots' House.  he must have be there at the

very time I have call.  I be not only dismiss but supplant.  I rise

before he reach the spot on which I have seat myself, and go my way

into the town, go through my allotted round of professional visit; but

my attention be not so tenderly devote, my kill so genially quicken

by the glow of benevolence, as my poor patient have find they in the

morning.  I have say how the physician should enter the sick-room.  "a

Calm Intelligence!"  but if you strike a blow on the heart, the intellect

suffer.  little worth, I suspect, be my "calm intelligence" that day.

Bichat, in his famous book upon life and death, divide life into two

classes,--animal and organic.  Man's intellect, with the brain for its

centre, belong to life animal; his passion to life organic, centre in

the heart, in the viscera.  alas! if the noble passion through which

alone we lift ourselves into the moral realm of the sublime and beautiful

really have their centre in the life which the very vegetable, that live

organically, share with we!  and, alas! if it be that life which we

share with the vegetable, that can cloud, obstruct, suspend, annul that

life centre in the brain, which we share with every be howsoever

angelic, in every star howsoever remote, on whom the Creator bestow the

faculty of thought!









CHAPTER XII.



but suddenly I remember Mrs. Poyntz.  I ought to call on she.  so I

close my round of visit at her door.  the day be then far advanced, and

the servant politely inform I that Mrs. Poyntz be at dinner.  I could

only leave my card, with a message that I would pay my respect to she the

next day.  that evening I receive from she this note:--



   Dear Dr. Fenwick,--I regret much that I cannot have the pleasure of

   see you to-morrow.  Poyntz and I be go to visit his brother, at

   the other end of the county, and we start early.  we shall be away some

   day.  sorry to hear from Mrs. Ashleigh that she have be persuade by

   Mr. Vigors to consult Dr. Jones about Lilian. Vigors and Jones both

   frighten the poor mother, and insist upon consumptive tendency.

   unluckily, you seem to have say there be little the matter.  some

   doctor train their practice as some preacher fill their churches,--by

   adroit use of the appeal to terror.  you do not want patient, Dr.

   Jones do.  and, after all, well perhaps as it be.

                           your, etc.

                                                 M. Poyntz.



to my more selfish grief, anxiety for Lilian be now add.  I have see

many more patient die from be mistreat for consumption than from

consumption itself.  and Dr. Jones be a mercenary, cunning, needy man,

with much crafty knowledge of human foible, but very little skill in the

treatment of human malady.  my fear be soon confirm.  a few day

after I hear from Miss Brabazon that Miss Ashleigh be seriously ill,

keep her room.  Mrs. Ashleigh make this excuse for not immediately

return the visit which the Hill have shower upon she.  Miss Brabazon

have see Dr. Jones, who have shake his head, say it be a serious case;

but that time and care (his time and his care!) might effect wonder.



how stealthily at the dead of the night I would climb the Hill and look

towards the window of the old sombre house,--one window, in which a light

burn dim and mournful, the light of a sick-room,--of her!



at length Mrs. Poyntz come back, and I enter her house, having fully

resolve beforehand on the line of policy to be adopt towards the

potentate whom I hope to secure as an ally.  it be clear that neither

disguise nor half-confidence would baffle the penetration of so keen an

intellect, nor propitiate the good will of so imperious and resolute a

temper.  perfect frankness here be the wise prudence; and after all, it

be most agreeable to my own nature, and most worthy of my own honour.



luckily, I find Mrs. Poyntz alone, and take in both mine the hand

she somewhat coldly extend to I, I say, with the earnestness of

suppress emotion,--



"you observe when I last see you, that I have not yet ask you to be

my friend.  I ask it now.  listen to I with all the indulgence you can

vouchsafe, and let I at least profit by your counsel if you refuse to

give I your aid."



rapidly, briefly, I go on to say how I have first see Lilian, and

how sudden, how strange to myself, have be the impression which that

first sight of she have produce.



"you remark the change that have come over I," say I; "you

divine the cause before I divine it myself,--divined it as I sit there

beside you, think that through you I might see, in the freedom of

social intercourse, the face that be then haunt I.  you know what have

since pass.  Miss Ashleigh be ill; her case be, I be convince, wholly

misunderstood.  all other feeling be merge in one sense of anxiety,--of

alarm.  but it have become due to I, due to all, to incur the risk of your

ridicule even more than of your reproof, by state to you thus candidly,

plainly, bluntly, the sentiment which render alarm so poignant, and

which, if scarcely admissible to the romance of some wild dreamy boy, may

seem an unpardonable folly in a man of my year and my sober calling,--due

to I, to you, to Mrs. Ashleigh, because still the dear thing in life

to I be honour.  and if you, who know Mrs. Ashleigh so intimately, who

must be more or less aware of her plan or wish for her daughter's

future,--if you believe that those plan or wish lead to a lot far more

ambitious than an alliance with I could offer to Miss Ashleigh, then aid

Mr. Vigors in exclude I from the house; aid I in suppress a

presumptuous, visionary passion.  I cannot enter that house without love

and hope at my heart; and the threshold of that house I must not cross if

such love and such hope would be a sin and a treachery in the eye of its

owner.  I might restore Miss Ashleigh to health; her gratitude might--I

cannot continue.  this danger must not be to I nor to she, if her mother

have view far above such a son-in-law.  and I be the more bound to

consider all this while it be yet time, because I hear you state that

Miss Ashleigh have a fortune, be what would be here term an heiress.

and the full consciousness that whatever fame one in my profession may

live to acquire, do not open those vista of social power and grandeur

which be open by profession to my eye less noble in themselves,--that

full consciousness, I say, be force upon I by certain word of your

own.  for the rest, you know my descent be sufficiently recognize as that

amidst well-bear gentry to have render I no mesalliance to family the

most proud of their ancestry, if I have keep my hereditary estate and

avoid the career that make I useful to man.  but I acknowledge that on

enter a profession such as mine--enter any profession except that of

arm or the senate--all leave their pedigree at its door, an erased or

dead letter.  all must come as equals, high-bear or low-bear, into that

arena in which man ask aid from a man as he make himself; to they his

dead forefather be idle dust.  therefore, to the advantage of birth I

cease to have a claim.  I be but a provincial physician, whose station

would be the same have he be a cobbler's son.  but gold retain its grand

privilege in all rank.  he who have gold be remove from the suspicion

that attach to the greedy fortune-hunter.  my private fortune, swell

by my saving, be sufficient to secure to any one I marry a large

settlement than many a wealthy squire can make.  I need no fortune with a

wife; if she have one, it would be settle on herself.  Pardon these

vulgar detail.  now, have I make myself understand?"



"fully," answer the Queen of the Hill, who have listen to I

quietly, watchfully, and without one interruption, "fully; and you have

do well to confide in I with so generous an unreserve.  but before I

say far, let I ask, what would be your advice for Lilian, suppose

that you ought not to attend she?  you have no trust in Dr. Jones; neither

have I.  and Annie Ashleigh's note receive to-day, beg I to call,

justify your alarm.  still you think there be no tendency to

consumption?"



"of that I be certain so far as my slight glimpse of a case that

to I, however, seem a simple and not uncommon one, will permit.  but in

the alternative you put--that my own skill, whatever its worth, be

forbidden--my earnest advice be that Mrs. Ashleigh should take she

daughter at once to London, and consult there those great authority to

whom I cannot compare my own opinion or experience; and by their counsel

abide."



Mrs. Poyntz shade her eye with her hand for a few moment, and seem

in deliberation with herself.  then she say, with her peculiar smile,

half grave, half ironical,--



"in matter more ordinary you would have win I to your side long ago.

that Mr. Vigors should have presume to cancel my recommendation to a

settler on the Hill be an act of rebellion, and involve the honour of my

prerogative; but I suppress my indignation at an affront so unusual,

partly out of pique against yourself, but much more, I think, out of

regard for you."



"I understand.  you detect the secret of my heart; you know that Mrs.

Ashleigh would not wish to see her daughter the wife of a provincial

physician."



"be I sure, or be you sure, that the daughter herself would accept

that fate; or if she accept it, would not repent?"



"do you not think I the vainest of man when I say this,--that I cannot

believe I should be so enthral by a feeling at war with my reason,

unfavoure by anything I can detect in my habit of mind, or even by the

dream of a youth which exalt science and exclude love, unless I be

intimately convinced that Miss Ashleigh's heart be free, that I could

win, and that I could keep it!  ask I why I be convince of this, and I

can tell you no more why I think that she could love I than I can tell

you why I love she!"



"I be of the world, worldly; but I be a woman, womanly,--though I may

not care to be think it.  and, therefore, though what you say be,

regard in a worldly point of view, sheer nonsense, regard in a womanly

point of view, it be logically sound.  but still you cannot know Lilian as

I do.  your nature and her be in strong contrast.  I do not think she

be a safe wife for you.  the pure, the most innocent creature

imaginable, certainly that, but always in the seventh heaven; and you in

the seventh heaven just at this moment, but with an irresistible

gravitation to the solid earth, which will have its way again when the

honeymoon be over--I do not believe you two would harmonize by

intercourse.  I do not believe Lilian would sympathize with you, and I be

sure you could not sympathize with she throughout the long dull course of

this workday life.  and, therefore, for your sake, as well as her, I be

not displeased to find that Dr. Jones have replace you; and now, in return

for your frankness, I say frankly, do not go again to that house.  Conquer

this sentiment, fancy, passion, whatever it be.  and I will advise Mrs.

Ashleigh to take Lilian to town.  shall it be so settle?"



I could not speak.  I bury my face in my hand-misery, misery,

desolation!



I know not how long I remain thus silent, perhaps many minute.  at

length I feel a cold, firm, but not ungentle hand place upon mine; and a

clear, full, but not discourage voice say to me,--



"leave I to think well over this conversation, and to ponder well the

value of all you have show that you so deeply feel.  the interest of

life do not fill both scale of the balance.  the heart, which do not

always go in the same scale with the interest, still have its weight in

the scale oppose to they.  I have hear a few wise man say, as many a

silly woman say, 'well be unhappy with one we love, than be happy with

one we love not.'  do you say that too?"



"with every thought of my brain, every beat of my pulse, I say it."



"after that answer, all my questioning cease.  you shall hear from I

to-morrow.  by that time, I shall have see Annie and Lilian.  I shall

have weigh both scale of the balance,--and the heart here, Allen

Fenwick, seem very heavy.  go, now.  I hear foot on the stair, Poyntz

bring up some friendly gossiper; gossiper be spy."



I pass my hand over my eye, tearless, but how tear would have

relieve the anguish that burden they! and, without a word, go down

the stair, meet at the landing-place Colonel Poyntz and the old man

whose pain my prescription have cure.  the old man be whistle a merry

tune, perhaps first learn on the playground.  he break from it to thank,

almost to embrace I, as I slide by he.  I seize his jocund blessing as a

good oman, and carry it with I as I pass into the broad sunlight.

Solitary--solitary!  should I be so evermore?















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a strange story — volume 01 ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





