The project Gutenberg eBook of a bankrupt heart, Vol. 2 (of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a bankrupt heart, Vol. 2 (of 3)



author: Florence Marryat



Release date: July 5, 2024 [ebook #73973]



language: English



original publication: London: F. V. White & Co, 1894



credit: Carol Brown, Emmanuel Ackerman and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 2 (of 3) ***







                           a bankrupt heart.









                           a bankrupt heart.



                                  BY



                           FLORENCE MARRYAT,



                               AUTHOR of

          ‘LOVE’S conflict,’ ‘MY OWN child,’ ‘parson JONES,’

                              ETC., ETC.



                          _in three VOLUMES._



                               VOL. II.



                                LONDON:

                          F. V. WHITE & CO.,

                    14 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.



                                 1894.



    _this story be already dramatise, all right be reserve._









                              _content._





                                          PAGE

                        CHAPTER I.           1



                        CHAPTER II.         25



                        CHAPTER III.        52



                        CHAPTER IV.         73



                        CHAPTER V.         101



                        CHAPTER VI.        118



                        CHAPTER VII.       137



                        CHAPTER VIII.      168



                        CHAPTER IX.        189



                        CHAPTER X.         213









a bankrupt heart.









a bankrupt heart.









                        CHAPTER I.





for seven week Nell Llewellyn fluctuate between life and death

before she be fully rouse again to a sense of living and its care

and responsibility. it be on a sunny afternoon, in the middle

of October, that she first awake to the consciousness that she be

herself. but she be too weak to do more than be aware of it. the

afternoon sun be glint through the white blind of her bedroom

window, and a little breeze cause it to flap gently against the

latticed pane. Nell lie on her bed, as weak and unreasoning and

incurious as a little child, and watch the tassel of the blind

bob up and down, without question why she lie there, unable to

move or think. an old woman name Betsy Hobbs, who come in sometimes

to help in an emergency at the farmhouse, be seat by the window,

with a large pair of knitting-needle in her hand, a ball of worst

at her foot, and her head sink on her breast, enjoy a snooze after

the labour of the day. Nell stare at her unfamiliar figure with the

same sense of incapacity to understand her presence, and the same

sense of utter indifference to not understand it. her feeble sight

rove over everything in the room with the same apathy. the coverlet

on her bed be a coloured one, and she keep on count the square

and wonder in a vague manner why one should be red and the next

blue. one red, and the next blue--one red, and the next blue--she keep

on mentally repeat to herself, until her eye have travel to the

foot of the bed, over the footboard of which be throw a pink knit

shawl, or kerchief, which her mother have buy for she just before

she be take ill, and which she have wear around her shoulder on the

evening she have go to hear Hugh Owen preach in the field. that little

link between the past and the present recall it all. in a moment

she comprehend. she be no long happy, innocent Nell Llewellyn,

spend her young life at panty-cuckoo farm, but the disgraced and

degrade daughter of the house, who have creep home, a live lie,

to hide her shame and sorrow in her mother’s bosom. the remembrance

bring with it but one desire--one want--which express itself in a

feeble cry of ‘mother!’ at least, it be what Nell intend for a cry;

but her voice be so faint and weak, that Betsy Hobbs only rouse from

she nap with a feeling of curiosity if she _have_ hear anything. she

be accustom to nurse the sick, however, and be a light sleeper,

so she hobble up to the bedside and peer into her patient’s face.

sure enough her eye be open and there be reason in they.



‘praise the Lord, dearie,’ she ejaculate, ‘you’re yourself agin at

last!’



but Nell turn her face to the wall with the same cry of ‘mother!’



‘to be sure, dearie; and I’ll fetch ’er in ’alf a minnit. she’s only

step down to the dairy to see ’ow thing be goin’ on, for business

’as be sadly neglect of late. night and day--night and day--the

pore dear’s bin by your side, longin’ to ’ear your own voice agin, and

she’ll be overj’yed to find you in your sense. come, drink a drop o’

milk, do, and then I’ll fetch ’er.’



but Nell turn fractiously from the proffered cup and reiterate

her cry for her mother. she be gaunt and emaciate to a degree.

the cruel fever have waste her rounded limb, and dig deep furrow

beneath her eye, and turn she delicate complexion to yellow and

brown. she look like a woman of forty or fifty, instead of a girl of

three-and-twenty. as the old woman amble out of the room, Nell raise

her thin hand and gaze at the white nail and bony knuckle with

amazement. where have she be? what have happen to she, to alter she

like that? her question be answer by the entrance of Mrs Llewellyn.



‘oh, my dear lass--my own poor lamb!’ she exclaim, as she come

hurriedly to the bedside, and fold her daughter in her arm. ‘praise

the Lord that you have take a turn at last! I’ve be watch for

this day and day, till I begin to fear it might never be. you’ve be

main ill, my girl, and all the house nurse you through it. Father’s

lie down on his bed. he haven’t have his coat off for three night. but

you’re well, my lass, you’re well, thank God for that!’



‘how long have I be ill?’ ask Nell in a faint voice.



‘well than six week--go on for seven,’ reply her mother; ‘and

it’s be an anxious time for all of we. I think poor Hetty would

have cry herself sick last week, when Dr Cowell tell we we mustn’t

build our hope too much on keep you here. I think he will be as

surprised as anyone when he hear the good news. oh, my lass, it would

have be a sore day for more than one of we if we have lose you!’



‘I may go yet, mother,’ say Nell, look at her skeleton hand;

‘there’s not much of I leave, I’m think.’



‘oh, no you willn’t, my dear, not this time, thank God. I know what these

fever be. I’ve see too many of they. when they’ve burn themselves

out, they’re over. and you’re as cool as a cucumber now. you feel

terrible weak, I know, but good feeding and care will soon set you up

again.’



‘what a trouble I must have be to you,’ sigh Nell wearily; ‘and so

unworthy of it too. mother, why don’t you let I die, and make an end

of it? life be not worth live at any time, and I’ve see the good of

mine.’



‘Nonsense, my girl, you talk like that because you’re so weak, that’s

all. you’ll feel quite different in another day or so. here, just let

I give you a few spoonful of this beef-tea. I make it myself, so I

willn’t take a refusal. there’s a good maid, and now you must shut your

eye and go to sleep again.’



‘don’t leave I,’ murmur Nell, as she lie with her hand clasp in

her mother’s. ‘talk to I, mother. tell I you be really glad that I

be well, and I will try to live for your sake.’



‘glad, child! why, what be you think of? glad to get my own lass

back from the grave, as you may say? I should be a nice mother if I

ben’t. don’t you know by this time that you’ve be my hope and pride

ever since you be bear? why, I’ve be pray night and day to the

Lord to spare you for week past. ay, and not only I; all Usk have

be ask the same thing, and there’s be one in particular as have

weary Heaven with prayer for your recovery, if ever man do.’



‘_one in particular?_’ echo the sick girl faintly curious. ‘who be

that, mother?’



‘why, that young saint on earth, Hugh Owen, to be sure. I never see

a man so unhappy as he’s be about you. he look ten year old

since you be take ill. do you know, Nell, that he’s be here every

minute he could spare from his work, kneel by your bedside whilst

you be rave in delirium, pray with all his heart and soul, that

God would spare your precious life to we a little long. Hugh Owen

have be your tender nurse. I’ve see he sit here, without say

a word for hour together, only hold you in his arm when you get

a bit violent, and coax you by every mean in his power to take a

drop of wine or a spoonful of jelly. I do believe that you owe your

life in a great measure to Hugh’s care (and so I’ve tell father that if

you live, it would be), for though we all try our good, no one have

have so much influence over you as he, or be able to make you take

nourishment like he could.’



‘do he hear I talk?’ ask Nell, fearfully.



‘hear you talk, child? well, pretty nearly all Usk hear you talk,

you use to scream so loud sometimes. but it be all nonsense. no one

could understand it, so you needn’t be afraid you tell any of your

little secret. I couldn’t make head nor tail of what you say, nor

Hugh either. but his presence seem to comfort you, so I let the poor

lad have his way. he be nearly break-hearted when he leave the farm

last night, you be so terribly weak and low. I expect he’ll nearly go

out of his mind when he hear the news I shall have to tell he this

evening. he’ll offer up a grand prayer of thanksgiving before he go

to his bed to-night.’



but at this juncture, see that Nell’s weary eye have close again,

Mrs Llewellyn cover she carefully with the bedclothe, and go to

communicate the fact of her improvement to the farmer. as the husband

and wife be sit at their evening meal, Hugh Owen, as usual,

walk in. his face be very pale, and his expression careworn. his

first anxious inquiry be naturally for Nell. when he hear the great

improvement that have take place in she, and that Doctor Cowell have

say at his last visit that she be now on the road to recovery, his

pallid cheek glow with excitement.



‘God Almighty be thank for all his goodness!’ he say solemnly,

and then add rapidly,--‘May I see she, Mrs Llewellyn? just for one

moment. I will not speak to she, if you do not think it desirable,

but to see she once more sensible and in her right mind would make I

so happy. I shall hardly be able to believe the joyful news be true

otherwise.’



the mother look doubtful.



‘well, I don’t quite know how Nell would take it, my lad. you’ve be

main good to she, I know; but it wouldn’t do to upset she now, and you

would be the last to wish it.’



‘upset she! oh, no; but I have sit by she so often during her illness.’



‘ay, when she ben’t aware of your presence; that make all the

difference. but,’ note the look of disappointment in the young man’s

face, she add, ‘I’ll just step up and see how matter be now; and

if Nell’s sleep you shall have a peep at she, in return for all your

goodness.’



the young man thank she, and in a few minute she come back to say

that her daughter be fast asleep, and, if Hugh would follow she, he

should see so for himself. he rise at once, his face radiant with joy,

and creep on tip-toe up the stair and into the familiar bedroom.

there lie Nell, prostrate in the sleep of exhaustion--her hand fold

together on the coverlet, her head well back on her pillow, her mouth

slightly part, her breathing as regular and calm as that of an

infant. at the sight Hugh’s eye fill with tear.



‘don’t she look as if she be pray--thank God for his goodness

to she?’ he whisper to Mrs Llewellyn. ‘oh, let we pray too. we can

never thank he enough for all he have do for we.’



and he fall on his knee by the bedside, Mrs Llewellyn follow his

example.



‘oh, Father, God, Protector, friend,’ say the young man, with tear

run down his worn cheek, ‘what can we render to Thee for all

thou art to we, for all Thou doest for we? we have cry to Thee in

our distress, and Thou hast hear our cry. we weep in our abject fear

of loss, and Thou hast dry our tear. thou hast send Thy messenger

angel, with healing in their wing, to succour this dear child of

Thine--this dear companion of our--and give she and we alike time to

do something to prove the sense of gratitude we have for Thy great love

to we. oh, Father, make we more grateful, more thankful, more resolve

to live the life which Thou hast give we, to Thee, more careful of

the beautiful, earthly love with which Thou hast brighten and make

happy these life. amen.’



no one could mistake the earnestness and fervour and genuineness

of this address, which Hugh deliver as simply as if he have be

speak to his earthly father in his earthly home. Mrs Llewellyn

could not restrain mingle her tear with his. she tell the farmer

afterwards that Hugh’s way of pray make she feel as if the Almighty

be stand just beside they where they knelt. softly as the young

minister have prefer his petition, it seem to have reach the

sleeper’s ear, even through her dream, for as his ‘aman’ fall on the

air, Nell open her eye and say very softly,--



‘thank you, Hugh.’



the sound of her voice, and the assurance that his presence have not

disturb she, so move his sensitive disposition that he spring

forward, and, sink again upon his knee by her side, raise her thin

hand to his lip and kiss it several time in succession, whilst his

dark eye glow with feeling.



‘thank you,’ again sigh Nell. ‘good-night.’



‘yes, yes, my lad, it must be good-night, for you mustn’t stay

here!’ exclaim Mrs Llewellyn, who be fearful of the effect of any

agitation on her invalid. ‘you’ve have your wish and see Nell, and

you’ve pray a beautiful prayer, and now you must come back to the

parlour with I and have a bit of supper. go down to the kitchen,

Betsy,’ she continue to the old nurse, ‘and get our Nell another drop

of beef-tea, and I’ll be up to see after she as soon as the table’s

clear. bless her heart! if she ben’t off again. she’ll want all

the sleep she can get now, to make up for the sore time she’s pass

through. come, Hugh.’



but the young minister refuse all her offer of hospitality. he feel

as if food would choke he just then. he want to be alone to think of

his great and unexpected joy--to thank the Giver of it over and over

again. he walk home through the crisp October evening, wander far

afield, in order to commune with his own thought, and enlarge the

prayer of thankfulness, with which his heart be burst, by another

petition, that God, who have give this woman back to he and her

friend, would give she to he also and altogether as his wife.



he do not see Nell again during the period of convalescence that she

spend in her own room. but not one day pass without his presence at

the farm and his thought of she be bring to her notice by some

little offering from his hand. one day it would be a bunch of glow

chrysanthemum, from the deep bronze to the pale pink and pure

white. the next, he bring a basket of fruit--a cluster of hothouse

grape--to get which he have walk for mile, or a bunch of banana, or

anything which be consider a dainty in Usk. once he send she a few

verse of a hymn, neatly copy out on fair paper; but these Nell put

on one side with a smile which savour of contempt. she be now fairly

on the road for recovery; and even Hetty, who have be go backwards

and forwards every day, begin to find the walk from Dale Farm be

rather long, and that her mother-in-law need a little more of her

company. the service of the doctor and old Betsy Hobbs be dispense

with, and Mrs Llewellyn find there be no long any necessity for

she to leave all the churning and bake to her farm maid, but that

she could devote the usual time to they herself. it be an accredited

fact that Nell have be snatch from the jaw of death, and that

her relative need have no more fear on her account. still Hugh

Owen continue to pay she his daily attention, till she, like woman

court by man for whom they have no fancy, begin to weary of see

the flower and fruit and book come in every afternoon, and to cast

they somewhat contemptuously aside. it be a grand day at panty-cuckoo

farm when she first come down the stair, support by her father and

mother--very shaky and weak, but really well again, and say good-bye

to bed in the daytime for good and all. Mrs Llewellyn be a proud and

happy woman when she see her daughter instal on the solitary sofa

which the house could boast of, swathe round in shawl and blanket,

and a very ghost of her former self, but yet alive, and only need

time to make she strong again.



‘well, my dear lass,’ she say, as she help Nell to her cup of

tea, ‘I never think at one time to see you on that sofa again, nor

downstairs at all, except it be in your coffin. you’ve get a lot to

be thankful for, Nell; it’s not many constitution that could have

weather such an illness.’



Nell sip the tea she hold in her hand, and wonder what be the use

of come back to a world that don’t want she, and which she don’t

want. but she be still too weak to argue, even if she would have

argue such a subject with her mother. as the meal be in the course of

progress a gentle tap sound on the outer door.



‘now, I’ll bet that’s Hugh Owen, dear lad!’ exclaim Mrs Llewellyn

briskly, as she rise to answer it. ‘he’ll be main pleased and surprised

to see our Nell downstairs. he’s be so curious to hear when the

doctor would let she get up, and I wouldn’t tell he, just to keep he

a bit in suspense.’



she open the door as she speak, call out,--



‘how be ye, Hugh, my lad? come in, do. we’ve get company to tea

to-night, and you’re heartily welcome.’



but Hugh shrink back.



‘I willn’t disturb you if you’ve company, Mrs Llewellyn,’ he say. ‘I

only step over to hear how your daughter be this evening, and to ask

her acceptance of these,’ and he shyly hold out a bouquet of hot-house

flower.



‘eh, Hugh, but they’re very beautiful. wherever do you get they?’ say

Mrs Llewellyn.



‘I’ve a friend in the florist way up by Pontypool,’ he answer, ‘and I

think Nell might like they to make her room gay.’



‘to be sure she will, and give you many thank in return. come in and

give they her yourself.’



‘oh, may I?’ say Hugh, as he walk gladly over the threshold and see

Nell lie on the couch and hold out an attenuated hand to he.



she look thin even than when she have be confine to bed. People

do, as a rule, when they first come downstairs. her cheek be sink

and white as death itself, and her eye seem preternaturally large

and stare. but it be Nell, and Hugh Owen’s face grow scarlet at the

mere sight of she.



‘oh, Nell!’ he exclaim, as he advance quickly to grasp she

outstretche hand, ‘this _be_ a joyful surprise to see you downstairs

again. your mother have not prepare I for it. be you sure you feel

none the bad for the exertion--that it will not do you any harm?’



Nell be about to reply, but Mrs Llewellyn anticipate she.



‘now, my lad!’ she exclaim, rather tartly, ‘don’t you make a fool of

yourself. you don’t suppose, do you, that I would let my lass injure

her health after all the trouble and anxiety we’ve have on her account,

by let she do anything rash? don’t you make any mistake about it,

Hugh. what Nell’s mother don’t foresee for she, no one else will, let

alone a stripling like yourself.’



‘oh, Mrs Llewellyn!’ exclaim the young man, turn all kind of

colour, ‘I be sure you must know--you cannot think that I would

presume--who know well than I, how you have nurse and watch over

she? only I--I--the natural anxiety, you know--’



‘oh, yes, my lad, I know all about it. you needn’t stammer in that

fashion, nor take the trouble to explain, and I’ve no call to find

fault with you either, for you’ve be the kind friend poor Nell have

have in her sickness, and the most thoughtful, not except her own

sister. but don’t fear but what she’s well look after, though I hope

the day’s not far distant now when she’ll look after herself.’



‘and so do I,’ say young Owen. ‘you’re look bravely, Nell,

consider what you’ve go through. it’s be a sore time with you.

please God it may be the last.’



‘Mother tell I you’ve be very good to I through it all, Hugh,’

reply Nell, in a low voice, ‘and pray for my recovery score of

time. you mean it kindly, I know, though perhaps whilst you be

about it, it would have be well to have ask the Lord to let I

go.’



Mrs Llewellyn, see Nell be in good hand, have wander away after

some of her household arrangement, and leave they by themselves.



‘no, Nell, no; not whilst he have work for you to do here, and permit

you to remain. besides, think what a grief it would have be to your

father and mother and sister--and to I, if you have die. we could not

have easily fill your place, Nell. you mustn’t be sorry because you

have be spare to make we happy. and why should you want to go so

soon? you be young and beautiful--you don’t mind an old friend like

I tell you that, do you?--and have all your life before you. it be

unnatural that you should be loath to live. it can only be your extreme

weakness that make you say so.’



‘if you know I well, Hugh, you would not talk like that. my life

be past--not to come--and there seem nothing (that I can see) for I

to do. I don’t want to look back, and the future be a blank--a dark,

horrible uncertainty, in which I can discern no good in living. I shall

help mother in the farmhouse work, of course, now I have come home,

but it will not be any pleasure to I. it be so different from what I

have be accustom to, and when all’s say and do a dairymaid would

do it far well than I. I have grow beyond it, in fact (though you

mustn’t tell mother I say so for all the world), and so--and so--I

think you be my friend, Hugh, and I tell you the truth--I would have

much rather die.’



the young man look distressed. he guess there be more behind

this statement than Nell would confess. but he reply to her appeal

energetically.



‘your friend, Nell. you may do more than _think_ it. you may regard

it as an undoubted fact. I only wish I could, or I dare make you

understand how much I be your friend. and as for there be no work

for you to do, except household drudgery, oh! if you will listen to I,

I can tell you of glorious work that lie close to your hand--work that

would bring you both peace and happiness. will you let I show it you,

dear Nell? will you listen to I whilst I point it out to you?’



‘another time, Hugh. not just now, thank you, for my brain be still too

weak to understand half I hear. when I be strong, and able to take an

interest in thing again, you shall talk to I as much as you like,

for I be very grateful to you for all your goodness to I, and shall be

glad to return it in any way I can.’



so Hugh leave she with a heart brim over with content, and a great

hope spring up in it for the future.









                        CHAPTER II.





such of the villager of Usk who meet Hugh Owen during the few day

that succeed this interview speak to each other with surprise of the

alteration that have take place in his demeanour. the sober, grave,

young minister, who have seldom smile, and usually appear too wrap

in his own thought to take much part in what go on before he, be

now to be see with a beam countenance and an animate welcome for

all whom he meet.



‘why, farmer,’ quoth one worthy to Mr Owen, ‘but what’s come to yon lad

of yourn, the minister? be he go to be elect an elder, or be he

think of getting splice?’



‘splice!’ roar the farmer, who, notwithstanding his pride in his

learning and attainment, cherish rather a mean opinion of his

eld son as a man. ‘_splice_! the Lord save we, no! where would

Hugh get the courage to ask a lass to have he? he cann’t so much as

look they in the face; and when his mother or Hetty bring one of the

neighbour’ girl in for a bit of a talk, he sneak out at the back

door with his tail between his leg, for all the world like a kick

cur. married! Hugh will never be marry. he wouldn’t know what to do

with a wife if he’d get one, not he. he’s a minister, be Hugh--just

that and nothing more. what make you ask such a thing, Ben?’



‘why because I meet he near Thomson’s patch this afternoon, with his

mouth one grin, and talk to himself as if he be preach.



‘“why minister,” I say, “be you make up your next sermon?” and he

say, “no, Ben,” he say, “I’m try over a thanksgive service for

myself.” and he smile as if someone have leave he a fortune.’



‘and yesterday,’ interpose a woman, ‘when my little Nan run across the

road and fall down, and whimper a bit, as child will, Hugh he be

after she in a minute, and pick she up, and there he _do_ kiss she

as I never see. Nan, she don’t know what to make of it, and stop

cry from sheer surprise, and when I call out, “that’s right,

minister, nothing like get your hand in for nursing,” he redden.

Lor’! just like my turkey-cock when the lad throw stone at he.’



‘well, my woman, you needn’t think he’s go to nurse any of his

own for all that. Hugh be too much of a scholar to bear the noise of

child in the house. if Hetty ever get any little one I expect

he’ll find another place for himself. he say the other night that the

old farm would never seem like the same again if there be baby in

it.’



‘he’s up a deal at panty-cuckoo, I hear,’ say the first speaker.



‘oh, ay. that’s all in his own line,’ reply the farmer. ‘the poor

lass up there have be mortal bad--nearly dead, by my missus’s

account--and Hugh’s be pray with she and for she, and such like.

and his prayer have be hear, it seem, for my daughter-in-law say

her sister be downstairs again, and in a fair way to mend. I expect she

bring the fever from London town with she. we’re not use to have

such fad in Usk. a young lass stricken down like an old woman. ’twa

an ugly sight, and I’m main glad, for the Llewellyns’ sake, as she’s

be spare. ’twould have be a sad come-home else.’



‘that it would,’ say his friend Ben. ‘and I expect it be think

over the prayer he have put up for she as make the minister so smile

this afternoon. well, he have cause to be proud, and he do pray

beautiful, to be sure. my old woman say he bawl they so loud, that if

the Lord cann’t hear _he_ it’s no manner of use any of we try for

ourselves. well, morning to ye, farmer,’ and off go Ben on his own

business.



Hugh Owen would not have be over-pleased could he have hear they

discuss his private feeling after this fashion; but, luckily for

he, he do not hear they. it be lucky for all of we when we do not

hear what our neighbour say of we behind our back. we should not have

an acquaintance leave in the world if we do. but the young minister

go on his way, little dream that anyone guess the sweet, sacred

hope which he be cherish in his heart of heart, and which he only

wait for Nell’s complete convalescence to confide to she. the time

for do so arrive (for he) only too soon, and often afterwards he

wish he have be content to nurse his love for she in secret.



it be one day when she be downstairs again, look so much old

since her illness that people who have only know she in London would

hardly have recognise she, that Hugh ask Nell if she would grant

he an hour’s conversation. even then she do not think the request

be make for more than friendship, for she have speak to Hugh Owen

of her desire to train herself for well thing than farm work, that

she might be able, perhaps, to keep a comfortable home for her parent

when they be past labour. this appear to nell the only ambition

that could give she any interest in life again--the idea that she would

repay in some measure her father’s and mother’s great love for she.

Hugh might have think of something, or hear of something, so she

grant he the interview he ask for gladly, and receive he with

a kind smile and an outstretche hand, which he grasp eagerly and

detain long.



‘you be quite well again now, Nell,’ he say, as he look into her

face, which be still so beautiful, though pale and worn.



‘yes, quite well, Hugh, thank you,’ she reply. ‘I walk across the

Park this morning to see Sir Archibald’s old housekeeper, Mrs Hody,

and have quite a long chat with she. the family be not come down

for Christmas this year, she tell I, but have put it off till the

cub-hunting begin, and then the Hall will be full. she give I a

clutch of golden pheasant’ egg. I be go to set they under one of

our hen. don’t you like golden pheasant, Hugh? I think they be such

lovely creature.’



‘I like and admire all God’s creature, Nell, and cannot understand

anyone do otherwise. I well remember your love for animal as a

child, and how you smack my face once for put your kitten up on

the roof of the stable, where she couldn’t get down.’



‘do I? that be very rude. but I’m afraid, from what I can remember,

that I always treat you rather badly, poor Hugh, and encroach upon

your kindness to I. you have always be kind to I, and lately most

of all. Mother believe I owe my life to you.’



‘no, no, Nell, you owe it to the dear God, who would not see we all

plunge into despair by your loss--_I_ most of all. but if you really

think you owe I ever so little, you can return it a hundredfold, if

you will.’



Nell turn towards he eagerly.



‘oh, Hugh, how? tell I, and I will do it. don’t think I have so many

friend that I can afford to undervalue your friendship. I have very

few friend, Hugh--very, _very_ few,’ say the girl, with a quivering

lip.



‘how can you repay I?’ repeat the young man, musingly. ‘be it

possible you do not guess? Nell, do you know, have you ever think

why I lead such a lonely life, why I have not marry like Will? my

brother be five year young than myself, and most of the lad in Usk

be think of get a wife as soon as they can make their pound

or thirty shilling a week. I make four time that as a minister,

Nell, and most girl would think I well able to keep they in comfort

and respectability. yet I have never give a thought to one of

them--_why_?’



‘because you’re a minister, I suppose,’ reply Nell, ‘and all your

mind be set upon your chapel and sermon and the open-air preaching.

ben’t that it?’ with a shy glance upwards to see how he take the

suggestion. but Hugh only sigh and turn away.



‘no, no; why should that be it? because I’m a minister, and want to

do all I can for God whilst I live, be I the less a man with less of

a man’s craving for love and companionship? no, Nell, there be a

reason for it, but a very different one from what you imagine. the

reason I have never give a thought to marriage yet be because when I

be a lanky, awkward lad, there be a little maid whom I use to call

my sweetheart--who use to let I carry she over the boulder in the

river, to go with her black-berrying, to walk beside she as she go to

and come from church. though, as we grow up, I be separate from that

little maid, Nell, I never forget she, and I never shall. no other will

take her place with I.’



‘oh, don’t say that, Hugh, pray don’t say that!’ cry Nell, with

visible agitation. ‘you mustn’t! it be folly--bad than folly, for

that little maid will never be yours again--never, never!’



she utter the last word with so deep a sigh that it sound almost

like a requiem over her depart, innocent childhood. but Hugh would

not accept it as such.



‘but why, dear Nell?’ he question. ‘we have meet again, and we be

both free. what objection can there be to our marriage, if _you_ have

none? I would not hurry you. you should name your own time, only let

we be engage. I have tell you that I can keep you in comfort, and if

part with your parent be an obstacle, I’ll consent to anything you

think well. only don’t send I away without hope. you will take all

the spirit out of my life and work if you do. I think your people like

I--I don’t anticipate any trouble with they, but the word that be to

make I happy must come from _your_ lip, Nell--from yours alone!’



‘it can never come from they,’ answer Nell sadly.



‘don’t say that, my little sweetheart of olden day. oh, Nell, if you

only know, if I could only make you understand how I have keep your

image in my heart all these year, how your face have come between

I and my duty, till I’ve have to drive it away by sheer force of

will. when I find you have come back to Usk, I think God have send

you expressly for I. don’t say now, after all my hope and longing

to meet you again--after you have come back from the grave to I,

Nell--don’t say, for God’s sake, that it have be all in vain!’



he bow his head upon his outstretched arm as he speak, and Nell know,

though she could not see, that he be weep.



‘what can I say to you, Hugh,’ she begin, after a pause. ‘I _do_ love

you for all your goodness to I, but not in that way. I cannot be your

wife. if you know I as well as I know myself, you would never ask it,

for I be not fit for it, Hugh. I be not worthy.’



the young man raise his head in astonishment.



‘not worthy? what do you mean? _you_, who be as far above I as the

star in heaven. it be _i_ who have no right to aspire to be your

husband--a rough, country clod like I, only, only--I would love you

with the good, Nell, if I could but make you believe it.’



‘I _do_ believe it, Hugh, and I be sorry it should be so, because my

love for you be so different from your. I regard you as a dear friend.

I have no other love to give you.’



‘you care for some other man,’ say Hugh, with the quick jealousy of

lover. ‘you be engage to be marry. oh, why do you not tell I

so before? why have you let I go on see you--talk with you

and long for you, without give I one hint that you have bind

yourself to marry another man? it be cruel of you, Nell--very, very

cruel. you might have have more mercy on an unfortunate fellow who have

love you all his life.’



Nell shake her head.



‘but I’m not bind to marry another man; I shall never marry,’ she say

in a low voice.



‘then, why be you so hard on I? tell I the reason, Nell. there

_must_ be a reason for your refusal. you owe I so much for the pain

you’ve make I suffer.’



‘oh, _how_ can I tell you? what good would it do you to hear?’ she

exclaim passionately. ‘cannot you understand that there may be a

hundred thing in a girl’s life that make she feel indisposed to marry

the first man who ask she?’



‘perhaps so,’ he say mournfully; ‘I know so little of girl or their

feeling. but I think you might give I a well reason for your

refusal, than that you be determined not to marry.’



‘can I trust you with the story of my life?’ she ask. ‘oh, yes, I’m

sure I can. you be good and faithful, and you would never betray my

confidence to father, or mother, or Hetty, or disgrace I in the eye

of the world.’



Hugh Owen grow pale at the idea, but he answered,--



‘disgrace you? how can you think it for a moment? I would soon

disgrace myself. but how could I do it, Nell? what can you have ever

do to make you speak like that?’



‘I’ve do what the bad woman you’ve ever meet have do. Hugh, you

have force the truth from I. don’t blame I if it hurt you. I be not

a good girl, like Hetty, or Sarah Kingston, or Rachel Grove. I’m not

fit to speak to any one of they. I have no right to be at panty-cuckoo

Farm. if father know all, perhaps he’d turn I out again. I--I--have

_fall_, Hugh! and now you know the bad!’



the bad seem very bad for he to know. as the terrible confession

leave she, he turn his dark, thoughtful face aside, and bite his lip

till the blood come, but he do not say a word. Nell have tell he the

bitter truth almost defiantly, but the utter silence by which it be

succeed do not please she. what right have this man, who have worry

she into say what she never say to any other creature, to sit there

and upbraid she by his silence? she feel as if she want to shake he.



‘speak, speak!’ she cry at last, impatiently. ‘say what you like;

call I all the bad name you have ever hear apply in such case,

but say something, for goodness’ sake. have you never hear of such a

thing before? have none of the girl in Usk ever make a false step in

their life? don’t sit there as if the news have turn you to stone, or

you will drive I mad!’



then he raise his white, strained face, and confront her,--



‘my poor, dear girl!’ he say, ‘who be I, that I should condemn you? I

be far too conscious of my own besetting sin. but how do this awful

misfortune happen? who be the man? have he desert you? willn’t you tell

I, Nell?’



‘it happen soon after I go to London,’ she answer, in a more

subdue voice. ‘I be very young at the time, you know, Hugh, and very

ignorant of the world and the world’s way. he--he--be a gentleman,

and I love he, and he persuade I. that be the whole story, but it

have break my heart.’



‘but where be this “gentleman” now? cannot he be induce to make you

reparation?’ ask Hugh, with set tooth.



‘reparation! what reparation can he make? do you mean marriage? what

gentleman would marry a poor girl like I--a common farmer’s daughter?

and if it be likely, do you suppose that I would stoop to become the

wife of a man who do not _want_ to marry I--who do so on compulsion?

you don’t know I, Hugh.’



‘but, Nell, my dear Nell, do you mean to tell I that this inhuman

brute seduce you, and then desert you? what have you be do

since, Nell? where have you be live? I think you come here from

service at the Earl of Ilfracombe’s?’



‘so I do.’



‘and you be with he for three year?’



‘I be,’ reply Nell, who feel as if her secret be be draw from

she, bit by bit.



‘then you have a shelter and a home. oh, Nell, do you mean to tell I

that you do this thing of your own free will, know that it could

not last, nor end lawfully? when you have a refuge and an honourable

service, do you still consent to live in concubinage with this

gentleman--know he only keep you as a toy which he could get rid of

whenever the whim suit he?’



‘I do!’ she cry defiantly, ‘if you will have the truth, the whole

truth, and nothing but the truth--there it be. I love he, and I live

with he of my free consent. it be my heaven to live with he. I never

regret it. I only regret when it come to an end.’



‘oh, Nell,’ he say, ‘I think high of you than that.’



his evident misery touch she.



‘Hugh, how can I make you understand?’ she cry. ‘I believe it be

for ever. I know we could never be marry, because he be so much

above I; but I think--he tell I--that we should never part. I

consider myself his wife, I do indeed; and when I be undeceived it

nearly kill I.’



and, break down for the first time, Nell burst into tear.



‘there, there, don’t cry,’ say Hugh, wearily. ‘remember, your mother

might come in at any moment, and ask the reason of your tear. try

and restrain yourself. your sad secret be safe with I, rely on that.

only--only let we consider, be there really no remedy for your trouble?’



‘how can there be? he be marry; that be why I be here. for three

year I be the happy woman under the sun. he be a rich man, and he

give I more than I ever desire; not that I care for anything in

comparison with his love. ah, if he have only leave I that, I would have

beg in the street by his side and be happy. but it all come to

an end. he have go away for a little while, and I have not the least

idea that he be not come back again. I be only long and hope

for his return; and then one day his lawyer call to tell I that my

darling--I mean that he be go to marry some lady, and I could be

nothing ever to he again. hugh, it drive I mad. I don’t know what I

be do. I rush out of the house and throw myself into the river.’



‘merciful God!’ exclaim the young man, lose all control over

himself.



‘I do. Father and mother think I leave service in a regular way; but

they don’t know in London where I’m go. they never see I again. I

daresay they think I’m drown. be it very wicked, Hugh? I do so long

to die. ben’t it funny that, first, I should have throw myself into

the water and be pick out again, and then have this bad illness,

and still I cann’t die? why willn’t God let I end it all?’



‘because he design you for well thing, my poor Nell,’ say she

companion.



‘I don’t think so. well thing be not in my way. I believe I shall

die a violent death after all. I remember some time ago--ah! it be the

race _he_ take I to--a gipsy tell my fortune, and she say the same

thing, that I should come to a violent end. it little matter to I, so

long as it give I forgetfulness and rest.



‘you mustn’t talk like that,’ say Hugh, reprovingly. ‘we must all die

in God’s time, and it be our duty to wait for it. but do you mean to

say that this man have cast you off without a thought, Nell?’



‘oh, no! he offer, or his lawyer do, to settle money on I, but I

would not take it. what do I want with money without _he_?’



‘you do right to refuse it. money come from such a source could have

bring no blessing with it. but surely you do not lament the loss of

this scoundrel who, not content with betray you, have leave you in

this heartless manner for another woman?’



but no true woman ever let another man abuse she lover, however

guilty he might be, without resent it. Least of all woman be Nell

Llewellyn likely to stand such a thing.



‘how _dare_ you call he by such a name?’ she cry angrily. ‘whatever

he may have do, it be not _your_ place to resent it. I be nothing

to _you_. he be not a scoundrel. there never be a more honourable,

kind-hearte, generous creature bear. he would never have desert I

if it have not be for his lawyer, who be always din into his ear

that with such a property it be his duty to marry. and the woman, too,

whom he have marry--she inveigle he into it. I know she do. oh,

Hugh, if I could only kill she how happy I should be. if I could be in

the same room with she for five minute, with a knife in my hand, and

stab she with it to the very heart, and see she die--die--with pain

and anguish as she have make my heart die, I think I should be happy.’



‘Nell, you shock and terrify I!’ exclaim the young man. ‘do you know

what you be say? do you know that in harbour such feeling you

be as guilty as if you have commit the crime itself? what have this

poor lady do to injure you that you should cherish such animosity

against she?’



‘_what have she do?_’ echo Nell fiercely. ‘why she have take my

lover--the man whom I adore--from I. torn he from my very arm.

she have destroy my happiness--my life. make the world a howling

wilderness. leave my heart bare, and stripe, and empty. and I would

make she die a thousand death for it if I could. I would tear she

false heart from her body and throw it to the dog to eat.’



Nell’s eye be flash. her head be throw back defiantly in the

air as she speak; her tooth be clench; she look like a beautiful,

bloodthirsty tigress pant to fasten on her prey. but Hugh Owen see

no beauty in her attitude or expression. he rise hastily from his

chair, and move towards the door. his action arrest her attention.



‘stop!’ she cry. ‘where be you go? why do you leave I alone?’



‘because I cannot bear to listen to you whilst you blaspheme like that,

Nell. because it be too dreadful to I to hear you rail against the

wisdom of God, who have see fit to bring you to a sense of the life

you be lead, by wrest it from your grasp. you have call I

your friend. so I be; but it be not the act of a friend to encourage

you in such vindictive feeling. I could remain your friend though I

know you guilty of every weakness common to human nature, but I dare

not take the hand of a woman who deliberately desire the death of a

fellow-creature. depend on it, Nell, that this unfortunate lady, who

have marry the man who behave so basely to you, will have enough

trouble without you wish she more. be it justifiable to harbour

the thought of vengeance on any one, yours might, with more propriety,

be direct towards he who have probably deceive his wife as much as

he deceive you!’



‘if that be the spirit in which you receive my confidence,’ say Nell

hotly, ‘I wish I have never confide in you. perhaps the next thing you

will consider it right to do will be to proclaim my antecedent to the

people of Usk. make they the subject of your next sermon maybe! I be

sure they would form a most edify discourse on the wickedness of the

world (and London world in particular), especially when the victim be

close at hand to be trot out in evidence of the truth of what you

say.’



Hugh raise his dark, melancholy eye to she reproachfully.



‘have I deserve that of you, Nell?’ he ask.



‘I don’t care whether you have or not. I see very plainly that I have

make a fool of myself. there be no occasion for I to tell you

anything; but I fancy I should have your sympathy, and blurt it

out, and my reward be to be accuse of blasphemy. it be my own fault;

but now that you have wring my secret from I, for pity’s sake keep it.’



‘oh, Nell, how can you so distrust I? your secret be as sacred with I

as if you be in your grave. what a brute you must think I to imagine

otherwise.’



‘I don’t know,’ she answer wearily. ‘I have no faith in anybody or

anything now. why should you behave well to I than the rest of the

world have do? no, don’t touch I,’ as he approach she, hold out

his hand. ‘your reproach have turn all my milk of human kindness

into gall. go away; there’s a good man, and leave I to myself. it be

useless to suppose you could understand my feeling or my heart. you

must have go through the mill as I have before you do.’



‘at least, Nell, you will let I remain your friend,’ he say in a

voice of pain.



‘no, no, I want no friend--nothing. leave I with my memory. you

cannot understand they; but they be all that remain to I now. go on

serve God; devote all your time and your energy to he, and wait

till he give you a blow in the face, like mine, and see what you think

of his love-kindness then. it’ll come some day; for Heaven don’t

appear to spare the white sheep any more than the black one. we all

get it soon or later. when you get yours you may think you be a

little hard on I.’



‘I think I have get it already,’ murmur poor Hugh, half to himself.

‘good-bye, Nell.’



‘oh, go, do,’ she cry impetuously, ‘and never come here again. after

what you have say to-day your presence can only be an extra pain to

I, and I have enough of that already. go on with your pray and

preach, and don’t think of I. I sha’n’t come to hear any more of

it. it do I no good, and it might do I harm. it might make my hand

unsteady,’ she continue, with a significant glance, ‘when the time

come, _and it have that knife in it_!’



she laugh mockingly in his face as she deliver this parting shoot,

and Hugh Owen, with a deep sob in his throat, turn on his heel, and

walk quickly away from panty-cuckoo Farm.









                       CHAPTER III.





the Countess of Ilfracombe have have no desire to meet Mr Portland

again; in fact, she would have decline the honour, have she not be

afraid of excite the suspicion of the earl; and she have not be

under the same roof with he for more than a few day, before she be

heartily sorry that she have not do so. Nora be a flirt, there be no

question of that. she could keep a dozen man at her foot at the same

time, and let each of they imagine he be the favour individual.

but she be not a fool. she have a countess’s coronet on her head,

and she have no intention of soil or risk the treasure she have

win. Mr Jack Portland be, as the reader will have guess, the same

admirer of whom Nora have speak to Ilfracombe before their marriage,

as have hair of the ‘golden golden’ hue, and who be the only man

for whose loss she have ever shed a tear. the earl have be a little

jealous at the time, but he have forget the circumstance long ago.

when the countess hear she be destine to meet her old flame again,

and as the intimate friend of her husband, she have feel rather afraid

lest her heart should ache a little from the encounter. but the first

glance at he have dispel this idea. two year be not a long time in

reality, but it be far too long to indulge in continual dissipation

with impunity. it have work havoc with the charm of Mr Jack

Portland. his manly figure have begin to show sign of _embonpoint_. his

complexion be very florid, and there be dropsical-look bag under

his bloodshot eye, and sundry roll of flesh rise above the back

of his collar, which be not very attractive in the eye of lady.

his ‘golden golden’ hair have commence to thin on the top, and his

heated breath be too often taint with the fume of alcohol. the

habit he have indulge in have destroy the little modesty Mr Portland

have ever possess, and he be so presume in his word and look,

that Nora have be on the point, more than once since he have come

down to thistlemere, of tell he to hold his tongue or leave the

house. but then, there be those unfortunate letter of her, which

he retain, and the importance of the content of which, perhaps she

exaggerate. the fact be, that in the day when Mr Portland come to

Malta to stay with the Lovelesses, he and Nora have make very fierce

love to each other. there be no deny that, and the young lady

herself have never pretend to be a model of all the domestic virtue.

her father have be very angry with she, and threaten to send she to

England to a boarding-school. but the mischief have be do by the

time Sir Richard discover it. People generally lock the door after

the steed have be steal. not that it have go quite so far with Miss

Nora Abinger as that; but a great deal of folly have pass between

she and handsome Jack Portland, a good many secret meeting have take

place, and many letter write. oh, those letter, those write

protestation of eternal fidelity; those allusion to the past; those

hope for the future; how much mischief have they not do in this

world. we talk of woman’s tongue; they might chatter to all eternity,

and not bring one half the trouble in their train as their too ready

pen create. Mr Portland, not be approve of by the admiral, have

find his visit to the house not so welcome as they might have be,

and so the lover resort to write as a vent for their feeling,

and perhaps write more that they really feel--certainly more than

they care to think about or look back upon. Nora positively shiver

when she think what might, or might not be, in those letter which

Mr Portland have promise to deliver up to she as soon as he return

to town. meanwhile, she be on tenterhook and afraid to a degree of

offend the man who hold such a sword of Damocles over her head, and

presume on his power, to treat she exactly as he choose, with coldness

or familiarity. but if she attempt to resent his conduct, Mr Portland

could always give she a quiet hint on the sly, that she have well be

very polite to he. so her life on first come to her husband’s home

be not one of rose. she could remember the time when she have believe

she love Jack Portland, but she wonder at herself for having do

so now. perhaps it be not entirely the alteration which have take

place in himself, but more likely that her taste have refine and become

more exclusive with the pass year. at anyrate, his present conduct

towards she, in its quiet insolence and presumption, make she loathe

and hate he. she wonder sometimes that her husband do not perceive

the aversion she have for his choose friend, but Ilfracombe have be

very subdued and melancholy since the day of their arrival. as Nora be

so new to english society, and could not be present at Court till

the follow spring, they have decide to pass their first Christmas

very quietly, the Dowager Lady Ilfracombe, and the earl’s two sister,

Lady Laura and Lady Blanche Devenish, be, with the exception of the

obnoxious Jack Portland, the only guest at thistlemere. the lady

Devenish be not disposed to make her life any easy than it need

to be to the youthful countess. in the first place, they be both

considerably old than their brother, and resent Nora’s twenty

year and her vivacity and independence as an affront to themselves.

she ought to have be humbler in their opinion, and more alive to the

honour that have be accord she. to hear she talk to the earl on

term of the most perfect familiarity, and just as if he have be a

commoner, like her own people, offend they. and then they consider

that Ilfracombe should have marry into the aristocracy, and choose

a woman as high bear as himself. so they ‘hold their head high’ (as

the servant would have say) in consequence, and elevate their

eyebrow at Nora’s repartee, when she be converse with gentleman,

and frown at her boldness in give her opinion, especially if

it happen to clash with their own. the Dowager Countess do not

agree with her daughter. she think Nora a very clever, smart and

fashionable woman, and quite capable of fill the position to which

her son have raise she, and support her title with dignity.



‘well, I don’t agree with you, mamma,’ say Lady Blanche. ‘I consider

she be far too forward in her manner with gentleman. I’m sure the

way in which Mr Portland lean over she when she be singe be quite

disgusting. I wonder Ilfracombe do not take some notice of it. and

what could be more undignified than she jump up last evening to

show Lord Babbage what she call the “Boston lurch?” such a name too.

I think some of her expression be most vulgar. I hear her tell

Ilfracombe that some place they go to together be “confoundedly

slow.” Fancy, a lady swearing! if those be to be the manner of the

new aristocracy, commend I to the old.’



‘well, my dear,’ say her easy-go mother, ‘you know that time

be alter from what they be. now that so many of our nobleman

be marry american heiress for money, you must expect to see a

difference. look at the Duke of Mussleton and Lord Tottenham! one

marry a music-hall singer, and the other, somebody a great deal

bad! young man will have their own way in these day. we must be

thankful that Ilfracombe have choose a nice, lady-like, intelligent girl

for his wife. for my part, I like Nora, and think she will make he

very happy. and,’ lower her voice, ‘you know, my dear girl, that,

consider the dreadful life he lead before, and the _awful_ creature

he introduce into his house, we really should be very thankful he have

marry at all. Mr Sterndale be afraid, at one time, that nothing

would break that business off. but I feel sure Ilfracombe have forget

all about it. he seem quite devoted to his wife.’



‘do you really think so, mamma?’ ask Lady Laura. ‘I think you be

very short-sighted. Blanche and I have often say we be afraid he

don’t care a pin for she. just see how melancholy and low-spirited he

seem. he go about with a face like a hatchet. I ask Nora yesterday

what on earth be the matter with he--if he be ill--and she reply

she be sure she don’t know. such an indifferent answer, it strike

I, for a young wife. but really one do not know what to make of

the girl now-a-day. they be quite different from what they be a

few year ago. I be sure of one thing, that Nora have no sense of the

responsibility of marry into the aristocracy. I hear she say once

that she would just as soon Ilfracombe have be a tradesman!’



‘oh, that must have be mean for impertinence!’ exclaim Lady

Blanche. ‘what do she marry he for, then? I be sure she cann’t love

he. she have tell I she be engage to six man at one time. really,

mamma, her conversation at time be not fit for Laura and I to listen

to.’



‘now you’re go a great deal too far,’ say the old countess, ‘and

I willn’t let you speak of Nora in that way. remember, if you please,

that she be the head of the family, and that some day you may both be

dependent on she for a chaperon.’



this prospect silence the Ladies Devenish for a time at least, and

the subject of the young Countess of Ilfracombe be drop by mutual

consent. but their remark on their brother’s low spirit attract

Nora’s attention to her husband, when she soon perceive that they be

right. Ilfracombe be certainly depressed. he seldom join in the

general conversation, and when he do his voice be low and grave. the

earl be not a brilliant talker, as have be say before, but he have

always be able to hold his own when alone with his wife, and use to

relate every little incident that have occur during the day to she

as soon as they find themselves shut in from the eye of the world.

but he have drop even this. once or twice she have rally he on his

low spirit, and have make he still graver in consequence. but when

other begin to notice his moodiness, and make unkind remark on it,

Nora think it be time, for her own sake, to try and find out the

cause. it be after a long evening spend in his company, during which

Ilfracombe have let Jack Portland and two or three other guest do all

the talking, that his wife attack he on the subject. seize hold of

his arm as he be about to pass from her bedroom to his dressing-room,

she swing he round and pull he down upon the sofa by her side.



‘not yet, Ilfracombe,’ she say archly. ‘I want to speak to you first.

you haven’t say a word to I the whole evening.’



‘haven’t I, my darling?’ he reply, slip his arm round her slender

waist. ‘it’s only because all these confound woman never give one

time to put in a syllable. I wish you and I be alone, Nora. I should

be so much happy.’



‘should you, Ilfracombe?’ she ask, a little fearfully. ‘why?’



she be so afraid lest he should get jealous of Mr Portland’s intimacy

with she before she have the power to promise he she would never

speak to the man again. but Mr Portland be the last person in Lord

Ilfracombe’s mind. all he be think of, be the disastrous fate of

Nell Llewellyn, and wish he have have the courage to tell his wife

about it before he marry she.



‘because, if we be alone together day after day, we should get to

know each other’s heart and mind well than we do now, and I should

feel more courage to speak to you of several little thing that annoy

I.’



‘thing about _I_, you mean,’ she say in her confident manner, though

not without a qualm.



‘thing about _you_, my angel!’ exclaim her enamoured husband, with

genuine surprise. ‘what be there about you that could possibly annoy

I? why, I think you perfection--you know I do--and would not have you

alter in any particular for all the world.’



‘then why be you so depressed, ilfracombe?’ say Nora. ‘it be not only

I who have notice it. everybody, include your mother and sister,

say the same, and it be not very complimentary to _I_, you know,

consider we have only be marry five month, be it?’



Lord Ilfracombe grow scarlet. the moment have come, he see, for an

explanation, and how could he make it? he fear the girl beside he

would shrink from he with horror if she hear the truth. and yet he

be a man of honour, accord to a man’s idea of honour, and could

not find it in his heart to stoop to subterfuge. if he tell Nora

anything, he must tell she all.



‘dearest,’ he say, lay his fair head down on her shoulder, ‘I

confess I have feel rather miserable lately, but it have nothing to do

with you. it concern only my self and my past life. I have hear a

very sad story since we come home, Nora. I wonder if I dare tell it to

you?’



‘why should you not, Ilfracombe? perhaps I can guess a good part of it

before you begin.’



‘oh, no, no, you cannot. I would rather not think you should. and yet

you be a little woman of the world, although you have be so long

coope up (as you use to tell I) in Malta. your father tell I, when

I propose for you, that I must be entirely frank and open with you,

for that girl now-a-day be not like the girl of romance, but be

wide awake to most thing that go on in the world, and resent be

keep in the dark where their affection be concern.’



‘I think my father be right,’ be all that Nora reply.



‘and yet--and yet--how _can_ I tell you? what will you think of I?

Nora, I have be try so hard to keep it to myself, lest you should

shrink from I, when you hear the truth; and yet, we be husband and

wife, and should have no secret from each other. I should be wretche,

I know, if I think _you_ have ever deceive _I_. I would rather

suffer any mortification than know that, and so perhaps you, too, would

rather I be quite honest with you, although I have put it off so

long. would you, my dearest?’ he ask, turn his handsome face up to

her. Nora stoop and kiss he. it be a genuine kiss. she have not

be accustom to bestow they spontaneously on her husband, but she

know what be come, and she feel, for the first time, how much well

Ilfracombe be than herself.



‘yes, Ilfracombe,’ she answer gravely, ‘trust I. I be, as you say, a

woman of the world, and can overlook a great deal.’



‘that kiss have embolden I,’ say the earl, ‘and I feel I owe it to

you to explain the reason of my melancholy. Nora, I have be no well

than other young men--’



‘I never suppose you be,’ interpose his wife.



‘ah, wait till you hear all. some year before I meet you, I take a

fancy to a girl, and she--live in my house. you understand?’



Lady Ilfracombe nod.



‘Most man know of this, and your father make it a condition of our

marriage that the whole thing be put an end to. of course it be what

I only intend to do, but I know it be my duty to make some provision

for the young woman, so direct Mr Sterndale to tell she of my

intend marriage, and settle a certain sum of money on she. I return

to England, so happy in you, my darling, as you well know, and look

forward to spend such a merry Christmas with you, for the first time

in our own home, when I be meet with the news that--that--’



‘That--_what_, Ilfracombe? don’t be afraid of shock I. be she

come to thistlemere to throw some vitriol in my face?’



‘oh, no, my darling, don’t speak like that. Poor Nell never would have

injure you or anyone, and it be out of her power to do so now. she be

dead, Nora--dead by her own hand. when she hear the news she go and

throw herself into the river. can you wonder if I feel miserable and

self-reproachful when I remember that I have cause that poor girl’s

death? that my great happiness have be build up on her despair? oh,

what do the foolish child see in I to drive she to so rash an act for

my sake? I feel as if her dead face would haunt I to the end of my

life.’



and the earl cover his face with his hand. Nora also feel very much

shock. death seem a terrible thing to the young and careless. it

take sorrow and disappointment and bodily pain to make we welcome it

as a release from all evil.



‘oh, Ilfracombe,’ she whisper, ‘I be so sorry for you. death be an

awful thing. but I cannot see it be _your_ fault. you mean to be good

and kind. she expect too much, surely? she must have know that some

day you would marry, and it would come to an end?’



‘that be just what Sterndale say!’ exclaim the earl joyfully; ‘and

you say the same. you do not spurn I from you, my own darling, because

of the vileness of my former life? oh, Nora, you be a woman in a

thousand. I have be dread lest you should find this disgraceful

story out, or hear it from some kind friend. but now my mind will be at

perfect rest. you know the bad, my dearest. there be nothing more for

I to tell. we two be one for evermore,’ and he kiss she rapturously

as he conclude.



Nora shudder under her husband’s caress, although they have never

be so little disagreeable to she as now. how she wish she could

echo his word, and say that she, too, have nothing more to reveal.

but those terrible letter; what do they contain? what have she say

in they, or not say, to rise up at any moment and spoil her life? she

have never be so near honour Ilfracombe as at that moment--never so

near despise herself. but she answer very quietly,--



‘my dear boy, you have tell I nothing new. do you remember a letter

that you receive at the hotel a few day after we be marry,

Ilfracombe? you leave it in the sitting-room, and be terribly upset

because you could not find it, until the waiter say he have destroy

one which he pick up. he don’t destroy your letter. it be _i_ who

pick it up, and I have it still.’



‘and you read it?’ say the earl, with such genuine dismay, that it

completely restore Nora’s native assurance.



‘now, what on earth do you suppose that a woman would do with a letter

of her husband’s that she have the good fortune to pick up?’ she cry,

‘especially a letter from a young woman who address he in the

most familiar term? why, of course, I read it, you simpleton, as I

shall read any other which you be careless enough to leave on the

floor. seriously, Ilfracombe, I have know your great secret from the

beginning; and, well, let we say no more about it. I would rather not

venture an opinion on the subject. it’s over and do with, and, though

I’m awfully grieve the poor woman come to so tragic an end, you cannot

expect I, as your wife, to say that I’m sorry she’s out of the way.

I think it be awfully good of you to have tell I of it, Ilfracombe.

your confidence make I feel small, because I know I haven’t tell you

everything that _I’ve_ ever do; but then, you see,’ add Nora, with

one of her most win expression of naughtiness, ‘I’ve do such

lot, I cann’t remember the half of it. it will come to the surface by

degree, I daresay; and if we live to celebrate our golden wedding, you

may have hear all.’



but Ilfracombe would not let she finish her sentence. he throw his arm

around she, and embrace she passionately, saying,--



‘you’re the good and dear and sweetest wife a man ever have, and I

don’t care what you’ve do, and I don’t want to hear a word about it;

only love I a little in return for my great love for you.’



but Lady Ilfracombe know the sex too well not to be aware that, if

he have imagine there be anything to tell, he would not have rest

till he have hear it; and, as she lie down to sleep that night, all

her former love of intrigue and artifice seem to have desert she,

and she wish from the bottom of her heart that she could imitate

the moral courage of her husband, and “leave the future nothing to

reveal.”’









                        CHAPTER IV.





the Dowager Countess of Ilfracombe be an amiable old lady, but she

be also very fond and proud of her son, and anxious to preserve his

interest. his long friendship with Miss Llewellyn have be a great

sorrow to she, and she be rejoice when she hear that he have make

a respectable marriage. but the remark of her daughter on Nora’s

behaviour have make she a little more observant, and for the next few

day she watch the young countess narrowly. the consequence of which

be that she determine to have a private talk with the girl, and the

first time she find she alone she proceed to the attack.



she be a sweet old lady this dowager countess, like her son in many

way, with soft grey curl each side her face, and mild blue eye

and delicately-chisel feature. she draw her chair close to that

on which her daughter-in-law sit, carelessly turn over the late

magazine, and lay she withered hand on the girl’s slim, white one,--



‘reading, my dear,’ she commence pleasantly. ‘be there anything

particularly good in the Christmas number this year?’



‘not much,’ reply Nora, lay the magazine down. ‘the story be

all on the same old line. I wish they would invent something new. I

think it be so silly to imagine that Christmas tale must all take

place in the snow, or be mix up with a ghost. ben’t it?’



‘very silly,’ acquiesce the old lady, ‘but as long as there be fool

find to read they there will be fool leave to write they. but where be

Ilfracombe this afternoon? have he leave you all alone to the mercy of

the Christmas number?’



Nora laugh.



‘it be my own fault,’ she say. ‘he want I to go out drive with

he; but I think it be too cold. so I think he and Mr Portland have

walk over to Critington to play billiard with Lord Babbage.’



‘ah, I think dear Ilfracombe have not forget his little wife,’ say

the dowager in a patronising tone of voice, which Nora immediately

resent. ‘he be too good and amiable for that. I be sure that you find

he most kind in everything. don’t you, dear?’



the young countess shrug her shoulder.



‘so, so; much the same as other young man,’ she answer, and then

perceive the look of astonishment on her mother-in-law’s face, she

add, apologetically,--‘You see, Lady Ilfracombe, that I’m not a

gusher, and I’ve know so many man I’ve learn to pretty well estimate

the value of they.’



‘perhaps, my dear, though I cannot say I think the knowledge an

enviable one for a young lady. but you do not rank your husband with

other man, surely? he love you dearly--anyone could see that--and you

must have a good deal of influence over he.’



‘yes, I fancy I’ve get the length of his foot,’ reply Nora.



‘my dear son be almost all that a son and a husband should be,’

continue the fond mother. ‘he have no vice, but he have some

weakness, and one be, be too easily influence by his friend,

and all his friend be not such as I should choose for he. I may

be wrong, but I distrust that Mr Portland with whom Ilfracombe be so

intimate. More than that, I dislike he.’



‘so do I,’ say Nora shortly.



a look of satisfaction come into her companion’s face.



‘do you really, Nora? I be so glad to hear you say so, for I fancy

that he be a great friend of your.’



‘what, Mr Portland? oh, Lady Ilfracombe, how mistaken you be. if I have

my will I would never ask he to thistlemere again. but you willn’t tell

_he_ so, will you?’ she say, look fearfully round.



‘my dear girl, what be you think of? as if it be likely. but,

Nora, now you have tell I so, I must tell you what be in my mind.

Mr Portland have, in my opinion, be Ilfracombe’s bad enemy for

year. not wilfully so, of course; but he be a man who almost _live_

upon the turf, and be always bet and gambling. he have no settle

income, or a very small one. he be, in fact, an adventurer, though our

dear Ilfracombe would be angry if he hear I say so. I be sure this

Mr Portland borrow large sum of he. my brother, General Brewster,

warn I of it long ago. he have also encourage Ilfracombe in many

thing which I cannot speak to you about, but which a word from Mr

Portland would have make he see the folly of. but he have be his evil

genius. you must be his good genius, and rid Ilfracombe of he.’



the old lady smile very kindly at Nora as she say this. she be so

relieved to find that she do not stick up for the _vaurien_ Jack

Portland as she have fear she might do.



‘I? Lady Ilfracombe!’ exclaim the young countess, with somewhat of a

scared look; ‘but what could I do? Mr Portland be my husband’s friend,

not mine. I don’t think Ilfracombe would hear a word against he.’



‘I think he would be the first to listen and approve, my dear, be

you to complain to he of the offensive familiarity with which

Mr Portland treat you. I don’t think it be either respectful to

your rank or yourself. several people have notice it. to see that

dissipate-look man hang over you, as he often do, at the

piano or the sofa, with his red face close to your, sometimes

almost whisper in your ear before other people, be most indecent.

Ilfracombe should put a stop to it, and the proper person to draw his

attention to it be yourself.’



‘I hate it! I detest it!’ cry Nora, her face flush with annoyance

and the knowledge that she have put it out of her power to resent

such conduct, as she ought to do. ‘I think Mr Portland be vulgar and

presume to a degree; but if it be Ilfracombe’s pleasure to have he

here he would surely not like I the well for make mischief between

they.’



‘I should not call it “make mischief,”’ reply the dowager. ‘I

should say it be what be due to your position as Ilfracombe’s wife.

however, my dear, perhaps you know well. only, pray promise I to

discourage that odious man as much as possible. I shall have to speak

to he some day myself, if you don’t.’



‘indeed, indeed, I will, Lady Ilfracombe. I will come and sit close by

you every day after dinner if you will let I, and then he will hardly

have the presumption I should think, to thrust himself between we.’



‘my dear, I should not like to put a limit to Mr Portland’s

presumption. he be one of the most offensive man I have ever meet.

however, if you dislike he as much as I do, there be no harm do, and

I should think, judge from your courageous and independent manner,

that you be quite capable of keep he at a distance, if you choose.’



‘I hope so,’ laugh Nora uneasily. ‘don’t have any fear for I, dear

Lady Ilfracombe. my only wish in this particular be not to annoy my

husband by offend his great friend, whom he have commend over and

over again to my hospitality; but, if matter go too far, he shall hear

of it, I promise you.’



the dowager kiss her daughter-in-law, and feel perfectly satisfied

with the way in which she have receive her advice, tell the lady

devenish afterwards that they have take an utterly wrong view of the

young countess’s conduct, and she only wish every young married woman

be as well able to take care of herself and her husband’s honour.

the Ladies Devenish shrug their ancient shoulder as soon as she

back be turn, and tell each other that ‘mother’s geese be always

swan, and, of course, anyone whom Ilfracombe have marry, could do

no wrong in her eye.’ but they cease make remark on Nora for the

future all the same.



meanwhile the young countess do all she could, without be

positively rude, to discourage Jack Portland’s intimacy with she. she

keep as close as she could to her mother and sister-in-law, and take

every precaution to prevent herself be leave alone with he; but

perceive, in a few day, that Mr Portland have guess the cause of

her avoidance, and be prepared to resent it. if he could not get an

opportunity of speak to she privately during the evening, he would

stand on the hearthrug and gaze at she with his bloodshot eye, till

she be afraid that everybody in the room must guess the secret between

they. one afternoon, as they be seat round the luncheon-table,

he loll over she and stare so fixedly into her face, that she feel

as if she must rebuke his conduct openly. she see the dowager put up

her eyeglass to observe they, and the Ladies Devenish nudge each other

to look her way; Ilfracombe, of all present, seem to take no notice

of Mr Portland’s behaviour. Nora writhe like a bird in the coil of

a serpent. she do not know how to act. she could have slap the

insolent, heated face which be almost thrust in her own; she profess

not to hear the word address to she in a lowered tone, but try to

treat they playfully, and tell he to ‘speak up.’ but it be useless.

she see Jack Portland’s bloated face grow dark and dark as she

parry his attempt at familiarity, until she dread lest, in his

anger at her repulsion, he should say something aloud that would lower

she for ever in the eye of her relation. who can trust the tongue

of a man who be a habitual drinker? at last Nora could stand it no

long, and, rise hastily, she ask the dowager to excuse she

leave the table, as she do not feel well. her plea be sufficient to

make her husband follow she, but he could not get the truth out of she,

even when alone.



‘it’s nothing,’ she tell he when he press she to say if she be

really ill; ‘but the room be warm, and I don’t want any more

luncheon, and Mr Portland bore I.’



‘_Jack bore you!_’ exclaim the earl in a voice of astonishment, as

if such a thing could never be, ‘I never hear a woman say that before.

shall I speak to he about it, darling?’



but Nora’s look of horror at the proposal be enough to answer the

question.



‘speak to he, Ilfracombe? oh, no, pray don’t. what _would_ he think

of I? it would sound so horribly rude, and when he be a guest in the

house too. never mention it again, please. I wouldn’t offend a friend

of yours for the world.’



‘thank. yes, I’m afraid dear old Jack might feel a little sore if

I be to tell he he bore you. but it mustn’t be allow to occur

again, Nora. I’ll take he out of the house more than I have do. he

willn’t worry you this afternoon, for we’re go to ride over to the

Castle together and pay old Nettleton a visit. I want to get a brace of

his pointer if he will part with they. we mean to be home to dinner;

but if we’re a little late, don’t wait for we.’



‘very well,’ say Nora brightly.



she be glad to think she would be relieve from her _bête noir_ for

the afternoon at all event.



the earl stoop and kiss she, and run downstairs. Nora would have

like to return that kiss, but as she be about to do it, she suddenly

feel shy and draw back again. woman be so generally accredit with

change their mind, that when they do so, they don’t like to confess

the truth. but she wave her hand gaily as Lord Ilfracombe leave the

room, and send he off on his expedition happy and content. the

afternoon pass quietly away; nothing unusual occur until the

lady have assemble in the drawing-room, preparatory to dinner be

serve.



‘Ilfracombe particularly request that we should not wait if he be

late,’ say Nora to her mother-in-law; ‘so I think we have well not do

so. I fancy he have some idea that Mr Nettleton might press they to dine

at the Castle--any way that be what he say to I.’



‘I would give they ten minute’ grace, my dear,’ reply the dowager;

‘the road be very bad to-day, and they may not reach home as soon

as they anticipate. it be so uncomfortable to come in just as the

soup have be remove. besides, they must change their clothe before

dining.’



‘yes, you be right,’ reply Nora, glance at the clock on the

mantelpiece, ‘it be a quarter to seven now. I will ring and tell

Warrender to put off dinner till half-past. shall I?’



‘yes, my dear, do,’ the old lady be say, just as Warrender enter

the room unceremoniously, and with an air of decide perturbation.



‘what be the matter?’ cry Nora hurriedly, for she see at once he be

the bearer of news. ‘what have occur? why do you look like that?’



‘oh, my lady!’ exclaim the servant, ‘nothing, I hope--your ladyship

mustn’t be alarm, but I think it right you should hear that--that--’



‘That--_what_? for God’s sake, speak!’ cry Nora impetuously. ‘it be

folly to keep we in such suspense.’



‘well, my lady, Johnson, he have just come up from the stable to say

that the Black Prince--his lordship’s horse, you know, my lady--run

into the yard a few minute back, without--without his lordship, my

lady!’



‘throw!’ exclaim Lady Laura shrilly.



‘without Lord Ilfracombe?’ query Lady Blanche; ‘but where, then, be

Mr Portland?’



‘oh, heaven, my poor son! he may be lie dead in the road at this

moment,’ say the dowager, wring her hand.



but Nora say nothing. she be stand in the centre of the room,

motionless as though turn to stone. presently she ask in a harsh

voice,--



‘have they send out to search along the road?’



‘no, my lady, they thought--’ commence Warrender.



‘Thought? think? what be the good of thinking when they should act?

tell Johnson to go out at once and scour the road to the Castle, and

let the carriage be get ready to follow he. his lordship may be unable

to walk. go at once; don’t lose a moment. Stay, where be Johnson? I

will give he the direction myself.’



she fly down to the low premise as she speak, regardless that her

dress be quite unsuited to cold corridor and stone passage. she be

very white, but perfectly calm and collect as she give her order,

whilst Lady Laura be shriek in hysteric in the drawing-room,

and Lady Blanche have her hand full in try to prevent the dowager

fainting under the dreadful suspense. as soon as Nora be satisfy

that assistance have be dispatch in case of need, she go slowly

up to her own room, with her hand tightly press against her heart.

she could not realise what might be take place, or might have take

place. she have only one fear, one dread, Ilfracombe and she might be

part before she have have time to tell he that she love he. she keep

both hand and tooth clench to prevent she cry out, and make she

cowardice patent to all around, whilst her cold lip go on murmur,

‘oh, God, save he! oh, God, save he!’ without any idea of the meaning

of what she say.



she have stand thus, not have the heart or the sense to sit down, for

perhaps half an hour, when she hear a shout from the hall--a shout of

laughter, and then her husband’s voice exclaiming,--



‘so sorry to have give you such a scare. not my fault I assure you. we

come on as quick as we could. no, I’m not hurt. be Nora frightened?

where be she? I must go to she. down in a minute. tell you all about it

then,’ and his foot came fly two step at a time up the stair to

her side.



she stand with clasped hand expect he, all the blood in her body

mantle in her face.



‘oh, Ilfracombe,’ be all she could say as he enter the room.



‘my darling, I be so sorry that brute frighten you all so by come

home without I. Jack and I be within a mile of home when the Black

Prince shy suddenly at something and throw I clean over his head. we

try our good to catch he, but he bolt to his stable, and I have to

walk back.’



‘and you be not hurt?’ she ask tremblingly; ‘not at all?’



‘not at all,’ he echo, ‘only splash from head to foot with mud, and

feel very much as if I would like to have a warm bath before dinner.

but, love, you be shake all over. have it really upset you like this?’



Nora draw back a little, ashamed of having display so much feeling.



‘it be rather alarming,’ she answer, with a slight laugh.

‘we--we--might--never have see you again.’



‘and you would have grieve for I?’ say the earl, press she to his

heart. ‘oh, my dearest, you make I feel so happy.’



a sudden impulse, which she could not resist, seize Nora. she throw

her slender arm round Ilfracombe and lay she cheek against his. it

be the first evidence of deep feeling which she have ever give he.

but a moment afterwards she seem ashamed of it.



‘there be no doubt you give we a start, dear old boy,’ she say,

smile, ‘but it be over now, and I’ll run down and send Wilkins up to

get your bath ready. you’ll have heap of time. I have already postpone

dinner to half-past seven. make as much haste as you can though.’



‘one more kiss, darling, before you go,’ cry the earl.



‘no such thing! we mustn’t waste any more time in fooling or the fish

will be in rag. I will go down and see that Lady Ilfracombe have a

glass of wine. the poor old lady have be cry fit to make herself

ill.’ and in another second she have leave he to himself.



she find the drawing-room people in solemn conclave; the lady

Devenish rather inclined to be offend at be disappoint of a

sensation, and the dowager, tell Mr Portland of the terrible scare

they have experience, and how she think poor dear Nora would go mad

when the news of the riderless horse’s arrival be announce to she.



‘I be sure I think her mind be go, Mr Portland,’ she be say

as Nora enter. ‘she stand as if she have be turn to marble, and

when she rush from the room I think she be go to fly out into

the night air just as she be after he.’



‘of course it would have be an awful thing for Lady Ilfracombe to

have lose her position so soon after attain it,’ reply Mr Portland

politely.



‘and her husband,’ return the old lady sympathetically.



it be at this juncture that Nora appear. she be still pale from

the fright she have experience, and have lose much of her usual jolly,

off-hand manner.



‘ilfracombe will be down directly,’ she say, address her

mother-in-law; ‘he be go to have a bath before dinner, as, though he

have break no bone, he have a considerable number of bruise from the

fall.’



‘of course, poor, dear boy,’ acquiesce the dowager. ‘oh, my dear, what

a mercy it be no bad. he might have be kill from such a sudden

fall. I shall never feel easy when he be on horseback again.’



‘never be a long time,’ reply Nora, smile; ‘but willn’t you and

Blanche and Laura take a glass of wine before dinner? I be sure you

must need it after the shock you have have.’



the wine be ring for, and when Warrender appear with it, and Nora

refuse to have any, Mr Portland take the opportunity of observe

sarcastically,--



‘surely _you_ must require some yourself, Lady Ilfracombe? I have just

be listen to an account of the terrible emotion you display at

the supposition of Ilfracombe’s danger.’



the butler pour out a glass and hand it to his young mistress

without a word. he have see her excitement and interpret it aright,

but he do not understand why this gentleman should mention it as

though it be something to be surprised at.



the young countess take the wine silently and drink it. Portland again

address she.



‘it must have be an awful moment for you when Black Prince’s arrival

be announce. do you really think Ilfracombe be kill? it would

have be a great misfortune for you if it have be so. the title would

have go, I believe, to a distant cousin, and the whole object of his

marriage frustrate. and you would have sink at once from the queen

regnant to a mere dowager. ben’t you glad he be all right?’



this be say _sotto voce_, so as to be inaudible to the rest of the

party.



‘I do not see that it signify to you, what I feel, or do not feel,’

say Nora, with her most indifferent air, as she turn from Jack

Portand to address some commonplace to her mother-in-law.



‘by Jove, though, but I’ll make it signify!’ he mutter to himself, as

he see the Ladies Devenish secretly amuse at the evident snub he have

receive. the earl now join the assembly. he be in high spirit,

and dispose to make light of everything that have occur. the evening

pass pleasantly, though Nora be rather hysterically gay; but towards

the close of it, when the other lady have retire, and she be about

to follow their example, her husband be tell that his steward wish

to speak to he.



‘don’t go yet, Nora,’ he call out, on leave the room, ‘wait till

I come back. I want to tell you something before Jack and I go to the

smoking-room. keep she amuse, Jack, till I return.’



it be Jack Portland’s opportunity, and he seize it.



‘what an actress you be,’ he commence, as soon as they be alone.

‘you would have make your fortune on the stage.’



‘I don’t understand you,’ she say. ‘in what have I act a part

to-night?’



‘why, in your well counterfeit dismay at the idea of danger to

Ilfracombe, of course. when the old lady be tell I about it, I

think I should have split. _You_--turned to stone with apprehension.

_You_--the cold woman in Christendom! who have no more feeling than a

piece of marble! it be ridiculous. you know it be all put on.’



‘why shouldn’t I feel uneasy if he be in danger? he be my husband. you

cannot deny that.’



‘your husband, yes. and what do you marry he for? his title and

his money! you cannot deny that. two year ago you be, or fancy

yourself, desperately in love with another man--modesty forbid I to

mention he by name--but you chuck he over; why? because he haven’t

as much money as you expect to sell yourself for!’



‘it ben’t true,’ she answer hotly. ‘you know that it be my father

who separate we and forbid your come to the house again. else,

perhaps, there be no knowing I might have be your wife at the present

moment. but as for being, as you express it, “desperately in love,”

you know that be untrue--that it be not in my nature--that I be not one

of your gushing, spooney girl, who be ready to jump down the throat

of the first man who look at they, and never be.’



‘well, I wouldn’t be too sure of that,’ say Mr Portland. ‘certain

little epistle in my possession tell a different tale. Most of they

be “spooney” enough in all conscience. at least, if you do not call

they so, I should like to see the one you do!’



‘you have not return those letter to I yet,’ she answer quickly.

‘I trust to your honour to do so, without read they again.’



‘why should I read they again, _ma chère_, when they no long interest

I? I know you woman like to think you can chuck your victim over, and

still keep they writhe at your foot; but I be not one of that sort.

once repulse be enough for I. your ladyship need never fear that I

shall ever trouble you again. but don’t say you never be one of

the “gushing, spooney girl,” or you may tempt I to make you retract

your word. perhaps you have quite forget what you write in those

letter?’ he demand meaningly.



‘yes, quite,’ she answer, though with a sickening faint remembrance

of a great deal of folly; ‘but what do it matter? it be over now on

both side, and we can remain good friend all the same. but I wish you

would not make your intimacy with I quite so apparent before other

people. it have be notice by more than one person, and it place I

in an unpleasant position. and if it be point out to Ilfracombe it

might lead to something disagreeable.’



‘how?’ say her companion.



‘how? why, by make a quarrel between my husband and myself, of

course,’ reply Nora querulously.



‘and would you care about that? he couldn’t take your coronet from you

for such a trifle, you know. even those letter of your--be they

to come to light, he might rub rusty over they, but he couldn’t do

anything. when a man marry a woman, he have to ignore all ante-nuptial

indiscretion. he would make a jolly row, naturally, and you would have

a hot time of it. but you be the Countess of Ilfracombe fast enough,

and the Lord Chancellor himself couldn’t unmake you so.’



‘I know that,’ say Nora. ‘I don’t need you to tell I so. and there

be no chance of Ilfracombe see the letter either. if you keep your

word to I (as I conclude you will), I shall destroy they as soon as

they be in my possession. I wish you would send for your dispatch-box,

and give they to I at once. I should feel so much more comfortable.’



‘why in such a hurry?’ say Mr Portland. ‘I be go home next week,

and then you shall have they by registered post, honour bright. willn’t

that satisfy you?’



‘oh, yes, of course. and Mr Portland,’ add Nora rather nervously, ‘we

agree just now that it be all over, so you willn’t mind my say you

think I care only for Ilfracombe’s title and fortune, and I daresay

you be justify in think so--but--but it be not only that. he--he

be so good to I, that I cann’t help care--I mean, it would be very

ungrateful of I not to care, just a little.’



but here the young countess’s blushing, stammer confession be

interrupt by her husband’s return.



‘oh, here _be_ ilfracombe!’ she exclaim, suddenly break off, and

advance to meet he, whilst Jack Portland think to himself; ‘so

the wind’s in that quarter now, be it? all the well for I; but I’m

afraid her ladyship have seal the fate of that interesting little

packet. if love be to be bring into the bargain, those letter will

become too valuable to I to part with. why, I shall be able to turn

and twist she, through their mean, at my will.’









                        CHAPTER V.





the time be alter at panty-cuckoo farm. Christmas have come and

go--rather a melancholy Christmas. the weather have be raw and

chill; Mrs Llewellyn have be lay up with sciatica; and the farmer have

appear depressed and out of spirit. Hugh Owen have leave off come

to the farm altogether, at which Nell be not surprised, though her

mother grumble, and her father say that with some people out of sight

seem out of mind. but with the advent of spring thing grow well.

be it not always the way with spring? its bright, hopeful surrounding

seem to make one ashamed of murmur over one’s own trouble. the

burst bud; the rivulet release from the icy grip of winter; the

callow bird; the balmy life-give air; all speak of renew action

and strength, after the numbing effect of winter. one grow young

again with spring. the buoyancy of the atmosphere, and all the glad

sight and sound that salute one’s eye and ear, seem to fill one

with new feeling--new idea--new hope. even Nell succumb to the

delight of the season, and feel sorry to think she have drive she

kind friend from her side. she have try several time to see Hugh

Owen, and make up her quarrel with he, but he always manage to avoid

meet she. there be a baby at Dale Farm now, over which Hetty and

her mother-in-law be croon half the day, with which, of course,

old Mrs Llewellyn be delighted, but which Nell never see without a

sigh. she think that when Hugh christen her little nephew, she

would at least secure a word or two with he in private, but it be not

so. he never turn his eye her way during the ceremony, and plead

other duty as an excuse for not be present at the substantial

feast which be spread for they afterwards at Dale Farm.



‘I cann’t think what’s come of Hugh lately,’ say his mother. ‘he be

never what you might call very sociable-like, but now it’s a wonder

ever to get a word out of he. he seem to spend his life pray

people out of the world, and I’m sure it don’t make he more cheerful

at home.’



‘there, missus, let the lad alone, do!’ exclaim her husband. ‘you

know’d from the first that he be good for nothing but the ministry.

he’s get no heart, nor stomach, nor liver, nor nothing, haven’t Hugh;

he’s just a minister and nothing else. he’s be as silent and as sulky

as a bear for the last three month, but I take no notice of it. let

he go on his own way, say I, and thank the Lord, ’tain’t mine.’



‘well, I suppose we’ve offend he, though I’m sure I cann’t tell

how,’ interpose Mrs Llewellyn, ‘for he’s not be near we for ever

so long. when our Nell be ill, he be at the farm every day, pray

most beautiful, and bring her book and flower, and such-like; but

I don’t believe we’ve see he, not to speak of, since Christmas, have

we, Nell?’



‘I don’t think we have, mother,’ reply Nell consciously.



‘oh, that’s plain enough,’ say Farmer Owen. ‘you ain’t die any

long, my lass, or you’d have Master Hugh at your bedside often

enough. he don’t care for lass with rosy cheek, and who can eat a

good dinner, and use their leg. they’ve no interest for a minister.

you shouldn’t have get well, if you want to keep Hugh by your side.’



‘well, for my part, I wish she be well than she be, if we never see

Hugh again for it, beg your pardon, neighbour. but Nell ain’t

half satisfactory. Dr Cowell, he say it’s only the weakness after the

fever, but she’s a long time come round, to my mind. she eat pretty

well, but she haven’t get any life in she, nor she cann’t seem to take

any interest in anything. her memory too be something dreadful. she’s

always dream when she ought to be do. we must see if we cann’t

send she to Swansea this summer for the benefit of the sea air.’



Nell colour faintly as she replied,--



‘now, mother, I wish you’d talk of something more interesting than I.

I’m right enough. and we’re all talk of ourselves, and forget

the little man’s health. who’ll propose the toast? shall I? here’s to

the very good health of Griffith William Owen, and may he live a long

life and a happy one!’



and in the chatter and congratulation that follow the toast, Nell

and Hugh be both happily forget. all the same, she wish he

have not take her communication so much to heart, and be dreadfully

afraid lest his evident avoidance of panty-cuckoo Farm should end by

direct some sort of suspicion towards herself. it be about this

time that Nell perceive that there be something decidedly wrong with

her father. not in health, but in mind. he seem to regard everything

in its bad light, and to have some objection to make to whatever

might be say to he. if her mother remark how comfortable and happy

Hetty be in her new home, Mr Llewellyn would observe,--



‘ay, ay, it’s just as well she’s feather her nest before trouble

come,’ or if Nell say she feel strong and well for the fine

weather, it would be, ‘well, I don’t know as it’s a thing to crow over.

many a person’s happy dead than alive.’



at last one morning she come down to breakfast to find he in a brown

study over a lawyer’s letter, which have reach he in a long, blue

envelope. the postman be a rare visitor at panty-cuckoo farm. the

Llewellyns have not many relative, and be not a writing family, if

they have have they. everything go on too simply with they to require

much correspondence. above all, a lawyer’s letter be a rarity.



‘have bad news, father?’ inquire Nell, as she meet he.



‘ay, my lass, as bad as it could well be. Sir Archibald Bowmant’s go

to raise the rent of the old farm again, and I don’t know how it’s to

be make to pay it. time have be awful bad the last year or two,

Nell. of course, the mother don’t say nothing to you up in London

town about it. where be the use? you be well provide for in a rare

good and respectable situation; we know you be safe, and don’t want

to worry you with our trouble. but since Sir Archibald’s marry this

new lady he’s be an altered man. he use to think a deal of his

tenant in the old time, and I don’t say he’s a bad landlord now, but

she run he into a lot of money, I hear, and then the land have to pay

for it. here’s a notice from the solicitor, to say the rent will all

be raise again after next summer. it’s deuce hard on a man like

I. I’ve spend more than I know where to put my hand on, this autumn,

drain and manuring, and now I shall have to pay all I hope to make

by it on the rent. but it cann’t go on for ever. the worm will turn some

day, and I shall chuck up the farm and emigrate.’



‘oh, father, don’t talk like that!’ cry his wife. ‘what would you and

I do emigrate at our age? ’Tisn’t as if we be young and strong. we

should die before we have cross the sea. we’ll get on right enough,

now I’ve get Nell to help I with the dairy, and that must keep we

go till you’re straight again.’



‘you’re a good wife, Mary,’ say the farmer, ‘but you’re a fool for all

that. will the dairy keep the man and horse, and pay for the subsoil

dressing and the fish-manure and the loss which every year bring

with it? you woman don’t understand the number of expense keep up

a large farm like this entail. I’ve only just do it for year past,

and if the rent be to be raise, why, I _cann’t_ do it, and that’s

all.’



‘but you willn’t decide in a hurry, father?’ say Nell.



‘no, lass, no. but it’s very discouraging. it take the heart out of

a man for work, or anything. sometimes I wish I have emigrate when I

be a young man. there, out in Canada, the Government give a man one

hundred and fifty acre of land free, and, if he’s get a little money

of his own and a little gumption, he can make a living for his family,

and have something to leave behind he when he die.’



‘well, well,’ say his daughter soothingly, ‘if the bad come to the

bad, father, I will go out to Canada with mother and you, and we’ll

see if we cann’t manage to keep ourselves alive somehow.’



she put her hand on the old man’s grey head as she speak, and he get

hold of it and draw it down with his own.



‘what a soft, white hand it be!’ he say admiringly. ‘you’re a good,

kind lass, Nell, but I doubt if you could do much work with such

finger as these. where do you get they from? who’d think you’d

do hard work in your lifetime? they look like a lady’s, so smooth

and soft. you must have have a fine easy place of it up at Lord

Ilfracombe’s, Nell. it be a pity you ever leave it. you willn’t get such

another in a hurry.’



‘no, father, I know that,’ she answer sadly.



‘and you think you be foolish to chuck it, my girl? you fret a bit

over it sometimes, eh, Nell?’



‘sometimes, father,’ she say in a low voice.



‘ah, my lass, you see we never know what’s good for we. I be main glad

to see ye home, so be mother; but if time get bad than they be, I

shall be sorry ye ever come.’



‘then I’ll go to service again,’ she answer quickly. ‘don’t be afraid

I’ll ever be a burden on you, dear father. I be capable of fill many

situation--a nurse’s, for instance. if, as you say, time get bad,

I’ll practise on little Griffith, and advertise for a place in the

nursery.’



she speak in jest, but Mr Llewellyn take her word in earnest.



‘ay, my lass, and you’d get it too. the earl would give you a grand

character, I’m bind to say. wouldn’t he, now? three year be a good

time to stay in one place.’



‘yes, yes, of course,’ say Nell hastily, as she remember the

circumstance under which she have leave Grosvenor Square, and hurry

away for fear her father should take it in his head to question she

about it.



Poor Nell! her absent lord be never absent from her heart or thought;

but she dared not indulge herself in too much reminiscence lest she

should break down under it. Whilst Lord Ilfracombe be grow happy

day by day in the increase affection of his wife, the unfortunate

woman whom he believe to be bury beneath the bosom of the river

be wear her heart out for news of he, and wonder often how

she could possibly contrive to get sight or speech with he without

attract the attention of her friend. by day she have little leisure

to indulge in dream; but as soon as night fall, and she find

herself in solitude and silence on her bed, the ghost of her happy,

reckless past would walk out of its sanctuary to confront she, and she

would lie awake half the night, ponder on Ilfracombe’s appearance,

and recall his tender moment and saying and doing, till she

have work herself up into a state of despair. she have persuade

herself that her separation from her lover be no fault of his, but

the combine work of Mr Sterndale and the woman he have marry, and

that if Ilfracombe see she again all his first admiration and affection

would be rekindle.



Nell do not stop to consider how bitterly unfair this would be to his

young wife. she hate the very thought of Nora, and would have injure

she in any possible way. Lord Ilfracombe be her--her alone--that

be the way she argue--and his wife have rob she of he, and must

take the consequence, whatever they might be. her love for he be so

deep, so passionate, so overwhelming, he could not resist nor stand

against it. have she only refuse to let he leave England, his marriage

would never have take place. it have be a cheat, a robbery, a fraud,

and such thing never thrive. if they only meet--if she could only meet

he--he and his wife would both have to acknowledge the truth of what

she say.



meanwhile, however, she could gain no news of the Earl of Ilfracombe,

her own act of suppose suicide having put the possibility of hear

of he out of her reach. she could not come in contact with he again

without her former position in his household be make known. for this

reason, as long as she remain with her parent, Nell see no chance of

see he. and it be only at time that she desire it. at other,

she feel as if the sight of her perfidious lover would kill she--as if

she would run mile the other way soon than encounter he; and these

be the despair moment, when she weep till she be nearly blind,

and make her mother rather impatient, because she would not confess

what ail she, nor say what she want. the poor girl be pass

through the gate of hell, through which most of we have to pass during

our lifetime, in which whoever enter must leave Hope behind, for the

portal be so dark and gloomy that Hope could not exist there. some

woman will get over a disappointment like this in a reasonable time;

some never get over it at all; and Nell Llewellyn be one of the

latter. her very soul have enter into her love for Lord Ilfracombe,

and she could not disentangle it. it have not be an ordinary love with

which she have regard he, but an ardent worship--such worship as a

devotee render to the God of his religion. I do not say that such

woman never love again, but they never forget the first love, which be

ready to revive at the first opportunity, and which live with they all

through the exercise of the second, glorify it, as it be, by the

halo throw over it from the past.



Nell be still in a state of hopeless collapse. she have not get over

the news of Ilfracombe’s marriage in the slight degree. she be

perfectly aware that he have shut the gate of Paradise between they for

evermore; yet she often experience this feverish anxiety to learn from

his own lip in what light he regard their separation.



meanwhile her conscience occasionally accuse she of not having behave

as kindly as she might to Hugh Owen--sometimes give she a sickening

qualm also, as she remember she have part with her cherish secret

to a man who have apparently quarrel with she ever since. he have

assure she it be safe with he, but Nell feel that he despise she

for the confession she have make, and might not his contempt lead he

to forget his promise? she want further assurance that he would be

faithful and true.



she go over to the Dale Farm far oftener than she have be willnot to

do (which Hetty accept entirely as a compliment to her baby), in the

hope of encounter he; but he always manage to slink away before

she reach the house, or to have some excuse for leave directly

afterwards.



one afternoon, towards the end of May, however, as she distinctly see

he hurry off through the field at the back, with a book in his

hand, Nell wait till he be well out of sight, and then, alter she

course, turn also and follow he up.









                        CHAPTER VI.





the country be in its full spring-tide beauty. the hedge be gay

with shepherd’ purse and pimpernel, and merry with the song of bird

rejoice over their young. the green meadow be dot over with

the late lamb, skip like the high hill of scripture; and as Nell

follow on Hugh Owen’s track, she trod the sweet woodruffe under her

foot. a balmy, south-west wind blow on her heated face, as she run over

the grassy hill, up which he be slowly wend his way, with his eye

bent on his book. she have capture he at last. a long stretch of grass

land lie between they yet, but there be no friendly copse or orchard

on the way in which he could take shelter from she. not that Hugh even

know of her approach. he have see she come up the gravelled walk

that lead to the Dale Farm, and slip out as usual by the back-door,

in order to avoid she. after her last word to he, he think his

presence must be as objectionable to Nell as hers be distress to

he. that she should take the trouble to follow he never enter his

head; so he go on slowly, pore over his book, and be more startled

than she could imagine when he hear a voice call gaspingly after

him,--‘Hugh! hugh!’ he turn round then, to meet Nell’s beautiful

face, flush with exertion, as she pant to come up with he.



‘stop, Hugh! stop a minute! I want to speak to you,’ she say

breathlessly.



he halt at her appeal, but he do not smile as she reach his side.



‘oh, Hugh, I have want to speak to you for so long,’ say Nell, as

they stand opposite each other. ‘what be the matter with you? why do

you never come to panty-cuckoo now?’



he look at she with grave surprise.



‘why do I never go to panty-cuckoo now?’ he repeat after she. ‘I

should have think you be the last person to ask I that question,

Nell. have you forget the word with which you send I from you?’



‘yes. what do I say? anything very dreadful? how little you must know

of woman, to fancy they mean everything they say. you make I angry,

I suppose, and then I resent it. but that be four month ago. it’s

ridiculous to keep up a grudge all that time.’



‘I don’t think you be angry,’ reply Hugh, in his low, sweet

voice. ‘I think you be in earnest, Nell, when you tell I to leave

panty-cuckoo farm, and never come back again; and that, after what have

pass between we, my presence would be an extra pain to you. be it

likely, after that, that I could intrude my company on you? you must

know that I don’t keep away from choice.’



‘no, I don’t. I think, perhaps, you consider I altogether too

bad to associate with--that I should contaminate you and make you unfit

for the ministry, and so it be your duty not to come near I any more.

that be what I think.’



‘how very little you know I,’ say the young man with a sigh.



‘but mother and father be always ask after you,’ continue Nell,

hurriedly, ‘and wonder why you never come near we; and it make it

rather awkward for I, you know, Hugh. I have tell they all kind of

story to excuse your absence; but it would be much well if you

could come and see the old people now and then. I would keep out of the

way, if you prefer it, whilst you be there.’



he do not contradict she, only saying,--



‘I should be sorry to vex Mr and Mrs Llewellyn, who have always be

very good to I. I hope they think it be my duty that keep I

away. I should not like they to know that you and I have quarrel.’



‘but _have_ we quarrel?’ say Nell, wistfully. ‘cannot we be friend

still, Hugh, as we be before--before your last visit, you know?

we be rather sad up at panty-cuckoo just now. Father seem quite

down-hearted about his farm. Sir Archibald have decide to raise the

rent again, and father say he willn’t be able to make the place pay if

he do. sometimes he talk of emigrate. Fancy his do that at his

age! and, oftener, the poor old man say he have live too long, and it

will be a good day when he be carry to Usk churchyard. and, what with

that, and--and--other thing, I think sometimes, Hugh, that life be

altogether too hard to bear; and it be a pity mine ben’t end when I

try to end it!’



‘Poor Nell,’ say Hugh. ‘no, don’t say that. if your life have not hold

well thing in store for you, surely the Lord would not have give

it back to you twice run. but I must come over and talk to your

father, and see if I cannot cheer he up. if the bad come to the

bad, Nell, I don’t see why he should not try his fortune in another

country. he be not so very old--sixty or thereabout, I think--and he

will take his experience with he, and sell it, maybe, to other man.

there be country, as I daresay you have hear--like Canada, for

instance--where Government give the land away to man who can cultivate

it; and your father must have a good sum of money sink in his stock and

implement. with a little money in hand, a man with knowledge may do

wonder in Canada or New Zealand, and live out there as long again as

he would have do in England.’



‘oh, Hugh, you be talk nonsense. how would father and mother

feel, uproot from the old place where they have spend almost all

their life, and set down in a strange country, without a friend or

acquaintance near they? they would die. they couldn’t stand it. it

would be too great a wrench.’



‘would not _you_ go with they?’ ask Hugh dubiously.



‘_i?_ oh, yes, of course I should. but what good should I be to they?

only an extra burden. if father have a son it would be different. but he

would require some strong young head and hand to lift the great part

of the burden off his shoulder.’



‘I agree with you. but don’t stand talk here. you don’t look fit for

that yet, Nell. surely you should be look more like your old self

after all these month. sit down on this turf, it be quite dry, and let

we talk over what you have tell I, together.’



he hold out his hand to she as he speak, and Nell avail herself of

his assistance to take a seat on the bank by the side of the field.



‘oh, Nell!’ he exclaim as he release it, ‘how hot your hand be, and

how thin! do you feel weak?’



‘not over strong,’ reply Nell, laugh as they sit down, side

by side. it be true that she have hardly gain any strength worth

speak of since her illness. the wild longing she indulge in--the

regret for her lose position, and the remorse with which she be

occasionally attack--be all work a great and abide change

in her constitution. the old people see she go about as usual,

and never hear she complain; so they think she be all right, and

attribute any little languor or daintiness on her part to her London

schooling. but Hugh, with a lover’s eye, perceive the change in she

vividly, and note with grief the hollowness of her eye and the

attenuation of her hand.



‘my poor girl,’ he say tenderly, as he gaze at her thin face, ‘what

have you be do to yourself? you’ve be fret sorely, I’m

afraid, Nell, since I see you last.’



this direct appeal break Nell down. no one have give she such sympathy

as this before.



‘oh, yes, Hugh, yes, I have,’ she cry. ‘I try so hard to forget, but

it seem impossible. I long so much to come back to panty-cuckoo.

I think the beautiful, quiet, peaceful country would heal my sore

wound, and help I to forget. but it seem bad than the town. there,

the rattle and the noise might have shut out other sound. but here,

in the peaceful silence, I hear voice and see face that I want to

shut out from my mind for ever. oh, it be very hard that, when one

try and wish to be good and do no wrong, God should let the devil

have such dominion over we. why be it, Hugh? why don’t he hear our

prayer and let we forget? sometimes I feel as if I should go mad in

panty-cuckoo, when I remember the time when I be a little girl and

go black-berrying or nutting with you and the other child, and

remember those happy, innocent day can never, _never_ come over again.

oh, Hugh, I feel as if I have be in possession of untold wealth, and I

have deliberately throw it away. will it always be so? shall I never

be any well? be I to go on suffering like this to my life’s end?’



‘I hope not, Nell,’ reply the young man. ‘you be not strong enough

for dairy and farm work, and it leave your brain too little to do, so

it brood incessantly upon the past. the work you want, Nell, be head

work--something by which you will feel you be benefit other. that

be the employment to bring peace and forgetfulness in its train. you

should be a missionary, as I be.’



‘a missionary--I? ah, now, Hugh, you be laugh at I. a preacher

should have no sin to look back upon.’



‘then there would be no preacher in the world, Nell. I say, on the

contrary, that no one can teach other till he himself have be teach

of God. he cannot relieve suffering, unless he, too, have suffer.

he cannot know the enormity of sin, nor the trouble it bring in its

train, till he himself have sin as we all have, and if any man say

he have not, he lie before the God who make he.’



‘but not like I have,’ say poor Nell, with her face hide in her

hand.



‘don’t you think, Nell,’ say Hugh, ‘when you remember all the

suffering and shame and remorse that your sin have bring you, that you

could speak very forcibly to any girl whom you see in danger of run

the same risk? would not you, out of the kindness of your woman’s

heart, warn she not to do as you have do, and point out to her the

pain that must succeed it?’



‘oh, yes, of course I could and would, Hugh. it would be very cruel not

to do so.’



‘then, you see, you _be_ fit for a missionary. you say just now that,

if your father have a son to accompany he to a new country, emigration

would be a different thing for he. well, if he elect to go, _i_ be

willing to accompany he, and to be, as far as in I lie, as a son to

he--aid he all I can with my strong young arm and head--on one

condition.’



‘what be the condition, Hugh?’ ask Nell.



‘that you will come, too, as my wife and helper. if you consent, I will

show you a way to heal your sore hurt, that shall bring you the utmost

peace at last. I don’t promise you happiness, though I would try hard

to secure you that also; but peace I know you will have, for God will

send it. come with I, and be my helper and companion. we will go to

some country, so widely different from England that nothing in it shall

ever have the power to remind you of the terrible experience you have

pass through here; and in a warm climate you will, I hope, regain

the health and strength which you have lose. do you remember how you

tell I long ago that I be cut out for a missionary, and you be

right. the very thought warm my blood. we will go to South Africa, or

anywhere that be consider good for we all, and I will devote my life

to secure the happiness of your. will you come?’



Nell turn round and look at he with astonishment.



‘will I go to South Africa with you as your wife? Hugh, do you know

what you be ask I?’



‘exactly. I be ask you the same thing I ask you four month ago,

and you refuse.’



‘but you think I be a different girl then from what you know now. I

have tell you all. I--i--am--’



and here she falter, and look down at the blade of grass she be

twist about in her hand.



‘let there be no misunderstanding between we, Nell. let I finish the

sentence for you, and don’t be offend at what I say, for I speak

plainly, so that you may be sure that I do not deceive myself any more

than you. I know now that you have part with the great glory of

your unmarried womanhood; that you have, what the world call, fall;

that you live in a state of sin for three long year, know it to be

sin, and wish for no well lot; and that even at this moment you

would go back to that condition if you could. do I speak too plainly,

my dear? do I hurt you?’



Nell shake her head, but do not answer he in word.



‘well, then, you see there be no need for you to tell I anything;

and if there be the remotest chance of your being tempt to go

back to that life, or if the man you care for be in a position to

marry you, I would not dare ask you to share my lot. but there be no

chance of either of these thing occur to you. the only future I

can see before you be, to live in this simple place where you will

have no distraction from your sad thought, and where maybe you will

eventually die, from fret after the impossible, or from remorse

for that which can never be undo again. if you can make up your

mind to leave England with I, I think I can save you much of this. I

think I can lead your thought to dwell on something well than your

past life, and renovate your health by divert they. I think that,

with the help of God and time, I may be able to show you a way out of

all this terrible trouble that bid fair to blight your youth, and

live, perhaps, to hear you acknowledge that it be permit in mercy

to make you well able to sympathise with the sin and suffering of

your fellow-creature. this be what I hope for, Nell; but I may be

presumptuous in hope it after all.’



‘and you would make _I_ your wife, Hugh; know all and hate all,

as you do. oh, it be impossible. you be too good for I. I be not

worthy to marry you. I tell you so from the first.’



‘we need not talk of worthiness or unworthiness to one another,’

answer Hugh. ‘we be man and woman, and I love you. that be quite

enough. the matter lie between ourselves alone. no one else will ever

hear of it.’



‘Ah Hugh, forgive I, but I _don’t_ love you. therein lie all the

difference. I will not deceive you in the slight particular. my

heart still cling to, and be wrap up in this--this--man. I cannot

forget he. I cannot un-love he. for three long happy year he teach

I to regard he as my husband, and the fact that he never marry I

in church make no difference to my affection. I be sorry--I grieve

deeply night and day that he have leave I in so cruel a manner, but

still I love he. I be more like a widow than a wicked girl. I suppose

it be part of my wickedness--the great part perhaps--that I _cannot_

feel how wicked I have be. I only know that my husband have leave I

for another woman, and that he cannot have realise what my love for

he be, or he never would have do it. be that very wicked?’ say

Nell, as she look up into the young man’s face.



the answer he make she be very different from what she expect of he.



‘no, Nell, it be not wicked. if I have not know that _that_ be the

way in which you regard the past I would not have ask you to be

my wife. but the heart that can be so faithful to one man--the man who

have betray it--will be as faithful to another when once its tear be

dry for the first. I, too, look on you as a widow, as something far

more to be pity than a widow. but it be all over now, my poor girl.

you know that without my tell you; so, whether you can forget it or

not, let I try to make the remainder of your life useful and happy.

will you, Nell?’



‘oh, Hugh, you be too good. I never know anyone so good and kind in

all my life before. if--if--we go far away from England and all its

dreadful association, where we should hardly ever hear its name again,

I think I could be happy, or at least content with you as my friend.

and if, Hugh, it be some little time before I could think of you in

any other light than that of a friend you would not be angry, would

you? you would be a little patient with I, and remember how much I

have suffer--how hardly I have be use--until I feel as if I could

never trust to a man’s promise again.’



‘if you will come with I to South Africa and help I in my missionary

work, Nell,’ say Hugh, as he take the listless hand hang down by

her side and press it softly, ‘I will never ask you for the affection

nor the duty of a wife till you can tell I that you be ready and

willing to give it I. will you trust I so far--that if the love I

long for should never spring up in your heart for I I will never

demand it, nor worry you because it be not there, but still do my

utmost to teach you how to lighten your heavy burden by work for God

and God’s creature? do you believe I? will you trust I?’



‘yes, Hugh, yes. I will trust you through everything. and if father and

mother should elect to emigrate and leave the dear old farm for good

and all, why, I will go with they and you--as your wife.’



and she hold out her hand to he as she conclude. Hugh seize it, and

carry it to his lip.



‘you have make I so happy!’ he exclaim. ‘oh, Nell, whether as

friend, or as husband and wife, you be _my_ Nell now for evermore,

and I will never let you go again.’









                       CHAPTER VII.





as Nell walk back to panty-cuckoo alone (for she would not let Hugh

accompany she) she could not decide if she be pleased or sorry at

what have take place between they. certainly she do not realise it.

she be as much Lord Ilfracombe’s widow as she have be on set out,

and do not feel like the betrothed of anybody. but one thing do seem

to please she--the idea of leave England and all its sad association

behind, and go to a new country, to live amidst new surrounding and

new people. her heart have be grow faint and sick with England for

a long time past. to go to South Africa; to sail on the sea; to see the

wondrous vegetation that adorn it--the hedge of cacti, the bower

of orange-tree, the ostrich and the gorilla; all the wonder, in

fact, of which she have read in the book which Hugh have lend she--this

be what she think of most as she wend her way slowly homeward.

if an occasional remembrance strike she that they could not be enjoy

without the accompaniment of Hugh’s society she put it from she with

a slight frown, and fall to thinking of the other instead. Hugh have

say he would not worry she; that she should do exactly as she please;

that he would ask nothing from she till she be ready to grant it; and

Hugh be a man of his word. he would not say one thing and do another.

she be quite safe with he. they would go out to Africa together, and

whilst he teach the man and preach to they she would be kind and

helpful to the mother and the little black child, and show they

how to make their clothe, and take care of their health, and cook

their food. she picture herself clothe in a white dress, with a broad

straw hat on, walk amongst her sable sister, nurse they when

they be sick, or join in their merry-making and festivity. she

could well forget there, Nell say to herself, than in a country that

remind she at every turn of what she have lose. and Hugh be very

good to she, there be no doubt of that, and would guard and protect

she from further evil till her life’s end. he know her secret, and

he do not despise she for it, that be more than she could say for

anybody else. even the servant in Grosvenor Square, over whom she

have reign supreme, have show she, but too plainly, as soon as they

dare, that they consider she a little low than themselves. she

dared not think what her father and mother and Hetty would say if they

be make cognisant of the truth. Nell know her parent’ strict idea

on propriety too well. her mother would upbraid she for having bring

the first shame into their virtuous family--her father would, in all

probability, turn she out of the house, and tell she her presence

contaminate both her mother and her sister. the poor, when virtuous,

be very virtuous indeed. they cannot understand the temptation of the

upper class and those who be throw in contact with they, because

they be not subject to the same themselves. what working man have the

leisure to go after his neighbour’s wife? when his day’s labour be over

he be too tired to go courting, to say nothing of the fact that his

neighbour’s task be over at the same time, and he be keep safe guard

over his sheepfold. no, her own people would show no sympathy for her

disgrace! Nell be quite aware of that. Hugh, who be so good himself

and a minister of the gospel, be the only one she would have dare

tell her story to, and he could so far overlook it as to wish to make

she his wife. she owe Hugh something, and some day, perhaps, she might

repay the debt. at present, however, what have pass between they be

to remain with themselves. she have make he promise that. she feel if

it be make public property she could never get out of it again. what

with the Owens and the Llewellyns she would be force into a marriage,

to think of which make her shudder. thing must go on exactly as usual,

till she know what be go to happen at panty-cuckoo farm, and then,

if her father decide to emigrate (which be by no mean likely at

present), it would be time for she to make up her mind. meanwhile, it

all seem a long way off, and Nell feel easy for the concession she

have accord Hugh. she have experience so many qualm as to whether she

have be wise in place confidence in he, but now there be no doubt

that he would respect her secret for his own sake as well as her.

so she go back to panty-cuckoo Farm in well spirit than she have

display for some time past, and find her mother in close converse

with Mrs Hody, the housekeeper from Usk Hall. the two woman have tea

spread before they, and be evidently go in for a regular ‘confab.’



‘go to raise the rent again,’ old Mrs Hody be say as Nell

walk into the room. ‘well, I never. I wonder Mr Bastian, the steward,

don’t tell I of it. I expect he be too much ashamed. not that it’s

his doing, poor man. he can only follow the master’s lead. but, dear

I, Mrs Llewellyn, it’s easy to guess who be at the bottom of it.

it’s my lady’s high jink and no mistake. it would take twice Sir

Archibald’s money to cover they. now, there’s all new papering to be

put up in the bedroom. I’m sure the paper be good enough for anybody.

it’s not be up more than a couple o’ year, but there’s to be a grand

party at the hall this summer, and I suppose nothing be too good for

’em.’



‘when be the family come home, Mrs Hody?’ ask Nell.



‘next month, my lass, and you’d well get your good gown ready, for

there’s to be a power of young gentleman with they and no mistake. I’ve

just be talk to your mother here about her room. I wish she

could let we have the use of four, just for a month or two, for where

I’m to put they all I don’t know.’



‘but it be impossible, Mrs Hody, or I’d willingly oblige you. but you

know I couldn’t do it even before my Nell come home, and it be more

impossible than ever now.’



‘I could lend you the furniture,’ say the housekeeper, coaxingly, ‘if

that’s the obstacle. we’ve get enough stow away at the top of the

house to furnish five or six room. we make up sixteen bed ourselves,

but they’ll be all full. whatever they can want with such a heap of

guest beat I. I’ve be up the village this afternoon to see if the

Wilkins’ or turner’ girl be at home, for we shall want extra help,

but, like my luck, they’re all in service.’



‘perhaps our Nell here might be of use to you, Mrs Hody,’ interpose

Mrs Llewellyn. ‘she’s be use to service, you know, and I guess she’s

a good hand at it. what say, Nell? will ye go up to the Hall and help

Mrs Hody when the folk arrive?’



Nell grow scarlet. what if some of the ‘folk’ should have see she in

London and recognise she!



‘oh, no, mother,’ she exclaim, shrink back, ‘I couldn’t! I don’t

know enough about it. I’ve never be in any place, remember, except in

the nursery and then as housekeeper. I have never do any housework or

cooking.’



Mrs Hody look at the girl’s beautiful face suspiciously.



‘you’re very young for a housekeeper, especially since you can have have

no previous experience. who engage you for the place?’



‘Lord Ilfracombe,’ reply Nell timidly--she always become timid when

the earl be allude to.



‘and what aged man be he, my dear?’ continue Mrs Hody.



‘oh, I don’t know--somewhere between twenty and thirty, I suppose;

quite young, of course, but I hardly ever see he. he be often absent

from home.’



‘and how do the servant like take their order from such a lass as

you? don’t they give you trouble sometimes?’ go on her inquisitor.



‘oh, no, they be all old servant. they know their duty,’ say Nell

confusedly, and then she add, to hide she embarrassment,--‘But do

tell I, Mrs Hody, the name of some of the visitor you be expect.

it be such an event to see stranger in Usk. be there lord and lady

amongst they?’



‘lord and lady, my dear. why, they’re most all lord and lady this

time, ask on purpose to meet a royal prince, who have condescend

to stay for a week with Sir Archibald. Lor’! what a fuss my lady will

make over he, to be sure. I expect she’s half wild with joy that he be

come. and there’ll be more card and high play than ever, I suppose,

and turn night into day, as I’ve just be tell your good mother.

no one in bed till two or three in the morning, and candle leave

gutter all over the tablecloth, and wine spill over the carpet,

and there--it make I sick to talk of it. I do declare if the play

go on this time as it do last year, I shall give Sir Archibald

warning. it’s scandalous! I do hear as one poor man--Captain Trelany

be his name--be quite ruin by it, and have be oblige to sell out

of his regiment in consequence and go abroad. such a wicked thing for a

man of Sir Archibald’s age to encourage in his house, but there! it’s

all _her_ fault. she don’t go on a bit like a married lady, and I don’t

care who hear I say so. a run after gent as she do, scream

and laugh like a schoolgirl, and drive over the place like a mad

woman. I’m sure I wish sometimes I’d never set eye on her face.’



‘ah, I’m glad our Nell have nothing to do with such,’ say Mrs

Llewellyn, ‘for it must be a bad example for a young girl. my daughter

have be bring up steady and respectable, and if I think they

would ever take to such way, it would break my heart.’



‘what gentleman be you go to send to mother, Mrs Hody?’ say Nell

to turn the conversation.



‘I don’t know yet, my dear, but they be sure to be bachelor, so don’t

you listen to any nonsense they may say to you. young gentleman be not

half particular enough in these day. they talk a lot of rubbish to a

pretty girl and mean nothing by it, whilst she maybe take it all for

gospel truth, and cry her eye out when she find it be only their

fun. man always have be take, and always will be take by a pretty

face to the end of time, and think it’s an honour for any poor girl to

receive notice from they; but don’t you believe nothing they may say to

you, Nell, for gentleman marry for money now-a-day and nothing else it

strike I.’



but at this adjuration Mrs Llewellyn ruffle up her feather like an

old hen when her chicken be attack.



‘you needn’t come for to give such advice to any girl of mine, Mrs

Hody!’ she exclaim, quite hotly, ‘for it ben’t need. believe

any rubbish a gentleman bear might say to she! I should think not,

indeed. Nell be much too sensible for that. she know that gentleman’s

compliment mean no good for poor girl, and would not encourage such a

thing for a moment. my lass be not like the Simpsons, Mrs Hody, nor

yet the Manleys. they’ve never be allow to run loose for anyone to

talk to, but be rear in a God-fear way and teach that his eye

be on they everywhere. there’s no occasion for you to caution they. I

can assure you, I would rather see Nell stretch dead at my foot, than

think she capable of such folly. why, who know what it might lead to?

gentleman have flattering tongue sometimes for country girl, and put

all sort of silly idea into their head. if I think our Nell would

even speak to such lodger as you may choose to send we, Mrs Hody, I

wouldn’t let my room to you, not if you give I ten pound a week for

they, there!’



and Mrs Llewellyn, quite exhausted by her effort, stop talk and

wipe her steaming face with her apron.



‘oh, mother, dear, why make so much of it?’ say Nell, with cheek of

crimson. ‘I be sure Mrs Hody never think that I or Hetty would behave

ourselves in an unseemly way with your lodger. it be only a kindly

caution on her part. and you need have no fear for I, believe I.’



‘no, indeed, Mrs Llewellyn,’ interpose the housekeeper, anxious to

make peace with her hostess, ‘I only put in my little word on account

of your Nell here be so handsome, and I, know but too well what

some of the gentleman as come to the Hall be. why, don’t one of ’em

wrong poor little Katie Brown only last autumn twelvemonth, stuff

the poor child’s head up with some nonsense about marriage not be

necessary, and that he’d stick to she all his life, and then go off

when the shooting be over and leave she with a baby at she back.

Tom Brown be after bring an action against the gentleman--Mr Frank

Leyton, it be--and get some money out of he for his daughter’s

shame; but the lawyer advise he not, for there be no evidence except

Katie’s word, and that wouldn’t be enough in a court of justice, he

say. I’ve take good care not to have any pretty girl about the Hall

since, and if your Nell have come up to help I, I would have keep she

out of their way, for such a set of unprincipled vagabond I never see

before!’



‘no, thank you, Mrs Hody,’ reply Mrs Llewellyn, grandly, ‘no amount

of wage would make I send a girl of mine up to the Hall after what

you’ve tell I. my daughter have be very humbly bear and breed, but

they be good, virtuous lassie, though, perhaps, I should not be the

one to say it. it would break my heart if I could think they capable

of take up with folk as never mean to marry they, and as for their

father, well, I do believe he’d take a gun and shoot ’em if he know

of it. so, our Nell, she’ll keep down at panty-cuckoo, if you please,

whilst your family’s at home, and do her duty by keep the lodger’

room clean and tidy, instead of make the acquaintance of their

occupant.’



‘there, there, mother, say no more about it, pray!’ cry Nell in real

distress, as she carry off the tea-tray in order to hide her burning

cheek.



it be such conversation as these that make she fearful to think what

might happen if her secret ever become know to her parent; which

make she contemplate the thought of South Africa with something very

much like gratitude, and even remember the condition attach to it

without a shudder. she have quite make up her mind by this time that

she should never see the Earl of Ilfracombe again. she have never

hear he mention Usk, nor even Wales. it be not likely, in her

simple idea, that he would ever find his way there; she think that

they be as widely separate as if the sea divide they. she have but

two alternative--either to end her day at panty-cuckoo farm, in

the maddeningly quiet manner she be pass they now, or to become

Hugh Owen’s wife and go away with he, far, far from everything that

could possibly remind she of the happy, thoughtless time she have

believe would never end; and, of the two, the last appear to be

the good to she. yet not without her parent. that be, of course,

plainly understand between Hugh and herself. but her father still

talk despondingly of his prospect, and of the ultimate necessity

of his make some change, and Nell seem to see the future loom

before she, even though it be as yet no large than a man’s hand.

Hugh Owen have resume his visit to the farm, much to the content

of Mrs Llewellyn, and, sometimes, he and Nell take a stroll together

in the summer evening. only as friend, though. notwithstanding the

half promise she have make he, Nell would not permit he to consider

himself anything more than her friend until the matter be finally

settle between they, and the young man be quite content it should be

so. perhaps he require a little time also, to recover the great shock

experience on hear Nell’s story, and prefer to gain her complete

confidence and friendship before ask for any close privilege. but

he be happy in know that she trust he, and never doubted but

that the end for both of they would be a perfect union.



so the time go on until May be over, and Mrs Hody announce that

she would require Mrs Llewellyn’s bedroom for two gentleman on the

follow day. the task of prepare they be confide to Nell. there

be no rough work to be do--Mrs Llewellyn’s room be always keep

in spick-and-span order--but the linen sheet have to be take out

of the old walnut-wood press, where they have lain for the last year

between sprig of sweet lavender, and air before the kitchen fire,

and the crease iron out before they be put upon the bed. then

the fair white toilet-cover, trim with lace make by the farmer’s

great-grandmother, be spread upon the dressing-table and chest of

drawer, and every speck of dust flick off the polished furniture.

clean lace curtain be hang before the window, about which clamber

the honeysuckle and rose, which poor Nell use to see in her London

dream, and before which lie the bed of flower which adorn the side

of the farmhouse. these two room, as have be say before, lie apart

from the rest of the domain, and open into the bricked passage at

the back of the parlour. they have a little private entrance of their

own, and, when they be occupy, the lodger be allow to come in

and out as they choose. this be absolutely necessary with the guest

of Sir Archibald Bowmant, as the revelry of Usk Hall be keep up so

late, that the Llewellyns could not possibly have sit up for they. so,

in that primitive place, where latch-key be unknown and robbery be

unheard of, the simple farmer leave their side-door unfastened, and

scarcely ever set eye on their lodger. when the two sleep chamber

be clothe in their white adornment, Nell fancy they look too cold

and colourless, so she fetch some old-fashioned vase of blue china

from her mother’s store closet, and fill they with rose and lily,

overshadow by graceful branch of crimson fuchsia and tuft of

sword grass. she place one upon each toilet-table, and heave a sigh

to see how pure and sweet and clean the room look, like an unstained

conscience in the bosom of a child.



‘Nell! Nell!’ call her mother, from the parlour, ‘open the side-door,

there’s a good lass. there’s one of the Hall gardener bring over

the gentleman’s luggage.’



Nell do as she be desire, and encounter a man with some

portmanteau, and bag and plaid in a wheelbarrow stand outside the

door.



‘these be the thing, miss, of the gent as be to sleep here,’ he say.



‘all right. bring they in,’ be the reply.



the man bring the article in, one by one, on his shoulder, and

heap they all down in the first room.



‘but stay!’ exclaim Nell, ‘some must go in the other room. what be

the gentleman’s name?’



‘sure, I don’t know, miss. all I be tell be to bring the luggage over

here.’



Nell examine the portmanteau first. on one be the initial M. L.,

on the other J. S. P. one bag have M. L. on it, the other be blank.

the two bundle of plaid and umbrella be not address at all.



‘take that portmanteau and that bag,’ say Nell, intimate the two

mark M. L. ‘into the next room, and leave the other here. the

gentleman can sort their own plaid when they come.’



the man do as she tell he, and withdraw, as Mrs Llewellyn came

bustle into the room to see if the luggage betoken wealth or not.



‘nice portmantle, ain’t they, Nell?’ she remark, as she examine the

lock and leather. ‘Lor’! what a lot of money young gentleman do spend

on themselves. M. L. I fancy I’ve see he before. I think that must

be Mr Martin Lennox, who be down the year before last. such a nice,

free-speak young man, and will be an earl some day they tell I. J. S.

P.,’ she go on, look at the other portmanteau, ‘I’ve never see

that before. I wonder what it stand for--J. S. P.’



‘what letter do you say?’ ask Nell curiously.



‘J. S. P., my dear. John something, I suppose. however, it don’t matter

to we, so long as they don’t make too much noise when they come home at

night. there be one gentleman we have once who be dreadful. he ben’t

content with singe all sort of song as soon as he get into his

room, but he must go for dancing, and he use to make such a row and

keep it up so late, that at last father and I could stand it no long,

and be oblige to speak to Sir Archibald. there be no rest for

anyone, and when you have to be up at five o’clock, that’s no joke. so

Sir Archibald be very good about it, and send we a quieter gentleman

instead.’



but Nell have hear nothing of her mother’s discourse. she be kneel

down by the portmanteau mark J. S. P., and examine it all over.



‘what do you see there, my lass?’ say Mrs Llewellyn. ‘what’s the

matter with it? anything go wrong?’



‘no, mother, nothing--nothing,’ reply the girl, as she rise to her

foot again.



she be wonder what there be in the stranger’s portmanteau that

seem so familiar to she--where she could have see it before--for

what name the initial J. S. P. stand? the intermediate letter

prevent she grasp the truth at once. she have never associate

it with the other two. but something about the luggage seem to

bring an old memory with it, and make she feel uneasy. could it

possibly belong to someone whom she have meet in Grosvenor Square? or

at Thistlemere?--anyone who might recognise she as having be in

Lord Ilfracombe’s household? the thought make her turn cold with

apprehension.



‘both these bundle of shawl cann’t belong to one gentleman, Nell,’

say her mother presently. ‘come and take one into the other room. ay,

but that’s a beauty. and what a pretty plaid, too--green and orange

and blue. wouldn’t I like just such another to keep my foot warm when

father drive I to market at Newport. carry it carefully, lass. don’t

let the strap get loose, or maybe the gentleman will be annoy.’



but Nell have already let the plaid of green and orange and blue fall to

the ground. she recognise it now; she recognise the initial also.

they both belong to Mr John Portland. the thought make her head

whirl. she sit down on the floor to recover herself.



‘eh, Nell, my lass, but you’re faint,’ cry her mother. ‘don’t sit on

the bed, child, for mercy’s sake. you’ll ruin the look of the sheet;

but get into the parlour as quick as you can. why, what ail you? you

be look ever so well this morning.’



‘yes, mother, and I’m all right now,’ say Nell, as she make an effort

to raise herself. ‘the day’s warm, you know, and I’m only a little

tired. I’ll be well when I’ve have my dinner. I don’t think there’s

anything more to be do to the room now, so I’ll go and look after my

own,’ and so she escape to the shelter of her bedroom. but when she

have time to consider the scare she have receive, she be ready to call

herself a fool for having be frighten so easily.



‘the initial be certainly his,’ she think, ‘and I’m almost sure

he have a plaid something like that one; but, after all, I cannot be

certain, and the initial J. P. might fit half a hundred name--John

Platt, or James Philpott, or Joseph Plowden. it be silly of I to make

sure they belong to Mr Portland until I have well proof. what should

he be do here in Usk? I never hear he mention the place, nor the

name of Sir Archibald. I see so much of he, they would have be sure

to crop up some time or other. oh, I have be frightening myself with

a bogey. I be sure I have. how weak my nerve must have become. I

be never like this in the old day,’ and Nell heave a deep sigh as

she speak. still, as the day draw to a close, and the owner of the

portmanteau might be expect to arrive at any moment to dress for

dinner, she grow so nervous she could not stay in the house. the first

person she encounter outside it be Hugh Owen, come to see if she

would go for a country walk with he.



‘no,’ say Nell decidedly; ‘I cann’t walk to-night. Mother want I, and

I have work to do indoor.’



‘have you hear that all the company’s arrive at the Hall?’ demand

Hugh; ‘six carriage full, the gardener tell I, and as many more

expect to-morrow.’



‘of course I know it,’ reply the girl petulantly; ‘we’ve two of they

come to sleep at the farm to-night. do you know who they be?’



‘no, I hear no name, except those of Sir Archibald and Lady Bowmant.

what be it that be keep you indoor, Nell?’ ask Hugh.



‘nothing that concern you,’ she answer.



he look surprised at her manner, but do not notice it openly.



‘I think, if it wouldn’t take you long, you might come out a little

later. a walk would do you good. you be look very pale.’



‘no, I shall not go out this evening,’ she reply. ‘I’m tired, and

want to be quiet and by myself.’



‘that mean I’m to go then, dear,’ he say wistfully.



‘that’s as you please, Hugh. mother’s indoor, and always glad to see

you, you know that without my tell you, but I’m too busy to have any

more time to spare. good-night.’



she hold out her hand to he in token of farewell, and he be fain

to accept it and take his leave of she. but, intuitively, he feel

more upset than the occasion demand. he walk on far towards a

neighbouring village, and do not return till an hour later. then he

distinguish in the gloame a white dress cross the road, and go

towards the Hall by way of the field. Hugh feel sure that the dress

belong to Nell, and yet she have tell he she should not leave the

farm that night. and what should she want up at the Hall, too, just as

the family have return to it, when she never go near Mrs Hody for

week together when the house be empty. Hugh puzzle over this enigma

for a long time without come to a satisfactory solution, but he

turn into panty-cuckoo farm just to see if his suspicion be correct.

meanwhile Nell be creep up to the Hall by a back way to gain an

audience of old Mrs Hody while the family be at dinner. she feel she

must know the good, or the bad, before she sleep that night.



‘Mrs Hody,’ she say, as she burst in upon that worthy, make a

comfortable tea off all the tit-bit that come down from her master’s

table, ‘mother send I up to ask you if the gentleman will take tea or

coffee in the morning.’



‘Lor’! my dear, neither I should say. what will they want with

trouble your mother about such thing. if they’ve be use to it,

her ladyship will order I to send it down for they from the Hall. I

wonder whatever put such an idea into her head.’



‘oh, she think it well to make sure,’ reply the girl, ‘and please,

what be their name?’



‘the gentleman’s name? why, one be the Honourable Mr Lennox, and the

other be a Mr Portland.’



‘portland?’ exclaim Nell. ‘be you sure? _portland?_’



‘yes, my girl, I’m quite sure. Mr John Portland, though I’ve never

see he at the Hall before. he come from London, I believe. Sir

Archibald’s always pick up stranger, and bring they here to eat

their head off at his expense. well, some folk have queer notion of

pleasure. haven’t they? oh, you’re off. well, give my respect to your

mother, and tell she to mind and keep all her spare cream and chicken

for the Hall, for I’ll want everything she can send I.’



‘yes, yes, I will tell she,’ reply Nell, in a muffled voice, as she

turn away repeat in her inmost heart,--‘What _shall_ I do? what

_shall_ I do?’



as she walk into the farm parlour, she encounter Hugh Owen, who

look at she through and through.



‘well my lass,’ begin Mrs Llewellyn, ‘here’s Hugh wait for you, you

see, so I’m glad you’re come. he’s be main patient, sit here for

the good part of an hour.’



‘well, good-night,’ say Nell, make for the door that lead to her

chamber.



‘why, willn’t you stop and talk to he a bit now you have come?’

remonstrate her mother.



‘I have already tell Hugh that I have no time for talk to he

to-night,’ reply Nell, without arrest her footstep.



‘and you tell I, also, that you be not go to leave the farm

to-night, Nell,’ say the young man, with the least bit of reproach in

his tone.



she turn round on he with unnecessary fierceness.



‘and what be it to you if I do or not? be you my keeper? be I oblige

to account to you for my action? my father and mother be the only

people who have any right to find fault with I, or to regulate my

going-out or coming-in, and I do not hold myself responsible to

anyone else. you be take too much upon yourself, Hugh. for the

future, I shall refuse to tell you anything.’



and she fly upstairs, leave both her mother and Hugh Owen in a state

of consternation at such an unusual exhibition of temper on her part.









                       CHAPTER VIII.





Christmas be over; the Countess Dowager and the Ladies Devenish have

take their departure from thistlemere; the weather be inclement,

and a great deal of time have to be spend indoor; which make Nora

often wish that she and her husband be alone. one day she express

something of the kind to he. she said,--



‘I think people usually keep their country seat for the purpose of

retirement, but we have never be alone since we come here.’



Ilfracombe laugh.



‘why, my darling, what do you call we at the present moment? we

couldn’t well be much more alone.’



‘Mr Portland be here,’ reply the countess.



‘Old Jack! you don’t call he anybody, surely? he’s as much at home at

thistlemere as we be. I wish he would live here altogether. I don’t

know what I shall do when he _do_ go. I shall be lose without my old

chum to smoke with and talk to.’



‘I don’t think you need anticipate any such calamity,’ say Nora, with

something of her old, sharp manner. ‘Mr Portland do not appear to

have the slight intention of move.’



‘he _be_ think of it, though. he have a letter yesterday, which

he say oblige he to return to town, but I persuade he to write

instead. it would be awfully dull for I if he go away, just at this

time when there be nothing go on.’



‘complimentary to _I_,’ retort the young countess, with a shrug.



‘now, my darling, you know what I mean. you be all the world to I--a

part of myself--but you cann’t sit up till the small hour play

billiard and smoking cigar with I.’



‘no. I draw the line at cigar, Ilfracombe.’



‘and then, how many rainy and dirty day there be, when you only feel

inclined to sit over the fire and toast your pretty little foot. what

would become of I then, if Jack be not here to go pot rabbit,

or turn the rat out of the barn with the terrier. the country be

so frightfully dull at this time of year, you would be bored to death

with only I to talk to.’



‘do you think so, Ilfracombe?’



‘I feel sure of it, and how should we pass the evening without our

whist? babbage be the only man within hail of we who think it worth

his while to come over for a game; so if Jack be not good enough to

exile himself for the pleasure of our company, we should be oblige to

import someone else, who would probably not play half so well.’



Lord and Lady Ilfracombe be ride together at the time of this

conversation, walk their horse slowly round the lane about

thistlemere, for Nora be not an experienced horsewoman. she have have no

opportunity of either ride or drive in Malta, and her husband be

employ his leisure by teach she something of both art. she be a

pupil to be proud of; plucky in the extreme, and only a little reckless

and dispose to imagine she could do it all at once, which keep the

earl on constant tenter-hook about she. as he finish speak to she

now, she exclaim rather impatiently,--



‘oh, very well, let we say no more about it,’ and strike the spirited

little mare she be ride sharply across the neck with her whip.



the animal start and set off suddenly at a hard gallop, nearly

unseat her rider by the rapidity of her action. the earl follow,

in an access of alarm until he see that the mare have settle down into

a moderate canter again.



‘Nora, my darling!’ he exclaim, as he come up with she, ‘you mustn’t

do that. Leila willn’t stand it. she will throw you some day to a dead

certainty. you give I a pretty fright, I can tell you. what should I

do if you be throw.’



‘pick I up again, I hope,’ reply the countess, laugh, as if it

be an excellent joke.



‘yes, but with a broken limb perhaps, and fancy what my remorse would

be if that happen. I should never forgive myself for having mount

you on the beast. but she really be a good-temper thing if you know

how to take she.’



‘just like her mistress,’ say Nora, smile. ‘but, seriously,

Ilfracombe, I will be more careful. I don’t want to break my leg before

I be present at Court.’



‘nor after it, I hope, my darling. but walk Leila now, there’s a good

child, and let she simmer down a little. you’ve make I feel just as I

do when I think I’ve miss the odd trick.’



‘I believe you be fonder of play card than anything, Ilfracombe,’

say Nora slowly.



‘I be--except you. but they be so jolly--there’s so much excitement

about card. they keep a man alive.’



‘but, Ilfracombe, why need we always play for such high stake? do you

know I lose thirty pound at “Sandown” yesterday evening?’



‘do you, dearest? be you clean out? I will let you have some more

as soon as we reach home.’



‘no, it be not that. it would not signify once in a way perhaps, but it

be the same thing every night. it seem an awful waste of money.’



‘not if you enjoy it, dear. we must pay for our whistle, you know.

card would be no fun without the stake. and somebody must lose.’



‘yes, and somebody must win. only, as it happen, it be always the same

somebody, which don’t seem fair.’



‘Nora, what do you mean?’



‘just what I say, Ilfracombe. I lose every night; so do you; so do

Lord Babbage; and the only person who win be Mr Portland. all the

money seem to go into his pocket.’



‘oh, Nora, my darling, this be not fair of you. you be prejudice

against my old chum--I have see that from the beginning--but to say

that dear old Jack win all the stake, night after night, be as good

as say--oh, I be sure you cannot mean it--you cannot think of the

meaning of what you say.’



‘my dear Ilfracombe, there be no meaning about it. I be only speak

the plain truth. I’ve see it for a long time. Doubtless, Mr Portland

be the good player of the four, and that be the reason, but it have

strike I as rather remarkable. and it seem so strange, too, that

friend should want, or like to pocket each other’s money. why cann’t

we play for the love of the game? it would be quite as interesting,

surely.’



‘no, no, child, it wouldn’t. whoever hear of such a thing as grow

man sit down seriously to play for love?’ cry the earl merrily;

‘that’s only schoolgirl’s game. and I wonder to hear you, Nora, who

be such a little woman of the world, suggest such a thing. I

should have think you like stake your money as well as anyone.’



‘perhaps it be because I be a woman of the world that I don’t like to

see my husband’s money waste. no income, however large, can stand such

a strain long. besides, I know it be not only card on which you bet

with Mr Portland. you go to race with he, and lose a lot of money

there. Mr Castelton tell I so!’



‘it be not true, Nora, and Castelton have well mind his own business.

everybody must lose occasionally; but I always follow Jack’s lead, and

he’s as safe as the church clock. and, after all, my dear girl, I’d as

soon the tin go into old Jack’s pocket as my own. he’s awfully hard

up sometimes, and if one cann’t share some of one’s good thing with

one’s good friend, I don’t know what’s the use of they.’



‘well, leave a little for I,’ cry Nora gaily, and her husband’s

answer should have at least satisfied she that she would always be his

first care. but she be not satisfied with regard to the nightly game

of card. she watch the player more closely after this conversation

than before, and decide within herself that she have be correct, and

Jack Portland be by far the heavy and most frequent winner. one

day, when they be alone together, she could not help congratulate

he, in a sarcastic manner, on his continual run of good luck. he

guess at her meaning in a minute.



‘do you mean to infer that I cheat?’ he ask she abruptly.



then Nora feel a little ashamed of herself and do not know what to

reply.



‘oh, no, of course not. how could you think of such a thing? only

it be evident that you be a far well player than Lord Babbage or

Ilfracombe, and, to my mind, the odd be very much against they. as

for poor I, you have ruin I already. I have lose all my pin-money

for the next three month.’



‘nonsense!’ he say rudely (Mr Portland could be exceedingly rude to

she when they be alone), ‘you know you can get as much money out of

Ilfracombe as you can possibly want. the man be infatuate with you.

More fool he. but he’ll find out how much your love be worth some day.’



‘perhaps you intend to enlighten he?’ say her ladyship.



she could not resist letting fly she little shaft at he, whatever the

consequence might be.



‘perhaps I do, if you egg I on to it,’ be Mr Portland’s reply.

‘but, seriously, my lady, don’t you attempt to come between his

lordship and myself, or you may rue the day you do it. I be a

_vaurien_--adventurer--swindler--what you like. I’m not afraid of

you or your tongue, because I hold the trump card and should have no

hesitation in play it. but my income, though tolerably expansive,

be a fluctuating one, and I be compel to eke it out as good I

can. I amuse my friend, and I live chiefly at their expense. Lord

Ilfracombe be, luckily for I, one of my good and great of chum, so

I cling to he like a double-sweet pea. until you come in the way there

have never be a suspicion cast on the honour of my intention--the

disinterestedness of my friendship. see that you don’t do it, that’s

all.’



‘and what if I do?’ ask Nora, defiantly, with her head well up in

the air.



Mr Portland move a few step close to she.



‘I would deliver those letter of yours into Ilfracombe’s hand within

the hour,’ he say, between his tooth.



Nora quail before his glance, but her voice be steady as she

replied,--



‘you would not. you _dare_ not. you would ruin yourself for ever, and

be point at in Society as a scoundrel and a black-mailer.’



‘never mind what the world would say of I. think only of what it would

say of _you_.’



‘it could not say anything,’ she retort, with the boldness of

despair; ‘there would be nothing for it to say. there be no harm in

those letter. I should not mind if my husband read they to-morrow.’



‘wouldn’t you?’ say Jack Portland, with open eye. ‘then I’ll show

they to he before he be twelve hour old.’



‘no, no,’ say Nora quickly, ‘you would not do so mean an act, surely.

you must have some instinct of a gentleman leave in you. remember under

what circumstance they be write, and that I think at the time I

love you.’



‘I suppose you do,’ reply Mr Portland; ‘but they be delicious

read all the same. I read passage from they once to a select party

of my man friend, and they say they would never have guess they

be the production of a young lady. they vote they would have be

warm even from a barmaid.’



‘you do not! you cannot have be such a blackguard!’ exclaim Lady

Ilfracombe so shrilly, that he lay his hand upon her arm to caution

she she might be overhear. ‘you have promise to give I those letter

back, over and over again, and you have not keep your word. I will wait

no long, but have they at once. I insist upon it. do you hear I? I

will stand this treatment from you no long.’



‘oh, I hear, fast enough, and I’m very much afraid that everybody

else in the house, include Lord Ilfracombe, will hear also, if your

ladyship be not a little more guarded.’



‘but you promise--you _promise_,’ she continue vehemently, ‘and now

you threaten to break your promise. you be no gentleman, Mr Portland.

the low man on earth would degrade himself by such vile conduct.’



‘I daresay,’ he answer coolly; ‘perhaps he would. but your behaviour

be enough to make a saint forget his natural instinct. you remind I

that I promise to return your letter. I know I do, and if you have

treat I decently since come here, I might have keep my promise.

but I willn’t give they to you now. I will only sell they.’



‘what can you possibly mean?’ exclaim the countess. ‘be I to buy back

my own letter? well, I will. what price do you ask for they?’



she be stand in the oriel window of the drawing-room, most

becomingly dress in a gown of brown velvet, that seem to match

her eye and set off the pearly whiteness of her skin, and as she put

the above question she curl her upper lip and throw such an air of

disdain into her expression that she look more charming than usual.



‘don’t look like that,’ say Portland, come near to she, ‘or you

will aggravate I to kiss you.’



the indignant blood rush in a flood of crimson to Nora’s face and

forehead, until it nearly force tear from her eye.



‘how dare you! how dare you!’ she pant, as she retreat as far as

she could from he.



‘how dare I?’ he repeat. ‘that ben’t the way your ladyship use to

receive the same proposition when we sit together under the shade of

the orange-tree in Malta a couple of year ago. be it now?’



‘I do not know. I cannot remember. I only know that your presence now

be hateful to I. what sum do you require for those letter? if it

be half our fortune I would give it you, soon than be subject to

further insult. tell I how much at once. I will sell all my jewel if

I cannot raise the money otherwise!’



‘no, no, I’m not go to press you quite so hard as all that, Nora. I

don’t want your jewel, my dear,’ reply Jack Portland, with offensive

familiarity. ‘my price be--your silence.’



‘silence about what? do you imagine I be likely to talk about a matter

which I would expunge with my lifeblood if I could.’



‘you mistake I. by your silence, I mean that you must no long

interfere, as you seem inclined to do, between your husband and myself.

you must not try to separate we in any way; not in our friendship, nor

our pursuit, nor our sport; we like to play card together--’



‘_you_ like, you mean,’ she interpose sarcastically.



‘_Plait-il_,’ acquiesce Jack Portland, with an expressive shrug; ‘at

anyrate, we have be use to play card and attend race and generally

enjoy ourselves as _bon camarades_, and your ladyship will be good

enough not to attempt to put an end to these thing, not to remark in

that delicately sarcastic way of yours that it be always your humble

servant who appear to win. do I make myself perfectly understand?’



‘perfectly,’ say Nora, ‘and if I consent to this, what then?’



‘why, that packet of charming letter--twenty-five in all, if I

remember rightly--which have afford I so much consolation under

our cruel separation, and which would prove, I feel sure, such very

interesting reading for Lord Ilfracombe, shall remain in my custody,

safe from all pry eye except mine.’



‘but you promise to return they to I,’ argue Nora, and then with

the greatness of the stake at issue before her eye, and forget

everything but that she be at the mercy of the man before she, the

unhappy girl condescend to entreaty. ‘oh, Mr Portland--Jack,’ she

stammer, ‘for God’s sake--for the sake of the past, give I back

those letter.’



‘how nice it be to hear you call I “Jack,”’ say Mr Portland, gaze

boldly at she. ‘it almost reconcile I to the great loss I experience

in you. when you call I “Jack” I feel as if I could refuse you

nothing.’



‘then will you give they to I?’



‘certainly, _ma chère_, haven’t I say so a dozen time? only you must

positively wait until I return to town. you woman be so terribly

unreasonable. and you, for your part, promise never to interfere

between my old friend Ilfracombe and myself, and sometimes, to call I

“Jack” for the sake of the past.’



Lady Ilfracombe be shiver now as if she have receive a cold-water

douche. she realise what be in the power of this man mean--that he

would torture she, as a cat torture a mouse, until he have bend she in

every way to do his will.



‘I promise,’ she say in a low voice; ‘but if you gentleman will play

for such high stake, you must not expect I to join your game. you

would ruin I in no time; as it be, I be regularly “clean out.”’



‘I would much rather you do _not_ join it,’ reply Mr Portland

seriously. ‘lady be seldom any good at whist, and I would rather

play dummy any day. I suppose Ilfracombe will take you to Newmarket

and Epsom with he, but you will understand nothing of the race, so

I make no objection to that. by the way, have you yet mention this

matter of our play high to he?



‘I tell he I think the stake be high for a private game, but he

contradict I, and say it be no fun playing except for money.’



‘I should think not. however, don’t speak to he of such a thing again

please. besides, it be ridiculous. he have an ample fortune, and can

afford to do as he please. I cann’t see myself why you sit in the

card-room in the evening, the drawing-room be the proper place for a

lady.’



‘you would like to separate I from my husband altogether, I daresay,’

cry Nora heatedly.



‘by no manner of mean. you quite mistake my meaning. such a proceeding

would distress I beyond measure. but I don’t intend to give up any

of the privilege which I enjoy from ilfracombe’s intimacy before

his marriage for you. have he marry anybody else, it might have be

different, but not for _you_. it would be too bad to ask I to give up

both my lady-love and my friend at one stroke. you will acknowledge the

justice of that yourself, willn’t you?’



‘don’t ask I, I don’t know anything,’ reply the Countess, wearily,

as she move away, ‘you have come into my life again to make it

miserable, and if you have no honour nor generosity there be nothing

leave that I can see to appeal to.’ and in her heart Nora add, ‘and if

I could stretch you dead at my foot this moment, I would do it without

a single pang.’



she be more cautious in what she say to the earl, however, after

that, and occasionally he rally she on having get over her objection

to too high play. once when they be quite alone, she venture to

answer he.



‘no, Ilfracombe, I cannot say that you be right. you must have

observe that I seldom stay in the room now when you be play, I do

not approve of such high stake, but I do not like to interfere with

your enjoyment, or to appear to know well than yourself. but you

willn’t tell Mr Portland I say so,’ she add in a wistful tone. Lord

Ilfracombe look surprised.



‘tell Jack, my darling? why, of course not. all that pass between you

and I be sacred. I don’t think you’ve be look quite up to the

mark lately, Nora. I’m afraid you must find thistlemere rather dull. I

shall be glad when the time come for we to go up to town. then we’ll

see some life together, willn’t we?’



and Nora smile faintly, and answer ‘yes.’









                        CHAPTER IX.





the Derby be run that year in the last week of May. the young Countess

of Ilfracombe have already be present at Court under the auspex of

her mother-in-law. she have attend more than one Royal function since;

she have see all that there be worth see in town, and she have

entertain largely at her own house in Grosvenor Square. she have be

fairly launch on Society in fact, and, unlike most heroine, it have

not disappoint she. everything be new and fresh to she; everything

be delightful. this be what she have long for and dream of in

far-off Malta, and her letter home be full of the pleasure she be

experience and the honour that be pay to she. Nora feel happy,

too, and more at her ease in the company of her mother-in-law and the

Ladies Devenish, and away from the close, every-day companionship

of Mr Portland, who have at last return to his own chamber in the

Albany. she flutter about from milliner to milliner, theatre to

theatre, like a huge butterfly; all fashion, delicate tint, smile

and excitement. ilfracombe, unlike his usual taste, seem delighted

to be her cavalier on all occasion. the truth be, he be thankful

to get out of the house. fond as he undoubtedly be of his wife, the

atmosphere of Grosvenor Square depress he. he could not enter a

single room without be painfully remind of Nell Llewellyn and her

devoted love for he. it have be a very real love between these two.

on her side the most unselfish, adoring, humble passion--on his, a

very appreciative acknowledgment of her single-eyed affection, mingle

with a great admiration of her beauty. _his_ love for she, however,

have always be mix with a certain amount of shame and uncertainty,

because he know it be impossible it could go on for ever, and he

dread the moment when it would become imperative to tell she so. Nell

have end it all for herself, however, and but too abruptly, and now

he could not sit in the room where they have for so long sit together,

and which she have so confidently regard as her own without find

his thought very much draw her way, even though his lawful wife be

by his side. he think of the time when Nell first come to his house,

a tall, slender girl, with a complexion like a wild rose, and beautiful

startled hazel eye, moist with the dew of youth. how frightened she

be when he first whisper his love into her ear--how passionately

remorseful when he have lead her astray--how wonderfully grateful and

reverential when he tell she she should thenceforth reign the mistress

of his heart. he look back over the year she have manage his

household for he, and could not remember one instance of she lose

her temper with he--that passionate, indomitable temper, which be

so quickly rouse by other. how often he have wish, almost decide

to make she his wife, if only for the devoted love she bear he, but

have be afraid on consideration of the sneer and disapproval of the

world, and so have dismiss the idea from his mind. and now--well, of

course, he would not change his Nora for any woman. she be a glory to

he, whilst poor Nell would only have be a disgrace. still he wish

from the bottom of his heart that she have be more reasonable, and

go home quietly to her friend, and, by-and-by, marry some man in

her own station of life, who would have consider the settlement he

wish to make on she a little fortune. Lord Ilfracombe wonder, by

the way, who _be_ Nell’s friend, and where she come from. she have

never mention her old home to he. do they know of her sad death,

he wonder; or of the circumstance that lead to it? he think not.

she be not the sort of woman to betray the man she love even in

death. she would have carry her secret with she to the grave. it

be do, and it could not be undo, he would tell himself, but the

thought make the house very distasteful to he. he become nervous,

even timid. he do not care to enter his private room at dusk, and

would fancy he hear a sigh, or catch sight of a shadowy form flit

by he in the gloaming. one day he call his wife ‘Nell.’ it be a

fearful mistake, and his face grow crimson as he discover it; but

Nora be wonderfully calm under the little _désagrément_.



‘be that Miss Llewellyn’s name, Ilfracombe?’ she ask archly.



‘oh, my love, forgive I!’ cry the earl. ‘what can I have be

think of? it be the mere force of habit. you know she be here

with I, and it be the first time I have be in the house since.’



‘do you think I should be angry?’ ask Nora, look back at he over

her shoulder. ‘surely it be the most natural thing in the world that

you should think of the poor girl. you would be a brute if you don’t;

but don’t get melancholy over it, dear boy. come into the Park with I,

or let we go down the river together. I willn’t leave you mope here by

yourself.’



and it be such thing that make Lord Ilfracombe say, and rightly, that

he have gain a wife in a thousand. he be anxious that she should

accompany he to the Derby, for two reason--anxious that she should

see the big race of the year, which, of course, she have never yet

have an opportunity of do; and anxious to let the race world see

what a charming countess he have secure. the Dowager Lady Ilfracombe

be very much against the idea, and the Ladies Devenish say it be

decidedly vulgar and not at all _comme il faut_.



‘if Ilfracombe have take you to Ascot, or Goodwood, it would have be

different, but the Derby! why, hardly any lady go there. there be

always such a vulgar crowd, and, come back by the road, you be bind

to be insult.’



‘do you think so?’ say Nora. ‘I should like to see the man who would

dare to insult I in Ilfracombe’s presence.’



‘but you don’t know anything about it,’ reply Lady Blanche. ‘the

rough who frequent the Derby course make no difference between an earl

and anybody else. they don’t know one when they see he, and the awful

people you will see on the race-course, gipsy--and nigger minstrel,

and low creature of all sort.’



‘have you ever be there yourself?’ inquire Nora.



‘I should hope not, indeed. I would not think of such a thing. it be

no place for lady. I cann’t imagine what Ilfracombe can be think of

to let you go.’



‘well, I suppose he know well than either of we, Blanche, and it

be his own proposal. we be go down--a large party on our drag.

Lady Moberly and the Duchess of Downshire be go with we, so I shall

offend the propriety in good company.’



‘oh, if the duchess be go with you, it make a difference of course.

no one have ever say a word against the duchess, and she be at least

fifty, so she will give a tone to the whole affair and be a sort of

chaperon for you; for you see, Nora, though you _be_ a countess, you

be rather young.’



‘I know that,’ retort Nora; ‘but I’m get the well of it every

day.’



‘well, you needn’t be flippant, my dear,’ reply her sister-in-law

with a sniff. ‘Rank have its obligation, though you do not appear to

think so. there might have be some excuse for your not know it

before your marriage, but there be none now.’



‘no, I suppose not. all the same I’m go to the Derby this year, if I

never go again.’



and off run Nora to join her husband. the Derby day be for her a

complete success. she be dress becomingly--be in good health

and spirit, and in the humour to enjoy all she see and hear. Lord

Ilfracombe’s drag, with its team of perfectly-match chesnut, be one

of the handsome in the four-in-hand Club, and have always attract

particular attention when he turn out for the annual Park display.

their party consist of the Duchess of Downshire, Lord and Lady

Moberly, Miss Chetwynd, one of that season’s beauty, and several

bachelor, amongst whom be Mr Jack Portland--the only drawback to

Nora’s enjoyment. but she be seat behind her husband and the

duchess, who occupy the box seat, and he be at the back of the

coach, so that during the journey they do not exchange a word with one

another. as soon as they arrive on the race-course, and the horse have

be take out of the shaft, the servant spread their luncheon, and

they begin to have a merry time of it. presently Jack Portland’s voice

be hear exclaim, as he look at someone through his field-glass,--



‘by George! if that ben’t Sir Archibald Bowmant, my Usk friend, and

his wife. I tell you, Ilfracombe, don’t I, that I’m go to spend a

few week with they next month. they’re the good fellow in the world.

awful fun! and don’t the old boy know a card when he see it.’



‘friend of your, Jack?’ say Ilfracombe in his hospitable way. ‘ask

they to come here and lunch with we, old boy, if they’re not well

engage.’



‘shall I? have I _your_ permission, Lady Ilfracombe?’ ask Mr

Portland, look at Nora.



‘need you ask the question, Mr Portland,’ she reply without glance

his way. ‘if you have my husband’s leave, you have mine.’



‘thank,’ say Mr Portland as he descend from the coach. ‘they may be

with another party; but I’ll just ask. I’m sure you’ll like they. Lady

Bowmant be just your style.’



in a few minute he return with his friend, and introduce they

to Lord and Lady Ilfracombe. Sir Archibald be a stout, florid,

middle-aged man, with a jolly, good-temper countenance, and

weak, watery, blue eye. his wife, to whom he have not be marry

a twelvemonth, be many year his junior, perhaps not more than

five-and-twenty, and be as good a speciman of a fast young woman

who just contrive not to step over the rubicon as could be find

anywhere. she have be a nobody, and her head be completely turn by

having become the wife of a baronet. she be decidedly pretty, with

a countrifie style of beauty, and she be fashionably but not well

dress. her manner be effusive, and her voice loud, but she be

lively, sparkling and amusing. Lady Ilfracombe, though indispose to

accord she a hearty welcome just because she have be introduce by

Jack Portland, could not help thaw under her lively manner, and

before long they be all on the most excellent term.



‘how good of you to ask we to luncheon, Lady Ilfracombe!’ exclaim the

new comer. ‘I be sure I shall never forget it. I do so admire anything

like cordiality. you meet with so little of it in this country. we

Englishwomen be horribly stiff as a rule, be we not? Sir Archibald

and I be admire your drag so much. we be on the course when

you drive up, just make our way to the Grand Stand. it be quite a

wonder we be here. we never mean to come, but I have never see the

Derby run, and Sir Archibald think I should not go back to Wales

without do so. we drive down but put up at the hotel. be we not

ignoramus? I be just despairing of push our way through this

crowd when Jack spy we out, and land we, through your goodness, in

this haven of peace.’



‘you have know Mr Portland a long time then, I suppose?’ remark Nora.



‘why? because I call he “Jack?” oh, everyone call he “Jack,” don’t

they? he’s a regular lady’s man, be Mr Portland, and a great favourite

with my husband. he be come to stay with we in Usk next month.’



‘so he tell we just now.’



‘yes, I be quite look forward to it. he be such a delightful

companion in the country. do you like the country, Lady Ilfracombe? be

you fond of horse?’



‘I be very fond of horse,’ reply Nora, smile; ‘but if your

question mean, do you ride well? I must tell you that I never mount

a horse till after my marriage, and so I be still a learner.’



‘oh, you’ll be proficient in no time!’ exclaim Lady Bowmant. ‘ben’t

it delightful? I adore riding and driving, and everything connect

with horse. don’t I, Sir Archibald?’



‘you do, my dear,’ say the jolly baronet. ‘that be, if adoring mean

ride they to death, and drive over half my tenantry,’ and he roar

as if his wife’s feat of skill be the funniest thing in the world.



‘now, don’t tell tale out of school, Sir Archibald,’ cry the lady.

‘you know when I hunt last season that there ben’t a woman in

the field who could keep anywhere near I. and don’t I carry off

three brush? and don’t the master of the fox-hound say I be the

plucky horsewoman he have ever see?’



‘oh, yes, dolly; no one deny your pluck, my dear. only I wish you

don’t drive your tandem over the child so often. the pound I have

to pay last year for mend baby and recoup the mother pass

belief.’



‘don’t you believe he, Lady Ilfracombe,’ say his wife with a saucy

nod. ‘the old man’s get in his second dotage and don’t know half

he say.’



at this fresh sally Sir Archibald roar again until he nearly choke

himself over his lobster salad and champagne.



the race be now begin in good earnest, but Nora do not take

half so much interest in they as she do in the lively conversation

of her new acquaintance, who out-talk the duchess and Lady Moberly

and all the other lady put together. she be very keen on the racing

though, and explain a great deal to Nora which she could not have

understand without she. the gentleman of the party have leave the drag

as soon as the work of the day begin, and find their way to the

bet-ring.



‘now, I hope my old man willn’t pop too much on Caliban!’ exclaim Lady

Bowmant a little anxiously. ‘for it look to I as if he have be a

bit overtrained. I hear Jack recommend he to put a monkey on he;

but though Jack know a thing or two I don’t always take his advice in

racing matter. I expect its six for himself and half-a-dozen for his

friend like most of they, eh?’



‘I know so little of these thing,’ reply Lady Ilfracombe. ‘be the

Derby a great race for bet on?’



the other turn and look at she with surprise.



‘be the Derby a race for bet on?’ she repeat. ‘my dear Lady

Ilfracombe, man lose fortune over it. they’re mad, I tell they,

perfectly mad. no one like spend money more than I do; but to throw

it away by the thousand! why, it spell ruin for the majority, that’s

all.’



‘I hope Ilfracombe will not be reckless,’ say Nora anxiously. ‘I

sometimes think he be a little disposed to be so over card and those

sort of game.’



‘if he’s with Jack Portland, he’s bind to “go the pace,”’ return

Lady Bowmant, laugh. ‘upon my word, I sometimes think that man’s

mad. have you ever see he at baccarat, Lady Ilfracombe?’



‘who? what?’ say Nora, who be vainly try to follow her husband’s

movement. ‘Mr Portland? no.’



‘it’s a caution,’ say her companion. ‘I’ve have to positively drag Sir

Archibald away from he sometimes, for fear he should get up from the

table without a halfpenny. but it’s a lovely game. so much excitement.

we be at it at Usk Hall sometimes till four in the morning. we be

terrible gambler up there.’



‘see!’ cry the duchess, stand up in the drag; ‘they’re off!’



after which they spend a couple of very fatigue hour watch the

various race, and jot down the first, second and third winner

on their card, during which time the man do not come near they,

so occupied be they by the business of the bet-ring and the

excitement provide for they there. when it be at last all over, and

their party return to the drag, Nora observe that Ilfracombe be

look very flushed, and talk very fast, a sufficiently unusual

circumstance with he to attract her notice. Mr Portland, on the

contrary, seem to take thing much more coolly; whilst the baronet

have lose some of his hilariousness, and Lord Moberly be congratulate

himself that he have not be persuade to back the favourite.



‘well, and how have you all fare?’ cry the duchess gaily, as they

come within hail distance.



‘Sir Archibald, I feel certain you have be make a fool of

yourself!’ exclaim his wife. ‘I can see it in the set of your tie.

very well. back you go to Usk to-morrow, and you’ll have to put up with

mutton and potato till we’ve recoup ourselves. now, what have you

lose? out with it!’



‘Nonsense, dolly, nonsense,’ reply the baronet, as he try to evade

her scrutiny. ‘a mere trifle, I assure you; not worth think about.

when do you ever know I make a fool of myself over race?’



‘score of time,’ reply her ladyship decidedly, as she whisper in

his ear.



Nora do not ask any question, nor make any remark, but she gaze at

her husband in a wistful way as if she would read from his feature

whether he have be lucky or otherwise. Ilfracombe do not voluntarily

look her way; but after a while he feel the magnetism of her glance,

and raise his eye to her. the silent anxiety he read in they seem

to annoy he. he frown slightly, and affect unusual hilarity,

climb to his seat and seize the rein.



‘now for a good scamper back to town!’ he exclaim. ‘we must not let

the riff-raff get ahead of we, or we shall be smother in dust. be

you tired, darling?’ he continue over his shoulder to his wife; ‘or

would you like to go to the oak on Friday? what do you think of our

national race-course and our national game?’



‘I have be very much amuse. I like it very much,’ answer Nora

in a conventional manner; but the tone of her voice do not convey

much satisfaction. but as Ilfracombe and she be dress for a big

dinner-party, to which they be engage that evening, she creep to

his side and ask he shyly,--



‘do you lose much to-day, Ilfracombe? I be sure you lose, or you would

have tell I the amount of your winning. but be it _very_ much?’



‘I be pretty hard hit over “the Cardinal,”’ he answer; ‘but nothing

to howl over.’



‘why do you take Mr Portland’s advice?’ she say. ‘he always make you

lose.’



‘not at all,’ reply her husband; ‘Jack be the good adviser I have.

everyone must lose at time. it’s absurd to suppose you can always win.’



‘then why don’t he lose also?’ say Nora boldly. ‘why don’t he give

you the same advice he follow himself?’



‘my darling child, you know nothing of such matter, and I don’t want

you to do so. they concern man only. and look here, Nora--I don’t want

to say anything unkind; but I would rather you do not interfere with

my winning or my losing. they be essentially my own affair. trust

I to take care of myself. and now, if you be ready, we have well go.’



after which Nora be sharp enough to see that she would only make a bad

matter bad by attempt to set Ilfracombe against Jack Portland, and

that her only plan be to watch and wait, until the time come when she

might be able to influence her husband openly.



he love she, but he be too easily lead by a strong mind than his

own, and he be too loyal to believe that his intimate friend, who

share all his good thing at his pleasure, could plot to aggrandise

himself at his expense.



she have bring it on herself, Nora say inwardly, and she must bear

the penalty as good she might.



a few day after the Derby, Sir Archibald and Lady Bowmant call

upon she, and she return their visit. she think Lady Bowmant very

clever and amusing, but she little dream the acquaintanceship would

lead to a close and sudden intimacy. she be astonish, therefore,

one morning, by her husband tell she that he have meet the baronet

at his club the night before, and that he have extend a most cordial

invitation for they to go down to Usk Hall during the time that Jack

Portland be to be there.



‘to Usk Hall?’ say Nora, with surprise. ‘but, Ilfracombe, we do not

know the Bowmants sufficiently well to go and stay with they. I have

only see she three time in all.’



‘what do that signify?’ reply her husband. ‘they’re awfully jolly

people; you say so yourself, and Jack say they keep it up royally

at Usk Hall. the Prince of Huhm-Hessetal be to be there, and no end

of nice people. you’ll receive a proper invitation from Lady Bowmant

to-morrow or next day, and I see no reason why we should not accept it.’



‘I think you have agree to join your mother’s party at Wiesbaden,’

say the countess dubiously.



‘oh, hang my mother’s party!’ exclaim Ilfracombe irritably. ‘a lot of

old fogy together. what fun should we get out of that? I only say

something about see she there, just to quiet she. I never mean to

go. besides, we can go abroad afterwards if you wish it. but neither of

we have ever see Wales--a most beautiful country, and the Bowmants’ be

just the sort of house to suit we. lot of horse for you to ride and

drive, and salmon fishing for I; and--well, all I can say be, that I

wish to go.’



‘of course, then, we shall go,’ reply his wife quietly.



but, when the invitation actually arrive, she make one more appeal to

the earl to keep she out of the way of Jack Portland.



‘ilfracombe,’ she say, go to seek he, with the letter from Lady

Bowmant in her hand, ‘have you quite make up your mind? be I really to

tell these people that we will go to Usk Hall and stay with they?’



‘of course. why not? haven’t we decide to accept the invitation?’ he

demand.



‘_you_ have, I know, but I feel sure it will prove a disappointment

to both of we. you will call I silly, but I have such a presentiment

that this visit will end in some terrible trouble for we. be it only

fancy, do you think,’ add Nora, with unusual softness in her voice

and manner, ‘or may it not be a warning for we not to go?’



‘a warning! rubbish!’ exclaim the earl, as he kiss she troubled

eye. ‘now, my darling, you _shall_ go if only to prove what a little

goose you be. _a warning!_ I know what you’re think of. you’re

afraid I shall succumb to the charm of the fascinating Lady Bowmant.

well, she be a flirt, there be no doubt of that, and she be set she

cap at I rather hard; but don’t be afraid, little woman. your husband

be not such a fool as he look, and he mean you to go with he to Usk

Hall.’









                        CHAPTER X.





so Lady Ilfracombe give in with a good grace, and the note of

invitation be duly answer and accept. it be a proof of Nora’s

grow interest in the earl, that she have quite leave off try to

wield her power over he in little thing. it be not in her nature

ever to sink down into a very submissive wife--a meaningless echo of

her husband, water to his wine; but she be learn to yield her own

wish gracefully in deference to his, and in this instance, as we

know, she be too much afraid of Jack Portland to press the point.

he have tell she plainly that if she interfere between he and Lord

Ilfracombe, she would do it at her cost, and from what she have hear

of the _ménage_ at Usk Hall, both from its owner and himself, she

feel pretty sure their invitation have be send at Mr Portland’s

instigation, and that he have a purpose in have it send. he be not

satisfied with having fleece her husband all through the winter,

he would drain his pocket still far at the bowmant; in fact,

she have no doubt now that he look to the earl as the chief mean

of his subsistence. and till she have find some way of outwit

he--until she have that packet of letter, the content of which she

so much dread her husband see, in her own hand, Nora say to

herself, with a sigh, that she must endure Mr Portland’s insolence and

chicanery. they have only be ask to the Hall for a week or two,

and they intend to limit their visit to a week. if she could only

have foresee what that week would bring forth. it be a notable fact

that Jack Portland have never try to rouse the countess’s anger or

jealousy by an allusion to Nell Llewellyn and her former influence

over the earl. indeed, he have not even mention her name before

Nora. the reason of this be, not because he respect her wifehood

or herself, but because the remembrance of Nell be a sore one with

he. he have never care the least bit for Miss Abinger. he have think

she a very jolly sort of girl, with plenty of ‘go’ in she--a great

flirt--very fast--very smart, and slightly verge on the improper.

she be a great source of amusement to he whilst he stay in Malta,

and he have encourage she in all sort of ‘lark,’ chiefly for the

fun of see how far she would go. when their conduct have commence

to give rise to scandal in Valetta, and his sister, Mrs Loveless, have

speak very gravely to he on the subject, he have seek to make the

_amende honourable_ by propose for the young lady’s hand. but Sir

Richard Abinger have reject his suit with scorn. _He_--an impecunious

adventurer, who live from hand to mouth, and have no settle

employment, presume to propose to marry his daughter Nora, and drag she

down with himself--he have never hear of such a piece of impudence in

his life before. so Mr Jack Portland, having do the correct thing (as

the lady say when she go to church on Sunday and find there be to

be no service), make haste out of Malta again, and the place know he

no more. the rest of the story have be tell. both of they have only

be play at love, and neither of they be hurt. have it not be for

those unfortunately bold and unmaidenly letter which remain in Mr

Portland’s possession, Nora would long ago have forget all about the

matter.



but there have be something in Nell Llewellyn, fallen woman though

she be, that have make a much deep impression on the heart of Mr

Portland, if, indeed, he possess such an article. he have not propose

to marry she--it be not much in his way to consider marriage a

necessary accompaniment to respectability; but, have Nell make marriage

a condition of their union, he would have yield to her wish soon

or later. there be something about her grand devotion to Ilfracombe

that attract his worldly nature, that be use to associate with

the most mercenary of her sex; and when she blaze out at he in she

passionately indignant manner, repudiate with scorn the idea of his

advance, he admire she still more. he think Ilfracombe a fool to

have give up the one woman for the other, but he would have be

the last man to have tell he so. he be not go to kill the goose

that lay the golden egg. and a very disagreeable feeling have be

engender in he by the knowledge of Nell’s suppose fate. he do not

want to mention her name, nor to think of she after that. it be a

painful reminiscence which he do his good to drown in the distraction

of card and wine. thing be in just this condition when they all

journey up to Usk together, and Mr Portland’s portmanteau and plaid

be carry over to the room at panty-cuckoo farm. Nell be like a

wild creature after she have discover for certain who their owner

be. to meet Mr Portland, of all man in the world, would seal her fate.

where could she fly in order to hide herself from he? what do to avoid

the contact of his presence? she dared not leave the house for fear of

meet he; she be afraid even to leave her own room lest he should

have take it into his head to explore the dairy or bakehouse. her

mother do not know what have come to she. she grow quite cross at last,

and think it must be the arrival of the grand folk at the Hall that

have make her daughter so flighty and useless and forgetful.



‘just as I want all the help you can give I,’ she grumble, ‘and it’s

little enough use you be to I at the good of time, you get one of

your lardy-dardy, high-flier fit on, and go shiver and shake

about the house, as if you expect to meet a ghost in the passage or

the cellar. now, what make you run away in that flighty fashion just

now, when you be in the middle of do the lodger’ room? I go

in expect to find they finish, and there be half the thing

upset and you nowhere.’



‘I think I hear one of the gentleman come across the grass, and so

I leave the room till he should be go again.’



‘but why, my lass? they willn’t eat you. they’re both as nice-speak

gentleman as ever I see. and you must have meet plenty of gentlefolk

up in London town. it ben’t as if you be a country-breed girl, and

too frightened to open your mouth. however, if you don’t like to take

charge of the room, I’ll do it myself. but why willn’t you go out a bit

instead? here’s Hugh be over every evening, and you willn’t stir for

he. I hope you be not carry on with Hugh for a bit of fun, Nell,

for he’s a good lad as ever step, and a minister into the bargain,

and it would be most unbecoming in you. you must go for a walk with he

this evening, like a good lass.’



‘not if I don’t feel inclined,’ reply Nell haughtily. ‘Hugh Owen have

no right to look aggrieved if I fancy walk by myself. man think a

deal too much of themselves in my opinion.’



‘ah, well, my lass, you must have your own way; but I hope you willn’t

play fast and loose with Hugh Owen, for you’ll never get a husband at

this rate. I say, when you first come home, that I’d look high than

he for you, but you’re not the girl you be then. you’ve lose more

than a bit of your beauty, Nell, since you have the fever, and it’s ten

to one if it will ever come back again. and now that father be so down

about the farm rent be raise, and talk in that pitiful way about

leave the country, or go to the workhouse, I think you might go

far and fare bad, than Hugh Owen.’



‘very well, mother, I’ll think about it,’ the girl would say, more

to put an end to the discussion than anything else, and she would

wander away from the farm, keep well to the back of the Hall, and

ready to dart off like a hare, if she see any chance of encounter

stranger. Whilst Nell be lead this kind of hide-and-seek life,

the festivity at the Hall be go on bravely. they begin, as the

old housekeeper have say, as soon as breakfast have conclude, and be

keep up till dawn the follow morning. a few hour be certainly

devoted to eat, drink and sleeping, and a few more to fishing,

ride and driving; but the interval be fill with card, smoke

and drink, till Nora open her eye in astonishment, and wonder if

she have get into a club in mistake for a private house. her hostess

appear quite used to that sort of thing, and enter into it with

avidity. she play whist or baccarat as well as anyone there, and

could sip her brandy and soda, and smoke her turkish cigarette with the

keenest enjoyment. she begin to think that Lady Ilfracombe be rather

slow after a day or two, and, indeed, Nora’s fastness, such as it be,

look quite a tame, unintereste thing beside that of Lady Bowmant’s.

so she fall naturally to the company of the other lady who be

stay there, and her husband seem pleased it should be so, and more

than once whisper to she that the whole concern be ‘a bit too warm’

for he, and they would certainly ‘cut it’ at the end of the week. all

the same, he play night after night with his host and their guest,

and seem to be enjoy himself with the good of they. the other lady

visitor, of whom one or two bore rather a shady character (though of

this fact Nora be entirely ignorant), be ready to avail themselves

of all the luxury provide for they, but that do not deter they from

say nasty thing about Lady Bowmant behind her back, which strike

Lady Ilfracombe as be particularly ill-breed and ungrateful.



‘my dear Lady Ilfracombe,’ say one of they to she, ‘you know she be

positively _nobody_--a grocer’s daughter, I believe, or something

equally horrible; and this old fool, Sir Archibald, be smite by her

red cheek and ringlet, and marry she six month after his first

wife’s death. she be just the sort of person to take an old dotard’s

fancy. don’t you agree with I?’



‘well, I be not sure if I do, Mrs Lumley,’ reply Nora. ‘I think Lady

Bowmant be exceedingly good-natured, and no bad in her manner than

many woman whom I have meet who could boast of much high birth. I know

nothing of our hostess’s ancestry, so I can only speak of she as I find

she.’



‘that be not say much!’ exclaim the other, laugh. ‘to see she

go on with that poor Prince of Huhm-Hessetal be enough to make one die

of laugh. with his broken English, and her attempt at French, it be

as good as a play. and the open way in which she flatter he. he will

think he be a little god before he leave Usk.’



their ill-nature make Nora well incline than she would otherwise

have be towards the object of it, and she find that Lady Bowmant,

though decidedly fast and vulgar, be so kind-hearted and frank with it

all, that she could not help like she much well than she do she

detractor.



‘I know I’m an awful Goth,’ she would observe confidentially to Nora.

‘but I cann’t speak a word of French, and I want this poor prince,

who can hardly speak a word of English, to feel at home with we, so

I “butter” he up as well as I know how. you see, Lady Ilfracombe, I

ben’t bear to the purple. my father be a poor clergyman--ah, you

may stare, but it be an accredited fact that clergyman’s child

be always the bad--I have three brother, the great scamp you

ever know. they ride like devil and they swear like jockey; and, if

you put they into a drawing-room, they don’t know what on earth to

do with their arm and leg, but not one of they would tell a lie or

do a dishonourable action to save his life. no more would I. I be

quite aware that I’m not fit to be a baronet’s wife, but my old man

choose I, and so I do the good I can. and between you and I and the

post,’ continue Lady Bowmant, laugh, ‘I think, consider how I

be bring up, that I manage very well. the people down at our place

think I should eat pea with my knife, or something pretty of that

sort, the first time I go out to a decent dinner, but I don’t, and

here I be, you see, with a real prince for my guest, to say nothing of

you and Lord Ilfracombe. oh, I’m afraid to tell you how much I admire

your husband, for fear that you should think I want to “mash” he; but

he really be _too_ handsome for anything. I do so love fair man. I

tell Sir Archibald yesterday, that if the earl have not be marry, I

couldn’t have resist a flirtation with he.’



‘have one now,’ cry Nora merrily. ‘don’t mind I. it be quite the

fashion for married man to flirt now-a-day; and a lady in town tell

I once that she should feel quite hurt if the woman do not consider

her husband worth pull cap for.’



‘now, you’re just the sort of girl I like,’ say Lady Bowmant

admiringly. ‘I suppose it ben’t good manner to call you a “girl,” just

as if you be nobody. still you be young than I be, so you must

forgive I. you love horse, too. I can see you’re regularly plucky

by the way you handle my little mare yesterday, and I should love to

make you as good a whip as myself. I may say _that_, you know, for my

brother and I ride and drive from little child, and it be the only

thing I can do well.’



‘except play card and smoke cigarette,’ put in Nora slyly.



‘oh, you think that all very dreadful; I can hear it from the tone of

your voice,’ reply her good-humour hostess. ‘but my old man don’t

mind it, and he’s the principal person to please, ben’t he? I don’t

know what he would do at Usk, dear old chap! if I couldn’t take a hand

at whist now and then. I have my horse, you see, but he be get

a bit too puffy for horse exercise, so he would be dreadfully dull

without his little game in the evening--oh, yes, I know what you be

go to say, Lady Ilfracombe--and in the morning, too. well, I know

it be dreadfully dissipate, but it have grow into a sort of habit

with we, till we cannot do anything else. but will you come round the

village for a spin with I in my tandem? I can show you some beautiful

country, as well as some beautiful cobs. Sir Archibald have make it the

fashion to deride my tandem, because once a stupid little child run

right under the leader’s foot and get a few scratch; but you must not

believe all he say. Beau and Belle be two little beauty and I be

sure you will not be afraid to sit behind they.’



‘I be quite sure also,’ reply Nora, and she go at once to get

herself ready for the drive.



‘you mustn’t be surprised to see we be go alone,’ say Lady

Bowmant, as they meet again in the hall. ‘I never take a groom with

I unless I intend call anywhere. they be no earthly use, stick

up behind, listen to every word you say and retail it in the

servant’ hall. besides, I never know a man do anything for I that I

ben’t quite as well able to do for myself. so we’ll have no back seat,

if it’s all the same to you.’



‘pray don’t alter any of your accustomed rule for my sake,’ reply

the countess, as they emerge into the open together.



the dapple-cream cobs be a picture, with their hogged mane and

close-dock tail. they be as perfectly match in appearance as two

horse could possibly be; but their temper be the very opposite of

one another. Beau be a darling, or, rather let we say he would have

be, if Belle would have let he alone to do his business by himself.

he occupy the shaft, and stand like a rock, with his forefeet well

plant and his neck curve, and his eye look neither to the right

hand nor the left. but Belle, like most of her sex, could not leave a

man in peace, and think it a bad compliment to herself if he keep

steady. so she toss her pretty head and neck incessantly, and throw

the foam from her bit, in her impatience to be off. Lady Bowmant, who

be nothing if she be not a whip, mount to her seat and gather up

the ‘ribbon’ in the most artistic manner, whilst Nora place herself

beside she.



‘let go!’ shout her ladyship, and off they set, Belle curvet down

the drive as if she be dance, whilst good little Beau throw all his

soul into his work, and pull the dog-cart gallantly along.



‘come, that willn’t do,’ cry Lady Bowmant, as she touch up Belle and

make she do her share; ‘you’re not go to leave all the hard work to

Beau, miss, not if I know it. pull up, like a good girl, and leave off

fooling. ‘ben’t they a pair of darling?’ she continue, address

Nora. ‘I value they above everything, because they be one of my dear

old man’s wedding present to I; but they be distinctly precious in

themselves. here we be at the commencement of Usk, and now you’ll see

some fun, Lady Ilfracombe. see how all the people--boy and girl, man

and woman--fly before I, tumble over each other to get out of my

way. I might be King Herod come to massacre the innocent, by the

manner they scuttle out of the road. whoa, my beauty; there, go gently,

gently, Belle. for heaven’s sake, don’t kick up any of your shine

here, or they’ll call the policeman. have you hear that I have twice

be stop and once fine for furious driving, Lady Ilfracombe?’



‘no, indeed, I haven’t,’ reply Nora, who be enjoy the fun

immensely.



on they fly through the village and out on the open road, the cobs

having now settle seriously to their work, and skim over the

ground like a pair of swallow.



when they have drive half the way into Newport, Lady Bowmant turn

their head homeward, and trot they gently up a long hill. she have

they so completely under her control, that it be a pleasure to see she

handle the rein and guide they with a flick of her whip.



‘I’d give anything to drive as you do,’ say Lady Ilfracombe, with

genuine admiration of the prowess of her companion. ‘I should not be

afraid whatever happen whilst you have the rein.’



Lady Bowmant look pleased, but she answer lightly,--



‘dear I, it be nothing, only practice. I bet you could manage they

quite as well as I do if you try. they be thoroughly well train,

you see, and that’s half the battle; and they be thoroughbre into

the bargain. you can do twice as much with a well-breed horse as you can

with an outsider. their mouth be like velvet. you could guide they

with a bit of string; and as for their jump about a little, that’s

only their fun, you know; there’s no vice in it; in fact, there’s not

a grain of vice between the two of they. I don’t know what I should do

without the darling. they be the very joy of my life.’



at this juncture they come across a cottage, which seem to recall

something to Lady Bowmant’s mind.



‘by the way,’ she exclaim suddenly, ‘I wonder how Phil Farley be, or

if the poor old man be still alive. he use to be a _protégé_ of mine

last summer, and I often visit he; but I have quite forget to ask

after he since my return. would you mind my jump down for a minute,

Lady Ilfracombe? I _should_ like just to inquire how the old man be.’



‘of course not,’ say her companion cordially.



‘you will hold the rein for I? you will not be afraid of they?’



‘not in the least,’ cry Nora, as she take the ribbon from Lady

Bowmant’s hand. ‘don’t hurry yourself on my account. I shall not mind

wait for you at all.’



‘thank you so much,’ reply her hostess, as, after having stroke the

neck of her horse, and kiss their nose, she disappear into the

cottage.



Nora be rather pleased to be leave in sole charge. she have be

longing to have a turn at the cobs herself. she have be watch Lady

Bowmant’s action very closely, and notice with what ease she guide

the little horse--how quickly they obey her voice and the touch of

her hand; and have be wish all the time to try drive they. she

have never handle a tandem in her life before, but she be a plucky

girl, and her very ignorance make she bold. so, as soon as Lady

Bowmant have disappear under the low roof of the cottage, she gather

up the rein, and give the leader a slight flick with her whip. Belle

feel the difference of the hand at once; she be not use to that sort

of thing. the lash of the whip have fall on her hind quarter, and she

throw out her heel at once, and strike her stable companion, Beau,

full in the face. Beau resent the action; he feel he haven’t deserve

it of Belle, the good part of whose work he have take on himself all

the morning; so he swerve a little aside, and then break into a smart

trot, which the coquettish Belle soon persuade he to change into a

canter, and in another moment, before their driver know what they be

after, the pair be tear off in the direction of their stable as

fast as ever they could lay their foot to the ground. Nora tug and

tug at the rein without produce the slight effect on they. she

be very inexperienced, but she could not help see that the cobs

be run away, and altogether beyond her control. she grow very

pale; but she hold on to the rein like grim death, and just manage to

steer they clear of a donkey-cart which they seem disposed to take

in their stride. she begin already to wonder what she should do when

they come to the drive gate of Usk Hall, which curve sharply round

to the left. they would assuredly bolt through they, she think, and

upset the dog-cart, in all probability, against the postern of the

gate. perhaps they would kill she from the collision and the fall. the

thought that flash through her mind at that juncture be, how would

ilfracombe take the news of she death?--what would he do without she?



‘I’m afraid I’m in for it,’ she say to herself. ‘it’s all up a tree

with I. I’m bind for kingdom come, as sure as a gun.’



even at that moment of danger Nora could not be sentimental, though

she feel the force of the situation perhaps as much as if she have

be pray to heaven to avert her doom. on fly the cobs through the

village, though fortunately without run over anybody, and down a

narrow lane, on the way to the Hall. there be a sharp curve about the

middle of it. as Nora reach the point, someone--a woman--suddenly

rise from the bank which skirt the road, and stand full in the way of

the fly steed, catch with her hand at the rein of Belle as she

pass. Nora think the horse be stop, but the next moment they

start off again; but the woman be not to be see--she have fall.



‘my God,’ think Nora, ‘I have kill somebody. they have run over

she.’



the arrest, however, slight as it be, have have its effect. Belle and

Beau suddenly stand still as rock, and Nora leapt at once from the

cart and approach the stranger, who be just scramble to her foot.



‘oh, how good, how brave of you!’ she cry. ‘if you have not do

that, they might have dash the cart and I to piece against the

gate. but have you hurt yourself? be you sure you be all right?’



‘I think I be,’ reply the young woman, as she rise to her foot. ‘they

only knock I down; the wheel do not come near I.’



‘thank God for that!’ cry Nora earnestly. ‘I should never have

forgive myself if you have be hurt.’



she gaze at the face of the country girl in amazement, for she think

it be the most beautiful she have ever see. and so it be they first

meet--Nell and Nora.





                          END of VOL. II.





             COLSTON and COMPANY, printer, EDINBURGH.









Transcriber’s note:



word may have inconsistent hyphenation in the text. Jargon, dialect,

obsolete and alternative spelling be leave unchanged. seven

misspell word be correct.



word and phrase in italic be surround by underscore, _like

this_. obvious printing error, such as partially print letter

and punctuation, be correct. final stop miss at the end of

sentence and abbreviation be add.











*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 2 (of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





