The project Gutenberg eBook of a bankrupt heart, Vol. 3 (of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a bankrupt heart, Vol. 3 (of 3)



author: Florence Marryat



Release date: July 5, 2024 [ebook #73974]



language: English



original publication: London: F. V. White & Co, 1894



credit: Carol Brown, Emmanuel Ackerman and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 3 (of 3) ***







                           a bankrupt heart.









                           a bankrupt heart.





                                  BY



                           FLORENCE MARRYAT,



                               AUTHOR of



          ‘LOVE’S conflict,’ ‘MY OWN child,’ ‘parson JONES,’

                              ETC., ETC.





                          _in three VOLUMES._



                               VOL. III.





                                LONDON:

                          F. V. WHITE & CO.,

                    14 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.



                                 1894.



    _this story be already dramatise, all right be reserve._









                              _content._





                                 PAGE



                        CHAPTER I.           1



                        CHAPTER II.         24



                        CHAPTER III.        47



                        CHAPTER IV.         70



                        CHAPTER V.          96



                        CHAPTER VI.        117



                        CHAPTER VII.       140



                        CHAPTER VIII.      164



                        CHAPTER IX.        187



                        CHAPTER X.         210









                           a bankrupt heart.









                           a bankrupt heart.



                              ----_o_----





                              CHAPTER I.





but as she look at Nell, Nora see a stain of blood show through

the sleeve of her light print dress.



‘but you _be_ hurt. you be bleed!’ she exclaim with horror. ‘oh,

I _be_ so sorry. what can I do for you?’



Nell regard the blood-stain with calm indifference.



‘it be nothing, my lady. I presume I be speak to Lady Bowmant,’ she

add, with a courtesy that strike Nora as uncommon with her class.



‘oh, no, I be not Lady Bowmant. I be only one of her visitor. I be

drive with she, and she go into a cottage and leave I with the

carriage, and these two little brute run away with I. but how be I to

get they home? I dare not take the rein again for my life. how far be

it to the Hall?’



‘oh, the Hall be only round the corner, madam,’ answer Nell; ‘I would

help you to lead they, but--’ here she hesitate, not know how to

proceed; then, as if a sudden thought have strike she, she stand on

tip-toe and look over the hedge and call loudly, ‘Tom.’



‘yes, miss,’ reply a hedger come at her call.



‘come round here at once and lead these horse up to the Hall for

this lady. they be beyond her control.’ then address Nora, she

continued--‘You have well get in again, madam, and this man will see

you safely to the Hall. you will want to send the carriage back for

Lady Bowmant.’



‘oh, yes, indeed. what will she think of my disappearing in this

extraordinary manner? thank you so much. I don’t know what I should

have do without your assistance. but I be so troubled about your arm.

I be sure you be horribly hurt,’ say Nora, as she mount into the

dog-cart.



‘please don’t say anything more about it,’ reply Nell; ‘at the bad

it will only be a bruise; you need not be afraid now, madam. this man

be rough, but he understand horse, and be very steady.’



and so say Nell slip through a break in the hedge and be go.



Lady Ilfracombe arrive safely at the Hall, and a groom be at once

despatch to pick up Lady Bowmant, whom he meet half-way between old

Farley’s cottage and the house, laugh heartily to herself over the

disappearance of her friend and her carriage, having make a shrewd

guess that Beau and Belle have take her home, whether she would or

not. the occurrence form the chief topic of conversation at the

luncheon-table, and Nora be full of the beautiful country girl she have

meet and who have show so much courage in stop the runaway cobs.



‘I must make she some little acknowledgment of the service she render

I, mustn’t I, Ilfracombe?’ she ask her husband. ‘I might have be

kill, if it haven’t be for she, and, or still bad, smash Lady

Bowmant’s pretty trap.’



‘of course you must, darling,’ reply the earl. ‘we can never repay

she for what she do for we.’



‘but I don’t know her name!’ exclaim Nora, ‘though I suppose she

live somewhere over the way, because she order the old hedger to

lead the cobs home, as if he be her servant. oh, she be such a pretty

young woman. her face be perfectly lovely. I think it be because I be

so occupied gaze at she, that I forget to ask her name.’



‘a very pretty girl,’ repeat Sir Archibald. ‘I think that must be one

of the Llewellyns. they’re the prettiest girl for a good many mile

round Usk. ben’t that the case, dolly?’ he say, address his wife.



‘well, I’ve only see the married one,’ she reply, but I know they

bear that reputation. the father be a very handsome old man.’



at the name of Llewellyn, Lady Ilfracombe look up quickly, and the

earl and Jack Portland exchange glance with each other.



‘what be there in that to surprise you?’ demand their host, mistake

the meaning of their look. ‘Wales be rather celebrate for beauty, you

know; at least we willn’t allow that England, Ireland or Scotland can

hold a candle to we in that respect.’



Ilfracombe do not seem disposed to answer, so Jack Portland take upon

himself to be spokesman.



‘I have not the slight doubt of your superiority, Sir Archibald,’

he say, ‘and be not the least surprised to hear you say so. I only

think I have hear the name before.’



‘what! of Llewellyn? _I_ should be surprised if you have not. we be all

Llewellyns, or Owens, or Lewises, or Thomases in Wales. it’s one of

the commonest name here. I’ve about half a dozen Llewellyns amongst

my tenant. but this man’s daughter be really uncommonly handsome.

fine tall girl, with splendidly cut feature. by Jove! it’s a pleasure

to go to the farm only to catch a glimpse of one of they.’



‘and that’s why you’re always go over there then,’ cry Lady

Bowmant. ‘I’ve catch you at last, my gentleman. no more panty-cuckoo

farm for you. I’ll take good care of that.’



‘panty-cuckoo farm! be that where my rustic beauty life?’ exclaim

Nora. ‘what a fanciful name! what do it mean? panty-cuckoo.’



‘the dell of the cuckoo, or the cuckoo’s dell,’ reply Lady Bowmant.

‘yes, ben’t it pretty? it’s the farm just across the road, where Mr

Portland and Mr Lennox sleep. Mrs Llewellyn be a dear old woman. I

always go to she in any perplexity. she supply we with all the extra

egg and chicken and butter we may want. Lady Ilfracombe, you _should_

see her dairy; it’s a perfect picture, and everything about the farm

be so quaint and old, and so faultlessly clean and neat. she and her

husband be quite model tenant. I always take my friend to pay they a

visit.’



after luncheon, when the rest of the party have separate to pursue

their own device, Nora creep after her husband.



‘ilfracombe,’ she whisper, ‘suppose this should be one of _her_

sister?’



‘Whose? what be you talk about?’ he say rather curtly.



‘you know. the Miss Llewellyn you have tell I of.’



‘what will you get into your head next? what likelihood be there

of such a thing? who ever say she have any sister, or come from

Usk? don’t you hear Sir Archibald say the place be people with

Llewellyns? please don’t get any absurd fancy into your head. the

name be distasteful to I as it be? I wish we have not hear it. now,

I suppose there will be a grand fuss make of the service this girl

render you, and the whole family will be parade out for our special

benefit. you have be a good friend to I in this business, Nora. get

I out of this unnecessary annoyance, if you can.’



‘of course, I will,’ reply his wife readily. ‘you sha’n’t be bother

if I can help it, Ilfracombe. you be a dear, good boy to make a clean

breast to I of the matter, and I’ll see you don’t suffer for it. I

must remunerate the young woman or her parent for what she do this

morning, so I’ll just go to the farm this afternoon by myself and get

it quietly over. how much should I offer she? what do you think? will

five pound be enough?’



‘I think so; but that be as you feel about it. but Nora, darling, you

needn’t mention our name, need you? we shall be go probably before

they have a chance of find out anything about we, and though I don’t

suppose there be any chance of their be relate to--to--_her_--yet

if they should be--you understand?’



Lady Ilfracombe go up to her husband and kiss his anxious face.



‘I understand,’ she reply, and then leave the room. there be a

slight summer shower that afternoon, and the rest of the Hall party

have already settle themselves to spend it indoor. a noisy set be

occupy in the billiard-room, chat and laugh over their game,

and the more respectable scandalmonger be work, reading, and

take away their neighbour’ character in the seclusion of the

drawing-room. Lady Ilfracombe don a large straw hat, and, take

an umbrella in her hand, set forth for panty-cuckoo Farm without

observation. she soon find her way through the white gate, and down

the hilly slope, and find the latched wicket that guard the bricke

pathway up to the house. as soon as she place her hand upon the latch,

Mrs Llewellyn, as be her custom at the approach of any visitor, come

quickly forward to save she the trouble of open it, and give she a

welcome to panty-cuckoo farm.



‘walk in, my lady,’ she exclaim cordially. ‘this way, if you please,’

and usher Nora into the parlour she dust a chair with her apron,

and set it before she.



‘oh, what a lovely room,’ cry Nora enthusiastically, as she gaze

around she. ‘what dear old carved oak. why, it must be century old;

and what beautiful china. don’t leave I here alone, pray, or I shall

steal half your thing. I suppose you be Mrs Llewellyn. well, you have

the very jolly room I ever see in my life.’



Mrs Llewellyn be completely win over by this praise. she be very

proud, as have be say before, of her room and oak and china, and

nothing please she well than to see they appreciate.



‘many have tell I so before, ma’am; but I be glad you like they. my

husband and I have be offer pound and pound sometimes for these

very thing by the lady and gentleman who have visit Usk; but we

could never make up our mind to sell they. they belong to our

great-great-grandparent, and there they will be till our time come to

leave they behind we for the benefit of our daughter.’



‘your daughter, Mrs Llewellyn. that remind I of the purpose of

my visit to you. a young woman, whom I believe to be one of your

daughter, do I a very great service this morning. she stop a pair

of runaway horse for I, and save, perhaps, my life.’



‘ay, that be my eld girl. she tell we of it; but it be nothing to

make a fuss about, ma’am. country girl be more used to do such thing

than town lady. there’s not a girl in Usk but what would do she good

to stop a horse. I hope you ben’t hurt at all yourself, ma’am?’



‘not a bit; but your daughter be. I see the blood-stain on the sleeve

of her dress. I be afraid the horse touch her arm with his hoof when

he throw she down.’



‘it cann’t be over much,’ say Mrs Llewellyn quietly, ‘for she never

say anything to I about it, though now you mention it, ma’am, I

_do_ notice a bit of blood on her sleeve too. Lor’, it’s nothing. I

think she get it in the henhouse maybe, or the larder. it ben’t worth

speak of.’



‘but I be quite of a different opinion I can assure you, Mrs Llewellyn,

and I come over expressly to tell you so. may I see your daughter? be

she in the house?’



‘certainly, ma’am, if you wish it. I’ll send she to you at once, and

perhaps you would do we the honour to take a cup of tea whilst you

wait. Lady Bowmant, she always have a cup of tea when she come here.

she say she have quite a fancy for our cream.’



‘I will with pleasure, Mrs Llewellyn. indeed I have hear such grand

account of your famous dairy that I be quite anxious to taste its

produce.’



the farmer’s wife bridle under the compliment, and turn with the

intention of leave the room; but as she reach the door she said,--



‘may I take the liberty of ask your name, madam?’



Nora be just about to give her maiden name, remember her husband’s

injunction, when she notice she have withdraw the glove of her left

hand, and display her wedding-ring and jewelled keeper, so with she

quick wit, which never find she at a disadvantage, she borrow the

name of one of the lady, who be even at that moment take away her

in the Hall drawing-room, and answer, ‘Mrs Lumley.’



‘thank you, madam,’ say the old woman, as she curtsey and withdraw.

in another moment she be adjure Nell to go down to the parlour and

hear what the lady from the Hall have to say to she.



‘oh, mother, why do you say I be indoor?’ she exclaim fretfully.

‘what should she want to see I for? you know how I hate see

stranger.’



‘well, my lass, it be not my fault. the lady, Mrs Lumley be her name,

want to thank you for what you do this morning, and for my part I

think it be very pretty-mannered of she to come over herself when she

might have write to express her gratitude. but here she be, and you

must go down and see she whilst I make she a cup of tea. she say she

hear so much of our dairy that she’s quite anxious to taste our cream.

she’s as nice-speak a young lady as ever I meet, and I’m sure she have

good intention towards you.’



‘but I don’t _want_ to be thank,’ repeat Nell in the same tone. ‘it

be the simple thing in the world; anyone would have do it. I only

catch at the rein as the horse pass I. what do she want to make

a fuss about it for? its over and do with. why cann’t she leave it

alone?’



‘well, my lass, I cann’t stay to answer all your testy question. I must

go and see that the kettle boil for the tea. now, go down, there’s a

good girl. she’s one of the Hall guest, and we mustn’t offend they,

you know.’



so Nell smooth her ripple hair, and go down to the parlour with

a bad grace, and stand just inside the door, stiff as a soldier on

duty, and without speak a word. but Nora do not seem to perceive

her mood. she think her stiffness be mean for respect.



‘oh, Miss Llewellyn,’ she begin, ‘I’ve come over expressly to see you,

and thank you well than I could this morning for the great service

you render I. don’t stand there, pray, but come here and sit down by

I, and let I tell you how brave and courageous and good I think you

be to do so much for a stranger.’



Nell’s haughty shyness be overcome by the cordiality of her new

acquaintance. she sit down as she be ask to do, but not a feature of

her beautiful face relaxed. she could not forget that she be speak

to a visitor from the Hall--that place which she have so much dread

since she know that Mr Portland be stay there.



‘I cann’t see the particular courage of it, Mrs Lumley,’ she reply. ‘I

be saunter along inside the hedge look for some of my mother’s

turkey poult that have stray from the yard when your horse came

tear along, and I put out my hand mechanically to stop they. you be

make too much of my action--indeed you be. Tom be only a few yard

far on, clip the hedge. he would have stop they, and well

than I do, and not be roll so ignominiously in the dust,’ and Nell

could not help smile at the recollection.



‘ah, and you be kick or something!’ exclaim Nora; ‘I see the

blood on your arm. and yet you will say it be of no consequence.’



Nell roll up the sleeve of her print dress, expose her white,

smooth arm. there be a long graze on it, and it be begin to get

discolour.



‘that be all,’ she say contemptuously. ‘you don’t call _that_

anything.’



‘but indeed I do,’ say Nora; ‘and it be ever so good of you to incur

it for my sake. besides, you don’t consider the risk you run. because

you happen to get off with a few bruise, it don’t follow that it

be not quite as brave of you to risk get your leg break or your

head run over. and there be no saying what you do not save I from.

no, no, Miss Llewellyn, you shall not put I off that way. you must

let I offer you some little remuneration for your timely help. don’t

imagine I think any money can repay you for it, but perhaps you will

buy yourself some little present to remind you of this day, and how

grateful I be to you.’



and Nora place the five-pound note gently in Nell’s hand as she speak.

Nell never open it. it might have be for fifty pound for aught

she know, but she take it up, fold as it be, and replace it on her

companion’s lap.



‘no, thank you, Mrs Lumley,’ she say quietly. ‘you mean it kindly, I

know, and I appreciate your intention, but I cannot take money from you

for so slight a thing. my father would not like it; we be not in need

of it, and I shall remember you and to-day quite well without it.’



Nora feel hurt and annoyed--not with Nell, but herself. she ought to

have know well than to offer such a very superior sort of young

woman money. it be thoughtless of she--unpardonable. she thrust the

offend bank-note into her pocket, and turning, take Nell’s hand.



‘forgive I,’ she say, just as if she have know she for year. ‘I

have be a fool. I ought to have see that you be above such paltry

consideration. you don’t look like a farmer’s daughter to I. you seem

as if you have be use to such much well thing. have you live in

Usk all your life?’



‘no, not all my life,’ say Nell.



‘have you be a governess, then, or anything of that sort? you seem to

have have such a very superior education,’ remark Nora.



‘do you think so?’ reply Nell.



she certainly seem a very difficult sort of young woman to get

on with. Nora hardly know how to proceed. but then a sudden thought

strike she (for hers be a generous nature), and hastily draw a

sapphire ring off her finger, she try to put it on one of Nell’s.

it be one that the earl have give she--that he have be accustom

to wear himself. it be what be call a gipsy ring--a broad band of

gold, in which three unusually fine, dark-blue, flawless sapphire be

sink--the only ring which Ilfracombe have wear before his marriage. he

have put it on Nora’s finger at Malta as soon as he be engage to she,

as proxy for one well suited to her slender hand, and she have refuse

to give it up again. now it strike she that it would be just the sort

of ring to present to a young woman whose hand be rather large and

use to rough work. so she try to put it on the third finger of

Nell’s left hand.



‘they say it be unlucky to wear a ring on your wedding-finger till you

be marry,’ she say, laugh; ‘but I be sure, Miss Llewellyn, you

be far too sensible a girl to mind an old superstition.’



‘but what be you do?’ ask Nell sharply, as she draw her hand

away. there, on her finger glitter the ring she know so well--have

see so often on the hand of her lover in the olden day. she gaze at

it for a moment, fascinate as a bird by the eye of a snake; and then,

with a sharp cry, she drag the jewel off again, and it roll under

the table and along the polished oak floor.



‘oh, my poor ring,’ cry the countess, somewhat offend at this

determined repulse.



‘whose be it? where do you get it?’ exclaim Nell, as she rise to her

foot with flash eye and tremble limb.



‘where do I get it?’ echo Nora, with amazement. ‘why, I buy it,

of course. where should I have get it?’



‘no, you don’t!’ say Nell, panting. ‘it be give to you!’



‘what an extraordinary girl you be,’ reply Nora, as she stoop to

recover her ring. ‘if it _be_ give to I, you may be sure I have

every right to pass it on to you if I choose. but what make you say

so?’



‘_who_ give it you?’ ask Nell, without apologise for her strange

behaviour.



‘my husband,’ reply Nora, without think.



‘your husband? Mr Lumley? and from whom do _he_ get it then?’

persist the farmer’s daughter.



‘really, I don’t see what right you have to question I after this

fashion,’ say Nora. ‘I don’t know whom he get it from. the jeweller,

I suppose. but pray don’t let we say another word upon the subject.

it be evident that, instead of give you pleasure, I have do just

the other thing. all my stupidity, I suppose. I think, as you would

not take money, that the ring would have be more acceptable to

you, but I be mistaken. now, pray don’t be angry. let we drop the

subject altogether. ah, here come your mother with the tea-tray. Mrs

Llewellyn, your daughter and I have be have quite a little quarrel

over this affair. she willn’t take money from I, and she willn’t take a

present, so I don’t know what to do. perhaps you will be able to make

she a little more reasonable after I have go.’



‘ah, ma’am, she’s very queer at time, poor lass,’ say Mrs Llewellyn,

for Nell have take the occasion of her entrance to escape to the upper

storey again. ‘she’s be so pull-down and weaken by the fever,

that father and I say we hardly know she. sometimes I think she’ll

never be the same girl again as she be before she leave home. but you

mustn’t think nothing more about give she a present, ma’am. what she

do for you, you be most heartily welcome to, as her father would say,

too, if he be here. Sir Archibald have be a good landlord to we for

many year past; and if he haven’t take it into his head to raise the

rent, we shouldn’t have anything to say against he. but pray let I

give you a cup of tea, ma’am, with cream and sugar to your liking.’



and, over the discussion of Mrs Llewellyn’s excellent tea, Nell and her

abrupt behaviour be speak of no more. but Lady Ilfracombe, though

she do not like to vex the earl by mention the subject to he,

could not banish it from her mind for some time afterwards.









                              CHAPTER II.





Whilst Nora be walk thoughtfully back to the Hall, Nell be

rage up and down the circumscribe limit of her bedroom, with her

heart and brain in a tumult of suspicion and suspense. ‘the ring! the

ring!’ be all she could say to herself. it _be_ the earl’s ring,

she be sure of that--she have always see it on his finger--have so

often draw it off playfully, and place it on her own. she recognise

the very colour of the sapphire; they be so darkly blue, and

yet clear as a summer sea; she remember Lord Ilfracombe having

tell she the gem be flawless, and have be present in another

form by an eastern potentate to some ancestor of his, who have be

Governor-General of India. she would have swear to they amongst a

thousand! how then have this woman, this Mrs Lumley, get hold of they?

be she a friend of Ilfracombe’s, and have he give they to she? Nell

think it unlikely. the earl have never be a _cavalier des dames_;

besides, he be marry now, and his family heirloom belong to

his wife. at that her thought fly to Mr Portland. _he_ be at the

bottom of the mystery perhaps. he have obtain the jewel from Lord

Ilfracombe, either by an appeal to the latter’s generosity, or by

his odious habit of gambling, lay a bet with the earl about it, or

win it as a stake. and then he must have give it to this lady--this

Mrs Lumley. what be she to he then? be their combined presence at

the Hall by accident or design? Nell thirst to learn the truth of

it. she feel it a desecration to have see _his_ ring on the hand of

another person, and to have have it offer to herself in that careless

fashion, as if it be of no intrinsic value. the ring that she have

know for so long--that have be clasp in her hand by day--that

she have lain with her head on by night. poor Nell sob aloud in the

agony of remembrance as she recall the fact that she have no further

part nor lot in it. it be something more than mere suspicion that

be worry she. we have a sixth sense, call intuition, which, as

a rule, we pay too little attention to. the influence to which we

have be subject, the experience we have pass through, all leave

a subtle something behind they, which be patent to the intuition of

our acquaintance, as theirs be to we. we may not recognise it, but

it guide, in a great measure, our feeling and idea, our like and

dislike. it be intuition that draw Lady Ilfracombe to panty-cuckoo

Farm, and make she conceive such an unusual interest in Nell Llewellyn.

it be intuition that make Nell shrink from the friendly advance

of the woman who have supplant she in the affection of her lover,

and burn to discover the reason that she be in possession of his

ring. it be fate--the fate that, laugh at it or despise it as we

will, still go on silently but surely, weave the web of all our

destiny--that have draw these actor in the tragedy of life together

to one meeting-place, to fulfil the appoint end of the drama which

they have write for themselves. the Countess of Ilfracombe go back

to Usk Hall rather depressed than otherwise, for it be not pleasant

to have an intend kindness throw back in your face; and intuition

tell she that there be something more beneath the surface of Nell’s

manner than she choose to let she know; and Nell Llewellyn be vex

with herself as well as the stranger, because intuition tell she that

Nora be not at fault, however the circumstance of her life might have

become entangle with her own. she wish now that she have not be

so hasty, that she have ask a few question about the ring and where

it come from. by that mean she might have gain what she so long

for--news of Lord Ilfracombe--without betray her own identity.

now that the opportunity be past, Nell blame herself, and wish

it might come over again. be it possible that she could bring about

another interview with the lady?--induce she once more to speak of she

gratitude for the service render she--and so bring the conversation

round, without direct inquiry, to her refusal of the sapphire ring.

her next thought be, how should she gain speech of Mrs Lumley without

encounter Jack Portland? Nell think it would be pretty safe to

visit the Hall in the evening. the beautiful warm night they be

have then be very likely to tempt the lady of the party to walk

about the ground after dinner, whilst she know from experience that

that be the very time the gentleman would commence to play billiard

or baccarat. if she go that way about eight o’clock that evening she

might have a chance of encounter Mrs Lumley; at all event, some

force, of which Nell know not the name, draw she that way, and, as soon

as their early supper be over, she throw a light shawl over her head

and steal out, as she tell her mother, ‘for a breath of fresh air.’ the

Hall stand on an eminence crown with wood. to the back of it be a

copse of fir tree, which form an admirable shelter from the north

wind, and extend down either side for some distance. it be under

cover of this plantation that Nell approach the house. it be not

so thick but that she could see from it if anyone be walk in the

open ground that surround the Hall, and it be on this plantation,

naturally, that the back premise, through which she gain access

to Mrs Hody’s apartment, look. the way to it, unless one use the

drive, be through some large meadow belong to the estate, and

Nell have traverse the whole length of these and gain the back of

the plantation, when she be startle by see the figure of a man

approach she. her first impulse be to turn and fly, forget in

her simplicity that it be the very mode to attract attention. she have

turn she back upon the stranger, and be walk rapidly the other

way, when she hear he say,--



‘don’t let I frighten you away. you be quite welcome to walk here.’



it be the voice of Lord Ilfracombe.



she would have know it amidst the assemble multitude of earth, and

the sound of it make she forget everything but himself. she forget that

he must suppose she to be dead. she forget that he have voluntarily

give she up, that he be a married man--everything but that he be

there, and she love he. at the sound of her lover’s voice, as potent

as the trump at the last day to rouse her slumbering soul, Nell turn

sharply round, and cry in a tone of ecstasy,--



‘Vernie! oh, my Vernie!’ and fly towards he.



she be the only person in the world who have ever call he by that

name. Lord Ilfracombe’s father have die before he could remember, and

ever since his babyhood he have be address, as be usual, by his

title only. even his doting mother and proud sister have call he

nothing else. to everybody, he have be Ilfracombe, and ilfracombe

alone. but when he become intimate with Nell, and take she about

occasionally with he to Paris or Rome, it become necessary to use a

little discretion, and he have enter their name on the traveller’

book and passport as Mr and Mrs Vernon, which be his Christian

name. so she have come to call he ‘Vernie’ as a pet name, and he have

let she do it, because it be just as well she should not be shout

‘ilfracombe’ after he wherever they go. but the circumstance

have identify she with the name, and when she cry ‘Vernie!

oh, my Vernie!’ in response to his word, Lord Ilfracombe stand

still--petrify, as though he have encounter a voice from heaven.



‘who be it? what do you want?’ he answer, tremble.



but Nell leave he in no doubt. she came fly to his breast, and throw

her arm round he, and press her warm mouth on his, and display

all the passion she have be willnot to do when he return to she after

an absence from home.



‘Vernie, my darling, my own darling!’ she reiterate, gasp for

breath, ‘oh, I do not know you be here--I do not know you be

here! my God, I shall die with joy!’



‘nell!’ he utter in an awed tone, ‘Nell, be this really you?’



‘yes, yes, it be I. who else should it be? who have ever love you as

your poor Nell?’ and she embrace he anew.



‘But--’ say the earl, incredulously, ‘_who_ be drown then? they

tell I you be drown, Nell. how have this mistake arise, or have I

be deceive by design?’



‘oh, Vernie, I _do_ drown myself; that be, I try to--I want to--I

feel I could not live, my darling, without you or your love. what be

there for I to live for, Vernie, when you be go?’



all the earl’s remorse--all the hard thing he have think of himself,

and all the kind thought he have have of she, since he have learn

how they part, rush back upon his mind now, and he, too, forgot

everything, except that his conscience have be relieve from an

intolerable burden, and that the woman he hold in his arm have love

he faithfully for many year.



he lay his mouth upon her, and kiss she as warmly in return as ever

he have do in the day go by.



‘thank God, it be not true!’ he exclaim. ‘oh, my poor Nell, I have

suffer hell in think you have die by your own hand for my sake.’



‘I, too, have be in hell,’ she whisper. ‘oh, Vernie, why do you

leave I? I love you so.’



‘I be a brute,’ reply the earl, ‘an ungrateful, selfish brute; but I

will make you amend for it, if I die.’



what amend could he make she, except by give she back the love he

have seem to withdraw? Nell think of no other; she would have

accept no other. she hold her heaven in her arm now--and all the

trouble of life have fade away.



‘your love, your love! I only want your love, Vernie,’ she whisper.



‘you have it, darling. you always have it,’ reply Ilfracombe, as he

gaze at the lovely face upturned to his in the moonlight. ‘but how

thin and pale you be, Nell. you be not like the same girl. what have

happen, dear, to change you so?’



‘I have be ill, Vernie’ answer Nell. ‘I have have a bad fever, and

my trouble have do the rest. I have have no peace--no hope without you.

I have be unable to eat or sleep. how could I, know you have give

I up? oh, Vernie, why don’t you kill I first? it would have be so

much kind.’



Lord Ilfracombe groan.



‘God forgive I! I never see what I have do before this night. Nell,

will you ever forgive I, or forget my base ingratitude to you, who

be always so good to I? how can you say you love I? a man like

myself be unworthy of any woman’s love. you ought by right to loathe

and execrate my very name.’



‘but I don’t--I don’t. I love you still with all my heart and soul.

oh, Vernie, I be so wretched, so miserable, when I come out to walk

to-night, and now I’m as happy as the day be long. you love I still.

that be all I want to know.’



‘but that willn’t rectify the great wrong I have do you, Nell. that

willn’t replace you in the position my selfishness hurl you from. you

forget--perhaps you don’t know--that I be--marry.’



Nell draw herself a little away from he.



‘oh, yes, I know it,’ she say in a low voice; ‘but if you love I,

Vernie, I have the good part of you still.’



Lord Ilfracombe do not know what to answer. the great emotion--the

surprise, almost the shock of find that Nell still live, be over

now in a great measure, and he have time to remember his wife and how

much he love she (as he have never, even in the flush of his first

passion, love the poor girl before he), and what _she_ would think if

she could see and hear he now. the disloyalty of which he be guilty

strike he like a cold chill. be he fate never to be true to any one

woman? he relax the tight hold he have maintain on Nell, and put

she a little away from he, say gently,--



‘I do love you, my dear; I shall always love you and remember the time

we spend together; but my marriage, you see, will prevent my showing it

as I use to do.’



‘oh, yes, of course.’



‘Lady Ilfracombe be very good to I, and deserve all the respect and

esteem that I can show she’ (he dared not speak of his love for Nora

to the poor wreck who stand so patiently hang on his word), ‘and

when she hear that you be drown, Nell, she be almost as sorry as

myself--’



‘never mind that,’ interpose Nell, ‘I don’t want to hear about it.’



‘but, of course, the past must be past now. it cannot come over again.

but you must let I provide for your future, Nell. I will not have--it

be impossible that you, who have be so near to I, should either

work for your living or live without the comfort to which you have

be accustom. it be very naughty of you to refuse the settlement I

wish to make upon you--more, it be unkind to I, and when I hear

what you have say and do, I be very unhappy.’



‘it be no use, Vernie. I could not take it,’ say Nell.



‘but you will accept it now, darling, willn’t you? if only to prove you

have forgive I all the wrong I have do you, and to make I happy

too--to wipe out the bitter remorse I have feel--eh, Nell?’



she shake her head.



‘I couldn’t. don’t ask I. Vernie, my people know nothing of all

this--of what you and I be to one another. they think I be just in

service in your house, and nothing more. you wouldn’t shame I before

they, would you? how could I account for your give I an allowance?

they would guess the truth at once. besides, I don’t want it. I have

everything that I can desire, except your love. and now I have see

you, and know you love I still, I be quite happy, and want nothing

more. oh, God bless you for your kindness to I. say you love I well

of all the world, and the other woman may have your title and your

money.’



he could not say what she ask he to do, but he bend down his head

again and murmur in her ear,--



‘I have tell you so, a dozen time. do you suppose that a few month

can make such a difference to a man as that? I could wish thing have

be otherwise for we, my poor Nell. I wish I have have the courage to

marry you year ago. I should have be a happy man than I be ever

likely to be now, with the remembrance of your disappointment haunt

I like an evil spirit.’



‘no, no, it must not haunt you. it be go,’ she exclaim with womanly

unselfishness. ‘I shall never fret again now I have see you once

more and hear you speak. kiss I, my Vernie--again--again! ah, that

be sweet. how many, many weary month it be--more than a year--since I

have feel your dear lip on my own. it be like a draught of new wine.

it have make a strong woman of I.’



‘and where be you go now, Nell?’ he ask, as she disengage

herself from his clasp.



‘to my home--back to panty-cuckoo farm,’ she reply.



‘ah, it be you, then, who live at panty-cuckoo farm? do you not stop

Lady Bowmant’s cobs as they be run away this morning.’



‘what! they have tell _you_ too. what an absurd fuss they make of

nothing. the lady, Mrs Lumley, be at the farm this afternoon, worry

I about it.’



‘_Mrs Lumley!_’ he ejaculate, for though Nora have not inform he of

her visit, he know the real Mrs Lumley have not be there. ‘what be

she like?’



‘a slight, willowy-looking young woman, with quick, brown eye and

pointed feature. she be very kind, but she tease I so about take

a reward for do nothing at all. why, I don’t even stop they. they

stop of themselves. all I do be to get myself roll over in the

dust. by the way,’ continue Nell, as a sudden thought strike she, ‘be

you very intimate with Mrs Lumley, Vernie?’



‘by no mean. why do you ask?’



‘because when I tell she I couldn’t accept money at her hand, she take

a ring off her finger and try to put it on mine. and it be _your_

ring--the gipsy ring set with sapphire--I recognise it directly, and

I think I should have go mad with puzzle my brain where she get

it and if you have give it to she. do you?’



‘give my sapphire ring to Mrs Lumley? most certainly not,’ reply the

earl, who guess at once that his sharp-witted little wife, in order

to obey his injunction not to disclose her real name, have borrow the

other woman’s. ‘by Jove, that be cool of she. I remember now she be

fool with my ring last night and put it on her own finger for a

piece of fun. but to offer it to you. well, I wish you have take it.

she would have look very foolish when I ask where it be go,

wouldn’t she?’



‘oh, Vernie, I couldn’t have touch it. it would have burn I. the

dear ring I have so often play with myself. I have be cry all the

afternoon for thinking of it.’



‘silly girl. I must get you one as like it as I can. but now I be

afraid I must return to the house, or some of the fellow may come out

to look after I.’



‘ah!’ say Nell, with a shudder. ‘you have that horrid Mr Portland

there. Vernie, you will not tell he you have meet I, will you?’



‘certainly not. it be the last thing I should do. but I cannot

understand why all you woman should seem to take a dislike to dear old

Jack. he be the good fellow I know.’



‘Vernie, he be _never_ your friend,’ say Nell earnestly. ‘you

wouldn’t believe it in the old day. try to believe it now.’



‘no, Nell I cannot, not till I have some well proof than another’s

word. Lady Ilfracombe be always din the same thing into my ear,

but without effect. Jack have be always true to I so far as I know,

and I speak of a man as I find he.’



‘Vernie,’ say Nell, after a pause, ‘be she fond of you?’



he know she allude to his wife, and answered,--



‘I think so. I hope so. if people have to pass their life together, it

be good they should be good friend, ben’t it?’



‘yes,’ reply the girl, as she slowly move away.



he be just go to call out ‘good-night’ to she, when she come back

rapidly.



‘oh, Vernie, she don’t love you as _i_ do. tell I that she don’t.’



‘no, dear, no,’ he answer gravely. ‘I don’t think she do.’



‘and you don’t love she as you do I?’ she persist, and again Lord

Ilfracombe be able to answer with truth, ‘no.’



she throw her arm passionately round he and inquired,--



‘when shall we meet again? where can I see you, Vernie? the minute

will seem like hour till then.’



‘Nellie,’ he say seriously, ‘you know it be impossible that we can

meet like this in any safety. I be overjoy--more overjoyed than I can

tell you--to find you be live, whom I have mourn as dead; but I be

here only for a few day, and my time be not my own. be I to say that

I would meet you here to-morrow evening, I might be prevent, and you

would think I unkind. but you will know that I be think of you all

the same, and if we meet it will be an unexpected pleasure for we both,

eh?’



he speak kindly, but Nell, with the unerring instinct which love give

to woman, read between the line, and see, that whatever he might say,

Lord Ilfracombe would rather _not_ meet she again in Usk.



‘yes, you be right,’ she answer slowly. ‘but, oh, it be so hard to

see you once, and, perhaps, not again for age--like a drop of water

to a man who be die of thirst. oh, Vernie, I must go. this have be

heaven to I, but so much too short. good-bye. God bless you. I will

pray every moment that we may meet again.’



she heave a deep sigh as she pronounce her farewell, and flit

down the grassy slope in the gloaming on her way to the farm again.

and someone see she--Hugh Owen, who have be linger about the road

in hope of catch a glimpse of Nell, have watch more than half her

interview with Lord Ilfracombe. he could not distinguish their word;

he be too far off; but he have see the two figure engage in earnest

conversation--he have see they approach each other, and guess the

close embrace that follow--and he have see their parting, and that

Lord Ilfracombe watch the tall, graceful shape of his companion till

she be out of sight; until, in fact, Nell have enter panty-cuckoo

Farm, and leave the young minister in no doubt of her identity.



and what be Ilfracombe’s feeling as he stroll back to Usk Hall?

not entirely pleasurable one, we may be sure. he could not but be

thankful that his bad fear for Nell Llewellyn be allay, that his

conscience be no long burden with the thought that his desertion

have be the mean of her death--but as he become used to this

relief, the old sensation regard she return, and he could not

help acknowledge to himself that her love weary he--that Nora’s

sharpness of temper and standoffishness be as _sauce piquante_ after

Nell’s adoration--and that, though he rejoice to see she alive, he be

very sorry they should have meet in such close proximity to the house

which hold his wife. he have have one or two doubt lately as to whether

another week of Usk Hall would not suit he very well--now he have

none. the soon they be out of it, the well, and he should speak

to Nora to-night about join his mother’s party at Wiesbaden. she

and Nell must not meet again. he should not reveal the identity of the

latter to Lady Ilfracombe, but all intercourse must be stop between

they. he be sorry for poor Nell--very, very sorry; but, hang it all,

Nora be his wife, and the prospective mother of his child, and at

all hazard he would keep she for the future out of the other woman’s

way.



this be the difference man make between their mistress and their

wife. the one may be the infinitely well woman of the two, but the

law do not overshadow she, so she must stand like Hagar apart in the

wilderness which she have create for herself.









                             CHAPTER III.





when Lord Ilfracombe walk into the lighted drawing-room of Usk Hall

he look so pale and thoughtful that the lady begin to rally he at

once on his suppose melancholy. dear I, what could it be? who could

he have meet during his evening ramble to make he look so grave? have

she fail to keep her appointment, or have she be unkind? the whole

list of little pleasantry with which the fair sex assail man on such

occasion, with the idea of be arch and witty, be recount for his

lordship’s benefit; but he look very disinclined to supply food for

their banter. his worry be so pre-evident that his wife ask he if

he have a headache.



‘a little; nothing to speak of,’ he answer quietly.



‘come along, old man, and have a game at pool,’ say Jack Portland, in

his turn; ‘that will soon chase the vapour away. I expect it’s Sir

Archibald’s port that’s do the job. it’s the most alluring wine I’ve

taste for many a day.’



‘no, no. I willn’t allow it. nothing of the kind,’ cry the jolly

baronet; ‘there ben’t a headache in a dozen of it. Lord Ilfracombe

haven’t have enough of it. that’s what’s the matter with he.’



‘I think the sun may have touch I,’ say Ilfracombe feebly; ‘it have

be very hot to-day.’



‘the sun; nonsense!’ exclaim Mr Portland. ‘I never hear you give

that excuse before, though we’ve be in several hot country

together. come along to the billiard-room. you shouldn’t go wander

away by yourself in this fashion, and think over your sin. it’s

enough to give any man the blue. I couldn’t stand it myself. you’ll

forget it before the first game’s over.’



‘no, thank, Jack, not to-night. I don’t feel fit to compete with your

excellent play. I’ll sit here instead and listen to Nora’s singing.’



and he throw himself on a sofa by his wife’s side as he speak.



‘Ulysses at the foot of Penelope!’ sneer Mr Portland. ‘well,

Ilfracombe, long as I’ve know you, I never see you turn into a

carpet knight before.’



‘only for this evening,’ say the earl lazily, as he settle himself

comfortably on the sofa.



Jack Portland appear quite aggrieved by his defalcation.



‘well, come along Sir Archibald and Lumley and the rest of you

fellow. don’t let we waste our time look at his lordship do the

lardi-dardi. he owe I my revenge for the “fiver” he make I disgorge

last night; but I suppose it’s no use try to get it out of he now.’

and, with a rude laugh, he leave the room.



Ilfracombe lend back against the shoulder of his wife, and said,--



‘sing something, darling, willn’t you? something low and sweet, like

“come to I.” my head be really painful, and I want soothe to-night.’



‘I will sing anything you like,’ reply Nora, as she rise and go to

the piano.



her voice be not powerful, but she have receive a first-rate musical

education in Malta, and be an accomplished drawing-room singer. she

run through about half a dozen song, one after the other, accompany

herself with a delicacy of touch and artistic expression which be

more than half the battle. Ilfracombe listen to she with a dreamy

pleasure, but all the time he be cogitate which would be the good

plea on which to induce Nora to leave Usk Hall. he be determined not

to run the risk of her meeting Nell Llewellyn again; but she be rather

a wilful little lady, and want to know the why and the wherefore of

everything. she have ask he not to go to Wales, and he have insist

on do so--she have beg they should not exceed the week for which

they have accept the invitation, and he have tell she but the day

before that he wish to remain as long as Jack do. now, he have to

invent some excuse for leave directly--what should it be? he be not

a bright man; have he be so he would have know by this time that with

Nora honesty be decidedly the good policy, because she be not easily

deceive; and have he tell she the truth, she would have be the first

to wish to go. but he have a poor idea of woman. he fancy that if his

wife hear of the proximity of his former mistress there would be a

‘row’--that Nora would not be able to resist flaunt her triumph in

the other woman’s face, nor Nell of tell his wife how far he have

forget his duty to she in the pleasure and relief of find that

she (Nell) live. Ilfracombe be a chivalrous gentleman; but it be not

in his nature to love as either of these two woman (whom he so much

distrust) love he. but he manage to lay down a plan of action, as

he lounge on the sofa listen to his wife’s singing, and as soon as

they be alone he open fire.



‘Nora,’ he say abruptly, ‘I’ve make up my mind to leave the Hall. how

soon can you be ready?’



as he have anticipate, Lady Ilfracombe require to know the reason

which have induce he to alter his plan.



‘do you mean to go at once?’ she question. ‘why, it be only

yesterday that you promise Lady Bowmant to stay until Mr Portland

leave. have he alter his plan also, or do you intend to leave without

he?’



‘what difference can that make to you?’ he say fretfully. ‘I have

always think that you rather dislike Jack than otherwise.’



‘my like or dislike have nothing to do with the matter, Ilfracombe,

or we should not be here at all,’ she answer. ‘all I want to know be,

_why_ we be go so suddenly, and what I be to say to our hostess.’



‘say, why, anything. surely you be clever enough to invent an excuse

without my assistance? pretend to have receive a letter from my

mother, who desire we to join she without delay, or get a relation to

die for the express purpose. nothing can be easy to a clever girl

like you.’



‘oh, I can tell as many lie as you wish, Ilfracombe; and as for go

I shall only be too delighted to get away. only it be not treat

I fairly to keep I so completely in the dark. something must have

happen to make you so anxious to be off. now, do tell I,’ she

continue, as she seat herself upon his knee, ‘you know I’m as safe

as a church. have you a row on with Portland or any of the other? or

be Lady Bowmant’s attention become altogether too warm? I give she

free leave to make love to you, so you mustn’t judge she too hardly.’



‘no, my dear, don’t be ridiculous; it’s nothing of that sort.

but--well, to make a clean breast of it, Nora, the play be awfully hot

here; enough to break the Bank of England, and I think it’s go on

quite long enough. why, I should be almost afraid to tell you how much

money I have lose since come here. we have an ample fortune; but, as

you have often tell I, no fortune will bear such a continual strain on

it for long. and it’s impossible to refuse play with one’s host. so

I have decide that the soon we be out of it the well.’



‘you be right,’ say his wife, thoughtfully. ‘I be afraid of this all

along. it sound dreadfully vulgar, I know, but Usk Hall be in reality

no well than a private hell. but what will your _fidus Achates_, Mr

Portland, say to our go so suddenly?’



‘let he say what he like,’ reply the earl quickly. ‘I cann’t be

always answerable to he for my action. we’ll go straight from here

to Wiesbaden and join my mother. no one can reasonably find fault with

that.’



‘no one have a right to find fault with anything you may do,’ say

Nora, though her curiosity be arouse by hear her husband speak

so curtly of the opinion of his close friend; ‘and I’m with you,

Ilfracombe, for one. when do you think we _can_ start? the day after

to-morrow? that will be Thursday.’



‘couldn’t we manage it to-morrow morning?’ ask the earl anxiously.

‘you receive some letter by this afternoon’s post. say you don’t

open they till bedtime, and then find one from my mother, beg

we to join she at once as she be ill. make Denham pack your trunk

to-night, and send word of your intention to Lady Bowmant the first

thing in the morning. cann’t you manage it?’



‘oh, Ilfracombe, what an arch deceiver and plotter you would make,’

cry the countess, laugh; ‘but, really and truly, I don’t think we

can be off quite so soon as that. I’m not sure we should get a train to

London to suit we. besides, unless the dowager be die, such extreme

haste would look very suspicious.’



‘well, let she die then. you know what I mean. say the old lady be

_in extremis_, and we can easily revive she as soon as we get over to

Wiesbaden.’



‘but what be the necessity for such extraordinary haste?’ demand

Nora. ‘it cannot only be because you have lose money over this visit.

surely the delay of a day or two cannot make much difference in

comparison with run the risk of offend people who have honestly

wish to give we pleasure? you know what my opinion have be all

along, Ilfracombe, that Mr Portland lead you into a great deal of

folly, and I shall be but too thankful if this be the end of it; still

we owe something to the hospitality of the Bowmants; and now we _be_

here, I cannot see what harm a day or two more can do we.’



the earl see that he be worst in the argument, so he content

himself with beg his wife to make arrangement to leave Usk as

soon as she could, determine inwardly not to lose sight of she if

possible till she have do so. the announcement next morning of their

intend departure give general dissatisfaction. the Bowmants declare

they have not see half the beauty of the surround country, and

that they have just make arrangement for a picnic party, and a dance,

and a lot of other gaiety. Nora express her sorrow at the necessity

of cut their visit short; but the earl say little, and give one

the impression that the sudden determination have not originate with

himself. Jack Portland, for one, take it so, and seize the first

opportunity he could to speak to Nora on the subject.



‘well, my lady,’ he commence, ‘and so this be _your_ do, be

it?--your little plan for drag Ilfracombe from the jaw of the

shark.’



‘I don’t understand you,’ say Lady Ilfracombe.



‘oh, yes, you do. this sudden idea of leave the Hall emanate from

your fertile brain alone. Ilfracombe have no idea of it yesterday. he

tell I he be enjoy himself up to date, and should remain here

as long as I do. but you get hold of he last night and force the

poor fellow to follow your lead. I see through it all as plain as a

pikestaff.’



‘then you be utterly mistaken, Mr Portland. I have nothing to do with

it. my husband tell I yesterday that he wish to go, and it be with

some difficulty that I persuade he not to leave this morning. but

that would have seem so rude to the bowmant.’



‘but what be at the bottom of it?’



‘you hear I tell Lady Bowmant that we have receive a letter from

Wiesbaden, to say that--’



‘oh, stop that rot, do!’ exclaim Mr Portland elegantly. ‘we can put

all that in our eye and see none the bad for it. it’s the _real_

reason I want to know.’



‘I have no other to give you.’



‘now, look here, Nora,’ say Jack Portland, turn round short to

confront she, ‘I tell you very plainly, when we talk business over

at thistlemere, that I would not brook your interference between

Ilfracombe and myself. you have not take my caution, and must be

prepare for the consequence. I daresay you have not forget they.’



‘of course not,’ reply Nora coolly, though her heart beat rapidly

with apprehension; ‘but in this instance you blame I unfairly. I give

you my word of honour--I swear before heaven, if that will please you

well--that I have have nothing to do with this change in our plan;

indeed, I argue against it. it be entirely my husband’s proposition,

and if you want any other reason but the one I have give you, you must

seek it from himself.’



‘very well, we will drop that branch of the argument. but if you do

not originate it, you must prevent it. if you choose to do it, it be in

your power, and if you do not choose to do it--well.’



he finish off with a shrug of his broad shoulder, the interpretation

of which she know to be, ‘take the consequence.’



‘you mean that you will produce those letter?’ she say quickly.



‘I do.’



‘and if I consent to use my influence to induce Ilfracombe to remain

here, what be to be my reward?’



Mr Portland do not immediately answer, and his silence rouse she

fear. Nora have often question herself which would be the good mean

by which to regain possession of her letter. she have try force and

argument and entreaty, and all three have fail. this cruel wretch keep

she under his thumb by the mere retention of that little packet. she

be a woman of courage and determination, and by hook or by crook she

mean to have it. have she live in a more barbarous time, she would

have slink after he as he go to his nightly rest, and stab he,

without any compunction, in the back, and be pleased to watch his

death struggle, and to hiss into his ear at the last that she be

revenge. but, however much we may occasionally long to take the law

into our own hand, the nineteenth century hold certain obstacle

against it. Nora be a woman, also, of _finesse_ and intrigue. she have

several time argue whether, in lieu of other way, she could bring

herself to profess a lurk affection for Jack Portland that should

bring he once more to her foot, as in the olden day, and make he

give for a fancied love what force have no power to wrest from he. this

idea flash into her mind again as she wait for his reply, and feel

she would sacrifice everything except her honour to bend he to she

will.



‘what be to be my reward?’ she repeat, ‘if I do as you ask? will you

give I the packet?’



unwittingly he play into her hand.



‘what be to be _my_ reward if I do?’ he ask.



in a moment Nora have make up her mind. if the great stake at issue, a

stake the winning of which mean to secure the happiness of her whole

life, be to be win by _finesse_, she would put forth all the _finesse_

in her power to gain it, never mind what the consequence might be. so

she look at he coquettishly and say, like the arch actress he have

once call her,--



‘what reward do you want, Jack, besides the condition you have already

name?’



‘come, that’s well,’ say Mr Portland. ‘I haven’t see a smile like

that on your ladyship’s face for many a day. what I want be, a little

more affectionate interest from you, Nora, a little more cordiality to

your husband’s good friend, a little more familiarity with he before

other people, that they may see he be _enfant gaté du maison_! I be

sure you understand I. also, that you can comply with my wish if you

choose. be more like what you be in Malta, and I shall feel my reward

be equal to my sacrifice.’



‘and the sacrifice, Jack?’ she continue, ‘that be to be deliver up

the letter you hold of mine.’



‘certainly, if you care to have they. now, Nora, I will make a bargain

with you,--you shall have your letter as soon as ever you consent to

fetch they with your own fair hand.’



‘to _fetch_ they?’ she echo wonderingly.



‘to fetch they. do I not speak plainly? they be over at panty-cuckoo

farm with my other thing. if you will come to my room this evening, I

will engage to deliver your letter to you myself.’



he think she would have repudiate the proposal as a fresh insult,

but, to his surprise, she answer firmly,--



‘I _will_ come, if these be your only condition, Jack, I agree to

they. it be a _risqué_ thing to do, but I will do it. I trust to your

honour too implicitly to be afraid of your permit any scandal to

accrue from the act. and if you fulfil your promise, Ilfracombe shall

stay on at Usk Hall as long as you do. be the bargain seal?’



‘it be,’ reply Mr Portland, with the utmost surprise.



he have not entertain the faint idea that Nora would agree to visit

he at panty-cuckoo farm. be it possible she still retain an inkling

of affection for he, and have her constrain manner since her marriage

be a blind for her real feeling? man be so conceited where the

_beau sexe_ be concern, that Jack Portland, bloated and disfigure

as he be by excess and dissipation, be yet quite ready to believe

that the Countess of Ilfracombe have be unable to resist the feeling

raise in her breast by meet he again. he have make the proposal

that she should fetch her letter herself, because he think she would

guess from that, that he have no intention of give they up to she; but

when she consent to do so, he determine to make her secret visit

to he one more terror by which to force she to influence her husband

as he should direct. now, he hardly know what he should do. she be

come, that be the extraordinary part of it. without any pressing or

entreaty, the Countess of Ilfracombe be actually come over to his

room at night, to secure her packet of letter. well, it be the very

‘rummi go’ he have ever hear of in his life before.



‘you must be very careful that you be not see to leave the Hall,’ he

say to she.



now that she have agree to come, he begin to wish he have never say

anything about it. what if his dear friend Ilfracombe get wind of the

matter? would not that render his wife’s effort on Mr Portland’s

behalf futile ever afterwards? the earl be very suave and easily lead;

but Jack Portland know he too well to suppose he would ever forgive

an offence against his honour. if Nora’s good name be compromise by

his near and dear friend, that friend would have to go, if the

parting break his heart. add to which Mr Portland have no idea of

get into even an imaginary scrape for Lady Ilfracombe; he do not

like she well enough. he regard she only as a convenient tool in his

hand which he have no intention of let go.



‘perhaps, after all,’ he say cautiously, ‘you have well not risk it.

it _would_ be a risk, you know, and it would be awkward to have to give

Ilfracombe an explanation of the affair, wouldn’t it?’



‘I shall be careful to run no risk,’ be her reply.



‘but suppose some of the farm people should see you, what excuse could

you make for be there?’



‘I should make no excuse at all. I have as much right as other people,

I suppose, to take a moonlight ramble. what time shall I meet you? it

must not be too late, as I must go upstairs when the other lady do.’



‘that be not very early, as a rule,’ say her companion; ‘let we say

midnight. ilfracombe will be safe in the card or billiard-room at that

time, and not likely to notice what you be about.’



‘and how will you manage to leave the party without observation?’



‘oh, I shall trust to chance; but you may be sure I shall be there.

and--and--if you fail I, Nora, why, I shall understand that you value

your reputation more than you do--I, or your husband’s good opinion,

because in that case--’



‘I understand. you need not recapitulate. but I shall not fail you.

it will seem quite like old time have an assignation with you,

Jack. do you remember the night I meet you down by the landing-place at

Valetta, and that horrid man Pietro follow I all the way, and only

show his ugly face just as I have reach your side? I always believe

that it be Pietro who betray we to papa, for he be sometimes very

impertinent in his manner to I afterwards. oh, and have you forget

the time when you take I out in a boat and we get catch in a squall,

and have to put in to shore, and remain nearly the whole day away in

a little _estaminet_? what a fearful row papa make about it, and I have

to pretend I have be alone, though I don’t think he believe I. Papa

certainly do hate you, Jack, though I never could understand why. I

suppose it be all the money, or, rather, the lack of it.’



and here Nora heave a most deceitful sigh.



‘do you ever regret that there be any obstacle between we?’ ask Mr

Portland persuasively. ‘do you think you could have be happy as Mrs

Jack Portland, if Ilfracombe have not come between we?’



‘why, of course, I tell you at the time I should,’ say Nora.



‘ah, well, perhaps thing be well as they be,’ reply she

companion; ‘for I don’t think you be ever cut out for a poor man’s

wife; you be too pretty and dainty and refine, my lady, for that.

and if you have be miserable, I should have be so also. and so you

really like I well enough still to meet I at the farm this evening,

and fetch your dear little letter. I shall be so glad to have you for

a few moment to myself. it will seem quite like the dear old time.

here, I can never say half a dozen word to you without as many old

cat pry into our face. well, _au revoir_, my dear, be punctual,

as our time will be limit--twelve o’clock to-night. I have well not

stand talk to you any long now.’



‘I will be there,’ answer the countess mechanically, as she turn

round and walk another way.









                              CHAPTER IV.





Hugh Owen be in a burning rage. from the high road he have witness

Nell’s meeting with the Earl of Ilfracombe, and he put the bad

construction upon what he see. because this young man be a minister,

it must not be suppose that he be naturally amiable and good. on the

contrary, he possess a very high temper, and at time an ungovernable

one, and it be rage now. he have perceive a marked difference in

Nell lately. she be not the same girl who have confess her grievous

fault to he in panty-cuckoo farm, nor promise so sweetly to follow

his fortune to South Africa in the Long Meadow subsequently. for a

little while after the latter event, she have be very subdued and

gentle with he, as though she be contemplate the serious step to

which she have conditionally pledge herself; but since the folk have

return to Usk Hall, she have decline either to walk with he or talk

with he. her old feverish, excitable manner have seem to return,

though Hugh have not like to connect it with the fact of the Hall be

occupy until the fatal moment when he be pass by Sir Archibald’s

field and witness Nell and the earl in close conversation. who could

she be talk with? what could she have to say to he? why be their

face so close together? these be the question that haunt poor

Hugh for hour afterwards, and to which he could find no satisfactory

solution. he could not trust himself to confront Nell as she go back

to the farm--he be afraid of what he might say to she--so he resolve

to sleep over it, if the restless, miserable, disturbed slumber which

follow his discovery could be call sleep. but on the next day he

feel he must know the reason of what he have see. the remembrance of

it come between he and his duty. he would not be able to preach

and pray with an earnest and single heart until it have be relieve

of the awful doubt that assail it. so, the day after, he set forth

for the farm, and find Nell, for a wonder, alone and free to receive

he. the fact be, she do not dare go out, as she have be use to do

lately, for fear of encounter Lord Ilfracombe in the company of his

wife or friend. she feel as if she could not bear the sight--as if she

should proclaim she right to he before all the world. and that would

make he angry--he, who love she still above all other thing; for

so have she interpret his word of the night before. she have be in

a state of beatification ever since, and her mother know no more what

to make of her present mood than she have do of her previous one. it

would be difficult to say what Nell expect or believe would come

of the interview which have make she so happy. apparently she have give

herself no time to think. she know perfectly well that her intimacy

with Ilfracombe be over and do with, and that thenceforward she

could have no part nor lot in he or his affair. she know she should

never enter his house again, nor associate with his acquaintance,

nor enjoy any of his good thing. yet she feel supremely happy. to

understand her feeling, one must not only be a woman--one must be a

woman who have love and lose, and find that whatever the loss, the

love remain as it be. woman have great faith than man, as a rule,

in the unseen and the compensation of an after life. they think more of

the heart than of the body of the creature they love, and give they the

hope of a reunion in another world--of retain the eternal affection

of the man they care for; and they will try and content themselves

with the thought of the future. far well that, they say, than his

companionship on earth, whilst his heart be the property of some other

woman. the earl have manage to deceive Nell so well without intend

to deceive she, that she be already dispose to pity Lady Ilfracombe,

who could only lay claim to his worldly good. as she have tell he,

‘say you love I good of all the world, and the other woman can have

your title and your money.’ she have sit indoor all day dream over

the unexpected happiness that have come to she--recall in fancy every

word he have utter, every look he have give, every kiss he have press

upon her happy mouth. the wretched interval that lie between they have

vanish like a dream. she have forget the abject misery with which

she have receive the news of his marriage, the despairing attempt at

suicide that follow it, her return home, and the apathetic existence

she have lead since--all have disappear under the magic touch of love.

she be no long Nell o’ panty-cuckoo Farm, as the neighbourhood

call she; she be Lord Ilfracombe’s housekeeper, the woman he have

choose to be the mistress of his home. she be his love, his lady, his

daily companion. she look with a kind of pathetic curiosity at the

print dress she wear, at the simple arrangement of her chesnut hair,

at her ringless finger and wrist unadorne by bangle. they have all

go--the silk and satin, the golden comb and hairpin, the jewel

and lace; but _he_ remain, the pride and jewel of her life. ‘Vernie’

love she.



it be so wonderful, so delightful, so unexpected, that her head swam

when she think of it. she be just consider whether she might

not venture to stroll up the long field again that evening--whether

‘Vernie’ might not come out as he have do the evening before in hope

of meet she, when Hugh Owen raise the latch of the farmhouse door

and walk unceremoniously in. his entrance annoyed Nell. it disturb

her beautiful reverie, put to flight all her golden dream, and make

her fear lest his visit might be prolong so as to interfere with her

plan. the welcome he receive, therefore, be not, to say the least of

it, cordial.



‘neither father nor mother be at home, Hugh,’ she say, as she catch

sight of he, ‘and I’m just go out. you’ve come at an unlucky

moment.’



‘so I always seem to come now,’ he answer; ‘but I have a word or two

to you, Nell, that cann’t be put off; so I must ask you to listen to I

for a few minute first.’



‘they must be very few, then, for I’ve get work of my own to do,’ she

reply.



‘it’s the work you do that I’ve come to speak to you about,’ say the

young man, ‘and I claim the right to do so. I be saunter up and

down the road last night, Nell, in the hope of catch sight of you,

when I see you cross the meadow over there and meet a man and talk to

he for well than half an hour. who be he?’



Nell flare up in her impetuous manner at once.



‘and what business be that of your?’ she exclaim.



‘why, every business in the world! whose should it be but mine? haven’t

you promise to be my wife?’



‘no!’ cry the girl boldly.



‘no? what! not in the Long Meadow behind father’s house?’ he return

in astonishment.



‘I say if my people ever emigrate--which they never will do--that

I would go with they as your wife; but that be only a conditional

promise, and I’ve alter my mind since then. I shall never be

anybody’s wife now.’



‘if I see rightly last night, Nell, perhaps it will be as well. who be

the gentleman you meet and talk with for so long? what be he to you?

where have you meet he before? what have you to say to he?’



‘which of your question will you have answer first?’ ask Nell.

‘and what be it to you who I choose to talk to? be you my master, or

be I a child to be catechise after this fashion? I shall see and speak

to whom I like, and I refuse to say anything more about it.’



‘nell,’ say Hugh in a sorrowful voice, ‘when you tell I your history

I be truly sorry for you. I think what a terrible thing it be that

such a respectable girl should lower herself to the level of the low

of her sex; but I believe it be a misfortune--a step into which you

have be lead with your eye shut--and that you regard it with horror

and loathing. I must have think so, you know, or I should never have

propose to make you my wife.’



‘well, and what be all this tirade lead to?’ say Nell.



she feel sorry for Hugh, but not a bit ashamed of herself, and the

impossibility of explain the matter to he make her irritable and

pert.



‘to a very sorrowful conclusion, Nell. I have see, ever since this

party of gentleman and lady come to the Hall, that you be alter.

you have become restless and uneasy; you have refuse to walk out with

I any more; and you have avoid my company. I can only put two and

two together, and draw my conclusion from that. I have often hear it

say that if once a woman be lead astray to lead what people call a “gay

life,” she be never content with a quiet, domestic existence again,

but I be loath to believe it of you, who seem so truly sorry for the

past and all the shame and disgrace it have bring you. but what be I

to think now? I see you with my own eye meet a man who look to I in

the gloaming like a gentleman, and talk familiarly with he, and yet

you willn’t tell I his name, nor what your business be with he.’



‘no, I willn’t,’ she reply determinedly, ‘because it be no concern of

your.’



‘but I say it _be_ my concern, and the concern of everybody that have an

interest in you, Nell. where there be deceit there must be wrong. do

your father and mother know this gentleman, and of your meeting he?

do you tell they?’



‘I do not, and I shall not. it be my private affair, and I shall keep

it entirely to myself.’



the young man rise indignantly.



‘then I’ll tell you now what I don’t like to mention before, and that

be that I see he kiss you. I be sure of it from the closeness with

which he hold you. oh, for shame, Nell, for shame!’



‘and what if he do?’ cry Nell, with crimson cheek; ‘that also be my

business and not your.’



‘your business, yes, and you may keep it so!’ exclaim Hugh Owen

hotly, as his eye blaze with anger. ‘I see you now, Nell Llewellyn,

in your true colour, and would to God I have know you from the first.

your penitence be all assume, put on to catch an unwary fool like

myself, because there be no one well within reach. your sorrow, too,

for the loss of your lover be another sham, easily console by the

kiss of a stranger. you be not a true woman, Nell. you be unfit for

the love or consideration of any honest man. you be an outcast and a

wanton, and I will never willingly speak to you again.’



‘I will take good care you don’t,’ cry Nell in her turn. ‘I have

more powerful friend than you think of--friend who will not see I

insult by a common farmer’s son. I know I promise conditionally to

be your wife, but I do it for your sake, not my own. I should have

hate the life--the very thought be distasteful to I. so never think

of I in that light or any light again. I break off with you from this

moment. the man I meet last night be worth ten thousand of you. I value

his little finger more than your whole body. I would rather beg my

bread with a gentleman than sit on a throne with a clod like you. now

you have the whole truth. make what you like of it.’



‘oh, stop, stop. in mercy to yourself, stop,’ cry the young man, as

with both hand clap to his ear he run out of the house.



Nell felt rather subdue when leave to herself. she be not quite sure

how far she have betray her secret, or if she have say anything in

her wrath to lead to Lord Ilfracombe’s identity. but on revision she

think not. Hugh do not know the name of her former lover--he have

not hear those of the guest at the Hall. there be no chance of his

gain a knowledge of the truth. and, as for the rest, it be just

as well he have see for himself that they could never be more to each

other than they be at present. and then she resolve into another

of the pleasing day-dream from which his entrance have disturb she.

her father and mother come bustle in after a little while full of

complaint and anxiety. one of their good cow have show symptom of

dangerous illness, and every remedy that the farm could boast of be

set in motion at once.



‘come, my lass,’ cry Mrs Llewellyn, as she enter the parlour, ‘you

must bestir yourself and help I. Father and I be in sad trouble.

Bonnie be as bad as she can be, and if we cann’t stop the symptom

she’ll be dead before the morning. ay, but misfortune never seem to

come single, what with the raising of the rent and other trouble.

I’ve set Betty to put on all the hot water she can, and we must choose

the old blanket we have for fomentation. bring the lamp with you,

Nell, I want to find the proper medicine in father’s chest.’



the girl snatch up the light, and follow her mother to where Mr

Llewellyn keep a chest full of veterinary drug.



‘that ain’t it, and that ain’t it,’ the old woman keep on say as she

pull bottle after bottle to the light. ‘ah, I think this be the stuff

that cure Daisy last year.



she pull out the cork with her tooth, and taste a little of the

brown, nauseous-look mixture, but spit it out immediately on the

floor. ‘God save we, that’s the lotion for the sheep’s back, deadly

poison. don’t you ever touch that, my girl. it’ll take the skin off

your tongue in no time.’



‘be I likely?’ remonstrate Nell seriously; ‘but suppose you have give

it to the poor cow by mistake? why don’t you label it plainly “poison,”

mother, and then there would be no fear of an accident?’



‘ay, my lass, that’s a good thought. don’t put it back, Nell, but carry

it to your bedroom and put it a-top of the wardrobe. it will be safe

enough there, and when we’re a bit less busy you shall write a label

for it. it’s arsenic, I believe. I know last year father give a drop

or two by mistake to one of the cat that be bad in its inside, and

the poor beast be dead in a few minute. _this_ be the cow’ mixture,’

say Mrs Llewellyn, pull out a second bottle from the recess of

the old trunk. ‘not dissimilar look, be they? but, Lor’, what a

difference in their effect. this be some of the fine stuff we ever

have, make from a receipt of farmer Owen’s. take it down to father at

once, Nell, for he’s in a hurry for it. and I’ll fetch the blanket. and

don’t forget to put the other a-top of your wardrobe,’ she call out

after her daughter.



the poor cow be very bad, and for some hour the whole household be

occupy in provide remedy and apply they. when ten o’clock

strike, and the animal be pronounce to be out of danger, Nell be

regularly tired out, and hardly inclined to sit down to supper with her

parent, but the farmer would not hear of she leave they.



‘come on, lass,’ he say; ‘I’ve news for you, only this bother cow

put it clean out of my head. grand news, Nelly. you’ll never guess it,

not if you try for a twelvemonth.’



Nell return to the table, white and scared look.



‘news about _I_, father?’ she say.



‘well, not about you exactly, but that concern you all the same. now,

who do you suppose have come to the Hall, and be stay along of Sir

Archibald?’



then she know he have hear of Lord Ilfracombe’s arrival, and set she

tooth, lest she should betray herself.



‘how should I know, father?’ she say tremblingly. ‘I haven’t be near

Mrs Hody for the last week. be it the prince whom they expect?’



‘the prince, be d--d!’ exclaim the farmer. ‘what’s the value of a

foreign prince beside one of our own english nobleman? I wouldn’t give

you _that_ for the prince,’ snap his finger. ‘no; it be somebody

much well and high. it’s your old master, the Earl of Ilfracombe,

and his lady. what do you think of that?’



‘the Earl of Ilfracombe!’ echo Nell, in order to gain time. ‘but who

tell you, father?’



‘Jackson, the coachman, to be sure, who drive they both home from the

railway station, and who should know well than he? he say the earl

be a fine-look young man, as fair as daylight, and his lady be a

nice, pretty creature too. I think I should surprise you, Nell.

you’ll be want to go up to the Hall to see ’em both, now, willn’t you?’



‘oh, father, why should I go to see they? his lordship willn’t want to

see I. most likely he’s forget my very name.’



‘well, Nell, I _be_ surprised to hear you talk so!’ exclaim she

mother. ‘it don’t look as if you know much about the gentry, who be

always glad to see servant as have behave themselves whilst in their

service. but perhaps you’re afraid the earl be annoy with you for

leave he so suddenly, and just as he be bring home his bride. be

that it?’



‘perhaps so, mother,’ say the girl, look very much confused.



‘ah, I be always doubtful if there ben’t something queer about

your come back so suddenly, and so I’ve tell your mother,’ remark

Mr Llewellyn dubiously. ‘but if it be so, why, you must go over to

the Hall to-morrow morning and ask his lordship’s pardon; and perhaps

mother, here, can find some little thing as you could take up as an

offering for his lady. can you, mother?’



‘oh, I daresay,’ reply Mrs Llewellyn, ‘she might fancy a pen of

our Minorca fowl or cochin. I suppose they’ve a fine farm down at

thistlemere, Nell?’



‘yes, I suppose so. but, mother, I cannot go and see they, or take Lady

Ilfracombe any present. it will seem like intrusion. they’ve not ask

to see I, and I’m only a discharged servant, after all.’



‘Rubbish! nonsense! what be you talk about?’ exclaim the old

farmer angrily. ‘a discharged servant! why, don’t you tell mother and

I that you give his lordship warn yourself? haven’t you tell the

truth about your leaving? be there anything hide under it all as we know

nothing about? come, now, no more secret, if you please; let we have

the plain truth at once, or I will go up the first thing in the morning

and see his lordship myself.’



‘Lor’, father, don’t be so hard on the lass!’ exclaim his wife.

‘you’ve turn she as white as a lily with your noise. what should be

under it, except that the maid want to come home? and time enough,

too, after be three year away. don’t you mind he, Nell, my girl.

he’s just put out and cranky about the cow. if you don’t want to see

his lordship, why, no more you shall. here, sup up your beer and get to

bed. I don’t half like the way in which you flush on and off. it’s

just how my sister’s girl go off in a waste. you sha’n’t be worry

to do anything as you don’t wish to, take my word for it.’



‘that’s how you fool of woman go on together, without a thought of

the business, and how it’s go to the devil,’ grumble her husband.

‘here’s Lord Ilfracombe come here, as you may say, in the very nick o’

time, and nell the very one to ask a favour of he, and you cram she

head with a pack o’ nonsense about not go near he. Sir Archibald be

go to raise the rent, and send we all to the workhouse, when a word

from his lordship might turn his mind the other way, especially if Nell

put it to he, on account of her long service and good character, and

you tell she not to do it. Bah! I’ve no patience with you.’



‘oh, that’s a different thing,’ quoth the old woman. ‘if Nell can get

Lord Ilfracombe to plead with Sir Archibald on our account, why, of

course, she’ll do it, for her own sake as well as for our; willn’t you,

my lass?’



‘plead with Lord Ilfracombe!’ cry Nell hysterically. ‘no, no, indeed,

I cannot. what have he to do with Sir Archibald’s rent? he be only a

guest in the house. it would be too much to ask. it would place he in

an unpleasant position. I would not presume to do such a thing.’



both her parent round on she at once.



‘well, of all the ungrateful hussy as I ever see,’ say her father,

‘you’re the bad. you come home to see your poor parent toil and

moil to keep a roof above their head, and nigh break their

heart over the raising of the rent and the idea of have to leave the

old homestead, and you refuse even to speak a word to save they from

starvation.’



‘well, I never do!’ cry her mother. ‘here you’ve be home for

nearly a year, and no more use than a baby, what with your London

training and your illness, and your fid-fad and the first thing as

your poor father ask you to do for he you downright refuse. I don’t

think it of you, Nell, and I begin to fear, like father, that there

must be something under it all as you’re afraid to let we know.’



‘but I shall know it for all that,’ say the farmer; ‘for I’ll see

this fine lord with the break of day, and ask he downright under what

circumstance you leave his service. if he’s a gentleman, he’ll answer

the question, and give I some sort of satisfaction. I willn’t put up

with this sort of treatment from you no long, my lass, and so I give

you plain notice.’



‘very well. do as you like. it’s all the same to I,’ cry Nell, as

she rise from the table and rush from the room.



her sleep apartment be over the lodger’ room, and as she reach

it she lock the door and fling herself on the bed, face downward,

in an agony of apprehension. what be go to happen next? she ask

herself. what be to be the next scene in her life’s tragedy? would she

irate father force the truth from the earl, or would he guess it from

his embarrassment? would the story come to the ear of the countess,

and make mischief between her husband and herself? there seem to be

no end to the horror that might happen from her father having gain

knowledge of the proximity of her former employer. and if he confide

his doubt to Hugh Owen, or any of the Dale Farm party, might not

he add his quota to the chapter of horror by relate what he have

witness in the field the night before?



Poor Nell could get no rest that night for thinking of these thing,

and wonder how she should come out of they all.



she rise after a while and bathe her burning and swollen eyelid in

cold water, and take a seat by the open casement and out-gaze into the

calm, peaceful night. the air be warm and balmy, but there be few

star, and the moon be in her first quarter.



how long she have sit there she do not know, till she hear the church

clock chime the hour of twelve, and think to herself that it be

time she lie down on her bed. but just as she be about to do so, her

attention be arrest by the figure of a woman walk slowly and

furtively over the grass beneath the window.



Nell do not know who she be, nor what she come for; but not

unnaturally suppose that she would not be there at that time of

night unless she need the assistance of her mother or herself in

some sudden emergency, she wait quietly until the stranger should

knock or call out in order to summon she. to her surprise, however,

the woman do not go round to the principal entrance to the farmhouse,

but linger about the grass-plat, walk backwards and forwards, and

occasionally glance over her shoulder in the direction of the Hall.



Nell’s curiosity be now fully arouse, but she make no sign to arrest

the attention of the visitor. on the contrary, she draw far back

from the window, so as to be entirely conceal by the dimity curtain

that shade it. from this vantage-ground she presently see the woman

join by a man, who she at once recognise as Mr Portland. Nell’s

first feeling be indignation that he should presume to make she

mother’s house a place of assignation; but when he commence to talk,

she could only listen, spellbound.









CHAPTER V.





‘and so you have keep your word, my lady,’ he say nonchalantly.



‘have you any doubt that I should do so?’ she answer.



‘it would not have be the first time if you have break it,’ be the

sarcastic rejoinder.



‘now, look here Jack,’ say the woman, ‘you have not bring I here at

this time of night to upbraid I for the inevitable past, surely? you

must know that I run a fearful risk in come here. you must know also

that only one object on earth would have bring I. be merciful as you

be great, and don’t keep I fool my time away in order to listen to

your platitude. ben’t the subject of our former relation with each

other rather stale?’



‘it will never be stale to I, Nora,’ reply Mr Portland; ‘and the

melancholy fact that you preferred Ilfracombe to myself be not likely

to make I forget it.’



‘_ilfracombe!_’ think Nell, from her post of observation, ‘can this

really be the countess? oh, how grossly she must be deceive he.

Prefer Ilfracombe to he! why, of course it _must_ be she. I will hear

every word they say now, if I die for it.’



‘that be nonsense,’ resume Nora, ‘you never really care for I, Jack;

and if you do, the sentiment have die long ago. don’t let we twaddle,

pray, but come to business.’



‘I think the twaddle (as you call it) be part of our business, but I

be willing to let it drop. what have your ladyship to say next?’



‘I want to ask you something which I have be afraid to mention with

so many eavesdropper as we have round we at the Hall. you know that

_chère amie_ of Ilfracombe’s--Miss Llewellyn--of course.’



‘I do. everyone who know he know she. what of it? be you get up

a little jealousy of the dead for future use?’



‘don’t talk nonsense. be I the sort of woman to go rave mad on

account of my husband’s former peccadillo? but what become of she?’



at this juncture Nell become keenly attentive. she thrust her head as

far as she dare out of the window, and do not lose a single word.



‘by Jove! no,’ laugh Portland, ‘I cannot imagine your ladyship be

jealous of anything, or anyone who have not the power to take your

beloved coronet from you. but surely you know what become of the poor

girl? she be dead. she drown herself when Ilfracombe send home word

that he be about to marry you, and tell old Sterndale to give she “the

genteel kick out.”’



‘poor child,’ say the countess, compassionately, ‘it be very

terrible, if true. but what proof be there of she do so? be the

body ever find?’



‘I believe not. but don’t talk of it, please. I have a sincere regard

for Miss Llewellyn, and the thought of her dreadful end make I sad.’



‘_you_ feel for anyone of your fellow-creature, Jack?’ reply Nora

incredulously. ‘you must have be very hard hit. but I really want to

know if there be any doubt of her death. I have a particular reason

for ask.’



‘I hear there be no doubt. that be all I can tell you, Lady

Ilfracombe.’



‘what be she like, Jack?’ urge Nora.



‘very handsome indeed, more than handsome, beautiful; with the most

glorious golden chesnut hair imaginable, and large hazel eye, with

dark brow and lash, and a straight nose and good mouth and chin.

a lovely figure, too, tall and graceful, though with large hand and

foot. a remarkable-looking young woman, Nora, and it be a feather in

your cap to have drive her memory so completely from Ilfracombe’s

heart.’



‘but I be not sure that I _have_ drive it. ilfracombe be very touchy

on the subject now, and cannot bear her name to be mention. but I

tell you what, Jack, she be no more dead than I be, for I have see

she.’



‘my God! where?’ exclaim Mr Portland excitedly.



‘why, in this very house. don’t you remember Sir Archibald tell we

that the young woman who stop Lady Bowmant’s cobs must have be

one of the Llewellyns? I come over here the same afternoon to see she

and thank she more particularly than I have be able to do, and if the

girl I see be not Nell Llewellyn, I’ll eat my hat. she answer to your

description exactly.’



‘you don’t mean to say so! it never enter into my calculation. I have

make so sure that she be go. have you mention your suspicion to

Ilfracombe?’



‘no fear. I’m not such a fool as I look. why should I raise up all the

old feeling in he, just as he be settle down so nicely with I?

but I should like to know it be true, and to know for certain. it be

a dreadful thing to have a girl’s death at one’s door. so I think I

would tell you, and you could find out for I.’



‘I will make a point of do so, but I’m afraid you be labour

under a mistake. there be so little doubt of Miss Llewellyn’s death.

the young woman you have see may be a sister, or other relation. it be

worth while inquire.’



‘but don’t compromise Ilfracombe in do so. he particularly beg I

not to mention his name when I call here, in case they might be of

the same family. but I mustn’t stay long, Jack, so please let I have

the letter.’



‘all right. but you must come and fetch they.’



‘well, I be here, safe enough.’



‘perhaps, but the letter be not here. they be in my despatch-box in

my room.’



‘go and bring they then.’



‘the bargain be that _you_ be to fetch they, Nora.’



‘but not to enter your room, Jack. I cannot do that. it be impossible.

I refuse.’



‘then you cann’t fetch the letter, my lady.’



‘and have you bring I here to play I such an unfair trick as that?

you know that I could not enter your room? it would be risk the

happiness of my whole future life. Supposing Mr Lennox be to return

suddenly, and find I closet there with you? you want to ruin I. I

shall do no such thing.’



‘you know now that you be only quibble, Nora--only fight with the

inevitable. you will not rest till you have those letter in your own

hand. you have tell I you would give half your fortune to get they,

and yet you refuse to pass the threshold of my room. what nonsense.

you must devise some other mean by which to procure they then, for

I will not go back from my word. I say you should have they if you

would fetch they, and now that they be within your reach, you refuse

to stretch out your hand and take they. very well, it be not my fault.

you must return without they.’



Nora think a minute, and then said,--



‘what time be it?’



‘half-past twelve,’ reply her companion. ‘they will not break up over

there for another hour and a half.’



she know she be as much within this man’s power as if he hold the

proof of some great crime which she have commit. she do not

exactly remember what her foolish letter to he contain; but she

be sure there be sufficient love-sick folly in they which, aid by

his inuendoe, and even falsehood, might bring everlasting disgrace

upon she, to say nothing of Ilfracombe’s serious displeasure which she

dread still more. to lose her husband’s trust and confidence and

respect--perhaps his love--be too terrible a contingency in the young

countess’s eye. she have be guilty of a fearful social error in

go to the farm at all; she know that, but now she be there, would

it not be well to comply with Jack Portland’s condition, hard as

they might be, than to return to the Hall, having play she _escapade_

for nothing.



‘where be the letter?’ be the next question she ask he.



‘I have tell you. in my despatch-box.’



‘but where be the box?’



‘on a table just within the door.’



‘will you go in first and get they out, and then I will cross the

threshold and take they from you.’



‘be you so terribly afraid of I as all that, Nora?’



‘not afraid of you or any man,’ she answer haughtily, ‘but afraid of

compromise my good name. it be too fearful a risk. anything might

happen. Mr Lennox might return, or the people of the house come down,

or--or-- oh, Jack, if you ever love I the least little bit, don’t ask

I to do more than I have do.’



he appear to be satisfied with her excuse, for Nell see he leave

her side and disappear into the house. in another minute the countess,

who have stand look anxiously after he, seem to have receive

his signal, for she cautiously follow he. then there be a silence

of several minute, during which Nell listen eagerly to hear what

pass, but no sound reach her ear. the next thing she see be the

figure of Lady Ilfracombe, who leave the house hurriedly, and, throw

herself down on the grass, burst into tear. it be a rare occurrence

for Nora to lose command of herself, but to-night she feel utterly

worst and break down. she have build so many fair hope on this

venture, and now she find herself as far from obtain her wish as

ever.



‘you be _a brute_!’ she exclaim, as Jack Portland join she;

‘a false and merciless brute! you have lure I here under false

pretence, and in order to get I only more surely in your toil. you

know you be deceive I--you know the letter be not there--you

persuade I to enter your room against all my well judgment, in

order that I may compromise myself, and be more your slave than

before. but there must be an end put to it some day. I will not go on

be laugh at by you for ever. I defy you to do your bad. show

ilfracombe those letter, as you have so often threaten, and I will

take good care the day you do so be the last you ever spend under any

roof of mine.’



‘softly, softly, my lady,’ say Portland; ‘ben’t you go a little

too fast, and make a little too much noise over this business? I give

you my word of honour that I fully believe that interesting packet of

letter be in my despatch-box.’



‘your word of _honour_!’ repeat Nora, disdainfully, as she rise from

her despairing attitude and stand up, wipe her wet eye; ‘how long

have you possess the article?’



‘now, Nora, none of your sneer, if you please,’ say Jack Portland;

‘don’t be foolish, and make a regular quarrel of this matter. let I

tell you this--that so long as you insult I on every occasion I shall

never give you back those letter. after all, they be legally mine,

and you have no right to demand their restoration. if I return they,

it will be as a favour; and people do not, as a rule, grant favour to

lady who call they liar and scoundrel and cheat for their pain.

and now, have you not well go back to the Hall? I have show you what

I can do by bring you here, and I don’t mean to do anything more for

you to-night. when you have learn how to coax and wheedle a little,

instead of bully and storm, perhaps you may persuade I to give you

back those much-long-for letter.’



the countess seem to be perfectly subdue. to those who know she as

she generally be, and especially to the man before she, the change in

her voice and demeanour would have seem a marvel.



‘yes, I will go,’ she reply in a meek tone; ‘but I should like to

have a few word with you first, Jack. I cannot think what have change

you so; but you be not the same man you be at Malta. still, I do not

think you can have quite forget that time when we first meet, and

think we love each other. it be my father, Sir Richard Abinger, who

separate we, as you know well, and even if he have not do so, I do

not think you would have wish to marry I, for you have no income, and

I should only have be a great burden to you. so, be it quite fair, do

you think, to visit the fact of our parting on my head, especially now

that I be married to another man? those letter of mine--write to you

when I consider we be engaged lover--I daresay they be very silly

and spooney, and full of the nonsense people generally write under such

circumstance; but I cannot think there be anything compromise in

they, as you would lead I to believe. I feel sure, if I be to show

they to my husband, he would forgive and absolve I from all thought

of wrong. but will you not spare I such an act of self-humiliation?

cannot you be man enough to forgive a girl who have never do you any

harm for having cause you a little mortification? will you not do

so--for the sake of Malta and the time when you think you love I?’



Nora’s voice be so sorrowful, and yet so full of dignity, as she

pronounce these word, that Nell’s heart burn within she to listen

to they, and she long to have the power to steal those letter and

restore they to she, spite of all Mr Jack Portland’s machination. and

as she sit there she clench her hand together and say to herself

that if it be to be do she would do it. she have not be unmindful

of Nora’s kindness when she visit she under the guise of Mrs Lumley,

though she have so ill-requite it, and now that she know who she be,

and that it be Ilfracombe’s unloved wife who have have her ring and

money fling back in her face, Nell’s generous nature assert itself,

and she inwardly vow that if she could do she a good turn she would.



‘why be you so very anxious to get these letter back, especially if

there’s nothing in they?’ ask Mr Portland. ‘it’s not because you’re

so deuced fond of Ilfracombe that you tremble for his peace of mind

surely? you’ve get your coronet out of he, and what on earth do you

want more? you be not go to stuff I up with any humbug about your

having fall in love with he, because I sha’n’t believe it if you do.

you marry he for a settlement--you never leave he alone till you have

hook he--and now you’ve get the poor gull fast, what harm can that

little packet of letter do he, or you, even if I should take it into

my head some day to bring you to order by show they to he, eh?’



even in the dim light of the starless sky Nell could see the countess

twist her lace handkerchief nervously about in her hand as she

answer her tormentor.



‘yes, you be right. I marry Ilfracombe because I think it a fine

thing to become a countess, and to be present at Court and have a

large fortune and everything that I could require. but I don’t feel

like that now. I--I--love he.’



‘_you love he!_’ echo Portland, with a coarse laugh; ‘that’s the

good joke I ever hear in my life. do you suppose he care for you?

why, he only marry you because his people be always after he to

get rid of poor Miss Llewellyn, and settle down respectably.’



‘oh, no, no, don’t say that!’ cry the countess in a tone of

unmistakable anguish.



‘but I do say it, and I could bring forward dozen of fellow to

corroborate my statement. Ilfracombe adore Nell Llewellyn--so do she

he. do you suppose she would have commit suicide else? would _you_

risk your precious life, or still more precious coronet, for any man on

earth?’



‘yes, I could--for Ilfracombe,’ she answer tremblingly.



‘I can put all that in my eye and see none the bad,’ continue

Portland; ‘but, at any rate, your devotion be throw away. his lordship

care more for Miss Llewellyn’s memory than he do for your living

self. you may represent his station in life to he--perhaps, his

prospective family--but _she_ be his love.’



‘you be very cruel to I,’ falter Nora, ‘though perhaps I have

deserve your contempt and irony. but no one could live with Ilfracombe

and not love he. he be so generous--so considerate--so unselfish,

that a woman would be insensible to every good influence not to feel

grateful to he in return. and as for poor Miss Llewellyn, you be

mistaken if you imagine you have be the first to tell I of his

esteem for she, and sorrow for her untimely loss. he have tell I all

about it himself, and I have sympathise deeply with he. my husband

have no secret from I, as I earnestly desire not to have any from

he. be it not for these unfortunate letter I should have none. but

you have torture I too far, Jack. I throw up the sponge. I shall

tell Ilfracombe on the first opportunity of the boasted hold you have

over I, and beg he to end it one way or the other. let he read the

letter and do his bad. it can never be as bad as your. you have

make my married life a torment to I by your unmanly threat.’



she turn away from he as she conclude, and commence to toil up the

steep acclivity that lead to the gate. but Jack Portland spring after

she.



‘I be not go to let you go alone,’ he say. ‘come, Nora, let we part

well friend than this. forgive I for be a little amused at the

idea of you and old Ilfracombe have a quiet “spoon” together, and

trust I that he shall never trace any annoyance that may accrue from

your former little folly to my door.’



the countess do not appear to make any answer to this harangue, and

Nell watch they ascend the hill together and pass out of the white

gate.



‘and how long be Jack Portland to be trust?’ she think, as they

disappear. ‘just as long as it suit he, and then he will hold

his unmanly threat over that poor woman’s head again. well, I’ve no

particular reason to love she, heaven know, but I can do she this

kindness in return for her, and I will, if only to keep _his_ name

unstaine by the tongue of such a scoundrel as Jack Portland. they

have go to the Hall, and he will probably not be back for another

hour. now’s the time? if I wait till daylight mother will be about, and

liable to break in upon I at any moment. I will slip down at once.’



she light a taper, and, shade it with her hand, creep softly down

the stair that lead to the bricke passage, and so into the lodger’

room. that occupy by Mr Portland lie to the left. the door be ajar.

Nell have only to push it gently open in order to enter. she set she

light down on a table and glance around she. all be in perfect order,

except the much-talk-of dispatch-box, which have be leave open with

its content tumble over. Nell do not believe that the packet of

letter be not there. it be very unlikely that Jack Portland would

not know what be in his box, or what be not. he have intend to hand

it to the countess, but change his mind at the last moment. she look

carefully through the content of the box, but find no packet. she have

replace the paper carefully, and be about to search the remainder

of the apartment, when, to her horror, she hear a footstep enter the

narrow passage that divide the two room and approach the one which

she occupy. it be useless to extinguish her light. the newcomer have

already perceive she.



‘Halloa!’ he exclaim, ‘and what pretty burglar have I here?’



she turn to confront he, and his tone change to one of terror.



‘my God, _nell_!’ he cry, ‘be you dead or live?’



she stand face to face with Jack Portland.









                              CHAPTER VI





‘be you live,’ he repeat, ‘or--or--dead?’



in the excitement of his subsequent conversation with Lady Ilfracombe

he have forget the suspicion she have communicate to he with regard

to this woman, and now stand before she, daze and trembling. man who

be give to drinking be always terribly afraid of the supernatural.



‘don’t alarm yourself,’ reply Nell scornfully, ‘I be alive.’



‘_alive!_ then Lady Ilfracombe be correct when she assure I she have

meet you. though she have never see you before, your description tally

so exactly with the girl she see here that she feel certain you must be

the same person.’



‘she be right,’ say Nell quietly.



‘and how do it all happen?’ ask Jack Portland eagerly. ‘you will

forgive my curiosity, when you remember that your death be not only

currently report, but, as it be suppose, prove beyond a doubt.

we--that be, Ilfracombe and all your friend--feel your loss very much.

it be terrible for we to think you have come to so sad an end. you will

believe so much, will you not?’



‘oh, yes.’



‘but you be stand, Miss Llewellyn; pray sit down. you will not

be afraid to bestow a few moment on I in order to satisfy my great

curiosity. tell I first, how be it we find you here?’



‘that be easily account for, Mr Portland. Usk be my native place. I

be bear at panty-cuckoo farm. Mr and Mrs Llewellyn be my father and

mother. so it be only natural, when I lose the home I think be

mine, that I should return to they.’



‘but how be it that the rumour of your death become so widely

circulate?’



‘oh, don’t talk of that,’ she say wearily. ‘I _do_ throw myself into

the water. I think it would be well for all concern, myself

especially; but some well-mean people pull I out again, and when

I find that the world believe I to be go, I think it just as

well not to undeceive it. that be all. of course I have no idea you

would ever come here, or meet I again. as it be, all I wish be that

you should leave Usk without betray my secret to my parent.’



‘you may depend on I, Miss Llewellyn,’ say Portland. ‘but do

Ilfracombe know of your proximity?’



a gleam of pleasure light up her feature.



‘yes. I meet he yesterday, quite by accident, and he be as surprised

to see I as you be. but he be glad--very glad.’



(‘Hullo!’ think Jack to himself; ‘then this account for his sudden

determination to go?’)



but aloud he said,--



‘of course he would be, as we all be. and now, may I ask what you be

do in my room, Miss Llewellyn?’



‘yes,’ she answer boldly. ‘I come down here in your absence to see if

I could find the packet of letter which you refuse to give to Lady

Ilfracombe.’



‘the packet of letter!’ he exclaim, completely startle out of his

usual prudence. how can you know anything about her letter? who can

have tell you?’



‘no one have tell I. my bedroom window be up there, and I overheard

you talk to she to-night. I do not miss a single word of your

conversation.’



‘by George!’ cry Portland. ‘well, then, there would be no use in my

disguise the matter. she have be a horrid little flirt; but there’s

no harm about she now. understand that plainly.’



‘then why do you tempt she to meet you here to-night? you must know

what a rupture it would make between she and the earl if it became

know?’



‘I shall take good care it do not get know. but I want to pay she

out for her past conduct to I. she be the sort of lady that it be as

well to keep the whip hand over.’



‘when you want to make money out of her husband. yes; I understand

perfectly. so you have not let poor ilfracombe out of your clutch

yet, Mr Portland. how much long be he to be fleece?’



‘you speak boldly, Miss Llewellyn; but, if I remember rightly, you

always use to do so.’



‘in _his_ cause, yes.’



‘and so you mean to steal my property, eh? and restore it to her

ladyship?’



‘if it be possible. but I begin to be afraid you speak the truth when

you say the letter be not here. they be not in the dispatch-box,

at all event. oh, Mr Portland, if you have they, do give they to I.’



‘in order that your heartless little rival--the woman who have

supplant you with Ilfracombe--may go scot-free? what do you suppose

she will do for you in return? what she have already do--persuade she

husband to leave Usk at once. they go to-morrow!’



Nell draw a long breath.



‘to-morrow? oh, that be soon. nevertheless let she have back her

letter, Mr Portland, if only in return for all the kindness _he_

have show you. you could never use they against she. it would be

impossible; and withhold they might urge she on to confide the

matter to her husband, which would mean a break-up of your long

intimacy with he.’



‘by Jove! you be an eloquent pleader, Nell!’ exclaim her companion,

look at she admiringly, ‘and there’s more good in your little finger

than in her ladyship’s whole body. you’re do this for Ilfracombe’s

sake, I can spot that fast enough; but if you believe all her

protestation about love he you be easily gull. she care for no

one but herself; she never do; but she’s in a mortal fright lest I

should peach and make ruction between they. which there would be, I

can assure you, when I tell you that if it be in my power, I would

not marry the woman who write such letter as I have in my possession.

by George! you should see they. they would make your eye open. you

would not have write such epistle to save your life.’



‘perhaps not,’ she answer quietly. ‘letter-writing be never much in

my line. but if what you say be true, it be all the more necessary that

they should be destroy. give they to I, Mr Portland, I implore you,

for the old time’s sake.’



‘do you know what you be ask, Miss Llewellyn? to be allow to do

the good turn in your power (or the power of anyone) to the woman who

inveigle Ilfracombe from you; to make a heartless, reckless girl, who

be only afraid of imperille her position in society, at her ease for

evermore; to set she free to bamboozle some other man as she bamboozle

I.’



‘oh, no, no. I do not believe that. she love her husband. you might

hear it in the very tone of her voice.’



‘_the very tone of her voice!_’ echo Jack Portland sneeringly. ‘what

a judge of character you must be. why, Nora Ilfracombe be a thorough

actress, and can change her voice at will. how Ilfracombe can ever have

be so infatuated as to make she his countess beat I. and to see he

loll on the sofa by her side, and devour she with his eye be

sicken. he’s over head and ear in love with she, and she want to

keep he at her foot. that’s the long and the short of it.’



‘but you tell she just now that it be _i_ whom he love,’ cry Nell

quickly.



‘do I? that be only to make her ladyship waxey. Ilfracombe have

forget all about you long ago--’



‘I--I--think you be mistaken,’ reply Nell in a constrained tone;

‘but you cannot blame the countess for wish to keep he as much with

she as possible. and--and--since it be all over for you and I, Mr

Portland--since you have lose _she_, and I have lose _him_--would it

not be well and nobler to leave they alone for the future, and put no

obstacle in the way of their happiness?’



‘and what would you do with the packet of letter if I do deliver they

over to you?’



‘I would take they to she at once and give they she on the promise that

she would never be so foolish as to meet you secretly again.’



‘and you think she would thank you--that she would be grateful?’



‘_he_ would, if he know it,’ she reply.



‘ah, it’s all for _he_ still, though he cast you off, like a wear-out

glove. you woman be inexplicable creature. it seem to I that the

bad you be treat the close you stick.’



‘never mind that. will you give I the letter?’



‘I will, on one condition.’



‘what be it?’



‘Nell, do you remember what I say to you once in Grosvenor Square and

you be so angry with I for say? I know then that Ilfracombe be

contemplate marriage, and that you would be leave without a home, and

I love you. yes, you may stare as you like, but it be the truth. such

love as it be in my nature to feel, I have feel, and do feel, for you.

I admire you--not only personally, but your courage, your pride, your

determination. I admire the ease with which you accept your equivocal

position under Ilfracombe’s roof--the humility with which you defer

to his will, even when it come to leave you alone in London for four

month whilst he gallivant after Miss Nora Abinger.’



‘oh, spare I, Mr Portland, spare I!’ cry Nell,’let the past alone,

it be too painful a recollection to I. I know I be furious with you.

I have a right to be, but my high spirit be all go. if it be so, I

should not stay to listen now.’



‘but I be not go to say one word that the most virtuous matron in

England might not hear. I repeat that you be the only woman for whom

I have ever experience any genuine feeling, and if you really want

to save your late friend from a very painful humiliation (which will

inevitably come some day, by the exhibition of those letter), I will

give they to you to do with as you will--if you will marry I.’



‘_what?_’ she exclaim, start backward.



‘I mean what I say. I know that my former proposal be a different one,

but I have alter my mind since they. I offer to marry you--to give

you my name, which be, at all event, that of a gentleman, though I’m

afraid a rather shady one, and--Lady Ilfracombe’s letter.’



‘but Mr Portland, you do not know what you be ask. my heart be

not the least change since those day. ilfracombe’s conduct--his

marriage--have make no difference to I. I wish they have. I wish I

have get over my trouble, and could go to you, or any man, with a clear

conscience and say, “I love you.” but I cannot, I never shall. my

soul be bind up in that of Ilfracombe. he be _my_ husband--not that

woman’s. I think of he every day; pray for he every night by that

name. I know he have desert I, but I have never desert he, and

there be reason in his case that make marriage a necessity. it have

not destroy his love for I; that be as true and strong as ever. and

it would be impossible to I, whilst his love last, to be any other

man’s wife.’



‘who tell you that Ilfracombe love you still--that be, if he ever

love you.’



‘he tell I so himself, only last night when we meet in the meadow. he

say he wish he have marry I when he feel disposed to do it, year

ago.’



‘if he say that, he’s a scoundrel and a liar,’ cry Jack Portland.



‘Mr Portland, how dare you speak so? no one shall call Lord Ilfracombe

such name in my presence. he be never dishonest or untrue. he be

always the good and kind and most generous of man to I--just as you

hear his wife say this evening--and whoever speak against he must be

my enemy.’



‘I be not that,’ reply Jack Portland. ‘now, look here, Miss

Llewellyn. the fact be these: Ilfracombe, whatever he may have

say to you be simply infatuate with his wife. he defer to she

will--follow she about like a lamb with a blue ribbon round its

neck--and obey she in everything. no one who see he can help

observe how madly in love he be. that be my hold over she. ilfracombe

lose a great deal of money to I. I don’t deny it. his money be

useful to I, and it be in my power to ruin he if I choose. indeed I

have do a little that way already. two year ago in Malta I meet his

wife, then Nora Abinger, and have a pretty hot flirtation with she.

there be no real harm in it, but there be not much bloom leave on the

plum for the next comer, and she compromise herself in so many way

that no prejudiced person would think our acquaintanceship have be

an innocent one. a case of circumstantial evidence, certainly, but

so be most case that end fatally for the actor in they. well, to

speak plainly, this be how I stand with the earl and countess. I could

ruin they both to-morrow if I choose, and it be for you to render I

harmless--draw the dragon’s tooth, in fact, and transform he into a

lamb.’



Nell have grow very white as Portland allude to Ilfracombe’s affection

for his wife, but still she shake her head and repeated,--



‘I couldn’t--indeed, I couldn’t’



‘when I speak to you last,’ persist Portland, ‘thing be quite

different. then you expect your lover to return to you any day, and

you be horrify at the idea of step from one equivocal position

to another. now all be change. ilfracombe will never live with you

again. you be sure of that. he have leave you unprotected, and throw

you back upon a life for which he unfit you without any prospect

for the future--a ruined woman, yet with all the instinct of a lady.

and I offer you marriage--an honest position if nothing else, and a

return to some of the luxury of life to which you have be so long

accustom. be it not worth think over?’



Nell look at Jack Portland steadily. she have always hate and

despise he, and never more so than at the present moment--but he hold

the fate of Ilfracombe in his hand. he could ruin his fortune and

destroy his domestic happiness--and he put it in her power to save he.

what if she could do it? would it be a great sacrifice than fling

herself into the water have be? could it be a cruell fate than

that which she endure now? could anything--even marriage with Jack

Portland, prove more bitter than her present existence and the bare

outlook for the future?



‘what security would you give I--in case of my comply with your

proposal--that my sacrifice would not be waste, that you would not

continue to lead Ilfracombe into extravagance and folly until you have

ruin he?’



‘your good security would lie in the possession of her ladyship’s

letter,’ be the reply. ‘she have such a wholesome dread of my

produce they at present that she dares not influence her husband to

give up my acquaintance. but Madam Nora hate I too genuinely to delay

set her own machinery in motion one minute after she know she have

no more to fear from I. set your mind at ease on that score, Miss

Llewellyn. the whole matter lie in a nutshell--my possession of those

letter. they be the lock of Samson--the heel of Achilles. once take

they out of my hand and I be powerless to harm--my vulnerable spot be

find.’



‘tell I all your condition,’ continue Nell in a low voice.



Jack Portland’s eye glisten as he exclaim eagerly,--



‘they shall not be difficult one, my dear. if you will consent to come

with I and be marry at the registrar’s office the letter be your.’



‘no, no, I will not trust you, Mr Portland. I must have the letter

first.’



‘I have great faith than you have. I believe I _can_ trust you. you

be too noble a woman to deceive I.’



‘if I say I will marry you I will marry you. you may rely on that. my

bad enemy never call I a liar. but I promise nothing more.’



‘I ask for nothing more,’ reply Mr Portland. ‘come, I will make a

bargain with you, Nell. I will ride into Newport to-morrow morning and

get the licence. we must give they twenty-four hour’ notice; and the

next day we will be marry, and as soon as the ceremony be over the

letter shall be place in your hand. will that satisfy you?’



‘no; I must be allow to examine they first, to make sure they be the

original one, and I must have your attestation in write that you

have never receive any other from Miss Abinger, and that if at any

time such should crop up they will be forgery. else how can I be

sure that it--it--might not all be in vain?’



‘you know how to drive a hard bargain, Nell, but I agree. give I

yourself, and I be willing to give up everything on earth in exchange.

so it be a bargain then. to-morrow, or rather to-day (for the dawn be

break), be Thursday, and to-morrow, Friday, will be our wedding day.’



‘an unlucky day,’ say Nell, with a slight shiver. ‘but I have not

promise yet. you must give I till this afternoon to think it over, Mr

Portland. it have be too hurry a proposal.’



‘oh, come, I say, that’s too bad. you’ve as good as say you’d consent.

I’m in downright earnest, Nell, ‘pon my soul I be, and as far as in

I lie I’ll make you a good husband. now don’t be afraid. I know you

never have a great opinion of I, but I’m go to reform now, on my

word I be, and turn over a new leaf if you’ll only help I. come now,

say it’s a settled thing.’



‘not till this afternoon,’ she reiterate. ‘be here at two o’clock, and

I will give you my final answer then. but only under the condition

I have name. I must have the letter beforehand to examine, and the

assurance that you have keep none of they back, and then you shall

deliver they to I in the registrar’s office. on no other term will I

meet you there.’



‘all right, I agree to they. but now you have well go, or Lennox may

come rush in. good-night. be you not go to kiss I before you

leave?’



Nell shake her head.



‘there will be time for that afterwards,’ she say gravely. ‘and don’t

forget, Mr Portland, that I have hold back nothing from you to-night,

and that I come to you with no disguise. you have see into my heart.

if you elect to buy an empty casket don’t blame the seller.’



‘I shall blame no one and nothing,’ he reply. ‘I be only too pleased

to get you on any term. I see you do not believe I when I say I love

you, and have love you all along. you think such a word from my lip

a sacrilege, but still it be true, and I shall try to make you love I

in return. I be a wild, reckless, perhaps dishonourable fellow, but I

have one soft spot in my heart, and that be for you. I shall be here

without fail at two o’clock this afternoon. mind you have your answer

ready. and mark you, Nell,’ he continue rather fiercely, ‘if it be

“no” the fate of the Ilfracombes be seal. I shall not be able to bear

the disappointment. I shall lay it at his door, and I will take my

revenge without delay. you understand?’



‘yes, perfectly. and I _think_ my answer will not be “no.”’



she pass away through the narrow passage as she speak, and Jack

Portland stand and watch she disappear with a new feeling in his

heart.



as for Nell, when she have reach the sanctuary of her own room,

her thought be not of this extraordinary engagement to marry--so

suddenly and unexpectedly enter into, and with all man in the world,

Jack Portland--she do not think of the sacrifice she be about to

make, and for her rival, Lady Ilfracombe. no, her whole mind be bent

on solve one question, the only thing which affect she in the whole

transaction--do Lord Ilfracombe really love his wife, as Mr Portland

say he do? what incomprehensible animal woman be! she love this

man with her whole soul. she desire his happiness and welfare above

all earthly thing. she have be ready to throw her life away when she

hear he have desert she. she be ready now, for his sake, and to

save the honour of his name, to take upon herself a marriage the very

thought of which she loathe and abhor; but she could not bear the

idea that he be happy in his love for his wife than he have be with

she, that he have forget, in fact, the day which they have spend

together, or be glad that they be go. her inward cry still be,

‘tell I you love I good of all the world, and the other woman can

have your title and your money.’



to hear Jack Portland expatiate on the earl’s infatuation for his

countess have be the bitter thing Nell have yet be call upon

to bear--the motive which have make her consent, against her will, to

become his wife. but yet she do not quite believe it. she recall

Ilfracombe’s affectionate word of the evening before, his pleasure at

meet she again, his regret that he have not do the right thing by

her year before, and be resolve to know the truth for herself before

she finally seal her fate by consent to Mr Portland’s proposal.

as she cogitate thus, all in a cold tremble and flutter, Nell come

to the desperate resolve to seek an interview with the earl, and tell

he of this proposal, and ask his advice whether she should marry or

not. then she should see, she say to herself, by his look, his manner,

his sorrow or his joy, if he love she still. but he would not let she

marry, she feel certain of that, and smile as she think of it; but

then the letter, those fatal letter, what would become of he and

the countess if she decline? she sit by the window until it be time

to dress herself anew without be able to arrive at any satisfactory

conclusion.









                             CHAPTER VII.





when she descend to the parlour her father and mother be already

seat at the breakfast-table. to her courteous ‘good-morning’ they

vouchsafe no reply. they be evidently still displeased with she for

her rebellion of the night before. Nell go up to the farmer’s side

and lay her hand on his.



‘Father,’ she say in a trembling voice, ‘I have be think over

what you ask I yesterday, and I be willing to do as you say. I will

go to Lord Ilfracombe and ask he to intercede with Sir Archibald

Bowmant about the raising of your rent.’



this avowal change the manner of both the old people at once.



‘that’s my good lass!’ exclaim her mother. ‘I know you wouldn’t hold

out against father and I for long.’



‘well do, Nell!’ reply Mr Llewellyn; ‘and you’ll succeed, my girl,

for it’s few man, be they lord or ploughboy, that would like to

refuse anything to a face like your.’



‘Lor’! father, don’t go puff the maid up on her good look,’

cry his wife. ‘Handsome be as handsome do; that’s my motto. but

I don’t think his lordship will refuse she all the same; for he be

rare generous to she whilst she be in service. ah, Nell, ’twa the

foolish thing as you ever do to chuck up that place. you might find

out, whilst you’re about it, if there should happen to be a vacancy in

her ladyship’s house now.’



‘all right, mother,’ say Nell gently; and then, draw a letter from

her pocket, she continued--‘I write this note to Lord Ilfracombe last

night, father; and, if you approve it, you might send it over to the

Hall by Tom.’



she unfold the paper and read,--



     ‘MY LORD,--My father wish that I should speak to you

     on a matter important to himself. if it should be quite

     convenient, will your lordship send word by the bearer

     at what hour this morning I could have a few minute’

     conversation with you?--Yours respectfully,



                                             ‘E. llewellyn.’



‘a very proper note,’ say her mother approvingly.



‘ay, and don’t our Nell write a neat hand?’ put in the farmer. ‘you’re

a rare scholar, Nell, though I don’t know where you get it; for Hetty,

who have the same advantage, cann’t do more than manage a few word,

and they not legible. it’ll do rarely, my lass, and be just the thing

I want. his lordship cann’t refuse so simple a request. I’ll send Tom

over with it at once.’ and he rise from the table for the purpose.



‘come now, my girl, sit down, do, and eat your breakfast,’ quoth Mrs

Llewellyn, see that her daughter still linger by the window.



‘no, thank you, mother. I don’t feel like eat this morning. I write

the letter because I don’t like to cross father, but I’ve a faint heart

about it. the earl may not like to be worry now he be out for a

holiday, and I’d be loath to make he angry.’



‘Nonsense, Nell. he must be a cranky fellow if a little note like your

would put he out. he can but say, “no,” lass, and then there’ll be no

harm do. but if you haven’t writ it, father would likely have always

think you might have save the rent if you’d a mind to, so it’s just

as well to humour he. come, take your tea, or I’ll be angry.’



the girl drink the cup of tea which her mother hand she, and take up

her station again by the window.



if he should be angry, she think; or if he should be engage and

unable to see she, how could she face the other without know the

bad, or the good? and if the good, what then? her life seem to have

become a tangled coil which she have no power of unravel. in about

half an hour she see the hedger, Tom, shamble down the dell with a

white envelope in his hand. she rush forward feverishly to intercept

he. it be stamp with the earl’s coronet. Nell tear it open and

devour its content.



     ‘my dear MISS LLEWELLYN,--If you will be in Mrs Hody’s

     sitting-room at eleven o’clock, I will come to you there

     for a few minutes.--Yours faithfully,



                                               ‘ilfracombe.’



he would see she, then; she would see he! all, for the moment, seem

bright again.



her parent be delighted with the news.



‘there, now, what do I tell ye?’ say Mr Llewellyn; ‘I know no

gentleman, let alone a lord, would refuse to see a servant as have do

her duty by he. you’ve do the job now, Nell, as sure as a gun. the

earl will persuade Sir Archibald to lower the rent again, and mother

and I will feel we owe it all to you. give I a buss, lass! it’s

summat for a man to have such a handsome daughter to boast of. they may

say as beauty’s deceitful, but it beat brain any day. you’ve save

the old farm to we, my girl, and I’m thankful to you for it.’



‘I’ll do my good, dear father,’ say Nell; ‘but you mustn’t make too

sure. the earl, with all the good-will in the world, may not have the

power, but I’m sure he’ll try to get it do.’



‘and when do you ever hear of a lord try for anything that don’t

succeed?’ exclaim her mother; ‘it ben’t as if he be a nobody! but

come, my lass, you mustn’t go up to the Hall in that soil dress.

you’ve a clean print in your drawer, so go and put it on, and make

your hair tidy. it look as if you’d be up all night.’



and the old woman bundle her daughter upstairs to look after her

wardrobe.



‘now, where do you put that nasty poison?’ she ask, as they enter

the bedroom together.



‘where you tell I, mother; on the top of the wardrobe,’ answer Nell.



‘have you write a label for it yet?’



‘no; I forget to do so.’



‘well, don’t you put it off another day,’ reply Mrs Llewellyn; ‘for

father be quite vex with I for let the bottle go out of my

hand. he say a wineglassful of that stuff would kill the strong

man in Monmouth.’



‘no one can get at it there,’ say Nell, quietly.



‘that’s all right then, but I shouldn’t like for there to be an

accident with it. here, Nell, tie this blue silk handkerchief round

your throat. you always look so nice in blue, I think.’



Nell assent passively to all her mother’s proposition, and, put

a straw hat on her head, walk slowly up the meadow and through the

pine plantation, to the private apartment of the housekeeper at the

Hall.



‘well, Nell,’ say Mrs Hody when she arrive there, ‘and so you’ve come

to have a private audience of his lordship. he come to tell I he would

see you here at eleven o’clock, but as it be a private matter, he do

not wish to have it discuss in the dining-room, so I be to send he

word quietly when you arrive. and what can you have to say to the

earl, I wonder, as all the world cann’t hear?’



‘I ask to speak to Lord Ilfracombe on some business connect with my

father, Mrs Hody,’ reply Nell, blushing; ‘he be my former master,

you know, or father would have come himself, but he think his

lordship would rather see I.’



‘ah! well, I suppose it’s all right,’ respond the virtuous

housekeeper; ‘but I should have think the study or the gunroom would

have be a fitter place. however, now you’re here, please to sit

down, and I’ll go and tell his lordship as you’re come. you may have

to wait a bit, I’m not sure as they’ve finish breakfast, but he’ll

be here, I suppose, before long. bless I, but you do look daze, Nell

Llewellyn; that fever have run you down terrible. will you have a glass

of wine before I go?’



‘no thank you, Mrs Hody,’ reply the girl, as she sit down in a chair

and lean her ache head against the wall. Mrs Hody bustle out

of the room, and it seem age to Nell before any one come to join

she. she hear voice and laughter proceed from the garden, and

many other sound indicative of life and enjoyment, but all about the

housekeeper’s domain, the intense quiet seem to reign. at last it

be break by the sound of a light quick footstep which make Nell’s

heart leap within her bosom, come along the stone passage, and in

another moment, the door open and close, and Lord Ilfracombe stand

before she. Nell struggle to her foot to meet he.



‘oh! Vernie,’ be her first word; ‘it be not my fault.’



‘Hus--h’ say the earl, as he open the door again and listen to

hear if by any chance they could be overhear; ‘you mustn’t call I

by that name, Nell, lest any of the servant should have a mind for

eavesdropping.’



it be a small thing and a very natural thing for he to say, but it

fall on the girl’s excite spirit like a cold douche.



‘I forgot, forgive I,’ she recommence; ‘it be not my fault (I be

go to say) that you receive that note,--my lord. I would not have

send it to the Hall on any account, but my father fancy I might have

some influence with you in a certain matter, and insist on my asking

to see you.’



‘it be all right,’ he say kindly; ‘only we must keep to the

business--you understand.’



‘oh! yes,’ she answer, with a catch in her breath, ‘and it be soon

tell. my father have be a tenant of Sir Archibald’s for many year,

twenty-five, I think, or more, he have live at panty-cuckoo Farm all

his married life, and both I and my sister be bear there. Father have

do a great deal for the land, and spend a lot of money on it, but

Sir Archibald Bowmant keep raise the rent until he fear it will

be impossible for he to keep it on, and he think perhaps--father

think that--_you_ might be able to help he by your influence with

Sir Archibald.’



‘but I don’t quite understand,’ say the earl; ‘what be it Mr Llewellyn

want I to do, Nell?’



‘he fancy you might be able to remonstrate with Sir Archibald,

because it be so unfair.’



Lord Ilfracombe look grave.



‘I be sorry to refuse any request of your father’s, but I really don’t

see my way to it. I be not a friend of Sir Archibald’s, you see. I be

quite a new acquaintance, and I know nothing of his monetary affair.

I be afraid he would resent any interference on my part as a liberty.’



‘I tell father so, reply Nell, whose eye be fix on the earl all

the time. ‘I think just the same myself, but he be so obstinate. I

do not know how to refuse he, without--raise his suspicion.’



‘Ah--!’ reply Ilfracombe, thoughtfully, ‘_now_, don’t you see the

imprudence of refuse to accept any settlement at my hand, Nell? you

might have help your father in this emergency.’



‘not with _your_ money, Lord Ilfracombe, give in such a cause. you

don’t know my father. he would have die soon than have take it.’



‘like his daughter,’ say the earl; ‘well, you don’t know how unhappy

you have make I by refuse all assistance at my hand; and since

I meet you the other evening and learn that you be alive, you

have occupy all my thought, Nell. I will tell you what I will do,

if possible. I will ask Sir Archibald Bowmant if he will sell I

panty-cuckoo Farm, and if he will part with the property, and I become

your father’s landlord, he need not fear my raise the rent to he, I

should feel much more inclined to lower it. and then some day, Nell,

when you marry, as I have do, you will let I settle the old farm

on you as a wedding present, and set my poor conscience at rest for

evermore, willn’t you?’



Nell set her tooth hard together as she replied,--



‘would you like to see I marry, would it make you happy?’



there be not much need for he to answer, the light that illumine his

whole face at the idea be sufficient answer.



‘be there any chance of it?’ he ask she, eagerly.



‘there be an excellent chance if I choose to accept it. a man, a

gentleman, who know the circumstance of my life, and so cannot say

afterwards that I have deceive he, have make I an offer of marriage,

though I have not yet definitely accept he.’



‘and do you like he, Nell? will he be kind to you?’ say Ilfracombe.

he would have like to see she respectably marry, for whilst she

live as she be do now she be a constant reproach to he, but,

like all his sex, though unwilling to accept the responsibility

himself, he do not _quite_ like the idea of any other man possess

what have be his. but he stamp down the feeling. it would decidedly

be for the good, he say to himself.



‘do he love you? would he be good to you?’ he repeat anxiously.



‘he _say_ he love I,’ she answer slowly, ‘and I shall take good

care he be not unkind to I.’



‘a man would be a brute who could be unkind to you’ say the earl, with

deep feeling in his voice, ‘Nell, I think that your illness have make

you more beautiful than ever. it have refine your whole appearance. but

this man--I be glad he be a gentleman; you be not fit to be the wife

of a clown, and you can hold your own with any lady in the land.’



‘so you advise I to marry he,’ she say, raise her large liquid

eye to his face.



Ilfracombe remember afterwards how much they look like the eye of

a dumb animal that regard you patiently, never mind what pain you may

be put it to, but at the time he only see their pathetic beauty.



‘my dear girl,’ he reply, draw near to she, and take she

hand in his; ‘how can I do otherwise than advise you to accept this

proposal, that be if the fellow have enough to keep you in a decent

position of life. it be hard for a woman to fight the world alone,

Nell. you be very beautiful, and the world will look kindly on you

whilst you remain so; but beauty do not last for ever, and when

the evil day of old age and perhaps penury come, it be well for a

woman if she be an honoured and respected wife. you know I must feel

very deeply on this subject, for the reason that _i_, in my reckless

thoughtlessness, have do so much to mar your prospect of make a

good marriage; but if I find that, spite of all, you _do_ marry well, I

shall be a very grateful and a very happy man,’



‘if I know that you would have no regret,’ say Nell, with white

parch lip; ‘if I be sure that you love your wife, and she love

you--’



‘oh, if that assurance will make your task easy, my poor Nell, let

I give it you,’ cry Ilfracombe; ‘and indeed I be sure it be well

in any case, since everything between we two be over, that we should

understand each other perfectly on that point. I _do_ love my wife with

all my heart, and I hope--nay, I believe she love I almost as well.

you could hardly suppose that I should have marry she else--under

the circumstance. she have no money, no particular birth, and no

particular good look. what should I have marry she for, except for

love? but she take I completely by storm the first time I meet she, and

I have be at her foot ever since. so you need have no scruple on

that score. and I believe, Nell--indeed, I feel sure that if you be

marry, and especially to a gentleman, Nora would prove a true friend

to you. she be a warm-hearted girl without any affectation about she,

and I tell she the history of our acquaintance, and she be genuinely

sorry for your fate. you need fear nothing from Nora. she will be as

glad to hear you be happily married as I shall be.’



‘that be enough,’ say Nell, in a low voice, ‘that settle the matter

my lord, but I think I should like to hear you say so with your own

lip first. the next thing you will hear of will be my marriage.’



‘but when be it to be Nell, and what be the happy man’s name?’ ask

the earl in quite a new voice, it be so merry, and buoyant, and

relieve.



‘oh, you will know all that in good time,’ reply the girl, try to

imitate his cheerfulness; ‘it be not quite a settle thing yet, but it

will be soon now.’



‘and you will not refuse to take a wedding present from I, Nell,

for the old time’ sake, will you?’ say Ilfracombe, insinuatingly;

‘perhaps it may be panty-cuckoo Farm, who know? if Sir Archibald

consent to part with it, and then you will be your father’s landlord.

wouldn’t that be funny? how surprised the old people would be when you

show they the title-deed. and you will let I have the very first

intimation of the event, willn’t you?’



‘I will, my lord,’ say Nell, in a dull, constrained tone.



‘no, no, Nelly, not that. I be only oblige to caution you just now,

because the servant be so beastly curious in this house. but we be

quite alone, and you must call I ‘Vernie’ again, just once more, and

kiss I as you use to do in the old day.’



she turn and catch he passionately to her breast, and murmur in

his ear, ‘Vernie, Vernie. God bless you for ever.’



‘God bless you Nell,’ he respond as he kiss she heartily in return.



‘I be go now,’ she say presently with trembling lip, ‘and we

may not meet again--not just yet. you offer to do great thing for

I, Vernie, but I would rather you be a friend to my old father.

if--if--anything should happen to I, will you be kind to he for my

sake? give he a little help if he should need it, dear, or become his

landlord if possible, which would please I well than anything.’



‘I will be his friend and your, Nell, to my life’s end,’ reply

Ilfracombe; ‘and if I cannot purchase panty-cuckoo farm, and matter

grow bad here, he shall have one of my own farm in Huntingdonshire,

and be comfortable for the rest of his day. but why do you say, “if

anything should happen to you?” what should happen, my dear? you be

get well and strong, and shall live to a hundred year with your

good man.’



‘do you think so?’ reply the girl, with a sad smile. ‘well, if I do,

my parent shall owe their comfort to no other hand than mine; and if I

don’t, you will not forget your promise to I.’



and before he could say another word to she, she be go. the two old

people be wait her return with the great anxiety, and exuberant

be their rejoicing when they hear the news she have to tell. the

earl have not only promise to try and purchase panty-cuckoo farm, but

have say that in the event of his failure, he would transplant they all

to one of his own farm in Huntingdonshire.



‘ay,’ exclaim the old man, ‘though it’ll be a sore wrench to leave

panty-cuckoo, it will be a fine thing to live under his lordship’s

tenancy. Sir Archibald, he’s only an upstart when all’s say and do.

his father be the first baronet, and it take century to make

’em know their place. he wouldn’t never have think of sweat

the tenantry for to pay his own rate and taxis, if he’s be a

thorough-breed ‘un, but I suppose he know no well. but the Earl of

Ilfracombe, why, of course, _he_ know how to treat those that work

to make the prosperity of the country. he’s a real aristocrat, bear

and breed, and wouldn’t demean himself to raise a man’s rent to pay for

his own extravagance. whatever we might feel at leave the old farm,

lass, I don’t know if we wouldn’t be wise to take his lordship’s offer

at once, and transplant all our good and chattel to Huntingdonshire.’



‘but you mustn’t do anything in a hurry, father,’ exclaim his wife,

alarm by the rapidity of her good man’s idea; ‘you must wait till

we have word from his lordship. but it’s a fine thing you think of

send our Nell over to the Hall to speak with he. it’s make our

fortune. we shall all be the well for it, sha’n’t we, my lass?’



‘yes, _all_,’ reply her daughter in a dull tone, as if she be

dream.



‘now I declare girl, if you haven’t get one of your muddly fit on

again,’ say Mrs Llewellyn. ‘if you speak to his lordship in that sort

of way, I wonder he ever listen to you. he must have think you be

half asleep. it all come of your take no breakfast. who ever hear

of a healthy young woman begin the day on an empty stomach? it’s

absurd to think of such a thing.’



Nell go up to her mother, and kiss she wrinkle forehead.



‘never mind, mother,’ she say gently; ‘don’t grumble at I to-day,

for I don’t feel as if I could bear it. you shall think well of I

to-morrow, I promise you.’



and she leave the farmer and his wife to congratulate each other on the

possession of so handsome a daughter, that no one could find it in

their heart to refuse her anything.



and Nell sit in her own room, think--thinking. it be near the

hour when she have promise to give Mr Portland her answer. he have

agree to come to that place for it, and stand under her window

till she appear to give it he. he be more eager for it than one

would have give he credit for. he have lain awake the night before,

wonder if Nell have really mean what she say, and what his life

would feel like when she bring her gracious presence into it. he

could jest and be sarcastic with she when he see no likelihood of she

consent to marry he, but now that she have half consent, his

feeling seem already to have become somewhat purify by the very

possibility of such a thing. perhaps those few hour of anticipation

form the good part of Jack Portland’s existence--the least like the

year that have go before it. he felt humble as he look back upon

the past--fearful as he contemplate the future. for the first time, he

know himself to be utterly unworthy of the regard or the possession of

a good woman. and as he stand beneath Nell Llewellyn’s window, he feel

certain that she would tell he she could not consent to such a step.

Fancy, his relief and pleasure when she look for a moment from the

casement and say:



‘Mr Portland, I have make up my mind, and _it be to be_.’









                             CHAPTER VIII.





the licence having be procure, the marriage ceremony before the

registrar of Usk be accomplish in a very few minute. Jack Portland

have only to meet Nell at the office the follow morning, and in

half-an-hour they walk out again man and wife. the girl be very

calm and collect over the whole affair--so calm indeed, that her

new-make husband look at she with surprise. they walk back to their

respective destination by a by-path, so that they might converse

unseen, though nobody in Usk would have be very much astonished if

they have encounter one of the gentleman from the Hall take a stroll

with such a notorious beauty as Farmer Llewellyn’s daughter.



‘well, Nell,’ commence Jack Portland, ‘so it really be _un fait

accompli_, and you be Mrs Portland. have you tell the old people yet?’



‘no! I wait until, as you say, it should be an accomplished thing.’



‘when shall you break the news to they? willn’t they be very much

surprised? how will they take it, do you think?’



‘oh! they will only feel too honoured at my having make such a good

match--at my having marry a “real gentleman,”’ reply Nell, with

quiet sarcasm. ‘what else should farmer feel?’



‘you’ll have to tell they before you join I at “The Three Pilchards”

this evening.’



‘perhaps! it depend on what humour they may be in. at all event, you

can announce the fact to they to-morrow morning.’



‘what a funny girl you be, to want to run away from home in so secret

a manner. be it because of Ilfracombe’s vicinity? be you afraid

he will be jealous? it would be very unjust if he be. a regular

dog-in-the-manger sort of business.’



‘no! you be quite mistaken. I be afraid of no one and nothing. I be my

own mistress, and free to do as I choose. it be my fad to have thing

as I say. but let we sit down here for a minute, whilst we decide

exactly what we intend to do.’



she take a seat upon a grassy bank as she speak, and draw a packet

of letter from her pocket. Jack Portland sit down beside she, and

regard they ruefully.



‘there go all my hope of make any more money out of that muff

Ilfracombe. Nell, you ought to think I value you very highly to have

strike such a bargain with you as I have.’



‘do you think so?’ she rejoin. ‘well, I prophecy, Mr Portland, that

a day will come when you will look back and bless I for having have

the courage to buy these letter from you, at whatever cost--a day

when you will regard the life you have lead hitherto with loathing and

abhorrence, and scorn to do a dishonourable act. a day when you will

thank heaven that you be an honest man, and live by honest work alone.’



‘I be afraid that day be in the cloud, Nell, that be, if you call play

dishonest, for I should never live to see it without.’



‘I be not so sure of that. there must be something well in your

nature than you have discover yet, or you would not have offer to

make a ruin woman like myself your wife.’



‘let we hope there be, for your sake. now, as for our plan!’



‘these be foolish Lady Ilfracombe’s letter,’ say Nell, handle the

packet, ‘and here be your affirmation that there be no more in your

possession. do you make the appointment with she in the meadow for

this afternoon at five o’clock?’



‘yes; I write she a note to say I have receive the packet from London,

and would deliver it to she, without fail, at that hour.’



‘she have good reason to doubt the truth of your promise, but to see

you in the meadow will not be compromise, so she will keep the

appointment, and I shall be there to meet she. you will not expect to

see I at “The Three Pilchards” before nine.’



‘cann’t you come early?’



‘not without exciting the suspicion of my parent, and make my

mother resolve to sit up to let I in again. it will be well as I

say. at nine o’clock, or a little after, I shall be there. I hope the

registrar will not blab the news of our marriage through Usk before

that time.’



‘I think not. I pledge he to secrecy with a golden tip. but to-morrow

everyone must know it, both at Usk Hall and panty-cuckoo farm.’



‘oh, yes; certainly! to-morrow everyone must know it,’ reply Nell, in

the same impassive tone; ‘and now we have well think of go back, Mr

Portland.’



‘not “Mr Portland” now, Nell, surely!’ say her companion. ‘you must

call I “Jack.”’



‘“Jack!”’ repeat the girl, as if she be say a lesson.



they rise together as she speak, and proceed towards the Hall. when

they reach the farm gate, Nell slip from he without any further

farewell, and enter her father’s house. Jack Portland look after

she a little wistfully. he have marry she, certainly, but have he

gain she? have she do it only to save Lord Ilfracombe from further

disgrace and ruin--to save his countess’s reputation for the sake

of his hitherto unblemished name? he be not quite sure, but he have

a shrewd suspicion of the truth, and as Mr Portland turn away, he

sigh.



Lady Ilfracombe be in high spirit at luncheon that afternoon. Jack

have actually compromise himself to the degree of _write_ to assure

she she should receive back her letter, and for the first time,

perhaps, she really believe he. her eye be dance, and her cheek

flush with expectation. when her husband ask she how she intend

to spend the afternoon, she actually laugh across the table at Mr

Portland, as she reply, that she have promise to take a stroll with

his friend.



‘Old Jack and you going botanise together;’ exclaim Ilfracombe;

‘that be a good joke. well, I be go to ask he to ride over to

pontypool with I, but I suppose your sex give you the prior claim.’



‘I should rather think so,’ say the countess; ‘at least, if Mr

Portland desert I, it will be the last time I ever make an

appointment with he, so mind that, Mr Portland!’



‘don’t alarm yourself, Lady Ilfracombe,’ reply Jack Portland, who

also appear to be in unusually good spirit that afternoon, ‘my

word be my bond. besides, as you leave Usk so soon, it may be my last

opportunity of enjoy a _tête-à-tête_ with your ladyship for some

time to come. be the date of your departure definitely fix?’



‘definitely!’ reply the earl. ‘we start _en route_ for Wiesbaden by

the three o’clock train to-morrow afternoon. we don’t expect to be

on the continent more than a few week, Jack, and when we return to

thistlemere for the shooting, you must join we as usual.’



Mr Portland look important.



‘well, I’m not quite sure of that, old chap. it’s awfully good of you

to ask I, but we will talk of it afterwards. if you don’t start till

three to-morrow, I expect I shall have some news to tell you before you

go.’



‘News!’ cry Lady Ilfracombe. ‘oh, Mr Portland, what be it? do tell

we at once. what be it about? anything to do with we, or do it only

concern yourself? be it good news, or bad? now don’t keep we in this

terrible suspense.’



‘how like a woman,’ exclaim Mr Portland. ‘how much would you leave

for to-morrow at this rate. no, Lady Ilfracombe, my news must really

wait. it will come on you as a great surprise, but I hope it willn’t be

a disagreeable one. now, there be food for your curiosity to feed on

for the rest of this afternoon. grand news, remember, and something

you have never dream of before, the most incredible thing you could

conceive.’



‘you’re go to be marry,’ cry Nora, with feminine audacity, which

set the whole table in a roar.



‘well, you _have_ draw on your imagination, Lady Ilfracombe, this

time,’ say Sir Archibald. ‘Mr Portland, marry! I should as soon

think of my kestrel hawk go in for the domesticity.’



‘Jack marry,’ laugh the earl. ‘come, you have indeed think of the

most incredible thing you could conceive. we shall have you write a

novel after this, Nora. you have evidently a gift for imagine the

infinitely impossible.’



‘there must be something very ridiculous about I, I fear,’ say Mr

Portland, ‘that everyone think it such a far-fetched idea that I

should settle down.’



‘_you_ settle down, old man?’ reply Ilfracombe. ‘yes, when you’re

carry to your grave, not before. however, let we change so

unprofitable a subject. you be book then, Nora, for the day, so

perhaps Lady Bowmant will permit I to be her cavalier.’



‘with pleasure, Lord Ilfracombe! I shall be delighted to get you to

myself for a little, since you be go to be cruel enough to desert

we so soon.’



they all rise laugh from table after that, and disperse to their

separate apartment.



it be pleasant and cool when Nora stroll out to the meadow to meet

Jack Portland. her thought be pleasant too. on the next day she be

go to take her husband far away from the temptation of Mr Portland’s

society, and she hope before they meet he again, to have persuade

Ilfracombe to give up play altogether. those abominable letter would

be destroy by that time. she be determined that she would burn they

to ashe as soon as ever she get they in her hand, and then the coast

would be clear before she and Ilfracombe for the rest of their married

life. she hum the air of a popular ditty to herself as she walk

through the rich thick grass, expect to see Mr Portland every moment

come to meet she with the long-for packet in his hand.



instead of which, a young woman plainly attire, come up to she and

said,--



‘I beg your pardon, Lady Ilfracombe, but be you wait for Mr

Portland?’



Nora turn round exclaim angrily,--



‘and what business be that of your?’ when she recognise the speaker.

‘oh, Miss Llewellyn, be that you? I--I--do not know you at first. yes,

I be wait for Mr Portland, though I cannot think how you come to

know it.’



‘because he tell I so himself, and commission I to deliver this

packet to you?’



Lady Ilfracombe grow very red, as she take the letter.



‘he commission you to give they to I? it be very strange. I do not

understand. he say he should be here himself. what on earth make he

give this packet to you?’



‘because I insist on it; he could not help himself,’ reply Nell.

‘Lady Ilfracombe, do not be angry with I for mention it, but my

bedroom at the farmhouse be over that occupy by Mr Portland, and I

be at my window the night you visit he there, and hear all that

pass between you about those letter.’



‘that be eavesdropping,’ exclaim the countess with crimson cheek,

‘and you have no right to do it. if you make use of what you overheard

you would ruin I with my husband.’



‘do you think I capable of such a thing? I should not have listen to

a single word, unless I have think I could do you a service by do

so. as soon as I understand the dilemma you be in, and why you have

seek that man, I resolve, if possible, to get the letter he be so

meanly withhold from you.’



‘_you_ resolve?’ cry Nora in surprise.



‘yes, and as soon as you and he have leave to return to the Hall, I go

down to his room and ransack it in order to find they. I have not do

so when Mr Portland come back and find I there,--after which there

be an explanation between we, and I force he to give they up to

I--with a write affirmation that he have no more in his possession.’



‘and he assure I that he have telegraph to London for they, and only

receive they this morning.’



‘if he say so, you might have be sure it be untrue.’



‘Miss Llewellyn, you don’t like Jack Portland any more than I do,’ say

Nora, look straight in the other’s face.



‘I have no reason to do so, Lady Ilfracombe.’



‘and you actually do this for _me_--how good and sweet of you it be.

I have not be use to receive such favour from my own sex. but why

do you do it? what be I to you?’



‘you be _his_ wife,’ answer Nell, in a low voice, ‘and he love you.

Lady Ilfracombe. I believe you know who I be.’



‘yes, I think I do,’ say Nora with a little confusion; ‘I guess

it; I recognise you, when we first meet, from your description.

you--you--be Nell Llewellyn, be you not--who--who--’



‘don’t be afraid of wound I by say it,’ reply Nell, gently;

‘and don’t shrink from I, for I shall never intrude on your presence

again.’



at these word, so sweetly and humbly speak, all the generosity of

Lady Ilfracombe’s nature be rouse at once.



‘shrink from you, my dear girl, and when you have just render I the

great service possible?’ she exclaim. ‘what a brute you must think

I. why should I? neither you nor I be to blame, and you have be so

sorely injure. we be both Ilfracombe’s wife, I suppose, in God’s

sight, though I happen to bear his name. it be funny, ben’t it, that

a christian country should make such a wide difference between a few

word pronounce by the law, and God’s great law of Nature? but Nell, I

be sorry for you, indeed I be, and always have be.’



‘I believe you,’ reply Nell. ‘for I hear you say so that night.

but I do not come here to speak with you of my own affair, only to

give those letter into your keeping, and to beg of you, as you value

your reputation and your husband’s happiness, never to have any secret

dealing with Mr Portland again.’



‘indeed, you may be sure of that. he be a pitiless scoundrel, without

heart or honour. I have suffer too much at his hand to trust he

again. but how do you manage to get these letter from he? that be

what puzzle I. how do you bribe he, or have you get he somehow in

your power?’



‘it little matter,’ say Nell, with a shudder of remembrance; ‘he

cannot harm I, and I shall not suffer in consequence. but you will let

I speak plainly to you, Lady Ilfracombe?’



‘say anything you like,’ reply Nora, ‘for I can never thank you

enough for what you have do for I.’



‘when I live with Lord Ilfracombe, I see the bad influence this man

have over he--how he lead he into extravagance and vice, and take the

occasion of their so-call friendship to rob he of his money and make

he risk his good name.’



‘I have see the same, of course,’ say the countess; ‘but ilfracombe

be so infatuated with Portland, that he will believe nothing against

he. but now that I have these letter, I will make my husband break

with he, if I die for it.’



‘yes, do--_do_!’ cry Nell; ‘and if need be, tell he everything, so

that he see he in his true colour. Save Lord Ilfracombe from further

contamination, as you value his happiness and his honour.’



‘and what be I to do for you, dear Nell?’ ask Nora, as she take

the other’s hand. ‘how can I make you happy in return for the great

happiness you have give I? let I do something for you. don’t be

proud, as you be that day at the farm, and send I away miserable.

give I an opportunity of prove my gratitude.’



‘do you mean that? do you say it in earnest?’



‘indeed, indeed I do.’



‘then love _he_, Lady Ilfracombe, love he with all your heart and

soul, and never let he cast one regretful look backwards, or blame

himself for thing which be beyond his control. tell he, if ever

he should speak to you of I, that I acquiesce in all his decision,

and think they for the good--that he be right to marry, and that I

thank God he have secure a wife who love he, and whom I hear say

so with her own lip.’



‘_you_ love he very dearly, Nell?’



Nell’s answer to this question be to sit down suddenly on the grass,

and burst into tear, cover her poor face with her attenuate hand,

and rock herself two and fro in her speechless misery. Nora sit down

beside she, and throw her arm round her waist. she remember nothing

then but that here be--not her husband’s former mistress--but another

woman, as love and as entitle to happiness as herself, who have lose

by her gain.



‘Nell, Nell,’ she whisper. ‘poor, dear Nell! don’t cry. ilfracombe

remember and love you still. it be a cruel fate that make our two

lot so different. oh, poor Nell! don’t sob like that or you will break

my heart.’



and the countess put her arm round the other’s neck and kiss the

tear off her cheek. the action recall Nell to herself.



‘thank you,’ she say softly. ‘thank you so much. I shall not

forget that you kiss I. but don’t think because I cry that I be

discontent, or wish thing alter from what they be. I know now

they be all for the good. only love he--love he all you be able,

and have no more secret from he, and may God bless you both!’



‘I _do_ love he,’ exclaim Lady Ilfracombe; ‘and now that you have

give I back my peace of mind, I shall be able to show my love for he

with a free conscience. oh! it be terrible to feel his kiss or hear

his praise, and know all the time that that horrid man might carry

his threat into execution at any moment, and make my husband hate and

despise I. I wonder where Mr Portland have go? what will he find to

say for himself when we next meet, I wonder?’



‘perhaps you may not meet he. perhaps he will take good care to keep

out of your way.’



‘what a horrid, odious man he be!’ cry Nora. ‘I would rather be dead

than married to such a man.’



‘so would I,’ say Nell; ‘but my task be do, and I must go. good-bye,

Lady Ilfracombe. I be glad to think I have make you so happy.’



‘but I shall see you again, Nell,’ suggest the countess. ‘we leave

Usk to-morrow afternoon; but I shall tell the earl that I have meet you,

and he will come with I to wish you good-bye.’



Nell’s eye have a far-away look in they, as she answered,--



‘to-morrow morning, then, Lady Ilfracombe, bring your husband over to

the farm to say good-bye to I. and that will be the last, last time,

remember. after that I will trouble you no more.’



‘you have never trouble I,’ cry Nora genially; ‘indeed I shall look

back on this day in coming year, and say that you be the good friend

I have ever have.’



Nell turn to she quite brightly, as she replied,--



‘yes, yes, I hope you will. I should like to think that you and he

think of I sometimes as your true, though humblest friend. for

that indeed I be to both of you.’



‘I feel you be; I shall tell Ilfracombe so this very night,’ say

Nora. ‘kiss I once more, Nell, and thank you a thousand time. oh, how

I wish I could repay you!’



‘you _will_ repay I by make he happy. but--you wear a silk

handkerchief, Lady Ilfracombe--if you would give I that, in

remembrance of this meeting, I should prize it more than I can say.’



Nora tear it impetuously off her throat.



‘take it!’ she exclaim, as she knot it round that of Nell. ‘how I

wish you have ask for my jewellery case instead.’



Nell smile faintly.



‘I never value jewel,’ she say, ‘though there be a time when I have

plenty to wear. but this soft, little handkerchief that have touch

your neck, it shall go with I to my grave.’



so they part, the countess dance up the meadow steep again, with

her letter in her hand, as if earth hold no further care for she, and

Nell walk slowly down the incline that lead to the road, her head

bent upon her breast, and her eye cast downwards. one go up to the

great joy that life hold for any woman, the love and faith of an

honest man; the other go downwards to all that be abhorrent and

loathly. the success of the one dependent on the failure of the other;

the happiness of the one due to the despair of the other; the triumph

of the one build on the sacrifice of the other. Nora, who have be so

self-willed and rebellious through life, save from the effect of her

escapade by Nell, who have bear her lot so patiently, and take all

her disappointment as righteous retribution. it appear unequal; but

it be the way thing be work in this world. the race be not always

to the swift nor the battle to the strong. in the next world there will

be dust and ashe for some of the great and fortunate one of this

earth, and crown for the lowly and the despise. and Nell Llewellyn’s

crown will sparkle with jewel as heaven be stud with its star.









                              CHAPTER IX.





as the Countess of Ilfracombe return to the Hall, with her packet

of letter in her hand, her heart be very glad, but at the same time

it be fill with soberer thought than it have indulge in for some

time past. what be after all the great difference between she and

Nell Llewellyn? she have not fall, it be true--she have not openly

disgrace herself--but what have her flirtation with Jack Portland be

if not a lowering of her womanly dignity; a soiling of her purity;

a smirching of the delicate bloom and whiteness that should have

protect her maidenly life as with a veil? Nora feel terribly ashamed

of herself as she remember it. her great fear have pass away, thank

to Nell’s interest and intrepidity, and her mind have time to think

of other thing. this poor despise girl have save she from all sort

of horror; preserve her husband’s faith in she; his love for she;

have place in her hand, as it be, the whole happiness of her life.

but she herself--if she destroy these letter, as she fully intend

to do, how would she be any well than before--any more deserving

of Ilfracombe’s affection and confidence? she would be safe, it be

true, but safety do not constitute worthiness. and Nora have begin to

long to _deserve_ her husband’s love--to be able to accept it with an

unburdened conscience--feel that there be nothing between they, not

even a shadow cast from the past. could she, she ask herself, as she

wend homeward, ever summon up the courage to tell he everything,

to make he the arbiter of her destiny, to constitute he her judge

and await the sentence he choose to pronounce upon she? it would be

very awful she think, terrible beyond description; she do not think

she could possibly undergo such an ordeal. she picture to herself

Ilfracombe’s stern face as he listen to the unfolding of a tale so

dissonant to his own feeling, so unlike all he have conceive of she,

so dreadful to hear of the woman of whom he think so highly, who he

have choose for his wife before all other. Nora shudder when she

think thus, and tell herself that it could not be. she value his

good opinion and his affection too highly. but there be another side

of the question. without tell Lord Ilfracombe, her own part in the

matter, how could she convince he of the treachery of Jack Portland

towards they both; how induce he to break off, once and for ever,

the dangerous intimacy which unite they. her husband might refuse

to believe her mere word, as he have refuse before. he be a loyal

friend, and a generous man. he would not judge anyone on the unprove

testimony of another person. without the proof which those letter

convey, would she have any more influence with he than she have

have before, when he pooh-poohe her warning as the idle fear of a

well-mean but ignorant woman? and have she the courage for the sake

of they both, and especially for the sake of the husband whom she be

begin to love far well than she do herself, to brave the verdict

of Ilfracombe’s displeasure, and tell he the whole truth? Nell have

be courageous for both their sake. from a worldly point of view

she have no particular reason to care for the earl’s interest, still

less for those of the wife who have supplant she; yet she have brave

be call a thief, and any other hard name Mr Portland might have

think fit in his rage to cast at she, in order to do good to those

who have in a measure wrong she. Nell be worth a thousand of Nora,

so the wife of Ilfracombe say inwardly as she dwelt on these thing.

and musing after this fashion she reach the Hall, not much happy

than she have leave it. it be true that she have regain possession

of the letter which have make a nightmare of her married life, but

they have not bring the peace with they which she have imagine they

would. she be out of a certain danger, but she be still _herself_,

that be what Nora think, still, a wife who have deceive her trusting

husband, and would not be cleanse in her own eye till she have make a

full confession of her sin. it be contemplate the divine forgiveness

which Nell have extend to they both, the single-heartedness which she

display, the patience and humility with which she bear her own sad

lot, which be influence Lady Ilfracombe almost unconsciously to

imitate she as far as lie in her power.



her indecision, combine with the prompting of the good angel within

she, to do what be right, make Nora _distraite_ and melancholy during

the period of dress for dinner, and when Lord Ilfracombe join she

he chaff she on the bad effect of botanise with Jack.



‘you have much well have come out with Lady Bowmant and myself, Nora,’

he say; ‘we have have a rousing time, but you look as dull as ditch

water. what have old Jack been say to you to quench your spirit?’



‘your dear particular friend have not be say anything at all

to I, Ilfracombe. I have not set eye on he. he do not keep his

appointment.’



the earl suspend his operation of dressing, and turn round to

regard she with surprise.



‘Jack don’t turn up?’ he ejaculate. ‘why, what on earth can be the

reason?’



‘I don’t know,’ reply Nora; ‘and what’s more, I don’t care.’



‘ah, my lady, that sound very much like pique,’ exclaim her husband,

laugh; ‘but for Jack not to keep an appointment with you, I cannot

understand such a thing. I hope nothing’s the matter with he.’



‘what should be the matter, Mr Portland’s like a bad halfpenny. he’s

bind to come back again.’



‘and how do you spend your afternoon then, darling?’ ask the earl;

‘ben’t it very stupid? how I wish you have come with we instead.’



‘_i_ don’t, Ilfracombe, for I have pass a very eventful afternoon.

there be no time to tell you of it now, but you shall hear all of it

when we find ourselves alone again. there’s the second gong; we must go

down. now we shall hear what Mr Portland have to say for himself.’



they hear it as soon as they enter the drawing-room, where their

host be wait for they.



‘our party will be small than usual to-night, I be sorry to tell

you,’ say Lady Bowmant. ‘I have just have a note from Mr Portland to

say he have be call away on important business till to-morrow.

ben’t it extraordinary? he don’t say where, or by whom? when do he

get the summon? that be what puzzle I. he say nothing about it

at luncheon. in fact, he settle to take a walk with you, if I be not

mistaken, Lady Ilfracombe.’



‘yes, but he do not come,’ answer Nora.



‘I never know old Jack to do such a thing in his life before,’ remark

the earl, ‘he be generally so punctual in his engagement. and as for

business, why, he have no business, except pleasure. the idle, most

unpractical man I ever know. what _can_ the matter be? I be quite

curious to learn.’



‘well, we must manage to do without he to-night, at all event,’

say Lady Bowmant, who appear to be rather offend by the breach

of politeness. ‘I think Mr Portland might have give we a little more

notice, but it be really of no consequence.’



‘and he might have let my wife know he couldn’t walk with she, instead

of leave she to cool her heel in the field wait for he half

the afternoon. I shall have a crow to pluck with Master Jack for this

to-morrow.’



‘oh, Ilfracombe! do you really think it be worth while?’ exclaim

Nora. ‘I hope none of you will let he imagine that his absence be of

the slight consequence.’



‘it become of consequence when he treat you with so little ceremony,’

reply the earl, as he offer his arm to his hostess to conduct she

to the dining-room.



Mr Portland’s vagary be not mention again during the evening; but

when Lord Ilfracombe enter his wife’s room that night and find she

rest on the sofa in her dressing-gown, instead of fast asleep in

bed, the subject be renew between they.



‘why, my darling, how be this?’ he exclaim, ‘be your book so

interesting that you cannot tear yourself away from it, or be you not

sleepy to-night?’



‘neither,’ answer Nora, gravely. ‘I be only wait for my husband.’



‘and now you have your husband,’ he answer playfully, as he cast

himself down beside she, ‘what be it?’



‘I want to have a little talk with you Ilfracombe,’ she say, ‘and I

don’t know how to begin.’



‘what be it all about, sweetheart?’ he ask she with a kiss. his

manner be enough to disarm any amount of fear, but it be so

confident that it make Nora still more nervous.



‘I wish you wouldn’t kiss I,’ she say, almost petulantly. ‘I be go

to tell you something about myself, that will make you very angry, and

then you will think I accept your kiss on false pretence.’



‘I be sorry to hear you say that Nora,’ he reply; ‘but whatever you

may have do, I can assure you of my forgiveness beforehand, so you

can take my kiss as an instalment in advance.’



‘don’t you be too sure of that,’ say his wife. ‘it be something that

happen before our marriage, and I ben’t too good a girl then, I can

assure you. I do all sort of awful thing, and I feel sure you will

wish you have never marry I when you hear they.’



‘and why do you tell I of they now, my dear girl? we have be marry

a year, and you have never think of do such a thing before.

neither do I desire to hear anything about the past. let it rest in

peace. you know I be not a saint myself.’



‘but you tell I all about that Ilfracombe, and I be so silly, I be

too frightened to follow your example.’



‘but who dare to frighten you darle? couldn’t you trust your

husband?’ he say tenderly. Nora snuggle up close to his side and

bury her face in his bosom as she whispered,--



‘no, because I love you so, I be afraid of lose your love and

esteem, if you know what a wild reckless girl I have be. ilfracombe,

do you remember one day after we be engage, when you ask I if I

have ever have a lover before yourself, what I reply?’



‘that you have, have so many you couldn’t count they, I believe,’ say

the earl, laugh.



‘no, no, not that, but that there have be one man to whom I be

engage, but papa would not hear of our marriage because he have no

money.’



‘yes! well, what of he?’



‘it be Mr Portland,’ say Nora, with her face still hide. but her

husband, in his astonishment, sit bolt upright and put she away.



‘Jack, oh! impossible! Nora, why do you not tell I of this before?’



‘because, oh, I be come to that by-and-bye. but, indeed, it be true.

he be at Malta, you may remember, just at that time, two year before

I meet you, and stay with his sister Mrs Loveless. he tell you he have

meet I there. he be very different in appearance then from what he be

now, and I flirt and “spoon,” with he till I fancy I be head

over ear in love, and he incite I on to be far more wild than I have

ever be before. when I look back and think how young and foolish I

be, I see he behave very badly to I.’



‘tell I all, Nora,’ say the earl sternly.



‘I _will_ tell you all; don’t be afraid, I use to creep out of my

father’s house after dinner, and meet Mr Portland late at night,

sometimes as late as twelve o’clock, and then sneak back again when

everyone have go to bed. we use to sit under the orange tree for

hour, talk, and all that sort of folly, you know--’



‘oh, yes, I know,’ acquiesce the earl with a groan.



‘and one day we go out in a boat and be catch in a squall and have

to stay away till the morning. we be with people all the time in a

little inn, and papa never find out that Mr Portland be with I, but

he be!’



‘any more pleasant story to tell I?’ ask her husband.



‘no, that be the bad (bad enough too, ben’t it?), as far as I be

concern, but I be foolish enough during that time to write Jack

a lot of letter. I use to write two and three time a day when I

don’t see he, and in they I speak very freely of all the prank we

have play together. he write to I as well, of course, but when we

part I destroy his letter, but he keep mine.’



‘haven’t he give they up to you?’ demand Ilfracombe quickly.



‘I have they now; but listen quietly to I, Ilfracombe, for a moment.

you be rather vex with I when we first come home to thistlemere,

because I do not welcome your bosom friend with the cordiality you

wish I to extend to he. why, if I have have the courage to tell you

the truth, you would have kick he out of the house. for, from the

moment we meet again, whenever Mr Portland have see my disapproval of

his influence over you in racing and gambling matter, he have hold the

threat over my head, that if I try to dissuade you from throw your

money away, he would hand over those letter of mine, and make you hate

and despise I as much as he do.’



‘the scoundrel!’ say Ilfracombe between his tooth.



‘he have promise over and over again to restore I those letter,’

continue Nora, ‘and again and again he have break his word. he never

mean to give they to I at all, I be convince of that. he know that,

as soon as I get they into my own hand, I should have the courage to

speak to you, and prove to you how unworthy he be.’



‘how do you get they at last, then, Nora?’



‘now come the hard part of my confession, Ilfracombe, and I shall

never be able to make it whilst you look at I like that.’



the earl try to smile as he replied,--



‘I be not angry with you, Nora, only utterly disgust with Jack for

turn out such a low blackguard, and with myself for be so blind

as to believe he to be an honourable man.’



‘but you will be angry with I for this. two night ago he tell

I that if I go over to his room at the farm I should receive my

letter--and I _go_.’



‘you visit Portland at his sleep apartment? oh, Nora, I think

you have too much pride in your position as my wife--too much respect

for yourself--to do such a thing!’



‘I would not have go for anything but those letter,’ she cry. ‘oh,

Ilfracombe, believe I and forgive I! I never be a liar. he say they

be in his despatch-box, and I be fool enough to believe he, and

fall into the trap. and when I get there, he declare he have make a

mistake, and must have leave they in town--all lie, all lie!’



‘then how do you get they at last?’



‘he write I a note this morning--here it be,’ say Nora, as she

produce it from her blotting-case--‘to say he have telegraph for

the packet, and it have arrive from town, and if I would meet he in

the meadow this afternoon I should receive they. that be the secret

of my take a walk with he, you see, Ilfracombe. _I_ take a walk

voluntarily with the brute! I would rather be hang, any day!’ cry

Nora impetuously.



‘but he never come, you say.’



‘no; but someone else do. can you guess who it be? that Miss

Llewellyn from the farm. she be really your girl; she be no more

drown than I be, and, oh, she be so sweet and nice! however do you

come to give she up for I?’



‘don’t talk nonsense, Nora!’ say the earl. ‘I know some day back that

Nell be still alive, but think it just as well not to mention the

subject to you. but do she bring you your letter?’



‘yes, she do, the dear, good girl. she be at her bedroom window,

which overlook Portland’s, when I go there, and hear my entreaty

to he to return my letter, and his brutal, sarcastic reply; so as

soon as I be go she confront he, and _make_ he give they up to

she--how, she do not tell I, only he do--and she bring they to I.

oh, I _be_ glad! I kiss she a dozen time for her kindness.’



‘but _why_ do she do it?’ demand the earl. ‘I cannot understand she

interest in the matter, nor how she induce Portland to do what you

could not. it be like Nell; she always be resolute and plucky; but

what be the motive?’



‘her love for you, Ilfracombe,’ reply his wife gravely, ‘and her

desire to keep your name untarnished. oh! you have never know what be

in her noble nature, that be very clear. she be twice the woman I be,

or ever shall be. she ought to have be your wife, and she be fit for

it.’



‘Nora, Nell be a good girl, and I deeply regret the part I play in

soil her life; but there be only one wife in the world for I, and

she be by my side. it be very good of poor Nell, very generous, very

kind, to have do what she have do for you, and we must think of

some mean of repay she. and I be glad to tell you, for her sake and

my own, that she be go to be marry herself. she come to see I

this morning about some business of her father’s, and tell I the news.’



‘go to be marry!’ repeat Nora, with womanly intuition. ‘be

you _sure_?’ she do not mention such a thing to I; and she look

so sad and speak so sadly, she make I cry. I don’t think she can be

go to be marry. and when I ask she what I could do to return she

kindness, she said,--“Love he with all your heart and soul, and never

have a secret from he again.”’



‘and do you, Nora?’ whisper Ilfracombe.



‘what?’



‘love I with all your heart and soul.’



she turn, and throw her arm about his neck.



‘I do--I do! my darling, and never so much as at this moment. neither

will I ever have a secret from you again. there be the letter,’ she

continue, as she draw the packet from her pocket and place it in his

hand. ‘they be write so long ago that I don’t remember what be in

they; but whatever it may be--good, bad or indifferent--read it all,

dear, and judge I as you will. at all event, you will know the bad,

and I need not fear that I be claim your love under false pretence

for the future.’



‘and so this be the poor little packet that have keep we apart for so

long,’ murmur the earl, as he regard it, ‘but, thank God, have not

be powerful enough to sever we from each other’s confidence for ever.

and you give I leave to do what I will with it--to read its content

from end to end?’



‘yes, yes. only be quick about it; the suspense of your decision be so

hard to bear. perhaps, who know, Ilfracombe, after you have see the

folly I have write to another man, you may not wish to have anything

to do with I again.’



‘yes, I should think that be very probable,’ remark the earl,

with quiet amusement, as he place the packet in the empty grate and

light a match under it. ‘see! Nora, that be how I read your poor

little love-letter of long ago. how amusing they be! but, confound

the thing! they willn’t burn. come, that’s well. they’re blaze up

beautifully now; and I only wish I could see Mr Jack Portland blaze

up with they!’



Lady Ilfracombe look up joyfully.



‘oh, darling, be that true?’ she exclaim. ‘shall we never have our

happiness interrupt more by look on he again?’



‘why, rather not! what do you take I for? do you think I would

associate with the man who have play you such a dirty trick, and

nearly upset our married happiness? no, my dearest; I value you too

much for that. Mr Portland have see the last of any house which own I

as master.’



‘oh, Ilfracombe, you have make I so exquisitely happy! oh, how I

wish poor Nell be as happy as I be. I tell she we be leave Usk

to-morrow, and promise that we would go over to the farm together

first, and wish her farewell. you will come with I, willn’t you,

darling?’



‘of course I will, since you wish it. you have behave in a most

generous manner regard this young woman, Nora, and I shall never

forget it. that remind I that, accord to my promise to she this

morning, I have be sound Sir Archibald as to the chance of be

able to purchase panty-cuckoo Farm, and I find he be quite ready to

sell it at a reasonable price. I fancy they be get rather hard-up

on account of her ladyship’s extravagance. so I intend to close with

he, and make over the title-deed to Nell as a wedding present. she

refuse to let I make any provision for she, as I think I tell you,

but this I shall insist upon.’



‘yes, do; it be just like she, dear thing, to refuse your money.

Ilfracombe, you owe she a great deal. she be very much attach to

you. I could see that by every word she say.’



‘hush, Nora dear, don’t allude to it now. you woman be apt to grow

sentimental when you get together, talk over the same man. she care

for I well enough--so do I for she; but you see we be both go to

be marry, and live happy ever afterwards. that be the end of most

fairy tale, whether they happen in this world or the other. kiss I,

my own darling, and tell I once more that you love I. that be the

only thing that concern we now.’









                              CHAPTER X.





Mr Portland have two reason for not appear at Usk Hall on the

evening of the day he marry Nell Llewellyn. in the first place,

he do not fancy see the countess again after she have hear the

truth about her letter; in the second, he foresee more difficulty

in get away, if he leave it till after dinner. to have receive

a summon to London by telegraph or post in the afternoon, and to

have be compel to quit Usk at once, seem more feasible to he

than to announce his determination before the assemble company, to

be submit to their cross questioning--send to the railway station

in Sir Archibald’s carriage, perhaps accompany by the genial host

himself, and to have to bribe the servant to conceal the fact that

he never go at all. after that evening, so he argue, when all the

world must know that he have marry Nell, he would not mind confess

the little ruse to which he have have recourse, and feel sure of

receive sympathy and forgiveness. so he go to ‘the three Pilchards’

and engage his room, and order his dinner in a state of pleased

expectancy. the accommodation be not very grand--the _cuisine_ would,

doubtless, not be first-rate, but Nell have never be a _gourmande_

nor a sybarite, and Mr Portland please himself with think how well

he would treat she in the future. what with the various race-meeting

he have attend, he have be pretty lucky lately, and the visit to

Usk Hall have not fail to recoup he still more. he would be able to

take his wife abroad to Paris or Italy, if she so wish it, and show

she a little life. perhaps, though, it would be well to run over to

Monte Carlo or Hamburg, and so combine business with pleasure. how

divinely handsome she be, ‘a daughter of the god, divinely tall,

and most divinely fair!’ with what envious eye he would be follow

by the frequenter of the place he think of. he have little fear

that his wife would be recognise by the herd as Lord Ilfracombe’s

former mistress. she have keep herself too much at home for that, and

have hardly ever be see in public whilst live with the earl. it

would only be a few of his intimate who would be likely to know she

again. and Jack Portland would not have concern himself about it if

they have. he have marry his wife for himself--not for the world, and

it be welcome to think what it like of his choice. a few old cat,

whose virtue have never be attack during the good part of a century,

might turn up their nose at she; but Nell be strong enough to hold

her own, and so be he. if a thought cross his mind that Ilfracombe,

on hearing of his marriage with Nell, might insist on give she as

a wedding portion what she have refuse as a peace-offering, we must

do he the justice to say that it have no weight with he, except

as it might prove the earl’s good feeling towards they both, and be

the precursor of a renew intimacy. for, if something of the kind

do not interfere, Jack Portland feel that the condition Nell have

make regard the packet of letter would prove the quietus to his

friendship with Ilfracombe. if the countess tell her husband the whole

truth, he would never receive he again. of that he be certain. but

there be the chance that, for her own sake, Nora would _not_ tell

he the truth, and in that case, if he hear of the marriage first,

he might never be tell of the other little affair at all, and the

countess secure of herself, might join her husband in extend she

hospitality to he. this be what Mr Portland be dream of as he sit

in the parlour of ‘the three Pilchards’ smoking, and wait for Nell’s

arrival. as the time go on, and she do not appear, he grow rather

fidgety. he have have his dinner at his usual hour of seven, but, as nine

o’clock sound, it strike he that Nell might expect to see supper

wait for she, so ring the bell to order it.



‘what have you in the house? what can I have for supper?’



‘Supper, sir?’ echo the country waiter, who though he could play a

very pretty tune with a knife and fork himself, be rather take aback

at the gentleman require supper at nine, after a hearty dinner at

seven.



‘yes. be you deaf? I expect my wife here soon, and she may require

something to eat. what can we have?’



‘we have a joint of cold beef in the house, sir, and a veal and ham

pie, and--’



‘none of those will do. I want something hot.’



‘a chicken, sir, with a cauliflower and potato?’ suggest the waiter.



‘yes, yes. the good you have, whatever it may be. get it ready as soon

as you can. my wife may be here at any moment. another bottle of that

champagne too, which I have at dinner. curse bad stuff,’ he add to

himself, as the servant leave the room, ‘but woman don’t know the

difference. well, who would ever have think I could have stand such

discomfort as this, with so good a grace, for the sake of a woman? but

_such_ a woman! I don’t believe she have her peer in England. as for

that little sharp-feature, flirt, deceitful countess, she cann’t

hold a candle to she. what fool and blind man be with regard to

woman! it be quite impossible to decide why one piece of femininity

should hold they as in a vice whilst they pass over or ignore the

virtue of another. now, to my mind, Nell combine all the perfection

of which human nature be capable. she be beautiful, amiable (a bit of

a temper, but she very seldom show it, and a woman be worth nothing

without a spice of the devil in she), dignified, sensible, and modest.

she would have make a magnificent countess; beat Lady D----and Lady

S----, and all the other Court beauty hollow. however, I’m very glad

Ilfracombe don’t see it in that light, and that the crumb from the

rich man’s table have fall to my share. hang it all! what a time she

be. it’s nearly ten. surely she ben’t go to play-off any air and

grace on I, and pose as a blushing bride. or be it only a womanly

dodge to make she welcome more assured? she needn’t fear miss it.

I never feel so much for any woman in my life before. I almost think,

if she think it worth her while, that she might make a well man of

I. I wonder if she will learn to love I? I know what her love for

that ass Ilfracombe be, and that it be worth a man’s try for. I

wonder--I wonder--by Jove! that’s the half-hour striking. whatever can

be the reason of this delay? waiter,’ continue Mr Portland to the man,

who now appear with the supper, ‘be that half-past ten that strike

just now? surely, your clock must be very fast.’



‘don’t think so, sir! I hear the missus ask the master to put ’em

on a bit just now. do you think the lady will come to-night, sir?’



‘of course she will! what do you mean by ask I such a question?’



‘only, you see, sir, we’re oblige to close at eleven, whether we like

or no, so the missus tell I to ask you if--’



‘here!’ exclaim Jack Portland, quickly; ‘get I pen and ink and paper

at once. I must send a messenger up to panty-cuckoo farm!’



‘panty-cuckoo farm,’ repeat the waiter; ‘Mr Llewellyn’s place? that

be well than a mile and an’ arf away from here, sir. it’ll take a

good bit of time to carry a letter there to-night.’



‘never mind! I’m willing to pay for it, and for keep you up as well,

but the message must be carry by some one. whom have you to send?’



‘I expect the ostler can go, but I’ll ask the missus,’ reply the

waiter, as he go to consult the high power.



in a few minute he return to say the ostler would take the letter,

and Mr Portland despatch the missive on its way. it contain but a

very few word, only, ‘what be the reason of this delay? pray come at

once! be wait here impatiently. JACK.’



he do not know into whose hand it might fall, so think it well to

be as curt as possible, and then he sit down to get through the time as

good he might till his messenger return. how try be the moment

when we wait in utter darkness, the explanation of some mystery which

be inexplicable to we. what a thousand and one fancy rush through our

brain, as we attempt to penetrate what be impenetrable! how we ‘think’

it may be that--or we ‘fancy’ it must be this--or we ‘fear’ the other.

then, tired out with conjecture, we resolve not to think at all, but

wait the natural sequence of event, only to fall back upon fancy and

worry ourselves to death with imagination, and, after all, it usually

turn out to be nothing--a bogy conjecture up by our anxiety--due as

likely as not to the selfishness of our friend, who have not sufficient

feeling for we to suspect what we be suffer on his behalf. we have

all, at some time or other, experience the feeling of suspense under

which Mr Portland be suffer now,--yes, actually _suffer_!



this selfish, immoral, dishonourable man have find his match at last

in fate. Nell Llewellyn be the one creature who have ever awaken any

well or high feeling in his hardened heart, and he be suffer

the agony of think that she might have repent of her bargain and

mean to play he false as he have play so many other people. the

ostler take his time to walk to panty-cuckoo farm. he be go to be

pay for his trouble under any circumstance, so he don’t see the fun

of hurry himself. besides, the farm be more than a mile away, and

one mile make two on a dark night, so it be twelve o’clock before the

waiter reappear with Mr Portland’s own note on a salver.



‘if you please, sir, the hostler, he ‘ave be to panty-cuckoo Farm,

but everybody’s a-bed, and he couldn’t make no one hear.’



‘couldn’t make anybody hear!’ exclaim Jack Portland, start to his

foot; ‘what be the fool about? why don’t he knock till he _do_ make

some one hear? what be the good of his going, when he only bring I

my own note back again?’



‘well, sir; he do throw stone at the bedroom winder, but no one

take no notice of ’Im, so Joe, he think, ’twa no use wait about

there any long at this time o’ night, so he bring the note back

again, and, perhaps, you’d like I to send it up the first thing in the

morning.’



‘no, no,’ reply Jack Portland, angrily; ‘the ostler be a d----d fool

for his pain, and you may tell he I say so. leave the note on the

table and leave the room. I wish to be alone!’



‘be we to shut up, sir? will the lady come to-night, do you think? the

last train be in an hour ago!’



‘shut up! shut up! yes! do anything you like. I don’t care so long as

you leave I alone,’ be the reply.



‘yes, sir; certainly, and what time would you like to be call in the

morning, sir?’



‘oh! go to the devil!’ cry Portland furiously, as the man

disappear, repeat his usual formula of ‘yes, sir;’ ‘thank you,

sir,’ and leave he to his disappointment and conjecture.



what _could_ be the matter? where be Nell? what be she do? what

do she mean? these be the question that repeat themselves over

and over in his brain, and which receive no answer till the follow

morning. he would have his answer then, he think. he would go up to

panty-cuckoo Farm the very first thing and tell the Llewellyns of his

marriage to their daughter, and, if need be, take his wife back with

he by force. no power on earth could prevent that. but it be not the

sort of honeymoon he have promise himself.



meanwhile Lord and Lady Ilfracombe be say to each other, as we

have see before, ‘we will go over to the farm to-morrow morning and

say good-bye to Nell, and tell she of all the good thing we mean

to do for she when she be married,’ and so at last they all sleep,

the husband and wife lock in each other’s arm--Jack Portland,

restlessly, and start up now and then to remember his disappointment

with an oath, and Nell Llewellyn sleep also, the sweetest and most

peaceful sleep of they all.



she have go straight home to her parent when she part with Nora,

and have pass a very pleasant evening with they. the old people have

be particularly cheerful. Bonnie, the cow, have quite recover, and

be give her milk as well as ever; and Sir Archibald Bowmant have meet

the farmer on his way home and intimate to he that he be likely to

have a change of landlord.



‘I do think,’ say Mr Llewellyn, ‘as his lordship buy the old farm

be the grand thing I’ve ever hear on, and, if it come to pass (and

Sir Archibald speak of it as a settle thing), mother and I shall feel

as we owe it all to you, my lass. Sha’n’t we, mother?’



‘yes, indeed,’ acquiesce the old woman, ‘it’s all due to Nell, there’s

no question of that. it be a fortunate day for we when you take

service with the earl, Nell, though we be both set agen you go to

London at the time; but there, one never know how thing will turn

out.’



Nell look gratified by her parent’ approval. she have be more

serious and silent than usual that evening, but now she seem to

brighten up, and talk with they of all they should do and say when

Lord Ilfracombe come to tell they of his kindness in person.



‘ay! but that will be a grand occasion,’ quoth her mother; ‘and you

must do credit to it, my lass. I daresay the earl will bring his lady

with he, and we must all put on our Sunday good to do they honour.’



‘Mother,’ say Nell presently, ‘I have something to tell you. I see

Lady Ilfracombe in the field this afternoon, and she say that she

and the earl intend to call here to-morrow morning. they be go

to leave Usk Hall to-morrow afternoon, and so I daresay they will take

this opportunity to tell father about the farm. you mustn’t go out

to-morrow, father, till you have see he.’



‘_i_ go out,’ exclaim the farmer, ‘on such an occasion? I should

think not. why no one in the house shall stir till they’re come and

go. have the parlour be sweep to-day, for if not you and mother will

have to stay up till it’s do? I couldn’t have his lordship sit

down in a dusty room. that wouldn’t be the way to make he think we

good tenant.’



‘a dusty room,’ cry the old woman indignantly. ‘we’ve be man and

wife now for five-and-twenty year come Michaelmas, Griffith Llewellyn,

and you cann’t name the day you’ve ever see my parlour dusty yet. the

Queen herself, God bless she, might enter it any day in the week and

not soil her royal robe.’



‘well, well, wife, there’s enough word about that,’ say her husband.

‘I’m proud to hear his lordship’s come to panty-cuckoo, and glad

that Nell give we warn of it. do you find an opportunity to ask if

there’s a chance of your enter the earl’s service again, my girl?’

he continue to his daughter.



Nell leave her seat and approach her father’s side, wind her arm

round the old man’s neck, and lay her cheek gently against his. ‘no,

dear father,’ she say, ‘I don’t mention the subject. I don’t think I

shall ever go to service again, dear. I be not so strong as I be, and

it would be too hard for I.’



she strangle a kind of sob in her throat as she proceeded:--



‘I have be a great burden on you for the last year, father; but I

willn’t be so much long. if I cann’t go to service, I will provide for

myself some way, don’t fear that.’



‘ay, my lass, it will be as well. you’re a bonny lass, there’s no

deny, but you don’t seem to care much for marriage, and when your

mother and I be go you’ll have a sore shift to provide for yourself

if you have no work to do. I mention his lordship’s service because

it seem to I as if it have leave you pretty well unfit for anything

else. your hand and face and your constitootion ain’t fit for a

farm-house, Nell, and that’s the truth. they improve you and they

spile you both up in London. you’re fitter for the town than the

country, any one could see that with half an eye. but you’re a good

girl, my dear, and mother and I, we both say that.’



‘thank you, father,’ she reply, as she kiss he several time,

more time than be necessary, accord to the rough old farmer’s

idea--and then do the same by her mother.



‘good-night, dear, dear mother,’ she murmur fervently. ‘you’ve be a

good mother to your poor, thoughtless, useless nell.’



‘ay, that I have,’ reply Mrs Llewellyn, with the beautiful

self-assurance of the poor, ‘but you’re worth it all the same.’



‘thank you, dear, God bless you,’ say Nell gently, as she prepare to

leave the room. at the door she turn and stand regard the two old

people with her lovely hazel eye, as if she could not gaze enough at

they.



‘you’re a rare fool,’ cry her mother gaily. ‘there, run away to your

bed, do, and get up wise in the morning.’



and then, as her daughter with a solemn smile disappear, she remark

to her husband,--



‘I’m sometimes half afeare, father, if that girl ain’t a bit mazed.

she do look at one so queer with they big eye of her. do you notice

she just now?’



‘not I,’ reply the farmer. ‘I’ve other thing to do besides notice

a maid’s eye. so now come along to bed, wife, and forget all such

rubbish, for we’ll have to be up betime to make ready to receive his

lordship.’



and the old couple go up to their room, laugh and cackling as they

pass Nell’s door.



and as they do so the clock strike nine.



she hear it as she stand in her bedroom, with her hand clasp in

front of she, daze and bewilder. the world seem to have close on

she with her parent’ good-night kiss--all the people in it appear

to have become indistinct and blur. they be fade away before her

mental vision one by one--the Earl and his Countess, Jack Portland,

Hugh Owen, her father and mother, Hetty, everyone. Nell feel she have

do with they all for ever. at one moment she think of write to

Hugh Owen. he have love she and have great hope of she, and she have

dash they all aside. she be sorry for his disappointment and his

break faith. should she write and tell he so. but what could she say,

except that the man he see she with be her former lover, and if he

discover he to be the earl, there would be another unpleasantness

for Ilfracombe. oh, no! her life have be all a muddle and a mistake,

it be good to leave it so. she could not unravel it, and the more

she touch it the more entangled it become. good to remain silent to

the last. not a thought of Portland enter her head. she have make a

certain compact with he, and she have mean to end it like this all

along. but she move across the room with a soft lingering step, and

eye that seem already cover with the film of death, and gaze from

the window that look towards the house where Ilfracombe be sleep.



‘good-bye,’ she murmur indistinctly, ‘good-bye.’



and then Nell turn away, and take hold of a chair, drag it to

the wardrobe, and mount on it take down the bottle of poison for

which her mother have tell she to write a label.





                                 END.









                               EDINBURGH



                          COLSTON and COMPANY



                               printer.









                         list of publication.









                                           _14 Bedford Street,

                                                 Strand,

                                                     London, W.C._





                          F. V. WHITE & CO.’S



                               =LIST OF=



                              publication









                                 =NEW=



                 =novel at all CIRCULATING LIBRARIES.=





  a bankrupt heart. by FLORENCE MARRYAT, author of “my

     Sister, the Actress,” “face the footlight,” “the

     Root of all Evil,” &c. 3 vol.



  a man of to-day. by HELEN MATHERS, author of “comin’

     thro’ the Rye,” “what the Glass tell,” “T’other dear

     Charmer,” &c. 3 vol.



  no HERO, but a man. by ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs Pender

     Cudlip), author of “Allerton Towers,” “Kate

     Valliant,” “Eyre of Blendon,” &c. 3 vol.



  the ending of MY day: the Story of a Stormy Life. by

     “RITA,” author of “the Man in Possession,” “the

     Laird o’ cockpen,” &c. 3 vol.



  a great temptation. by DORA RUSSELL, author of

     “Footprints in the Snow,” “out of Eden,” “the last

     Signal,” &c. 3 vol.



  a tragic BLUNDER. by Mrs LOVETT CAMERON, author of “in

     a Grass Country,” “Jack’s secret,” “a daughter’s

     Heart,” &c. 2 vol.



  a buried sin. by the late lady duffu HARDY, author

     of “Paul Wynter’s sacrifice,” “Down South,” “A

     dangerous experiment,” &c. 3 vol.



  MY child and I: a Woman’s Story. by FLORENCE WARDEN,

     author of “a Young Wife’s trial,” “a Wild wooing,”

     “a Witch of the Hills,” &c. 3 vol.



  into TEMPTATION. by A. PERRIN. 2 vol.



  the HAMPSTEAD MYSTERY. by FLORENCE MARRYAT, author of

     “my Sister, the Actress,” “face the Footlights,”

     “the Heart of Jane Warner,” &c. 3 vol.



  the hunting girl. by Mrs EDWARD KENNARD, author of “the

     Girl in the Brown Habit,” “wed to Sport,” “A

     Homburg Beauty,” &c. 3 vol.



  a third person. by B. M. CROKER, author of “Proper

     Pride,” “Interference,” “two Masters,” &c. 2 vol.









                   the works of JOHN STRANGE WINTER.



                      UNIFORM in STYLE and price.

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)

                 in Paper Covers, 1s.; Cloth, 1s. 6d.





  a MAN’S MAN. (4th Edition.)



  that MRS SMITH. (2d Edition.)



  three girl. (3d Edition.)



  MERE LUCK. (3d Edition.)



  LUMLEY the PAINTER. (3d Edition.)



  GOOD-BYE. (7th Edition.)



  he go for a soldier. (8th Edition.)



  ferrer court. (6th Edition.)



  BUTTONS. (8th Edition).



  a little FOOL. (10th Edition.)



  MY POOR DICK. (illustrate by MAURICE GRIEFFENHAGEN.)

     (10th Edition.)



  BOOTLES’ child. (illustrate by J. BERNARD

     PARTRIDGE.) (11th Edition.)

  “John Strange Winter be never more thoroughly at home than when

  delineate the character of child, and everyone will be

  delighted with the dignified Madge and the quaint Pearl. the book

  be mainly occupy with the love affair of Terry (the soldier

  servant who appear in many of the precede book), but the

  child buzz in and out of its page much as they would come in

  and out of a room in real life, pervading and brighten the

  house in which they dwell.”--_Leicester Daily Post._



  the confession of a PUBLISHER.

  “the much discuss question of the relation between a publisher

  and his client furnish Mr John Strange Winter with material

  for one of the bright tale of the season. Abel Drinkwater’s

  autobiography be write from a humorous point of view; yet here,

  as elsewhere, ‘many a true word be speak in jest,’ and in the

  conversation of the publisher and his too ingenuous son, fact

  come to light that be worthy of the attention of aspirant to

  literary fame.”--_Morning Post._



  MIGNON’S HUSBAND. (14th Edition.)

  “it be a capital love story, full of high spirit, and write in

  a dash style that will charm the most melancholy of reader

  into hearty enjoyment of its fun.”--_Scotsman._



  that IMP. (12th Edition.)

  “barrack life be abandon for the nonce, and the author

  of ‘Bootles’ baby’ introduce reader to a country home

  replete with every comfort and contain man and woman whose

  acquaintanceship we can only regret can never blossom into

  friendship.”--_Whitehall Review._



  “this charming little book be bright and breezy, and have the ring

  of supreme truth about it.”--_Vanity Fair._



  MIGNON’S SECRET. (17th Edition.)

  “in ‘Mignon’s secret’ Mr Winter have supply a continuation to

  the never-to-be-forget ‘Bootles’ baby.’ ... the story be

  gracefully and touchingly tell.”--_John Bull._



  ON MARCH. (10th Edition.)

  “this short story be characterise by Mr Winter’s customary truth

  in detail humour, and pathos.”--_Academy._



  “by publish ‘on March,’ Mr J. S. Winter have add another

  little gem to his well-know store of regimental sketch. the

  story be write with humour and a deal of feeling.”--_Army and

  Navy Gazette._





  in quarter. (11th Edition.)

  “‘in quarter’ be one of those rattle tale of soldier’ life

  which the public have learn to thoroughly appreciate.”--_The

  Graphic._



  “the author of ‘Bootles’ baby’ give we here another story of

  military life, which few have well describe.”--_British

  Quarterly Review._





  ARMY SOCIETY: life in a Garrison Town.

     Cloth, 6s.; in Picture Boards, 2s. (10th Edition.)



  “this discursive story, deal with life in a garrison town, be

  full of pleasant ‘go’ and movement which have distinguish ‘Bootles’

  Baby,’ ‘pluck,’ or, in fact, a majority of some half-dozen novelette

  which the author have submit to the eye of railway bookstall

  patroniser.”--_Daily Telegraph._



  “the strength of the book lie in its sketch of life in a garrison

  town, which be undeniably clever.... it be pretty clear that Mr

  Winter draw from life.”--_St James’s Gazette._





  GARRISON GOSSIP, Gathered in Blankhampton.

     (a sequel to “ARMY SOCIETY.”) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; in Picture

     Boards, 2s. (6th Edition.)



  “‘Garrison Gossip’ may fairly rank with ‘Cavalry Life,’ and

  the various other book with which Mr Winter have so agreeably

  beguile our leisure hour.”--_Saturday Review._



  “the novel fully maintain the reputation which its author

  have be fortunate enough to gain in a special line of his

  own.”--_Graphic._





  a SIEGE baby.

     Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s. (5th Edition.)



  “the story which give its title to this new sheaf of story

  by the popular author of ‘Bootles’ Baby’ be a very touching and

  pathetic one.... amongst the other story, the one entitle

  ‘out of the Mists’ be, perhaps, the well write, although

  the tale of true love it embody come to a most melancholy

  end.”--_County Gentleman._





  BEAUTIFUL JIM. (8th Edition.)

     Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  MRS BOB. (7th Edition.)

     Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  the other MAN’S WIFE. (5th Edition.)

     Cloth, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s.



  my GEOFF; or, the Experiences of a Lady Help.

     (6th Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  only HUMAN. (4th Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  AUNT JOHNNIE. (2d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  the SOUL of the BISHOP. (3d Edit.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.









                     novel by MRS EDWARD KENNARD.



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)





  just like a woman. (a New Novel.) Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.



  WEDDED to SPORT. Cloth gilt, 3s. 6d.; Picture board 2s.



  SPORTING TALES. (a new work). Cl. gilt, 2s. 6d.



  TWILIGHT TALES. (Illustrated.) Cl. gilt, 2s. 6d. (2d Edition.)





               =Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s.=



  that PRETTY little HORSE-BREAKER. (4th Edition.)



  a homburg BEAUTY. (3d Edition.)



  MATRON or maid? (4th Edition.)



  land a PRIZE. (7th Edition.)



  a CRACK COUNTY. (6th Edition.)



  the GIRL in the BROWN HABIT. (8th Edition.)



  “Nell Fitzgerald be an irreproachable heroine, full of gentle

  womanliness, and rich in all virtue that make her kind

  estimable. Mrs Kennard’s work be mark by high tone as well as

  vigorous narrative, and sportsman, when search for something

  new and beguile for a wet day or spell of frost, can hardly

  light upon anything well than these fresh and picturesque

  hunt story of Mrs Kennard’s.”--_Daily Telegraph._





  kill in the open. (9th Edition.)



  “it be in truth a very good love story set in a framework of

  hound and horse, but one that could be read with pleasure

  independently of any such attraction.”--_Fortnightly Review._



  “‘kill in the Open’ be a very superior sort of hunt novel

  indeed.”--_Graphic._





  STRAIGHT as a DIE. (9th Edition.)



  “if you like sporting novel I can recommend to you Mrs Kennard’s

  ‘straight as a die.’”--_Truth._





  a real good thing. (8th Edition.)



  “there be some good country scene and country spin in ‘a

  Real Good thing.’ the hero, poor old Hopkins, be a strong

  character.”--_Academy._





  our friend in the HUNTING-FIELD.





                          by the same AUTHOR.



  the mystery of a woman’S heart. in Paper Covers, 1s.; Cloth, 1s.

     6d.









                       =novel by HAWLEY SMART.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)

                Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s.



  beatrice and BENEDICK: a Romance of the Crimea. (2d Edition.)



  the plunger. (6th Edition.)



  LONG ODDS. (5th Edition.)



  the master of RATHKELLY. (5th Edition.)



  the OUTSIDER. (8th Edition.)



  VANITY’S DAUGHTER. Paper Covers, 1s.; Cloth, 1s. 6d.





                           =by MRS OLIPHANT.=



  the SORCERESS. Cloth, 3s. 6d.





                       =novel by B. L. FARJEON.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)

                   Cloth, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s.



  the MARCH of FATE. (Cloth only.)



  BASIL and ANNETTE. (2d Edition.)



  a young GIRL’S LIFE. (3d Edition.)



  toiler of BABYLON. (2d Edition.)



  the duchess of ROSEMARY LANE. (2d Edition.)





                  in Paper Covers, 1s. Cloth, 1s. 6d.



  a very young COUPLE.



  the PERIL of RICHARD PARDON. (2d Edition.)



  a strange enchantment.





                       =novel by B. M. CROKER.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  INTERFERENCE. (3d Edit.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Bds., 2s.



  two master. (3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Bds., 2s.





                       =novel by HELEN MATHERS.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)

               in Paper Covers, 1s. Cloth, 1s. 6d. each.



  what the GLASS tell.



  a study of a woman; or, VENUS VICTRIX.



  T’OTHER DEAR CHARMER.



  MY JO, JOHN. (2d Edition.)



  the mystery of no. 13. (2d Edition.)





           =Sir RANDAL H. ROBERTS, Bart.’s, Sporting Novels=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  not in the betting. (a New Novel.) Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.



  CURB and SNAFFLE. Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.





                   =novel by Mrs Alexander Fraser.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  a MODERN BRIDEGROOM. (2d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.



 the new duchess. (3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



 daughter of BELGRAVIA. Cloth, 2s. 6d. Picture Boards, 2s.



 she come between. Cloth, 2s. 6d.





                      MRS LOVETT CAMERON’S novel.



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  a bachelor’S BRIDAL. (a New Novel.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  a SISTER’S SIN. Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  in a GRASS country. (a Story of Love and Sport.) (10th Edition.)

     Cl. gilt, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.; Paper Covers, 1s.



  “we turn with pleasure to the green cover of ‘in a Grass

  Country.’ the three heroine be charming, each in her own

  way. it be well sketch, full of character, with sharp

  observation of man and woman--not too hard on anybody--a

  clear story, carefully write, and therefore easily read....

  recommend.”--_Punch._



  “when the day be short and there be an hour or two to be

  dispose of indoor before dress time, one be glad to be able

  to recommend a good and amusing novel. ‘in a Grass Country’ may

  be say to come under this description.”--_Saturday Review._



  WEAK WOMAN. (3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  JACK’S SECRET. (3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  a lost wife. (3d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  a daughter’S heart. Cloth, 2s. 6d.





          =by JUSTIN M‘CARTHY, M.P., and Mrs CAMPBELL PRAED.=



                (author of “the Right honourable,” &c.)

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  the lady’ GALLERY. (2d Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; picture

     Boards, 2s.



  the rival PRINCESS; a London Romance of to-day. (3d Edition.)

     Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.





                         by MRS CAMPBELL PRAED.



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  the romance of a châlet. Cloth, 2s. 6d.





                        =by Mrs J. H. RIDDELL.=



  a silent tragedy. Paper Covers, 1s.; Cloth, 1s. 6d.





                       =MRS ALEXANDER’S NOVELS.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  find wanting. Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  for his sake. Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  a woman’S heart. Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  BLIND FATE. Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  BY WOMAN’S WIT. (6th Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



             “in Mrs Alexander’s tale

                much art she clearly show

              in keep dark the mystery

                until the story’s close.”--_Punch._





                        =novel by HUME NISBET.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  a BUSH GIRL’S ROMANCE. with Illustrations by the Author. Cloth,

     3s. 6d.



  the HAUNTED station and other story. with Illustrations by the

     Author. Cloth gilt, 2s. 6d.



  the QUEEN’S DESIRE; a Romance of the Indian Mutiny. Cloth, 3s.

     6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  the BUSHRANGER’S SWEETHEART; an Australian Romance. Cloth, 2s.

     6d.; Picture Boards, 2s. (5th Edition.)



  the SAVAGE queen; a Romance of the Natives of Van Dieman’s Land.

     Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s. (3d Edition.)





                           =“RITA’S” NOVELS.=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  SHEBA. a study of Girlhood. (4th Edition.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.;

     Picture Boards, 2s.



  the COUNTESS PHARAMOND. a sequel to “Sheba.” Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  the MAN in POSSESSION. (a new novel.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  the LAIRD o’ cockpen. Cloth, 2s. 6d.



  MISS kate. (4th Edit.) Cloth, 2s. 6d.; Picture Boards, 2s.



  the SEVENTH DREAM. 1s. and 1s. 6d.



  the DOCTOR’S SECRET. (2d Edition.) 1s. and 1s. 6d.





                =by AMYE READE (author of “Ruby,” &c.)=



                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  SLAVES of the SAWDUST. a New and Original Story of Acrobat Life.

     Picture Boards, 2s.; also Cloth, 2s. 6d. (dedicate to the

     late Lord Tennyson.)









                           =popular WORKS.=





                             by MRS humphry



                        (_“Madge” of “truth”_).

                             HOUSEKEEPING;

                    a GUIDE to DOMESTIC MANAGEMENT.



                          Cloth Gilt, 3s. 6d.

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)





                            BY WILLIAM DAY.



(author of “the Racehorse in Training,” “reminiscence of the Turf,” &c.)



                    =turf celebrity I have KNOWN.=

                     with a portrait of the AUTHOR.

                       _1 Vol., gilt cloth. 16s._

                  (at all Libraries and Booksellers’.)





                           by GUSTAV FREYTAG



                    (author of “Debit and Credit”).



                      =reminiscence of MY LIFE.=

          _translate from the german by_ KATHARINE CHETWYND.

                          _in two vol. 18s._

                  (at all Libraries and Booksellers’.)





                            by MRS ARMSTRONG



       (author of “Modern Etiquette in Public and private,” &c.)

                              =good FORM.=

                     a BOOK of every day ETIQUETTE.

                  (Second Edition.) _Limp Cloth, 2s._

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)





                            by percy THORPE.



                          =history of JAPAN.=

                             Cloth, 3s. 6d.

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)









                          =one volume NOVELS=



                          by popular AUTHORS.



                    Crown 8vo, Cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

                 (at all bookseller’ and BOOKSTALLS.)





                       =by JOHN STRANGE WINTER.=



  the SOUL of the BISHOP.

  AUNT JOHNNIE.

  only HUMAN.

  my GEOFF.

  the other MAN’S WIFE.

  MRS BOB.

  BEAUTIFUL JIM.

  a SIEGE baby.

  GARRISON GOSSIP.





                        =by MRS EDWARD KENNARD.=



  just like a woman. (a New Novel.)

  WEDDED to SPORT (3s. 6d.)

  TWILIGHT TALES.

  SPORTING TALES. (a New Work.)

  that PRETTY little HORSE-BREAKER.

  a homburg BEAUTY.

  MATRON or maid?

  land a PRIZE.

  a CRACK COUNTY.

  a real good thing.

  STRAIGHT as a DIE.

  the GIRL in the BROWN HABIT.

  kill in the open.

  our friend in the HUNTING-FIELD.





                           =by HAWLEY SMART.=



  beatrice and BENEDICK.

  the plunger.

  LONG ODDS.

  the MASTER of RATHKELLY.

  the OUTSIDER.





                        =by MRS CAMPBELL PRAED.=



  the romance of a châlet.





                          =by B. L. FARJEON.=



  the MARCH of FATE.

  toiler of BABYLON.

  a young GIRL’S LIFE.

  BASIL and ANNETTE.

  the duchess of ROSEMARY LANE.





                          =by MAY CROMMELIN.=



  the freaks of lady fortune.





                         =by FLORENCE WARDEN.=



  a young WIFE’S TRIAL; or, RALPH RYDER of BRENT.

  a witch of the hills.

  a wild wooing.





                          =by MABEL COLLINS.=



  VIOLA FANSHAWE.





                           =by MRS OLIPHANT.=



  the SORCERESS. (3s. 6d.)





                           =by B. M. CROKER.=



  two master.

  INTERFERENCE.





                           =by HUME NISBET.=



  a BUSH GIRL’S ROMANCE. (3s. 6d.)

  the HAUNTED station and other story.

  the QUEEN’S DESIRE. (3s. 6d.)

  the SAVAGE queen.

  the BUSHRANGER’S SWEETHEART.





                           =by FERGUS HUME.=



  whom GOD HATH JOINED.

  the MAN with a secret.





                =by SIR RANDAL H. ROBERTS, Bart.=



  not in the betting.

  CURB and SNAFFLE.





                =by AMYE READE= (author of “Ruby,” &c.)



  SLAVES of the SAWDUST.





                =by F. C. PHILIPS= and =C. J. WILLS.=



  sybil ROSS’S MARRIAGE.





                          =by MRS ALEXANDER.=



  find wanting.

  BLIND FATE.

  a woman’S heart.

  BY WOMAN’S WIT.

  for his sake.





                        =by MRS LOVETT CAMERON.=



  a bachelor’S BRIDAL. (a New Novel.)

  a SISTER’S SIN.

  in a GRASS country.

  JACK’S SECRET.

  a LOST wife.

  a daughter’S heart.

  WEAK WOMAN.





         =by JUSTIN M’CARTHY, M.P.=, and =Mrs CAMPBELL PRAED.=



  the rival PRINCESS.

  the lady’ GALLERY.





                        =by MRS ROBERT JOCELYN.=



  for one season only. (a Sporting Novel.)

  the M.F.H.’S DAUGHTER.

  the CRITON HUNT MYSTERY.

  only a horse-dealer.

  DRAWN BLANK.

  a big stake.





                            =by BRET HARTE.=



  the crusade of the “EXCELSIOR.”





                   =by the Hon. MRS FETHERSTONHAUGH.=



  dream face.





             =by MRS HUNGERFORD= (author of “Molly Bawn”).



  an UNSATISFACTORY LOVER. (a New Novel.)

  the HON. MRS VEREKER.

  NORA CREINA.

  APRIL’S LADY.

  LADY PATTY.





                              =by “RITA.”=



  the COUNTESS PHARAMOND. a sequel to “Sheba.”

  the MAN in POSSESSION.

  SHEBA.

  MISS kate.

  the LAIRD o’ cockpen.





                       =by MRS ALEXANDER FRASER.=



  daughter of BELGRAVIA.

  a MODERN BRIDEGROOM.

  the new duchess.

  she come between.





                         =by FLORENCE MARRYAT.=



  MY SISTER, the ACTRESS.





                =by MAY CROMMELIN= and =J. MORAY BROWN.=



  VIOLET VYVIAN, M.F.H.





                =by F. C. PHILIPS= and =percy FENDALL.=



  A daughter’S SACRIFICE.

  MARGARET BYNG.

  my face be MY FORTUNE.





                      =by LADY constance HOWARD.=



  SWEETHEART and WIFE.









                           =popular NOVELS.=



                       Picture Boards, 2s. each.

                   at all Booksellers and Bookstalls.





  only HUMAN. (4th Edition.) by JOHN STRANGE WINTER.



  my GEOFF. (6th Edition.) by the same Author.



  the other MAN’S WIFE. (5th Edition.) by the same Author.



  MRS BOB. (7th Edition.) by the same Author.



  BEAUTIFUL JIM. (8th Edition.) by the same Author.



  a SIEGE baby. (5th Edition.) by the same Author.



  GARRISON GOSSIP. (6th Edition.) by the same author.



  ARMY SOCIETY. life in a Garrison Town. (10th Edition.) by the

     same Author.



  the MAN with a secret. (3d Edition.) by FERGUS HUME.



  LONG ODDS. (5th Edition.) by HAWLEY SMART.



  the plunger. (6th Edition.) by the same Author.



  the MASTER of RATHKELLY. (5th Edition.) by the same Author.



  BEATRICE and BENEDICK. (2d Edition.) by the same Author.



  the OUTSIDER. (8th Edition.) by the same Author.



  WEAK WOMAN. (3d Edition.) by Mrs LOVETT CAMERON.



  a lost wife. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  in a GRASS country. (10th Edition.) by the same Author.



  JACK’S SECRET. (3d Edition.) by the same author.



  BLIND FATE. by Mrs ALEXANDER.



  for his sake. by the same Author.



  BY WOMAN’S WIT. (6th Edition.) by the same Author.



  the HON. MRS VEREKER. (4th Edition.) by Mrs HUNGERFORD, author of

     “Molly Bawn.”



  NORA CREINA. by the same Author.



  LADY PATTY. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  APRIL’S LADY. (4th Edition.) by the same author.



  land a PRIZE. (7th Edition.) by Mrs EDWARD KENNARD.



  WEDDED to SPORT. by the same Author.



  that PRETTY little HORSE-BREAKER. (4th Edition.) by the same

     Author.



  a homburg BEAUTY. (3d Edition.) by the same author.



  MATRON or maid? (4th Edition.) by the same Author.



  a CRACK COUNTY. (6th Edition.) by the same Author.



  a real good thing. (8th Edition.) by the same Author.



  STRAIGHT as a DIE. (9th Edition.) by the same Author.



  the GIRL in the BROWN HABIT. (8th Edition.) by the same Author.



  our friend in the hunting-FIELD. by the same Author.



  kill in the open. (9th Edition.) by the same Author.



  INTERFERENCE. (3d Edition.) by B. M. CROKER.



  two master. (3rd Edition.) by the same Author.



  MISS kate; or, Confessions of a Caretaker. (4th Edit.) by “RITA.”



  SHEBA; a study of Girlhood. (4th Edition.) by the same Author.



  toiler of BABYLON. (2d Edition.) by B. L. FARJEON.



  the duchess of ROSEMARY LANE. (2d Edition.) by the same Author.



  a young GIRL’S LIFE. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  BASIL and ANNETTE. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  the rival PRINCESS. (3d Edition.) by JUSTIN M’CARTHY, M.P., and

     Mrs CAMPBELL PRAED.



  the lady’ GALLERY. (2d Edition.) by the same Authors.



  a woman’S face. by FLORENCE WARDEN, author of “the House on the

     Marsh,” &c.



  a wild wooing. by the same Author.



  a witch of the hills. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  VIOLET VYVIAN, M.F.H. (3d Edition.) by MAY CROMMELIN and J. MORAY

     BROWN.



  the freaks of lady fortune. by MAY CROMMELIN.



  daughter of BELGRAVIA. by Mrs ALEXANDER FRASER.



  the new duchess. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  SYBIL ROSS’S marriage: the Romance of an Inexperienced Girl. (3d

     Edition.) by F. C. PHILIPS and C. J. will.



  a daughter’S SACRIFICE. (3d Edition.) by F. C. PHILIPS and PERCY

     FENDALL.



  the heart of JANE WARNER. by FLORENCE MARRYAT.



  MY SISTER the ACTRESS. by the same Author.



  under the lily and rose. by the same Author.



  the root of all EVIL. by the same Author.



  a BROKEN blossom. by the same Author.



  kate valliant. by ANNIE THOMAS (Mrs PENDER cudlip).



  ALLERTON tower. by the same Author.



  mate with a clown. by LADY CONSTANCE HOWARD.



  SWEETHEART and WIFE. by the same author.



  KEITH’S WIFE. by LADY VIOLET GREVILLE.



  the crusade of the “EXCELSIOR.” by BRET HARTE.



  SLAVES of the SAWDUST. (an original work.) by AMYE READE, author

     of “Ruby,” &c.



  not EASILY jealous. by IZA duffu HARDY.



  only a love story. by the same Author.



  POISONED ARROWS. by JEAN MIDDLEMASS, author of ‘Dandy,’ &c.



  the SAVAGE queen: a romance of the Natives of Van Dieman’s Land.

     (3d Edition.) by HUME NISBET.



  the QUEEN’S DESIRE; a Romance of the Indian Mutiny. by the same

     Author.



  the BUSHRANGER’S SWEETHEART. an Australian Romance. (5th

     Edition.) by the same Author.



  the M.F.H.’S DAUGHTER. by Mrs ROBERT JOCELYN.



  the CRITON HUNT MYSTERY. by the same author.









                        =one SHILLING NOVELS.=



                 (_in Paper Covers_.) _Cloth, 1s. 6d._

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



  a MAN’S MAN. by JOHN STRANGE WINTER, author of “Bootles’ baby,”

     &c. (4th Edition.)



  that MRS SMITH. (2d Edit.) by the same Author.



  three girl. (3d Edit.) by the same Author.



  MERE LUCK. (3d Edition.) by the same Author.



  LUMLEY the PAINTER. (3d Edition.) by the same author.



  GOOD-BYE. (7th Edition.) by the same Author.



  he go for a soldier. (8th Edition.) by the same author.



  ferrer court. (6th Edit.) by the same Author.



  BUTTONS. (8th Edition.) by the same Author.



  a little FOOL. (10th Edit.) by the same Author.



  MY POOR DICK. (illustrate by MAURICE GREIFFENHAGEN.) (10th

     Edition.) by the same Author.



  BOOTLES’ child. (illustrate by J. BERNARD PARTRIDGE.) (11th

     Edition.) by the same Author.



  the confession of a PUBLISHER. by the same Author.



  MIGNON’S HUSBAND. (14th Edition.) by the same Author.



  that IMP. (12th Edition.) by the same Author.



  MIGNON’S SECRET. (17th Edition.) by the same Author.



  ON MARCH. (10th Edition.) by the same Author.



  in quarter. (11th Edit.) by the same Author.



  the GENTLEMAN who vanish. (2d Edition.) by FERGUS HUME.



  the PICCADILLY PUZZLE. by the same Author.



  the power of an EYE. by Mrs FRANK ST CLAIR GRIMWOOD, author of

     “my Three Years in Manipur.”



  a very young couple. by B. L. FARJEON, author of “toiler of

     Babylon,” &c.



  the PERIL of RICHARD PARDON. (2d Edition.) by B. L. FARJEON.



  a strange enchantment. by the same Author.



  a silent tragedy. by Mrs J. H. RIDDELL, author of “George Geith

     of Fen Court,” &c.



  the mystery of NO. 13. (2d Edit.) by HELEN MATHERS, author of

     “comin’ Thro’ the Rye,” &c.



  what the GLASS tell. by the same Author.



  a study of a woman; or, Venus Victrix. by the same Author.



  MY JO, JOHN. (2nd Edition.) by the same Author.



  T’OTHER DEAR CHARMER. by the same Author.



  TOM’S WIFE. by Lady MARGARET MAJENDIE, author of “Fascination,”

     “sister-in-law.” &c.



  the confession of a DOOR MAT. by ALFRED C. CALMOUR, author of

     “the Amber Heart,” &c.



  the mystery of a woman’S heart. by Mrs EDWARD KENNARD.



  in a GRASS country; a Story of Love and Sport. by Mrs LOVETT

     CAMERON. (9th Edition.)



  CITY and SUBURBAN. (2d Edition.) by FLORENCE WARDEN, author of

     “the House on the Marsh,” &c.



  a SCARBOROUGH romance; the Strange Story of Mary Glynde. by the

     same Author.



  GRAVE LADY JANE. by the same Author.



  a shock to SOCIETY. by the same Author.



  the DOCTOR’S SECRET. (2d Edition.) by “RITA,” author of “Dame

     Durden,” “Sheba,” &c.



  the SEVENTH DREAM. by the same author.



  VANITY’S DAUGHTER. by HAWLEY SMART.



  THRICE past the POST. (Cloth only.) by the same Author.



  a conquering heroine. by Mrs HUNGERFORD, author of “Molly Bawn,”

     &c.



  a MAD prank. by the same Author.



  a french marriage. by F. C. PHILIPS.



  face the footlights. by FLORENCE MARRYAT.



  DEVIL’S FORD. by BRET HARTE.





             F. V. WHITE & Co., 14 Bedford Street, Strand.









                    price one SHILLING (_MONTHLY._)



                              =BELGRAVIA:=

                           a LONDON MAGAZINE.

                          (ESTABLISHED 1866.)



              =terms of SUBSCRIPTION: PAYABLE in ADVANCE.=



  =Twelve month (post free),                                 12s.

        do.       include the Summer Number and Christmas

                  Annual,                                     14s.=



 _elegantly Bound Volumes of “Belgravia” with Gilt Edges_ (560 page),

            price 7s. 6d. each. Vol. LXXXIII. be now ready.



                 _case for bind Volumes, 2s. each._

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



“‘Belgravia’ be one of the most thoroughly entertaining of all the

monthly which supply their reader with the light form of

literature. its fiction be of a high order, and its short sketch

and story be little gem in their way, with scarcely a dull page in

the whole of they.”--_North British Daily Mail._





_all Communications to be address to_



                       the editor of “BELGRAVIA,”

        c/o =F. V. WHITE & CO., 14 Bedford Street, Strand, W.C.=









                          price one shilling.



                           =LONDON SOCIETY.=

                          (ESTABLISHED 1862.)

                          _a MONTHLY magazine_



of Light and Amusing Literature by the most popular Authors of the Day.





              =terms of SUBSCRIPTION: PAYABLE in ADVANCE.=



  =Twelve month (post free),                                  12s.

       do.     include the Summer number and the

               Christmas Number,                               14s.=



    _handsomely Bound Volumes of “London Society” with a Gilt Edge_

       (780 page), Price 10s. 6d. each. Vol. LXIV. be now ready.



                 _case for bind Volumes, 2s. each._

                 (at all bookseller’ and Bookstalls.)



“reader who like to be amuse should take in ‘London Society.’ ...

‘London Society’ be a good shilling’s worth.”--_Ladies’ Pictorial._



“this attractive magazine be remarkable for variety of subject and

excellence of its light literature.”--_Public Opinion._





_all communication to be address to_



                    the editor of “LONDON SOCIETY,”

        c/o =F. V. WHITE & CO., 14 Bedford Street, Strand, W.C.=









Transcriber’s note:



word may have multiple spelling variation or inconsistent hyphenation

in the text. Jargon, dialect, obsolete and alternative spelling be

leave unchanged. misspelled word be correct.



word and phrase in italic be surround by underscore, _like

this_; those in bold by equal sign, =like this.= obvious printing

error, such as upside down, reverse order, or partially print

letter and punctuation, be correct. final stop miss at the

end of sentence and abbreviation be add. duplicate word and

printer’s mark be remove.



the follow item be change:



  add miss word ‘of’ ... you shall hear all of it ...

  change ‘its’ to ‘the’... Portland despatch the missive on its way.











*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 3 (of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





