The project Gutenberg eBook of a bankrupt heart, Vol. 1 (of 3)

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: a bankrupt heart, Vol. 1 (of 3)



author: Florence Marryat



Release date: July 5, 2024 [ebook #73972]



language: English



original publication: London: F. V. White & Co, 1894



credit: Carol Brown, Emmanuel Ackerman and the Online distribute Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (this file be produce from image generously make available by the Internet Archive)





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 1 (of 3) ***











                           a bankrupt heart.









                           a bankrupt heart.









                                   BY



                           FLORENCE MARRYAT,



                               AUTHOR of

           ‘LOVE’S conflict,’ ‘MY OWN child,’ ‘parson JONES,’

                               ETC., ETC.









                          _in three VOLUMES._



                                VOL. I.









                                LONDON:



                           F. V. WHITE & CO.,

                    14 BEDFORD STREET, STRAND, W.C.



                                 1894.



    _this story be already dramatise, all right be reserve._









                              _content._





                                          PAGE



                        CHAPTER I.           1



                        CHAPTER II.         26



                        CHAPTER III.        40



                        CHAPTER IV.         60



                        CHAPTER V.          87



                        CHAPTER VI.        120



                        CHAPTER VII.       144



                        CHAPTER VIII.      168



                        CHAPTER IX.        186



                        CHAPTER X.         213









                           a bankrupt heart.









                           a bankrupt heart.









                               CHAPTER I.



Miss Llewellyn be stand at the window of her own room, in the

house of Lord Ilfracombe in Grosvenor Square, gaze at the dust-laden

and burn-up leave and grass in the garden before she. it be an

afternoon towards the close of July, and all the fashionable world be

already out of town. Miss Llewellyn have be rear in the country, and

she could not help think how that same sun that have burn up all the

verdure of which London could boast, have glorify the vegetation of

far-off Wales. how it must have enrich the pasture land, and ripen

the wave corn, and deck the very hedge and ditch with beautiful,

fresh flower, which be to be have for the gathering. her thought

go back to rural Usk where King Arthur build a bower for Guinevere,

and in fancy she feel the cool air blow over its fragrant field and

wood. she heave a deep sigh as she remember the place of her birth,

and, as if in reproach for such heresy to her present condition, she

draw a letter from her pocket and open its page.



Miss Llewellyn nominally hold an inferior position in the house of

the Earl of Ilfracombe. she be his housekeeper. old-fashioned people

who associate their idea of a housekeeper with the image of a staid,

middle-aged woman, whose sole business be to guard the moral and

regulate the duty of the maiden of the establishment, would have

stare at the notion of call Miss Llewellyn by that name. all the

same she be a very fair speciman of the up-to-date housekeeper of a

rich bachelor of the present time, with one exception, perhaps. she be

handsome beyond the majority of woman. her figure be a model. tall and

graceful without be thin, with a beautiful bust and shoulder, and

a skin like white satin, Miss Llewellyn also possess a face such

as be seldom meet with, even in these isle of boasted female beauty.

her feature would have suit a princess. they be those of a carved

Juno. her abundant ripple hair be of a bright chestnut colour; her

eye dark hazel, like the tawny eye of the leopardess; her lip full

and red; and her complexion naturally as radiant as it usually be with

woman of her nationality, though London air have tone it down to a

pale cream tint. she be quietly, but well-dress, too well dress

for one in her station of life perhaps, but that would depend on the

wage she earn and the appearance she be expect to make. her gown

of some light black material, like mousseline-de-laine, or canvas

cloth, be much trim with lace, and on her wrist she wear heavy

gold bangle. her beautiful hair be wear in the prevail fashion,

and round her white throat be a velvet band, clasp by a diamond

brooch. the room, too, which Miss Llewellyn occupy, and which be

exclusively her own, be far beyond what we should associate with the

idea of a dependant. it be a species of half study, half boudoir, and

on the drawing-room floor, furnish by Liberty, and replete with every

comfort and luxury. yet Miss Llewellyn do not look out of place in it;

on the contrary, she would have grace a far handsomer apartment by her

presence. to whatever station of life she have be bring up, it be

evident that circumstance, or habit, have make she quite familiar with

her surrounding. as she peruse the letter she draw from her pocket

for perhaps the twentieth time she look rather pale and anxious,

as though she do not quite comprehend its meaning. yet it seem a

very ordinary epistle, and one which anybody might have read over her

shoulder with impunity. it be write in rather an irregular and

unformed hand for a man of thirty, and show symptom of a wavering

and unsteadfast character.



     ‘DEAR N.,--I find I may be absent from England long

     than I think, so don’t stay coope up in town this

     beastly hot weather, but take a run down to Brighton, or

     any watering-place you may fancy. Warrender can look

     after the house. Malta be a deal hot than London as

     you may imagine, but I have make several friend here and

     enjoy the novelty of the place. they willn’t let I off, I

     expect, under another month or two, so I shall miss the

     grouse this season. however, I’m bind to be back in time

     for the partridge. be sure and take a good holiday and

     freshen yourself up. have you see Sterndale yet? if not,

     you will soon. he have something to tell you. whatever

     happen, remember your welfare will always be my first

     consideration.--Yours truly,

                                               ‘ilfracombe.’



Miss Llewellyn read these word over and over again, without arrive

at any conclusion respect their meaning.



‘what can he mean?’ she think; ‘why should I see Mr Sterndale, and

what can he possibly have to tell I, that I do not already know? I

hope Ilfracombe be not go to do anything so stupid as to make a

settlement on I, for I will not accept it. I much prefer to go on in

the dear old way, and owe all I have to he. have not my welfare always

be his care? Dear Ilfracombe! how I wish I could persuade he to come

home and go to Abergeldie instead! I be sure he run a great risk out

in that horrid climate, especially after the attack of fever he have

last autumn. if he be to fall sick again, without I to nurse he,

what should I do?’



as she speak thus to herself, she turn involuntarily towards a

paint photograph which stand in a silver frame on a side-table. it

represent a good-look young man in a rough shooting suit, with

a gun over his shoulder. it be a handsome and aristocratic face,

but a weak one, as be evidence by the prominent blue eye and the

recede chin and mouth, which latter, however, be nearly hide by

a flaxen moustache. it be not difficult to discover with what sort of

feel a woman regard a man if you watch she as she be look at his

likeness. as Miss Llewellyn regard that of Lord Ilfracombe, her face,

so proud in its natural expression, soften until it might have be

that of a mother gloat over her first-bear. so inextricably be the

element of protective love interweave with the feeling of every true

woman for the man who possess her heart. the tear even rise to Miss

Llewellyn’s handsome eye, as she gaze at Lord Ilfracombe’s picture,

but she brush they away with a nervous laugh.



‘how foolish,’ she say to herself, ‘and when I be the happy and

most fortunate woman in all the world, and would not change my lot with

the queen herself. and so undeserving of it all, too.’



woman who honestly love, invariably think themselves unworthy of their

good fortune, when, perhaps, and very often too, the boot (to use a

vulgar expression) be on the other foot. but love always make we

humble. if it do not, it be love of ourselves, and not of our lover.



a sudden impulse seem to seize Miss Llewellyn, and, sit down to

her pretty writing-table, she draw out pen, ink and paper, and write

hurriedly,--



     ‘my DEAREST,--Do you think I could enjoy a holiday without

     you? no! whilst you be away, my place be here, watch

     over your interest, and when you return I shall be too

     happy to leave you. but come back as soon as you can. I

     don’t want to spoil your pleasure, but I be so afraid for

     your health. you get so careless when you be alone. don’t

     go bathe in cold water when you be hot, nor eat thing

     which you know from experience disagree with you. you will

     laugh at my caution, but if you only know how I love you

     and miss you, you would sympathise with my anxiety--’



Miss Llewellyn have write thus far, when a tap sound on the door of

her room, and on her give permission to enter, a servant appear and

address she with all the deference usually extend to the mistress

of a house.



‘if you please, ma’am, there be a young man and woman from Usk below,

who want to speak to you.’



Miss Llewellyn become crimson, and then pale to the tint of a white

rise.



‘from Usk, Mary?’ she repeat; ‘be you sure? I don’t expect anybody

this evening. what be the name?’



‘oh, I’m quite sure, ma’am. they say their name be Owen, and they

ask particularly for Miss Llewellyn, the housekeeper.’



‘what be the young woman like?’



‘rather nice-look, ma’am, that be, for a person from the country.

I’m sure they’re not londoner from the way they speak, though I don’t

know where Usk be; but she’s get nice curly hair, much the colour of

your, ma’am.’



‘well, well, show they into the housekeeper’s room, Mary, or stay, as

his lordship be away, you may as well put they in the library, and say

I will be with they in a minute.’



as soon as the servant have leave she, Miss Llewellyn run up to her

bedroom, with her hand tightly press over her heart, and commence to

rapidly pull off her ornament, and to take a plainer dress out of she

wardrobe.



‘if it should be a message from mother,’ she murmur breathlessly, as

she strip off her finery, ‘they mustn’t go back and say they find

I like this. dear, dear mother. she would break her heart to find out

the meaning of it all.’



she throw the black lace dress upon the bed, and select a

quaker-look fawn cashmere from her wardrobe, put it on instead, and

have somewhat smoothed down her ripple hair, she tie on a black

silk apron, and take her way down to the library. she open the door

with a beat heart, for she have begin to fear lest the stranger

might prove to be the bearer of bad news to she, but the moment

she set eye on the figure of the young woman, she give vent to an

exclamation of surprise and delight, and rush into her extended arm.



‘Hetty! Hetty!’ she cry hysterically, ‘my own dear sister! oh, how be

it you be in London? why do you not tell I you be come? you have

not bring bad news, have you? oh, don’t tell I that mother be ill,

for I couldn’t bear it.’



‘no, Nell, no!’ exclaim the young sister, ‘they be all as well

at home as can be. mother and father be just beautiful, and the

crop first-rate. but we--that be, will and I--think we would give

you such a grand surprise. we have such news for you! you’d never

guess it, Nell! don’t you see who’s this with I? William Owen, our

old play-mate! well, he’s my husband. we be marry the day before

yesterday.’



‘marry!’ repeat Miss Llewellyn, incredulously. ‘little Hester,

who be always such a baby compare to I, really marry. this be a

surprise!’ and to prove how much she think it so, Miss Llewellyn sit

down on a sofa and burst into tear.



‘oh, Nelly! you be not vex because we do not tell you soon, be

you?’ cry Hetty, kneel down beside her sister. ‘we think you

would like the grand surprise, dear, and I make will promise that

the first thing he do be to bring I up to London town to see my

beautiful sister Nell! and oh, Nell, you do look such a lady. I’m sure

I feel so countrified beside you, I cann’t say.’



‘you look too sweet for anything,’ reply Miss Llewellyn kiss she,

‘and I be only cry a little for joy, Hetty, to think you be so

happy. but what a child to be marry! why, how old be you? not more

than seventeen, surely!’



‘oh, yes, Nell; you have not be home for such a time, you forget

how it go on. I be twenty-one last spring, dear; and you be

twenty-four! but how different you be from what you use to be. be it

London life that make you so grand? you look like a queen beside I!

you must think I be a bumpkin in my wedding clothe.’



‘Nonsense, dear Hetty. one be oblige to be more particular in town

than in the country. besides, I be fill an important situation, you

know, and be expect to dress up to it.’



‘oh yes, I be tell will all the way down from Usk, what a fine

place you have, and such a rich master. oh, Nell! be he at home? Lord

Ilfracombe I mean. I should love to go back and tell they that I have

see a lord.’



‘no, Hetty, he be away in Malta, and not likely to be back for some

time. but I’ve not speak to my new brother-in-law yet. I suppose you

can scarcely remember I, Will. five year be a long time to be absent

from the old home.’



‘oh! I remember you well enough,’ reply the young man shamefacedly,

for he be rather take aback at encounter such a fine lady, instead

of the maid-servant he have expect to see. ‘I and my brother Hugh use

to have fine game of cricket with you and my little Hetty here, on the

island year and year ago. I suppose you’ve hear that Hugh have be

elect to the ministry since you leave Usk, Miss Llewellyn?’



‘no, indeed, I do not think that Hetty have ever mention it in her

letter to I. but I remember your brother quite well. he be a very

tall, shy lad, fonder of reading than anything else, even when a little

boy.’



‘yes, that’s hugh,’ reply the young man, ‘and he haven’t forget you

either, I can answer for that.’



‘I suppose it make you all very proud to have a minister in the

family, William?’ say Miss Llewellyn kindly.



‘that it do; and he’s a fine preacher too, as Hetty here can tell

you, and draw the people to hear he for mile round, so that the

parson up at the church be quite jealous of Hugh’s influence with his

parishioner. and that’s something to be proud of, ben’t it?’



‘it be indeed. and what be you, will?’



‘oh, he’s a farmer, Nell,’ interpose Hetty, ‘and we be to live with

his parent at Dale Farm as soon as we go back. so poor mother will be

leave alone. oh, Nell, how I wish you could come back to panty-cuckoo

Farm, and stay with mother, now she’s lose I.’



Miss Llewellyn flush scarlet at the idea.



‘Hetty, how could I? how could I leave my place where I have be for

so many year now, to go back and be a burden on my parent? besides,

dear, I’m use to town life, and don’t think I should know how to get

on in the country.’



‘but you care for mother surely?’ say her sister, somewhat

reproachfully; ‘and you cann’t think how bad she’s be with sciatica

this spring, quite double-up at time, and Dr Cowell say it’s bind

to come back in the autumn. I’m sure I don’t know what she’ll do if

it do! you should have hear how she use to cry out for you in the

spring, Nell. she’s always want her beautiful daughter. I’m nothing

to mother, and never have be, compare to you. and I’ve hear she

say, dozen of time, that she wish that London town have be burn

to the ground before the agency office have persuade you to take

service here. they do seem so hard on servant in this place. here have

you be five year away from home, and never once a holiday! I think

Lord Ilfracombe must be very mean not to think that a servant girl

would want to see her own people once in a way!’



‘you mustn’t blame Lord Ilfracombe, Hetty!’ say her sister, hastily,

‘for it’s not his fault. he would let I go to Usk if I ask he, I

daresay; but I have the charge of all the other servant you see, and

where would the house be without I? it be not as if there be a lady

at the head of affair.’



‘then why don’t he marry and get his wife to do all that for he?’

demand Hetty, with the audacity of ignorance. ‘it do seem strange

that a gentleman with such a heap of money should remain a bachelor.

what do he do with it all, I wonder? and what be the good of such

a big house to a man without a wife? wouldn’t you rather that he be

married, Nell? it must be so funny take all your order from a man.’



‘you don’t understand, Hetty,’ say Miss Llewellyn. ‘Lord Ilfracombe

do not give I any order. he never interfere in the household

arrangement. it be to save himself all that trouble that he have

engage I. I hardly ever see he--that be, about dinner, or anything

of that sort. when he be go to have a party, he tell I the number

of people whom he expect, and I prepare for they accordingly. but this

be all beyond your comprehension. it be past five o’clock. you and

William will be glad of some tea.’



Miss Llewellyn rise and ring the bell as she speak, and having give

her order to a very magnificent looking footman, at whose servility

Hetty stare, she resume the conversation.



‘where be you two stay in town?’



‘we have some room in Oxford Street,’ reply her sister. ‘do you

remember Mrs Potter, Nell, who take Mrs Upjohn’s cottage when her

husband die? her sister let lodging, and when she hear we be

come to London for our honeymoon, she write to her sister to take we

in, and we be very comfortable there, ben’t we, Will? and it’s such a

grand situation, such lot of thing to see; and Mrs Potter say, as it

might be our last chance for many a day, we ought to see as much as we

could whilst we be here.’



‘I think she be quite right,’ reply Miss Llewellyn, smile; ‘and

I should like to add to your pleasure if possible. will you come out

with I and have some dinner after your tea, and go to a theatre in the

evening?’



‘oh, Nell, we have our dinner at one o’clock--roast pork and french

bean, and very good it be, I suppose, for London town, though

nothing like our pork at Usk. and ben’t the strawberry and cherry

dear here? will gave sixpence this morning for a leaf of fruit that

you’d throw over the hedge to a beggar child in Usk. I tell the woman

in the shop that she ought to come to panty-cuckoo farm if she want

to see strawberry; but she say she have never hear of such a place.’



‘I think you’ll be quite ready for the dinner, Hetty, for you will find

our London tea very different from country one,’ say Miss Llewellyn,

as the footman reappear with a teapot and cup and saucer, and a

plate of very thin bread and butter on a silver tray; ‘and the theatre

will keep we up rather late. I suppose you have be nowhere yet?’



no, of course they have be nowhere, and Miss Llewellyn select the

Adelphi as the theatre most likely to give they pleasure.



‘nell,’ whisper Hetty, in a tone of awe as they find themselves once

more alone, ‘do you always have a silver tray to eat your tea off?’



Nell colour. she find a little evasion would be necessary in order

to circumvent the sharp eye of her sister.



‘not always, Hetty,’ she answer; ‘but as nobody else want it just

now, I suppose John think we might as well have the advantage of it.

when the cat’s away, you know, the mouse will play. and we cann’t wear it

out by use it a little.’



Hetty look thoughtful.



‘but I think mother would say,’ she answer after a pause, ‘that we

ought not to use it unless Lord Ilfracombe know of it and give his

leave. I remember once when Annie Roberts come to tea with I, and

boast of having bring her mistress’s umbrella because she be away

and it look like rain, mother send she straight home again, and

threaten if Annie do not tell Mrs Carey of what she have do, that

she would tell she herself.’



Miss Llewellyn look just a little vexed. one might have see that by

the way she bite her lip and tap the carpet with her neat little shoe.



‘but your sister be not in the same position as Annie Roberts,

Hetty, my dear,’ interpose William Owen, observe their hostess’s

discomfiture.



‘no, that be just it,’ say Miss Llewellyn, recover herself. ‘I be

allow--all the servant know that they may bring these thing up

to I when I have friend. life in London be so different from life

in the country--one expect more privilege. but there, Hetty, dear,

don’t let we speak of it any more. you don’t quite understand, but you

may be sure I would not do anything of which Lord Ilfracombe would not

approve.’



‘oh, no, dear Nell, indeed you need not have tell I that. I be only

a little surprised. I be not use to such fine thing, you know, and I

just think if your master be to walk in, how astonished he would be.’



‘not at all,’ say Miss Llewellyn gaily. ‘you don’t know how good and

kind he be to we all. he would just laugh and tell we to go on enjoy

ourselves. but if we be to go to the theatre, I must run up and put on

my thing. William, will you have a glass of wine before we start? I

have a bottle of my own, so Hetty need not think I be go to drink

Lord Ilfracombe’s.’



Young Owen refuse the wine, but Hetty be eager to accompany her

sister to her bedroom. this be just what Miss Llewellyn do not wish

she to do. she be in a quandary. but her woman’s wit (some people

would say, her woman’s trick of lying) come to her aid, and she

answered,--



‘come upstairs with I by all mean, Hetty. I should like you to see

the house, but I will take you to one of the spare bedroom, for mine

be not habitable just at present. plasterer and painter all over that

floor. come in here,’ and she turn as she speak into a magnificently

furnished apartment usually reserve for Lord Ilfracombe’s guest.



Hetty stare with all her eye at the magnificence surround she.



‘oh, Nell, how I wish mother could see this. it look fit for a duchess

to I.’



‘well, it be actually a duke who sleep in it last, you little goose,’

cry Miss Llewellyn, as she hastily assume a bonnet and mantle which

she have desire a servant to fetch from her own chamber. ‘but I don’t

think he be worthy of it. a nasty, bloated little fellow, with a face

cover with pimple, and an eyeglass always stick in his eye.’



‘don’t Lord Ilfracombe wear an eyeglass, Nell?’



‘oh, no, thank goodness. I wouldn’t--’ but here Miss Llewellyn check

herself suddenly, and added,--‘I mean, he would never do anything so

silly. he can see perfectly well, and do not need a glass. but come,

Hetty, dear, we be go to walk down to the theatre, so we have well

start if we wish to get good seat.’



as they enter the porch of the Adelphi, a sudden thought strike

innocent Hetty. she sidle up to her sister and whispered,--



‘you must let William pay for our place, Nell.’



‘nonsense, child, what be you think of? this be _my_ treat. I ask

you to come as my guest.’



‘but it ben’t fair,’ continue the little bumpkin, ‘for you to pay for

we all out of your wage. willn’t it cramp you for the next quarter,

Nell?’



‘no, dear, no; I have plenty for we all,’ return her sister hastily,

as she pay for three place in the dress circle, and conduct she

relation to their destination. here, seat well out of observation

of the stall, as she think, Miss Llewellyn feel free for the next

two hour at least, to remain quiet and think, an operation for which

she have have no time since her sister have burst in so unexpectedly upon

she. William and Hetty have naturally no eye except for the play, the

like of which they have never see before. they follow the sensational

incident of one of Sim’s and Buchanan’s melodramas with absorbing

interest. the varied scene; the clap-trap change; the pretty dress,

all chain they, eye and ear, to the stage, whilst an occasional

breathless exclamation from Hetty, of ‘oh, Nell, ben’t that beautiful?’

be all the demand they make upon her attention. she have see the piece

before, and if she have not do so, she have no heart to attend to it

now. her memory of home, and the old life she have lead there, have

all be awaken by the sight of her sister and the manner she have

speak of it; and while Hetty be engross by the novel scene before

she, Miss Llewellyn be in fancy back again at panty-cuckoo Farm,

where she have be bear and breed. she be wander down the steep

path which lead to the farmhouse, border on either side by whitened

stone to enable the driver to keep to it in the dark, and which have

give the dear old place its fanciful name of ‘the cuckoo’s Dell.’ she

could see the orchard of apple and pear tree, which grow around the

house itself, and under which the pig be dig with their black

snout for such succulent root as their swinish soul love. she sit

well back in her seat listen to the note of the cuckoo from the

neighbouring thicket, and the wood that skirt the domain of General

Sir Archibald Bowmant, who be the principal landowner for many mile

around Usk at that period. what a marvellous, magnificent place she

have think the General’s house once, when she have be admit to

view the principal room, by especial favour of the housekeeper. and

now--why, they be nothing compare to Lord Ilfracombe’s, the man whom

little Hetty have call she ‘master.’ ‘and a very good name for he,

too,’ think Miss Llewellyn, as she finish her musing, ‘for he be

my master, body and soul.’









                              CHAPTER II.





at the close of the second act, as she be urge her sister and

brother-in-law to take some refreshment, she be disagreeably

interrupt by hear a voice which she recognise as that of

Mr Portland, a friend of Lord Ilfracombe’s. Jack Portland (as he

be usually call by his own sex) be a man whom Miss Llewellyn

particularly dislike, on account of his bad influence over the Earl.

he be a well-know betting and sporting man, who live on the turf,

and whose lead Lord Ilfracombe be, unfortunately, but too ready to

follow. she shrink back as she encounter he, but Mr Portland be not

easily rebuff.



‘ah, Miss Llewellyn,’ he exclaim, as he scramble over the vacant

seat to reach her side, ‘be this really you? I think I recognise

you from the stall, but could hardly believe my eye. what be you

do in the dress circle? I have always see you in a box before.’



‘I be with friend, Mr Portland,’ reply Miss Llewellyn, with visible

annoyance; ‘and one can see a play like this much well from the

circle. we have be enjoy it very much.’



‘you must be pretty well sick of it by this time, I should think,’

return Mr Portland, with his glass stick in his eye, ‘for I’ve see

you here twice with Ilfracombe already. by the way, how be Ilfracombe?

when do you hear from he last?’



Miss Llewellyn be on thorn.



‘will you excuse I, Mr Portland,’ she say, with a face of crimson,

‘but I and my friend be just go to have some ice at the buffet.’



‘by Jove, but you willn’t!’ exclaim the officious Portland. ‘I will

send they to you. how many do you want? three?’



‘yes, three if you please,’ answer Miss Llewellyn, who see no other

way of getting rid of her tormentor, and dread what he might say

before her sister.



‘who be that gentleman, Nell?’ inquire Hetty as soon as his back be

turn.



‘no one in particular,’ say the other, ‘only an acquaintance of Lord

Ilfracombe’s. don’t take any notice of he, Hetty. he talk a lot of

nonsense.’



she be pray all the time that Mr Portland, having give his order

to the waiter, might see he be not want, and go back to his stall.

but he be not the sort of man who give something for nothing. he

mean to be pay for the attention, though in his own coin. the waiter

soon appear bear the tray of ice and wafer, and in his train

come Mr Jack Portland, smile as if he know his welcome be assure.



‘I’ve get you Neapolitan, Miss Llewellyn, you see. I remember that

ilfracombe always order Neapolitan. by the way, you never tell I the

content of his last letter. he’s very gay at Malta I hear. always with

those Abingers. have you hear of the abinger? he’s the admiral there.

by George, Miss Llewellyn, I’d recall Ilfracombe if I be you. send

he home order, you know. he’s be out there quite long enough, don’t

you think so?’



Miss Llewellyn see that Hetty and William be listen with open eye

to this discourse, and do not know how to stop Mr Portland’s tongue.

she would fain have got rid of he altogether, but of the two evil she

choose what seem to she the least. she lower her voice, and beg

he to cease his remark on Lord Ilfracombe till they be alone.



‘that’s the way the land lie,’ he reply, with a wink in the

direction of Hetty. ‘all right, mum’s the word! how deucedly handsome

you be look to-night,’ he add in a low voice, as he bring

his bloated face in close proximity to her. ‘tell you what, Miss

Llewellyn, Ilfracombe’s a fool!--a d--d fool, by George! to leave such

a face and figure as your, whilst he go gallivanting after a set of

noodle at Malta!’



at this remark Nell flush indignantly, and, turn she back on the

intruder, direct her attention to her sister, upon which Mr Portland,

with a familiar nod, and an easy good-night, take himself away. as

soon as he be out of hear Hetty pester Nell to tell she his name,

and to confess if he be anything to she.



‘I cann’t say I think he’s handsome,’ she say, with a little _moue_,

‘his face be so red, and he stare so; but do tell I the truth, Nell.

be he your young man?’



‘my young man? gracious, no, child! why, I hate the fellow! I think he

be the most odious, impertinent, presume person I know! but he be a

friend of Lord Ilfracombe’s, so I be oblige to be civil to he.’



‘ah, well, I wish you have a young man, Nell, all the same. mother would

be so glad to hear you be think of getting marry. she often say

that it be high time you be settle, and that you’re far too handsome

to be single in London, for that it’s a dreadful dangerous place for

girl, and especially if they’re good look. she _would_ be please

to hear you be keep company with anyone that could keep you like a

lady.’



‘but I’m not, Hetty, dear, nor likely to be, so you mustn’t get any

idea of that sort into your head. but let we attend to what be go

on. I hope will and you be enjoy yourselves.’



‘oh, lovely!’ say Hetty, with a sigh of ineffable content.



but Miss Llewellyn have not got rid of Mr Portland yet. as she be

push her way out of the corridor when the play be over, she find

he again by her side.



‘will you be at home to-morrow, Miss Llewellyn?’ he ask in a low

voice.



‘I believe so. why?’



‘because I particularly want to speak to you. may I call about three?’



‘certainly, if you really wish to speak to I; but I cannot imagine

what you can have to say that you cannot say now?’



‘oh, that would be quite impossible,’ rejoin Mr Portland, look she

straight in the eye; ‘I couldn’t even explain what my business with

you be, but you shall hear all about it if you will be so good as to

receive I about three.’



‘I shall be at home,’ reply Miss Llewellyn coldly, as she push she

way out into the street and enter a pass cab with her companion.



‘I shall call for you both to-morrow about six o’clock, Hetty,’ she

say, as she deposit they at the door of their lodging, ‘and take

you to the Alhambra. you’ll see something there more beautiful than you

have ever see before.’



‘oh, Nell, you _be_ good!’ cry her sister; ‘and what a lot of money

you must receive. it make I wish that I, too, have come up to London

town when you do, and go to service, for then I might have save

some money to help will furnish our room. I bring he nothing, you

know, Nell--not even a penny, it seem so sad, don’t it?’



‘what nonsense!’ reply Miss Llewellyn. ‘you bring he your true,

pure heart and your honest soul, and they be worth all the money in

the world, Hetty, and I be sure William think the same. good-night. we

shall meet again to-morrow.’



and with a wave of her hand, she drive away to Grosvenor Square.



her maid be wait up for she, all consternation to find she have

leave the house without call in her assistance.



‘dear I, ma’am!’ she exclaim, as she kneel down on the floor of Miss

Llewellyn’s bedroom to unbutton her dainty boot, ‘to think you could

go out, and I not to dress you. when John tell I you have leave the

house, and not even take the carriage, you might have knock I down

with a feather. and in this dress and mantle, too! dear, dear, wherever

do you go? not to the theatre, surely?’



‘yes, I do,’ respond her mistress. ‘I take some young friend from

the country with I to the adelphi; and you see, Susan, the fact be,

they be not use to fashionable dressing, so I think I would not

make they feel uncomfortable by be smart than themselves.’



‘many lady think the same,’ remark the maid; ‘though I don’t hold

with it, for it’s a real pleasure to look at such dress as your,

even if one cann’t have ’em for oneself.’



she speak rather more familiarly than servant usually do to their

mistress, for she know perfectly well, though she dared not say

so openly, that Miss Llewellyn be not a gentlewoman any more than

herself, but it be, she think, to her profit to appear to think so.

the Court favourite be generally the object of adulation and sycophancy

until her reign be over. but Ellen Llewellyn have be accustom to

subservience for so long now that she have almost forget that it be

not her by right. it be only at time that the truth be bear in

upon she that she hold the luxury of life on an uncertain tenure.

she maid undressed she, and put her blue cashmere dressing-gown about

her shoulder, and would have hover around she for an indefinite

period, chatter of every bit of news she have hear that day, but

Miss Llewellyn be in no mood to indulge she, and dismiss she at last

rather abruptly. she want to be alone to ponder over the surprise she

have have that afternoon--to dream again of panty-cuckoo farm; to wonder

how the dear old garden look under the July sun; if her mother have

age much during the last five year; whether her father’s figure be

more bent and his step feebler--above all, she want to communicate

her thought to someone who would sympathise with they. she feel too

excited to rest, so she take up her pen again and finish the letter

in the writing of which she have be interrupt that afternoon by her

sister’s arrival.



     ‘I have write thus far, my dearest, when I be interrupt

     by the appearance of my little sister Hetty, from Usk, and

     her husband, William Owen, when I never even know that they

     be marry. oh, Ilfracombe, I be so surprised! they have

     come up to town for their wedding trip expressly to see I,

     so I felt compel to show they some attention. but I be

     so nervous! I hurry they out of the house as soon as I

     could, and take they to the adelphi; and there, who should

     spy we out but Mr Portland, who would keep on talk to I

     of you till I be fairly oblige to run away from he. what

     a fool he must be to speak so openly before stranger. I

     could have box his ear! oh, I never feel safe or happy

     except when I be by your side. how very glad I shall be when

     you come home again. then you will take I up to Abergeldie

     with you for the shooting, willn’t you? till then I shall not

     stir. how could I enjoy myself at a watering-place all

     alone? I have see nothing of Mr Sterndale yet, and cannot

     imagine what he should have to say to I. we never have much

     in common; indeed, I regularly dislike he. he always look

     at I so suspiciously as if he think I be a wretched

     harpy, like some woman we know of, and care for nothing but

     your money and your title. instead of which I love you so

     dearly that I could almost wish you be a ruin

     costermonger, Ilfracombe, instead of the grand gentleman you

     be, that I might prove my love by work for you and with

     you. ah, if I only could do something to return all your

     goodness to I; but it be hopeless, and will never be. you

     be too high above I. all I can do be to love you.’



and with much more in this strain the letter end. the excitement

that have be engender in Nell by see friend from home have be

continue by write her feeling to the man she love; but now that it

be over, and she lie down on her bed, the natural reaction set in,

and she turn she beautiful face on her pillow and shed a few quiet

tear.



‘oh, how I wish Ilfracombe be here,’ she sob. ‘he have be away

four month now, and my life be a desert without he. it be hardly

bearable. and if Hetty or William should hear--if by chance anyone who

know it, like that officious Jack Portland, should come across they

and mention it, and they should tell mother, it would break her heart

and mine too. if he would only have the courage to end it, and do

what’s right. but it’s too much to expect. I must not think of such a

thing. I have always know it be impossible. and I be as certain as I

be that there be a heaven that he will never forsake I; he have say it

so often. I be as secure as if I be really his wife. only this world

be so hard--so bitterly, bitterly hard!’



and so Nell cry herself to sleep.



but the next morning she be as bright and as gloriously beautiful as

ever, and when she descend to breakfast the butler and footman wait

on she as assiduously as if she have be a countess, and the coachman

send up to she for order concern the carriage, and the cook

submit the menu for that day’s dinner for her approval. as soon as

her breakfast be conclude she give an interview to Lord Ilfracombe’s

stud groom, and go with he into the forage and stable account,

detect several error that he have pass over, and consult he

as to whether his master might not, with some benefit to himself, try

another corn merchant. so much have she have identify herself with all

the earl’s interest that she more than once use the plural pronoun in

speak of the high price quote to she.



‘this will never do, Farningham,’ she say once; ‘we cannot afford

to go on with field at this rate. his charge be enough to ruin a

millionaire. with four horse here, and eleven down at thistlemere, we

shall have nothing leave to feed ourselves soon.’



‘very well, ma’am,’ reply the man, ‘I’ll get the price list from two

or three other corn merchant, and submit they to you. I don’t fancy

you’ll find much difference, though, in their price. you see, with the

long drought we have have this season, hay have rise terribly, and oats

ain’t much well; they’re so poor I’ve have to increase the feed. will

his lordship be home for the hunting, ma’am?’



‘oh, yes, I hope so sincerely, Farningham. he say he shall miss the

grouse this year; but I quite expect he for the partridge-shooting.

and after that he be sure to go down to thistlemere for the hunting

season. he couldn’t live without his horse for long, Farningham.’



‘no, ma’am, he’s a true nobleman for that be his lordship, and I

guess as much; but I’m glad to hear you say so, for there’s no heart

in get horse in first-rate order if no one’s to see ’em or use

’em. good morning, ma’am, and I hope we shall see his lordship soon

again, for all our sake,’ which hope Miss Llewellyn heartily echo.









                              CHAPTER III.





the morning be beautiful, though very warm, and Miss Llewellyn think

she could not spend it well than in take a long drive. she feel as

if she could not stay in the house. some intuitive dread or fear, she

know not which, possess she--as if she have an enemy in ambush, and

anticipate an assault. when she try to analyse this feeling, she

lay it to the proximity of her relation and the possibility of their

hear more of her domestic life than she wish they to know.



‘but it be all because Ilfracombe be not at home,’ she say to herself.

‘if he be here, he would laugh I out of such a piece of folly. as if

they possibly _could_ hear. who could tell they, when they know no one

in London. I be a silly fool.’



when she enter the open carriage, and the footman attend she

order, she tell he to drive as far into the country as possible.



‘tell Jenkins to go right away from town, up to Hampstead, or out to

barne. I want all the fresh air I can get.’



so she be carry swiftly towards Wimbledon, and have soon leave the hot

brick and mortar behind she, and be revel in the sight of green

hedge and stretch of common.



‘how fresh and sweet it all seem,’ she think; ‘but not half so fresh

and sweet as round Usk and by dear Panty-cuckoo farm. how luscious the

honeysuckle use to smell, that trail over the porch by the side

door. and how thickly it grow. I use to tear off the blossom by

thousand to suck their petal. and the apple orchard, it be a mass

of white and pink flower in spring, like a bridal bouquet. they must

have all fall by this time, and leave the little green apple in their

stead. what a thief I be in my early day. I can remember lanky Hugh

Owen catch I rob Mr Potter’s plum tree, and the long-wind

lecture he give I on the right of meum and tuum. I wonder if the

sermon he preach now be as prosy and as long. if so, I pity his

congregation. he be always so terribly in earnest. what would he say

if he know all about I now?’



and here Miss Llewellyn’s thought take a rather melancholy turn, and

she sit in the carriage with fold arm, hardly notice the rural

scene through which she be pass, as her memory go back to her

girlhood’s day and her girlhood’s companion. she do not notice the

time either, until a church clock strike two, and remind she that

she have have no luncheon. she give the order for home then, but it be

nearly three before she reach Grosvenor Square, and the first word

the footman, who open the door to she, say, be to the effect that

Mr Portland be wait for she in the drawing-room. Nell start. she

have entirely forget the appointment of the day before.



‘in the drawing-room, do you say?’ she ejaculate. ‘I will go to he

at once.’



‘luncheon be on the table, madam,’ add the servant; ‘shall I tell

they to take it downstairs till you be ready?’



‘it be not worth while,’ reply Miss Llewellyn, ‘I shall only be a few

minute.’



she walk straight up to the drawing-room as she speak, throw the

hat she have wear on a side table as she enter.



‘I be sorry to have keep you wait, Mr Portland,’ she say as he hold

out his hand to she, ‘but I have be for a country drive, and quite

forget the time.’



‘that be a very cruel speech, Miss Llewellyn,’ remonstrate she

visitor; ‘and when I have be count the moment till we should

meet.’



Jack Portland be always a ‘horsey’ look man, and it strike Nell

that to-day he seem more horsey than usual. by birth, he be a

gentleman; but, like many other gentleman by birth, he have degrade

himself by a life of dissipation, till he have lose nearly all claim to

the title. his feature, good enough in themselves, be swollen and

bloat by indulgence in drink; his manner be forward and repulsive;

he have lose all respect for woman, and only regard they as expensive

animal who cost, as a rule, much more than they be worth. to Nell he

have always be most offensive, not in word, but look and manner,

and she be only decently civil to he for the earl’s sake. now, as he

seem disposed to approach her side, she get far and far away

from he, till she have reach a sofa at the other end of the room.

Mr Portland be ‘got-up’ in the flashy style, but be evidently

nervous, though she could not imagine why. his suit be cut in the

late racing fashion, and he wear an enormous ‘buttonhole.’ but his

florid face be more flushed than usual, and he keep fidget with his

watch chain in a curious manner. at last he find his tongue.



‘be you very much surprised when I ask you for an interview, Miss

Llewellyn?’ he commence.



‘I be, rather. because I cannot think what you can possibly

have to say to I. we have but one subject of interest in

common--Ilfracombe--and he be quite well and happy. else, I might

have frighten myself by imagine you have some bad news to tell I

concern he.’



Jack Portland look at she rather curiously as he replied,--



‘oh, no, the old chap’s all right. how often do you hear from he now?

every day. be that the ticket?’



‘I hear constantly,’ reply Miss Llewellyn in a dignified tone. ‘I have

a letter yesterday. I be in hope he might have fix the date of his

return, but he say his friend will not be persuade to let he go, so

that he shall be detain in Malta long than he expect.’



‘ah! his friend be the Abingers, of course,’ say Mr Portland,

stick his glass in his eye, the well to observe her feature.



‘perhaps. he do not mention they by name,’ she reply, ‘but I

daresay you be right. however, he be sure to be home for the

pheasant-shooting.’



‘doubtless,’ reply Mr Portland, ‘unless his friend persuade he

to go somewhere else. but what be you go to do with yourself

meanwhile, Miss Llewellyn?’



‘I? oh, I shall remain in town till his return, and then I suppose we

shall go to the Highlands as usual. ilfracombe want I to go away at

once to some watering-place to recruit, but I should be wretched there

by myself. I shall wait for he at home. he be sure to come straight to

London, because all his thing be here.’



she be look as handsome as paint that day. the long drive have

tinge her face with a soft pink, and her lovely hazel eye be humid

with emotion, engender by her subject. her rich hair have become

somewhat disorder by the open air and the haste with which she have

remove her hat, and be ruffle and untidy. but that only add to

her charm. what pretty woman ever look so well with neatly arrange

hair, as when it be rumple and blow about? she be half sit,

half recline on the sofa, and her fine figure be shewn to the good

advantage. Portland’s eye glisten as he gaze at she. what a

handsome hostess she would make--what a presider over the destiny of

his bachelor establishment! how proud he would be to introduce she to

his sporting and bohemian friend--the only friend whom he affect,

and be able to tell they that this glorious creature be his own! he

become so excited by the idea that he dash into the subject rather

suddenly.



‘Miss Llewellyn,’ he say, ‘you be aware, I think, of my position in

life. ilfracombe, dear old chap, have doubtless tell you that I make a

very neat little income, and that I be perfectly unencumbered.’



this seemingly vague address make her stare.



‘he have never enter into detail with I, Mr Portland; but I have

hear he say you be very well off--the lucky fellow he know he

call you.’



‘I’m afraid I’m not quite that,’ say Mr Portland; ‘but still I be in

a position to give any reasonable woman everything she can possibly

require. my income be pretty regular, and I would engage to make a

handsome allowance to any lady who honour I with her preference.

I tell you this because Ilfracombe have often tell I that you have

an excellent head for business. by George!’ say Mr Portland, again

screw his glass into his unhappy and long-suffer eye, ‘with such

beauty as your, you have no right to know anything about business;

still, if you do--there you be, you see!’



‘but what have all this to do with I, Mr Portland,’ remark Miss

Llewellyn with a puzzled air. ‘I be sure any lady you may choose to

marry will be a very lucky woman. Ilfracombe have often call you the

good fellow he know. but why should you tell I this? be you already

engage to be marry?’



‘by Jove! no, and not likely to be. do I look like a marry man, Miss

Llewellyn? but there!--I cann’t beat about the bush any long! you must

have see my admiration--my worship for you! it be on _you_ my choice

have fall! say that I have not be too presumptuous; that you will

consent to share my fortune; that you will, in fact, look as kindly on

I as you have on my fortunate friend, ilfracombe?’



at first she do not understand his meaning; she do not realise that

this farrago of nonsense have be address to herself. it be so

entirely unexpected, so utterly unthought of. but when she _do_ take

in the meaning of his word, when she awake to the knowledge that Mr

Portland, the intimate friend of Lord Ilfracombe, have _dare_ to offer

she his protection, Nell spring from her position on the sofa, and

retreat to the back of it. her tawny eye be blaze with fire,

her hand be clench, her breast heave violently, she could hardly

speak. under the indignation of her burning glance, the man before she

seem to shrivel like a dry leaf before the flame.



‘how dare you?’ she pant. ‘how _dare_ you insult I like that? what

do you mean? how can I be your friend, or the friend of any man but

Ilfracombe? I be _his_ wife; you know I be; and shall be till I die!’



‘his _wife_? pooh!’ say Jack Portland, ‘don’t talk rubbish to I like

that.’



‘yes, his wife! how can I be _more_ his wife than I be? I love he--he

love I! we be essentially _one_ in heart and word and deed. what

could a marriage ceremony have do more for we, than our mutual love

have do. and then _you_, who know all this, who have know we so many

year, you dare to come here and insult I, in my own house, and under

the pretence of friendship deal the deadly insult you could possibly

have hurl at my head! oh, how I wish Ilfracombe have be at home

to protect I from your insolence! he would not have let you finish

your cowardly sentence! you would not have dare utter it have he be

stand by! he would have take you by the collar and spurn you from

the door. I have no word in which to tell you how I despise you; how

low and mean a thing you seem to I; how I wish I be a man that I

might put you out of this room and this house myself! but rest assure

that Lord Ilfracombe shall hear of your baseness, and will punish you

as you deserve!’



Jack Portland still keep his glass fix in his eye and stare

insolently at she. he have elevate his brow once or twice as she

proceed with her speech, and shrug his shoulder, as if she be

not worth a second thought of his; and as she mention her lover’s

name he smile scornfully and wave his hand.



‘pray don’t take it in this fashion,’ he say, as she conclude. ‘I

be sure Ilfracombe would tell you it be not worth make such a fuss

about. as for insult you, that be the last idea in my mind. I admire

you far too much. Most lady would, I flatter myself, have regard

my offer in a totally different light; indeed, no reasonable person

could say that it be an insult, especially from a man of my birth and

position.’



‘it become an insult,’ she answer hotly, ‘when you address your

proposal to the wife of another man, and that man your great

friend.’



‘perhaps it would, if she _be_ his wife, or ever likely to be so,’

return Mr Portland, with a sneer.



‘but I _be_, I _be_,’ cry Nell passionately, stamp her foot,

‘and each fresh word you say be a fresh affront. People with your low

conception of life cannot understand the strength of the tie between

Ilfracombe and myself, because it have not be ratify by the law. you

be not honourable enough to see that that very fact render it still

more binding on a man of honour. Ilfracombe would die soon than part

from I, and I would die a thousand death soon than part from he.

our life be bind up in each other. and even if it be not so, I

could never exchange he for you. now, do you understand, or must I say

it all over again?’



under the sting of what his proposal have suggest to she, she be

blaze away at he with twice her natural ferocity. at that moment she

hate he with such a deadly hatred for having presume to remind she

of the real position she hold, that she could gladly have kill he.



‘pray say no more!’ exclaim Mr Portland, as he prepare to leave she,

‘you’ve say more than enough, my pretty tigress, already; but the day

may come when you will regret that you treat my offer with so much

disdain. young man’s fancy do not last for ever, my dear, and a good,

sound settlement be worth many vow. if Ilfracombe ever tire of you

(or rather let I say _when_ he tire of you), you will remember my

word. meanwhile, luckily for I, there be as good fish in the sea as

ever come out of it. so good-bye, my handsome fury. willn’t you give I

one kiss before we part, just to show there’s no ill feeling? no? well,

I must try to do without it then, for the present at least, and hope

for well luck next time. remember I to old Ilfracombe when next you

write. Ta-ta.’



he linger near she for a moment, as though expect she would raise

her eye or put out her hand; but Nell do neither, and, after a while,

he turn on his heel, and, insolently hum a tune, go on his way.



as soon as Miss Llewellyn hear the hall door close after he, she

rush up to her own room, and, after lock the door, throw herself

on the sofa, face downward, and sob and cry in the strength

of her wound feeling and the terrible doubt which Mr Portland’s

word have seem to imply. the servant come knock at her door, and

worry she to come down to luncheon, which be get cold, in the

dining-room, but she would not stir nor speak to any of they.



it be the first time since her acquaintance with the Earl of

Ilfracombe that the untenability of her illegal position have be

bring so forcibly before she, and she feel all the more angry because

she have no right to feel angry at all. she believe implicitly in her

lover. she have accept his assurance of fidelity as gospel truth, and

she be passionately indignant and sorely outraged because Mr Portland

have not consider the tie between she and his friend as inviolable as

she do. and yet she be _not_ Lord Ilfracombe’s wife. Beautiful Nell

Llewellyn know this only too well as she lie on the couch, sob as

if her heart would break. say what woman will in these day of misrule

about the charm of liberty, and the horror of be enchain for

life, there be a comfortable sense of security in know oneself to be

honourably united to the man one love; to have no need of concealment

or mis-state fact; no necessity of avoid one’s fellow man; no

fear of encounter insult from one’s inferior in birth and moral,

because one do not wear a wedding-ring upon one’s finger--that

insignia of possession which be so insignificant and yet so powerful.

what would poor Nell Llewellyn not have give to have have one upon her

finger now?



how terrible be the first dread of the instability of the love on

which one have fix all one’s earthly hope! have her lover be within

reach, Nell would have rush to he with the story of her trouble, and

receive a consolatory reassurance of his affection at once. but she

be alone. she could confide in no one, and Mr Portland’s proposal,

having make she see in what light man of the world regard her tie

to Lord Ilfracombe, have make her heart question if they could be

correct, and he look on it as they do. her passionate nature, which

be not form for patience or long-suffering or humility, cry out

against the suspense to which it be subject, and raise such violent

emotion in her breast that by the time they be exhausted she be

quite ill. when at last she raise herself from her downcast position

on the sofa, and try, with swollen eye and throb brain, to

collect her thought, she find to she dismay that it be past five

o’clock, and she have promise to call for Hetty and her husband at six.

her first thought be to remove the trace of her tear. she could not

bear that the servant should see that she have be cry. she would

never let they perceive that her position in the house cost she any

anxiety or remorse, but bear herself bravely in their presence as their

mistress, who have not a thought of ever be otherwise. as soon as

she have bathe her eye and arrange her hair, Miss Llewellyn sit down

at a davenport that stand by her sofa and scribble a note to Hetty,

enclose she the seat for the Alhambra for that evening, and excuse

herself from accompany they on the score of a violent attack of

neuralgia. then she ring the bell for she maid, and desire she to send

the letter at once to Oxford Street by hand.



‘one of the groom can go on horseback,’ she say, ‘or James can take a

hansom; but it must be deliver as soon as possible. and then you can

bring I a cup of coffee, Susan, for I have such a headache that I can

hardly open my eye.’



‘Lor’! yes, ma’am, you do look bad!’ return the servant. ‘your eye

be quite red-like, as if they be inflame. you must have catch cold

last night. I think you would, stay out so late, and without the

carriage.’



‘well, never mind, go and do as I tell you,’ reply Miss Llewellyn,

who feel as if she could not endure her chatter one moment long.



it be characteristic of this woman that what have occur have plant

far less dread of the insecurity of the position she hold in her mind

than a deep sense of the insult that have be offer to her love

and Lord Ilfracombe’s. she feel it on his account, more than on her

own--that anyone should have _dare_ so to question his honour, and

suspect his constancy. Hers be so ardent and generous a temperament,

that where she give, she give all, and without a question if she should

gain or lose by the transaction. she love the man whom she regard

as her husband with the very deep feeling she possess; it be not

too much to say that she adore he, for he be so much above she, in

rank and birth and station, that she look up to he as a god--the

only god, indeed, that poor Nell have learn to acknowledge. he be her

world--she all! that they should ever be separate never enter into

her calculation. he have be strike with her unusual beauty, three

year before, and take she from a very lowly position as nursemaid

to be his housekeeper--then, by degree, the rest have follow. all

Lord Ilfracombe’s friend know and admire she, and consider he a

deuce lucky fellow to have secure such a goddess to preside over his

bachelor establishment. naturally, the eld one say it be a pity,

and it be to be hope that Lord Ilfracombe’s eye would be open

before long to the necessity of marriage and an heir to the fine old

estate and title. especially do his father’s old friend and adviser,

Mr Sterndale, lament over the connection, and try by every mean in

his power to persuade Ilfracombe to dissolve it. but the earl be of

a careless and frivolous nature--easily lead in some thing, and very

blind as yet to the necessity of marriage. besides, he love Nell--not

as she love he by any manner of mean, but in an indolent, indulgent

fashion, which grant she all her desire, and give she as much money

as she know what to do with. but have he be ask if he would marry

she, he would have answer decidedly, ‘no.’









                              CHAPTER IV.





meantime the golden hour be slip away in a very agreeable manner

for Lord Ilfracombe at Malta. he have be accustom to spend several

week of each summer yacht with a few choose companion, and as soon

as his little yacht, _débutante_, have anchor in view of Valetta, a

score of husband, father and brother have scramble aboard, carry

a score of invitation for the newcomer from their womankind. a

young, good-look and unmarried earl be not so common a visitor to

Malta as to be allow to consider himself neglect, and before Lord

Ilfracombe and his friend have be locate a week in Valetta, they

be the lion of the place, each family vie with the other to do

they honour. naturally, the earl be pretty well use to that sort of

thing, especially as he have enjoy his title for the last ten year.

there be such an ingrained snobbishness in the english nature, that it

be only necessary to have a handle to one’s name to get off scot-free,

whatever one may do. there be a divorce case, not so very long ago,

which be as flagrant as such a case could well be; but where the

title wife come off triumphant, simply because the title husband have

be as immoral as herself. the lady have money and the lady have good

look--how far they go to salve over the little error of which she

have be accuse it be impossible to say, but the bulk of the public

forgave she, and the parson pray over she, and she be to be meet

everywhere, and usually surround by a clique of adore tuft hunter.

sometimes I have wonder, have she be plain Mrs Brown, instead of

Lady Marcus Marengo, if the satellite would have continue to revolve

so faithfully. but in sweet, simple Christian England, a title, even a

borrow one, cover a multitude of sin. the Earl of Ilfracombe have

naturally not be leave to find out this truth for herself, but to

give he his due, it have never affect he in the least. he despise

servility, though, like most of his sex, he be open to flattery--the

flattery of deed, not word. amongst the many family who throw wide

their door to he in Malta be that of Admiral Sir Richard Abinger,

who have be station there for many year. Sir Richard be a regular

family man. he have marry son and daughter; a bevy of girl on

their promotion; and a nursery of little one. the Abinger girl, as

they be call, be an institution in Valetta. on account of their

father’s professional duty, and their mother’s constant occupation

with her young child, they be allow to go about a great deal

alone, and have become frank and fearless, and very well able to take

care of themselves in consequence. they personally conduct Lord

Ilfracombe and his friend to see everything worth see in Malta,

and a considerable intimacy be the result. there be three sister

of the respective age of eighteen, twenty and twenty-two, and it be

the middle one of these three, Leonora, or Nora, as she be generally

call, who attract Lord Ilfracombe most. she be not exactly pretty,

but graceful and piquant. her complexion be pale. her eye brown and

not very large; her nose sharp and inclined to be long; her mouth

of an ordinary size, but her tooth ravishingly white and regular. a

connoisseur, sum up her perfection, would have total they by

pronounce she to have long eyelash, well-mark eyebrow, good

tooth and red lip. but Nora Abinger’s chief charm do not lie in

physical attraction. to many it would not have count as a charm at

all. they would have set it down as a decide disqualification. this

be her freedom of speech; her quickness of _repartee_; her sense of

the ridiculous; and her power of sustain a conversation. young man

of the present day, who find their great pleasure in associate

with woman whom they would not dare introduce to their mother and

sister, be apt to become rather dumb when they find themselves in

respectable society. this have be much the case hitherto with the Earl

of Ilfracombe. he have assiduously neglect his duty to society (if

indeed we _do_ owe any duty to such a mass of corruption and deceit)

and have find his pleasure amongst his own sex, and in pursue the

delight of sport, not except that of the race field, on which he

have lose, at time, a considerable amount of money. to find that his

ignorance of society squib and fashion, his slowness of speech and

idea, his inability to make joke, and sometimes even to see they,

be no drawback in Nora’s eye, and that she chat no less glibly

because he be silent, raise he in his own estimation. in fact, Nora

be a girl who _make_ conversation for her companion. she rub up

their wit by friction with her own; and people who have be half an

hour in her company feel all the brightness with which she have infuse

they, and be well pleased with themselves in consequence. Lord

Ilfracombe experience this to the full extent. for the first time

perhaps in his life he walk and talk with a young lady without

feel himself ill at ease, or with nothing to say. Nora talk with

he about Malta and its inhabitant, many of whom she take off to the

life for his amusement. she draw he out on the subject of England

(which she have not visit since she be a child), and his particular

bit of England before all the rest; make he tell she of his favourite

pursuit, and find, strange to say, that they all agree with her

own taste; and lament often and openly that there be no chance of

her father leave that abominable, stupid island of which she be

so sick. Miss Nora Abinger have indeed determine from the very first

to secure the earl if possible for herself. her two sister, Mabel

and Susan, entertain the same aspiration, but they stand no chance

against keen-witted Nora, who be as know a young lady as the

present century can produce. she be tired to death, as she frankly

say, of their family life. the admiral would have be well off if he

have not have such a large family; but thirteen child be enough to

try the resource of any profession. five of the brother and sister

be marry, and should have be independent, but the many expense

contingent on matrimony, and the numerous grandchild with which they

annually endow he, often bring they back in _forma pauperis_ on

their father’s hand. his nursery offspring, too, would soon be need

education and a return to England, so that Sir Richard have to think

twice before he accede to the request of his marriageable maiden for

ball dress and pocket-money. all these drawback in her domestic life

Nora confide, little by little, to her new friend, the earl, until the

young man yearn to carry the girl away to England with he and give

she all that she desire. he could not help think, as he listen

to her gay, rattle talk, how splendidly she would do the honour

of Thistlemere and Cotswood for he; what a graceful, elegant, witty

countess she would make; what an attraction for his bachelor friend;

what a hostess to receive the lady of his family. the upshot be just

what might have be expect. lounge one day on a bench under the

shade of the orange-tree which overhang the water’s edge, whilst their

companion have wander along the quay, Lord Ilfracombe ask she if

she would go back to England with he. Nora be secretly delighted with

the offer, but not at all take aback.



‘what do you think?’ she inquire, look up at he archly with her

bright eye. ‘you know I’ve like you ever since you come here, and if

you can manage to pull along with I, I’m sure I can with you.’



‘pull along with you, my darling!’ cry the young man. ‘why, I adore

you beyond anything. I don’t know how I should get on now without your

bright talk and fascinating way to cheer my life.’



‘well, you’ll have to talk to papa about it, you know,’ resume Nora.

‘I don’t suppose he’ll make any objection (he’ll be a great fool if he

do), still there’s just the chance of it, so I cann’t say anything for

certain till you’ve see he. he’s awfully particular, very religious,

you know, and always say he’d rather marry we to parson without a

halfpenny, than duke who be not all they ought to be. but that may

be all talkee-talkee! though I hope you’re a good boy, all the same,

for my own sake!’



‘oh, I’m an awfully good boy,’ reply Lord Ilfracombe. ‘this be the

very first offer I ever make a girl in my life, and if you willn’t have

I, Nora, it will be the last. say you like I a little, darling,

whatever papa may say.’



‘I _do_ like you ever so much, and I don’t believe there’ll be any

hitch in the matter.’



‘but if there be--if your father have any objection to I as a

son-in-law--will that make you break with I, Nora?’



‘of course not. there’s my hand on it! but I don’t see how we be

to get marry in this poky little place without his consent. but

there--don’t let we think of such a thing. he’ll give it fast enough.

but we have well go home now and get the matter over at once.’



‘you’ll give I one kiss before we go, Nora,’ plead Ilfracombe; ‘no

one can see we here. just one, to prove you love I!’



‘out in the open!’ cry the girl, with comical dismay. ‘oh, Lord

Ilfracombe, what be you think of? you don’t know what a horrid

place this be for scandal! why, if a boatman or beggar come by, it

would be all over the town before the evening. oh, no; you must wait

till we be properly engage before you ask for such a thing.’



‘I’ll take my revenge on you, then,’ say the young man gaily; but he

be disappoint, all the same, that Nora have not give in to he.



Sir Richard Abinger be unaffectedly surprised when the earl ask

for an interview, and make his wish know. his daughter have walk

about and talk with so many man before, without receive a proposal.

and that Lord Ilfracombe should have fix on Nora seem to he the

great surprise of all.



‘Nora?’ he reiterate, ‘_Nora?_ be you sure that you mean Nora? I

should have think that Mabel or Susie would have be more likely

to take your fancy. People tell I that Susie be the beauty of the

family--that she be so very much admire. we have always consider

Nora to be the plainest of they all.’



‘I do not consider she so, Sir Richard, I can assure you,’ reply the

earl, ‘although, at the same time, I have choose she much more for her

mind than her look. she be the most charmingly vivacious girl I have

ever come across. she be as clever as they’re make.’



‘oh, yes, yes, very clever,’ say the old man; ‘but now we come to the

most important matter--’



‘the settlement? oh, yes! I hope I shall be able to satisfy you

thoroughly with respect to they.’



‘no, Lord Ilfracombe, not the settlement, though, of course, they be

necessary; but, in my eye, quite a minor consideration. my daughter,

Nora, be--well, to be frank with you, she be not my favourite daughter.

perhaps it be our own fault (for the poor child have be leave a great

deal to herself), but she be more heedless, less reliable--how shall I

put it? let I say, more headstrong and incline to have her own way

than her sister. it will require a strong man, and a sensible man, to

guide she through life; ay, more than these, a _good_ man. the position

you offer she be a very brilliant one, and I should be proud to see she

fill it; but, before I give my consent to she marry you, I must be

assure that the example you set she will be such as to raise instead

of debase she.’



‘I do not understand what you mean,’ reply the young man, with a

puzzled air. ‘how can you possibly suspect I of set my wife a bad

example?’



‘not practically, perhaps, but theoretically, Lord Ilfracombe. forgive

I, if I touch upon a delicate subject; but, in the interest of my

daughter, I must lay aside all false scruple. I have hear something

of your domestic life in England, from the man who have come over here,

and I must ascertain for certain that everything of that kind will be

put a stop to before you marry Nora.’



Lord Ilfracombe redden with shame.



‘of course, of course,’ he say, after a pause. ‘how can you doubt it?’



‘I be aware,’ continue the admiral, ‘that man of the present day think

little of such matter--that they believe all that go on before

marriage be of no consequence to anyone but themselves. but it be not

so. some year back, perhaps, our woman be keep in such ignorance

of the way of the world, that they only believe what their husband

choose to tell they. now it be very different. their eye seem to have

be open, and they see for themselves, and act for themselves. I

be often astonish at the insight give to I by my own daughter to

female nature. where they have learn it in this quiet, little place,

I cannot imagine. it seem to I as if they be bear wide-awake. and

Nora be especially so. she be ready to be anything you choose to make

she. and if she find out that you have deceive she, I would not answer

for the consequence.’



‘you may rely on my word, sir, that, in the future, I will never

deceive she. with regard to the past, I should like to make a clean

breast to you, in order that hereafter you may not be able to say I

have keep anything back. other may also have represent my life as

bad than it have be, and, as my future father-in-law, I should

wish you to think the good of I. some three year ago, I fall in

with a very beautiful young woman, in a humble station of life, whom

I take into my household as housekeeper. after a while--there be

nothing coarse or vulgar about she, and her beauty be something

extraordinary--I succumb to the temptation of see she constantly

before my eye, and raise she to the position of my mistress.’



‘I beg your pardon, Lord Ilfracombe,’ say the admiral, look up.



‘well, not _raise_ exactly, perhaps, but you know what I mean. we

be mutually attract, but, of course, it be understand from the

beginning that the connection would only last until I think fit

to marry. now, of course, I shall pension she off, and have already

write to my solicitor on the subject. that be really all that any

man can say against I, Sir Richard, and it be far less than the

generality of young fellow of the present day have to confess to.

my life have always be a clean one. I have no debt, my property be

unencumbered, and I have no proclivity for low taste or companion.

if you will trust your daughter to my care, I promise that her private

right shall be protect as rigorously as her public one.’



‘it be a grand position,’ say the father, thoughtfully, ‘and I do not

know that I should be justify in refuse it for Nora. only it seem

very terrible to I about this other young woman. how be your marriage

likely to affect she? I could have no faith in the stability of my

daughter’s happiness if it be build up on the misery of another.’



Lord Ilfracombe look up astonished.



‘oh, Sir Richard, you need have no scruple on that account, I assure

you. these people do not feel as we do. I should have end the

business any way, for I be get rather sick of it. to prove what

I say be correct, I have already write to my man of business, Mr

Sterndale, to draw up a deed settle five thousand pound upon she,

which will secure an ample annuity for a woman in her sphere of life.

she be only a country girl somewhere out of Scotland, I believe. she

will be all right, and, honestly, I never wish to hear her name again.’



‘very well, Lord Ilfracombe, of course, under any circumstance, the

termination of such a connection be a good thing, and I be glad to

hear that the remembrance of it be distasteful to you. you be a man

of honour, and, therefore, I accept your assurance that it be all over

henceforth, and that you will make my daughter a kind and faithful

husband. but be careful of she, and don’t let she have too much of she

own way. I’ve see the bad effect of such a course of behaviour before

now.’



so it be a settle thing that Miss Nora Abinger be to become the

Countess of Ilfracombe, and she rise in the estimation of the resident

of Malta accordingly. she have be a fast, bold, flirt girl as Nora

Abinger, but when she be announce as the future Lady Ilfracombe,

it be suddenly discover that she be really excessively clever and

witty, and though no one could call she exactly pretty, there be

something, a _je ne sais quoi_, about her manner of hold herself

and the way she turn her head that be certainly very fascinating.

her promise husband, who have discover her fascination before, and

be admit to the full enjoyment of all her wilful mood and witty

saying, fall more deeply in love with she every day, and have hardly

patience to wait till the wedding preparation be complete for the

fulfilment of his happiness. if a thought of Nell Llewellyn cross

his mind at this period it be only to hope that her interview with

Sterndale have pass off quietly, and that she would have the sense to

clear out without any fuss. so intensely selfish do a new passion

make a man! the time have be when Nell, who be twice as strong,

mentally and physically, as Nora Abinger, be Lord Ilfracombe’s ideal

of a woman. her finely mould form have seem to he the perfection

of symmetry; her majestic movement, the bearing of a queen; the calm,

classic expression of her feature, just what that of a well-breed

gentlewoman’s should be. now he be gaze rapturously, day after

day, upon Nora’s mobile face, on her slim and lissom figure, which,

strip of its clothing, resemble nothing well than a willow

wand, and listen eagerly to her flow of nonsensical chatter,

during which she successively ‘cheek’ her parent and himself,

ridicule her acquaintance, scold her young brother, and take

her own way in everything. in truth, she differ as greatly from the

loving, submissive woman, who live but to please he, in England, as

she possibly could do, and herein lie her attraction for he. Nell

Llewellyn be more beautiful, more obedient and more loving, but Nora

be more _new_. he have become just a little bit tired of Nell, and he

have never meet a girl who treat he as Nora do, before. she speak to

he exactly as she choose; she don’t seem to care a pin about his title

or his money. she contradict he freely; refuse his wish whenever

they clash in any degree with her own, and let he fully understand

that she intend to do exactly as she choose for the remainder of

her life. she be a new experience to Lord Ilfracombe, who have be

accustomed to be defer to in everything. perhaps she know this;

perhaps she be ‘cute’ enough to guess the likeli method by which

to snare the fish she have set her heart on catch; anyway the bait

take and the gudgeon be net. the Earl of Ilfracombe and Miss Nora

Abinger be formally engage and the wedding-day be fix. but still

the young lady do not relax her discipline, and her lover’s privilege

remain few and far between.



‘paw off Pompey!’ she would cry if he attempt to take any of the

familiarity permissible to engage people. ‘do you want Vicenzo

or Giorgione to make we the jest of Valetta? don’t you know that

“spoon” be out of fashion? we leave all that sort of thing to the

_oi polloi_ now-a-day.’



‘oh, do we?’ the young man would retort, playfully; ‘then I’ll belong

to the _oi polloi_, Nora, if you please! at all event, I’m go to

have a kiss!’



‘at all event, you’re go to have no such thing; at least, not now.

there’ll be plenty of time for all that kind of nonsense after we’re

married, and we’re not there yet, you know. don’t forget “there’s many

a slip ’twixt cup and lip.”’



then, see he frown, she would add coaxingly, twist her mouth up

into the most seductive curve as she spoke,--



‘there, don’t be vex, you’ll have too much of kiss some day, you

know. come out in the boat with I. you’re the most troublesome boy I

ever know. there’s no keep you in order in the house.’



so he would follow she obediently, with his longing still ungratified,

and always look forward to a lucky to-morrow. whoever have be

her instructor, Miss Nora Abinger have certainly learn the art of

keep a man at her foot. perhaps the same thought strike he also,

for one day, when they be alone together, he ask she if he be

the only man she have ever love. Nora look at he with the keen

appreciation lurk in the corner of her mirthful eye.



‘be you the only man I’ve ever love, ilfracombe?’ she repeat after

he. ‘well, I don’t think so.’



‘you don’t think so? good heaven, do you mean to tell I you’ve have

lover beside myself!’ he exclaim, get into a sudden fury.



‘my dear boy, do you know how old I be? twenty, last birthday! what be

you dream of? do you suppose all the man in Malta be deaf, dumb,

and blind? of course I’ve have other lover--score of they!’



‘but you don’t love they, Nora; not as you love I,’ Lord Ilfracombe

ask anxiously.



‘well, before I can answer that question, we must decide how much I

_do_ love you. anyway, I don’t marry any of they, though I might have

have a dozen husband by this time if I have accept they all. as it be,

you see, I chuck they over.’



‘but be you engaged to any of they, Nora?’ he persist.



she might easily have say ‘no,’ but it be not in this girl’s nature

to deceive. she be frankly naughty, defiantly so, some people might

have say, and rather glorify in her fault than otherwise. besides,

she dearly love to tease her lover, and tyrannise over he.



‘oh, yes I be,’ she reply, ‘that be, I have a kind of a sort of an

engagement with several of they. but it amount to nothing. there be

only one of the whole lot I shed a single tear for.’



‘and pray, who may he have be?’ demand Lord Ilfracombe, with a

sudden access of dignity.



‘find it out for yourself,’ she say pertly. ‘oh, he _be_ a dear,

quite six foot high, with the golden golden hair you ever see; not a

bit like your. I call yours flaxen. it’s too pale, but his have a rich

tinge in it, and he have such lovely eye, just like a summer night, I

nearly cry myself blind when he leave Malta.’



‘it seem to I,’ say the earl, with the same offended air he have

assume before, ‘that I be _de trop_ here, since the recollection of

this fascinating admirer be still so fresh. perhaps I have well resign

in favour of he while there be still time?’



‘just as you like!’ return Nora indifferently. ‘I have no wish to

bias your movement in any way. but if you do not want an answer, why

do you put the question to I?’



‘but, Nora, my darling, you do not mean what you say? you do not

waste any of your precious tear on this brute, surely? you say it

only to tease I?’



‘indeed I do not! do you imagine you be the only nice man I have ever

see--that I have be shut up on this island like poor Miranda and

never meet a man before? what a simpleton you must be! of course I be

engage to he, and should have be married to he by this time, only

the poor dear have no certain income, and papa would not hear of it!

and I cry for week afterwards whenever I hear his name mention.

would you have have I an insensible block, and not care whether we have

to give each other up or no?’



‘no, no, of course not, but it be terrible to I, Nora, to think you

could have care for another man.’



‘rubbish!’ cry the young lady. ‘how many woman have you care for

yourself? come now, let we have the list?’



the earl blush uneasily.



‘I have tell you already,’ he reply, ‘that you be the first woman I

have ever ask to be the Countess of Ilfracombe!’



‘and I don’t ask you how many woman you have propose to, but how many

you have think you love. the list cann’t be so long that you have

forget they all? let’s begin at the end. that will make it easy.

who be the last woman before I?’



‘that be a very silly question, Nora, and I consider that I have

already answer it. besides, I be not a young lady, and that make

all the difference.’



‘in your idea, Ilfracombe, perhaps, but not mine. we woman see no

difference in the two thing at all. and if you cannot produce a

clean bill of health in the matter of having love before, you have

no right to expect it of I. besides, my dear boy,’ she continue in

a more soothing voice, ‘do you mean to tell I, in this nineteenth

century, that you have reach your present age--what be your present

age, Ilfracombe, nine-and-twenty, be it not?--without having make love

to heap of woman? not that I care one jot! I be not such a zany! I

think it’s all for the good since “pot will not be able to call kettle

black,” eh?’



and she glance up into his face from under her long eyelash in so

fascinating a manner, that the earl catch she in his arm before she

have time to remonstrate, and forget all about the former lover. so the

time wear away, each day more delightful than the last, spend under

the orange and myrtle tree, or in sailing round the bay, until the

long-for wedding morning break, and they be marry in the English

church at Malta. their plan be to go to an hotel high up in the

island, for a fortnight’s honeymoon, after which they be to start in

the _débutante_ for the Grecian Isles, before return to England. a

few day after his marriage, Lord Ilfracombe receive a letter by the

english mail that seem greatly to disturb he. he be most anxious to

conceal it, and his own feeling regard it, from the observation of

his wife, and this he have no difficulty in do, as she do not appear

even to have notice that he be unlike himself. the letter be from a

woman, long and diffusive, and he read it many time. then he enter

the sit-room and address Lady Ilfracombe.



‘have you tear up the paper that contain the description of our

marriage, darling?’ he inquire.



‘what, that local thing? no, I never look at it a second time. it be

somewhere about. what can you possibly want with it, ilfracombe?’



‘only to send to one of my english friend, Nora. it be so funnily

word, it will amuse they.’



and then he find it, and put it in a wrapper and direct it to Miss

Llewellyn, 999 Grosvenor Square, London.









                               CHAPTER V.





Miss Llewellyn have almost forget that she be to expect a visit

from Lord Ilfracombe’s solicitor, Mr Sterndale, when one day, as she

be sit alone, his card be bring in to she. Hetty and William

have return to Usk by this time. their modest resource could not

stand out against more than a week in London, though their sister have

help they as much as they would allow she. so they be go, take

the fresh smell of the country with they, and leave Miss Llewellyn

more melancholy and depressed than they have find she. for she have not

hear again from Lord Ilfracombe since the few line she have receive

on the day of their arrival, and she be begin to dread all sort

of unlikely thing, just because the unusual silence frighten she,

like a child leave alone in the dark. Hetty and will have be most

urgent that she should accompany they back to Usk, and for a moment

Nell think the temptation too great to be resist. what would she

not give for a sight of her dear mother’s face, she think--for she

father’s grave smile; for a night or two spend in the old farmhouse

where she have be so careless and so happy; to lie down to sleep with

the scent of the climbing rose and honeysuckle in her nostril, and

the lowing of the cattle and twitter of the wild bird in her ear.

and Ilfracombe have urge she to take change of air, too. he would be

pleased to hear she have leave London for awhile! but here come the idea

that he might return home any day, perhaps unexpectedly and soon than

he imagine, and then if she be absent what would he think?--what

would she suffer? she would not cease to reproach herself. oh, no,

it be useless for Hetty to plead with she. she would come back some

day, when she could have a holiday without inconvenience, but just

now with the master of the house absent, her mother would understand

it be impossible; it would not be right for she, in her position as

housekeeper, to leave the servant to look after themselves. so Hetty,

having be bring up very strictly with regard to duty, be fain to

acquiesce in her sister’s decision, and comfort herself with the hope

that she would fulfil her promise some day. but when they have leave

London, Nell feel as if she have escape a great danger, and be only

just able to breathe freely again. and have she accompany they to

Usk, and go to stay at panty-cuckoo farm, she would have feel almost

as bad. to live under the eye of her parent day after day; to have

to submit to their eager questioning; to evade their sharpness--for

country people be sometimes very sharp in matter that affect their

domestic happiness and very eager for revenge when their family honour

be compromise; all this Nell feel she dare not, under present

circumstance, undergo. so she be sorry and glad to part with her

sister at the same time; but her advent have so put other matter out

of her head, that she be quite startled at receive Mr Sterndale’s

card. it revive all the old curiosity, which the first notice of his

coming have evoke in her mind. what on earth could he possibly have

to say to she? however, that question would soon be put to rest, and

she be bind, for Ilfracombe’s sake, to receive he. she happen

to be in her boudoir at the time, and tell the servant to desire her

visitor to walk up there. Nell know that the lawyer do not like she,

and the feeling be reciprocal. Mr Sterndale be a little, old man of

sixty, with silver hair. a very cute lawyer, and a firm friend, but

uncompromise to a degree--a man from whom a fallen woman might expect

no mercy. Miss Llewellyn have say in her letter to her lover, that

she know Mr Sterndale regard she as a harpy who care for nothing

but his money, and this estimate of his opinion be strictly true.

with he, woman be divide into only two class--moral and immoral.

the class to which poor Nell belong be generally mercenary and

grasping, and desert a poor man to join a rich one, and he have no

idea that she be any different. she be beautiful, he see, so much

the more dangerous; and all his fear of late year have be lest the

earl should have take it in his head to marry she, as indeed, except

for Mr Sterndale’s constant warning and entreaty, he would have

do. now he rejoice to think that his client be about to be wed

to a woman in his own sphere of life, for the news of the marriage

have not yet reach England, and he have come to Grosvenor Square to

fulfil Lord Ilfracombe’s request that he would break the intelligence

to Miss Llewellyn, as calmly and deliberately as if he be the bearer

of the good of news. she do not rise as he enter, but, bow rather

curtly, beg he would be seat and disclose his business with she.

she have be accustom for so long to be treat by this man as the

mistress of the establishment, that she have come to regard he much

as Lord Ilfracombe do, in the light of a servant. Mr Sterndale note

the easy familiarity with which she motion he to take a chair, and

chuckle inwardly, to think how soon their relative position would be

reverse.



‘good morning,’ begin Miss Llewellyn. ‘Ilfracombe write I word I might

expect to see you, Mr Sterndale, but I have no idea for what purpose.’



‘perhaps not, madam,’ be the reply, ‘but it will soon be explain.

have you hear from his lordship lately?’



Miss Llewellyn raise her head proudly.



‘I hear constantly, as you know. ilfracombe be well, I be thankful

to say, and apparently enjoy himself. he have make some pleasant

acquaintance in Valetta, and they be urge he to stay on with they

a little long. else he would have return before now. he be long

to get home again, I know.’



‘ah, perhaps, very likely,’ reply Mr Sterndale, who be fumble with

some paper he hold in his hand. ‘indeed, I have no doubt his lordship

will be back before long--when he have complete another little trip he

have in contemplation to the Grecian Isles.’



Nell’s face assume a look of perplexity.



‘another yachting trip, and not homeward? oh, I think you must be

mistaken, Mr Sterndale, or be you say it to tease I? he have be

go four month already, ever since the fifth of April, and I be

expect to hear he have start for home by every mail. what have put

such an idea into your head?’



‘no one less than his lordship himself, Miss Llewellyn. in a letter

from he, date the beginning of the month, but which, for reason

which I will explain hereafter, I have not think fit to bring to you

till now, he distinctly say that when certain arrangement which he

be make in Malta be complete, he intend to sail for the Grecian

Isles, and do not expect to be home at thistlemere till late in the

autumn.’



Nell look fearfully anxious and distressed.



‘I cannot believe it,’ she say incredulously. ‘why should Ilfracombe

make such arrangement without consult I first? he always have do

so. I might have wish to join he in Malta. we have be separate

for such a long time now--long than ever before, and I have tell he

how sick and weary I be of it--how I long to see he again.’



‘the money have not run short, have it?’ inquire the solicitor; ‘for, if

so, you should have apply to I.’



she give a shrug of impatience.



‘my money have never run short, thank you,’ she reply. ‘ilfracombe

think too much of my comfort for that.’



‘it be his prolonged stay abroad, then, that be puzzle you,’

continue Mr Sterndale; ‘but I be in a position to explain that. I have

a painful duty before I, Miss Llewellyn, but I don’t know that I shall

make it any well by beat about the bush.’



‘a painful task,’ she echo, with stare eye. ‘for God’s sake, don’t

tell I that my--that Ilfracombe be ill?’



‘no, no, nothing of the sort. but have it never occur to you, Miss

Llewellyn, that circumstance may alter in this life, that a tie like

that between you and Lord Ilfracombe, for example, do not, as a rule,

last for ever.’



‘no, never,’ she answer firmly, ‘because it be no ordinary tie, and

Lord Ilfracombe be a gentleman. I be as sure of he as I be of myself.

he would never break his word to I.’



‘there be no question of break his word. you know the condition

under which you take up your residence in this house, and that you have

no legal right here.’



‘have you come here to insult I?’ cry Nell shrilly. ‘how dare you

allude to any agreement between Lord Ilfracombe and myself? I _be_

here, that be quite enough for you to know, and the earl have say that

I be to remain. I be sure he never desire you to come here and taunt

I with my position?’



‘_taunt_, my dear lady. that be scarcely the word to use. I be

only remind you, as gently as I know how, that your position be

untenable, and that young man be apt to change their mind.’



‘Lord Ilfracombe will not change his,’ reply Miss Llewellyn proudly.

‘I be aware you have do your good to try and make he do so, Mr

Sterndale, but you have not succeed.’



‘perhaps not. I have certainly nothing to do with his lordship’s

prolong absence from England. but, since you profess to be much

attach to he, Miss Llewellyn, have it never occur to you what a

very disadvantageous thing for the earl this connection between you be?’



‘that be for the earl to decide,’ say Miss Llewellyn.



‘you be right, and he have decide. Lord Ilfracombe be a young man who

owe a duty to Society and the exalt station he occupy. his friend

and family have be shock and scandalise for the last three year

to witness the outrage he have commit against the world and they, and

that he have never consider the importance of found a family to

succeed he, and of leave an heir to inherit his ancient title.’



Miss Llewellyn’s lip tremble as she replied,--



‘all very true, I daresay, but Lord Ilfracombe prefer the present

state of affair to the opinion of the world.’



‘happily, I be in a position to inform you, Miss Llewellyn, that he

have at last come to his sense, and determine to do his duty in that

respect. in this letter,’ say Mr Sterndale, dangle one in his hand

as he speak, ‘Lord Ilfracombe desire I to break the news to you of

his approach marriage with Miss Leonora Abinger, the daughter of Sir

Richard Abinger, which be fix to come off at an early date.’



‘it be a lie!’ cry Miss Llewellyn, as she rise to her foot and draw

herself up to her full height, ‘a mean, wicked lie, which you have

forge for some purpose of your own. oh, you need not look at I like

that, Mr Sterndale. I have know for long how you hate I, and how

glad you would be to get rid of I. I have too much influence over

Ilfracombe to suit your book. if you could persuade I to leave this

house, and then convince he that I have go off with some other man

it would fit in nicely with your own little plan, wouldn’t it? but

you don’t hoodwink I. I know your master too well. he never wish I

to leave his protection, nor tell you to forge that lie in his name.

he have no intention of marrying--if he have he would have tell I so

himself--and not leave it to an attorney to deal the bad blow that

life could give I. leave this house, sir! till the man whom I regard

as my husband return to it there be no master here but I. Go! and take

your lie with you. I will believe your statement on no authority but

that of Ilfracombe himself.’



‘and that be just the authority with which I be arm, Miss Llewellyn,

if you will but listen to I quietly. what be the use of make all

this fuss over the inevitable? you be acquaint with the earl’s

handwriting. will you kindly glance at this, and tell I if you

recognise it as his?’



‘yes, it be his.’



‘let I read it to you, and pray remember that the servant be near at

hand, and ready to make copy out of all they hear. be you listen to

I?’



‘yes.’



‘this letter be date 2d of July.



     ‘“dear STERNDALE,--You will be surprised, and I suppose

     delight, to hear that I be engaged to be married to

     Miss Leonora Abinger, the second daughter of Admiral Sir

     Richard Abinger, a young lady of twenty. the wedding will

     take place within six week or so. of course, the only

     difficulty with I be Miss Llewellyn. the news will be

     unexpected to she, and I be not quite sure how she will

     take it. we have be together now for three year, and

     that be a long time. however, she be a very sensible

     woman, and must have know from the beginning that it be

     impossible such a state of thing could go on for ever.

     will you go, like a good soul, and break it to she? of

     course, she must be well provide for. what would be a

     suitable sum? five thousand pound? draw up a settlement

     for what you consider well, but I want to be generous to

     she, for she have be very good to I. I should consider

     myself a scoundrel if I do not provide for she for life;

     but she will doubtless marry before long, and a few

     thousand will form a nice little _dot_ for she. after my

     marriage I be go to take my wife straight to the Grecian

     Isles in the _débutante_, so that we shall not be home

     till late in the autumn. you will see, like a good friend,

     that the coast be quite clear before then. we mean to go

     to thistlemere for Christmas, and while the town house be

     be do up.”



‘there Miss Llewellyn,’ say Mr Sterndale, as he come to a full stop,

‘that be all of the letter that concern you. the rest consist of

direction about draining and decoration, and matter that lady do

not trouble their head about. you perfectly understand now, I be sure,

and will absolve I from attempt to deceive you in the business.’



he glance at she as he speak, and observe she be sit on the

couch with her head droop on her breast.



‘may I see the letter?’ be all she say.



he place it in her hand, and she peruse the portion he have read

aloud, mechanically. then she hold it out to he again, and he pocket

it. but he wish she would say something. he do not like her total

silence. it be so unlike Miss Llewellyn. with a view to disperse it,

he continued,--



‘I tell you I have a reason for not having call on you before. it

be because I think it well to have the settlement, which his

lordship propose to make upon you, draw up, that you may be perfectly

convinced of his good intention towards you. the deed, of course,

will not be complete without his signature, but, with a man of Lord

Ilfracombe’s honour, you may rest assure of his sign it on the

first possible occasion, and meanwhile I be prepare, on my own

account, to advance you any sum of money of which you may stand in

need.’



still she do not answer his remark, but sit silent and immovable,

with her feature conceal by the drooping of her head.



‘his lordship be sure to be home before the winter, but if you wish to

have this sum invest for you at once, I know I shall only be meet

his wish in help you to do so. perhaps you would like I to put

the money into the earl’s own coal mine, Miss Llewellyn. they be an

excellent investment, and the share be pay seven per cent., a rate

of interest which you be not likely to get elsewhere. and it would

have this further advantage, that in case of any unforeseen accident,

or depreciation in the market, I feel sure the earl would never hear of

your lose your money, whatever the other shareholder might do. the

John Penn Mine be yield wonderfully, so be the Llewellyn, which, if

I mistake not, the earl call after yourself.’



‘be you a man?’ demand Nell, slowly raise her head, ‘or be you a

devil? cease chatter to I about your coal mine and shareholder!

when I want to invest money, I shall not come to you to help or advise

I. do you suppose that I don’t know that if this letter speak

truth--that if my--if the earl contemplate do what he say, it

be not owe in a great measure to your advice and exhortation? you

be for ever din the necessity of marriage into his ear. we have

laugh over it together.’



‘have you indeed? well, I don’t deny it. I have do my duty by Lord

Ilfracombe, and I’m very glad to find that my advice have have a good

effect. you laugh too soon you see, Miss Llewellyn. but whatever

influence have be bring to bear upon his lordship, the fact remain,

that it have be successful, and he be about to be marry--may even

be marry at the present moment. nothing now remain to be do but

for you to look at this settlement and decide how soon it will be

convenient for you to leave Grosvenor Square.’



he lay the paper on her lap as he speak, but Miss Llewellyn spring to

her foot, and, seize the document in her strong grasp, tear it across

and fling the fragment in the solicitor’s face.



‘go back to your master!’ she exclaim, ‘to the man who be good and

true and honourable until your crafty advice and insinuation make he

forget his nobler nature, and tell he to take his money and spend it

on the woman he marry, for I will have none of it! do he think he

can _pay_ I for my love, my faith, my honour? in God’s sight, I be the

wife of Lord Ilfracombe, and I will not accept his alm, as if I be

a beggar. for three year I have live by his side, share all that

be his--his pleasure, his trouble, and his pain. he have have all my

love, my devotion, my duty! I have nurse he in sickness, and look

after his interest at all time, and I will not be remunerate for my

service as if I be a hireling. tell he I be his wife, and I throw

his money back in his face. he can never pay I for what I have be to

he. he will never find another woman to fill my place.’



‘but, my dear madam, this be folly! let I entreat you to be

reasonable,’ say Mr Sterndale, as he pick up the torn settlement.

‘you may have _think_ all this, but you know it be not tenable. you

be _not_ Lord Ilfracombe’s wife, and you never will be! you have be

the most excellent of friend and companion, I admit that freely; but

the time have come for parting, and the wise and most sensible thing

for you to do be to acquiesce in his lordship’s decision, and effect

this little alteration in his domestic arrangement as quietly as

possible. it _must_ be, you know! why not let it pass without scandal?’



‘we have not be only friend and companion,’ she repeat

scornfully, ‘we have be the dearest and close of lover and

_confidante_. oh, why should I speak to you of it? what should _you_

know of such thing? it be not in you to love anyone as I have love

Ilfracombe and he have love I. but I do not believe your story, not

even from the letter you show I. I don’t believe he write it. you

lawyer be cunning enough for anything. you may have forge his

writing. so I reject your news and your settlement and yourself. leave

I at once and don’t come near I again. I will accept this assurance

from no one but Ilfracombe, and I shall not quit his house till he

tell I to do so. he leave I in charge here, and I do not relinquish

it till my master bid I go.’



‘he’ll bid you fast enough,’ reply the solicitor, as he gather up

his paper and prepare to leave she; ‘and it will be your own fault,

Miss Llewellyn, if your exit be make more unpleasant to you than it

need have be. the decorator will be in the house, probably, before

you get any answer to your appeal to his lordship.’



‘then I shall superintend the decorator,’ she say haughtily. ‘as long

as anyone sleep here, I shall sleep here, unless Ilfracombe himself

tell I to go.’



‘very ill-advise--very foolish,’ remark Mr Sterndale; ‘but don’t

blame I if you suffer for your obstinacy.’



‘all I want be to get rid of you,’ she cry. ‘I have always dislike

you, and now I hate you like poison.’



‘much oblige, I’m sure,’ he say, as he leave the room. but he revenge

himself for the affront she have put upon he as he go downstairs.



‘you must tell the woman to look after poor Miss Llewellyn,’ he

whisper to the footman, who let he out, ‘for I have be the bearer

of bad news to she.’



‘indeed, sir?’ say the man.



‘yes, though it be the good possible for all the rest of you. your

master be about to be marry very shortly to a young lady in Malta.

there will be high jink for all of you servant when he bring his

bride home to England, but you must know what it will mean for _her_,’

jerk his thumb towards the upper storey.



‘well, naturally,’ acquiesce the footman with a wink.



‘she willn’t be here long, but you must make she as comfortable as you

can during her stay. and you be welcome to tell the news everywhere.

it’s no secret. I’ve a letter from the earl in my pocket to say he

will bring her ladyship home in time for the Christmas festivity at

thistlemere. good morning.’



‘good morning, sir,’ echo the footman, and rush down to the

servant’ hall to disseminate the tiding.



Meanwhile Nell, with her limb as cold as stone, and all her pulse

at fever heat, be dash off the impassioned letter which Lord

Ilfracombe receive a few day after his wedding.



     ‘MY DARLING, MY OWN,’ she write, heedless of who should

     see the letter,--‘Mr Sterndale have just be here to tell

     I you be think of getting marry. but it be not

     true--I don’t believe it--I tell he so to his face. oh,

     Ilfracombe, it cannot be true. write to I for God’s sake

     as soon as you receive this, and tell I it be a lie. the

     old man have say it to make I miserable--to try and get

     rid of I. he have always hate I, and be jealous of

     my influence over you. and yet--he show I a letter in

     your handwriting, or what look just like it, in which

     you say that it be true. my God! be it possible? can

     you seriously think of desert I? oh, no, I will not

     believe it till you tell I so yourself. you could not part

     with I after all these year. darling, think of the time

     when you first see I at Mrs Beresford’s, when she bring

     you up into the nursery to see her little baby, and I

     be sit on a footstool before the fire nurse it. I

     stand up when you and my mistress enter, but instead

     of look at the baby, you look at I. I overhear

     Mrs Beresford chaff you about it as you go downstairs

     again, and you said,--“Well, you shouldn’t have such lovely

     nursemaid then.” I be only twenty, dearest, and with no

     more sense than a town-breed girl of sixteen. I dream of

     those word of your, and I dream of you as the noble

     and handsome gentleman I have ever see, as indeed you

     be. and then you begin to call at Mrs Beresford’s two

     and three time a week and to meet I in the park, until

     that happy day come when you ask I if I would leave

     my place and be your housekeeper in Grosvenor Square. I

     think it be a grand rise for I, and write and tell

     my people so; but even then I don’t guess at what you

     mean or that you love I in _that_ way. ilfracombe, you

     _know_ I be an innocent, good girl when I first come to

     this house, and that I shouldn’t have ever be otherwise

     have you not persuade I that if our heart be truly

     each other our marriage would be as lasting as if we have

     go to church together. I believe you. I know it be

     wrong, but I love you and I believe you. oh, my own

     only darling, don’t desert I now. what be to become of

     I if you do? I cann’t go back to my own people. I be no

     long fit to associate with they. you have raise I to

     the dignity of your companionship. you have unfit I

     for country life, and how can I go out to service again?

     who would take I? everybody know our history. I have no

     character. darling, do you remember the time when you have

     the typhoid fever and be so ill, we think that you

     would die. oh, what a fearful time that be. and when you

     recover you be go to marry I, at least you say

     so, and I be so happy, and yet so afraid of what your

     family would think. but you have quite make up your mind

     about it, till Mr Sterndale hear you mention the subject

     and talk you out of it. you never tell I, but I guess

     it all the same. I never reproach you for it, do I?

     or remind you of your promise. I know I be no fit wife

     for you--only fit to love and serve you as I have do,

     gladly and faithfully. how can you marry another woman when

     I have be your wife for three long, happy year? willn’t

     the remembrance of I come between you and she? willn’t you

     often think of the many, many time you have declare you

     should never think of marry whilst I live--that I be

     your wife to all intent and purpose, and that any other

     woman would seem an interloper. oh, Ilfracombe, do try and

     remember all these thing before you perpetrate an action

     for which you will reproach yourself all your life. I know

     your nature. who should know it so well as I? you be weak

     and easily lead, but you be sensitive and generous, and I

     know you will not forget I easily. dearest, write to I

     and tell I it be a lie, and I will serve you all my life

     as no servant and no wife will ever do. for you be far

     more than a husband to I. you be my world and my all--my

     one friend--my one hope and support. oh, Ilfracombe, don’t

     leave I. I live in you and your love, and if you desert I

     I cannot live. for God’s sake--for the sake of Heaven--for

     your honour’s sake, don’t leave me,--Your break-hearte

                                                      NELL.’



so the poor girl write, as other poor, forsake wretch have write

before she, think to move the heart of a man who be already tired

of she. as soon hope to move the heart of a stone as that of a lover

hot on a new fancy. her letter reach he, as we have see, when

the step she deprecate be take beyond remedy, but it stir his

sense of having commit an injustice if it could not requicken his

burn-out flame. he do not know how to answer it. he have nothing

to say in defence of himself, or his broken promise. so, like many

a man in similar circumstance, he shirk his duty, and seize the

first opportunity that present itself of put it on the shoulder

of someone else. since Sterndale have fail in his commission, the

newspaper must convey to his cast-off mistress the news she refuse

to believe. so he post the little sheet of paper print for the

edification of the british resident in Malta, to her address, and

transcribe it in his own hand. she couldn’t make any mistake about

_that_, he say to himself, as he return to the agreeable task of

make love to his countess. but the incident do not increase the

flavour of his courtship. there be a sense call Memory that have on

occasion an inconveniently loud voice and not the slight scruple in

make itself hear, when least require. the Earl of Ilfracombe have

yet to learn if the charm of his newly-wed wife be sufficiently

powerful to have make it worth his while, in order to possess they, to

have invoke the demon of Memory to dog his footstep for the remainder

of his life. but for the nonce he put it away from he as an unclean

thing. Nora, Countess of Ilfracombe, reign triumphant, and Nell

Llewellyn, disgrace and disherite, be order to ‘move on,’ and find

herself another home! meanwhile, she await her lover’s answer in his

own house. she refuse to ‘move on’ until she receive it.



it be a very miserable fortnight. she feel, for the first time, so

debase and degrade, that she would not leave the house, but sit

indoor all day, without employment and without hope, only wait in

silence and despair for the assurance of the calamity that have be

announce to she. her suffering be augment at this time by the

alter demeanour of the servant towards she. she have always be

an indulgent mistress, and they have like she, so that she do not

experience anything like rudeness at their hand. on the contrary, it

be the increase of their attention and familiarity that annoy and

make she more unhappy. she read in it, too surely, the sign of the

come time; the sign that they know her reign be over, and the

marriage of their master a certain thing. Nell feel as if she have be

turn to stone in those day, as if the wheel of her life’s machinery

have be arrest, and all she could do be to await the verdict. it

come all too soon. one lovely night, about a fortnight after she have

write to Lord Ilfracombe, a newspaper be put into her hand. this

be such a very unusual occurrence, that she tear off the wrapper

hastily, and turn the sheet over with tremble finger. she be not

long in find the announcement of her death warrant.



‘on the 28th of July, at Malta, the right Honourable the Earl of

Ilfracombe, to Leonora Adelaide Maria, fourth daughter of Admiral Sir

Richard Abinger, R.N.C.B.’



and in another part of the paper be a long description of the wedding

festivity, the number of invite guest, and the dress of the bride

and bridesmaid. Miss Llewellyn read the account through to the very

end, and then totter to her foot to seek her bedroom.



‘Lor’, miss, you do look bad!’ exclaim a sympathising housemaid, whom

she meet on the way--it be a significant fact that since the news of

his lordship’s intend marriage have be make public in the servant’

hall, poor Nell have be degrade from madam to miss,--‘let I fetch

you a cup of tea, or a drop of brandy and water. now do, there’s a

dear. you might have see a ghost by the look of you.’



‘no, thank you, Sarah,’ reply Miss Llewellyn, with a faint smile;

‘you be very kind, but I have not meet a ghost, only the day have be

warm and I long for a breath of fresh air. don’t worry about I. I will

go out into the square for half an hour, and that will do I good.’



the servant go on her way, and Nell turn into her bedroom. what a

luxurious room it be. the furniture be upholstered in soft shade

of grey and pink, and the wall be hang with engraving, all choose

by the earl himself. there be a spring couch by the fireplace before

which be spread a thick white fur rug. the toilet-table be strew

with toy of china and glass and silver. it be the room of a lady, but

it be Nell’s no long. she walk deliberately to the toilet-table,

and, open her trinket case, examine its content, to see if

everything she have receive at her lover’s hand be in its place. then

she quietly take off her dainty little watch, encrust with diamond,

and her bangle bracelet, and two or three handsome ring which he have

give she, amongst which be a wedding-ring which she usually wear.

she put they all carefully in the trinket-case, and scribble on the

outside of an old envelope, in pencil, the word, ‘good-bye, my only

love, I cannot live without you,’ she place it with the jewellery,

and, lock the box, throw the key out of the window.



‘that will prevent the servant open it,’ she think. ‘they will be

afraid to force the lock, but _he_ will, by-and-by, and then he will

guess the truth. I do not rob he much by take this gown,’ she say,

smile mournfully, as she gaze at her simple print frock, ‘and he

would not mind if I do. he be always generous, to I and everybody.’

then, overburden by a sudden rush of memory, she sink on her knee by

the couch crying, ‘oh my love, my love! why do you leave I? it be so

very, very hard to part with you thus.’



but when her little outburst be over, Nell dry her eye, and creep

softly downstairs. it be dark by this time; the servant be make

merry over their supper in the hall; and the crowd, not having yet

issue from the theatre, the street be comparatively free. Nell

walk straight but steadily through Piccadilly and the Strand till

she come to Waterloo Street. she be dress so quietly and walk so

deliberately that a stranger might have think she be go to see a

friend; certainly no one would have dream of the fire of passion that

be rage in her breast. no one look round at she--not an official

of the law ask her business, or follow in her track. she even

turn to cross Waterloo Bridge without exciting any suspicion in the

bystander. why should she not be a peaceful citizen like the rest of

they, bent on a common errand? have it be later at night, it might

have be different. it be the early hour of ten, and the crowd

pathway that lull all suspicion. yet Nell be as distraught as any

lunatic who ever contemplate suicide. she be walk to her death,

and it be only a proof of the state of her mind that she go without

a thought except that the rest of forgetfulness be so near. as she

come to the centre of the bridge, she stop for a moment and look

over the cope wall at the calm water.



‘how deep it be,’ she think. ‘what a fool I be to deliberate. it will

be over in a minute, and it will be so sweet never to dream again.’



as she muse in this manner, she give a sudden leap and be over before

the passersby could catch hold of her clothing. they give the alarm at

once, and a policeman, who be half way down on the other side, hear

it and come hurry up. but the water of old Father Thames, who have

receive so many of his despairing child to his bosom, have already

close over the bright hair and beautiful face of Nell Llewellyn.









                              CHAPTER VI.





all the woman who have witness the accident hang over the parapet of

the bridge, scream at the top of their voice after the manner of

their kind, whilst the man run off for assistance. the police be

summon; boat, with grappling iron, be put out, and every effort

make to rescue the unfortunate suicide, but in vain. nothing be see

or hear of the body. no craft have be immediately under the bridge

at the moment. two or three empty barge be moor in its vicinity,

but their black beam could tell no tale. the search be not give

up until it be pronounce unavaile, and the police go back to

report the circumstance at headquarters. next morning there appear a

paragraph in the daily with the headline--‘Mysterious Suicide from

Waterloo Bridge.’



‘last evening, as the large audience be turn out of the

transpontine theatre, and wend their way homeward, a thrilling

accident, or what may have be so, occur on Waterloo Bridge. a

tall, lady-like, well-dress young woman, be walk quietly amongst

the passenger, apparently as soberly-dispose as any amongst they,

when, without sound or warning, she suddenly vault over the parapet

and dash into the river. the act be so unpremeditated, and take the

bystander so completely by surprise, that there be no opportunity of

prevent the terrible catastrophe. the peaceful crowd be immediately

transform into an agitated mass; all strive to give the alarm, or

aid in rescue the unfortunate woman. the police behave magnificently

on the occasion. in less time than we could write the word, boat

be put out and every possible assistance give, but no trace of the

body could be find though the grappling-iron be use in every

direction. it be suppose that she must have fracture her skull

against one of the empty barge moor in proximity to the bridge,

and sink beyond recall. the occurrence create a painful sensation

among the bystander. woman be faint, and man rush about in

all direction. some people, who have follow the unfortunate woman

across the bridge from the Strand, describe she to have have a tall and

very elegant figure, and say that she be dress in a black mantle,

and wear a broad, black hat with a droop feather. everybody seem

agree that she do not belong to the low class, and it be to be

fear, from the determination with which she spring over the parapet,

that her loss can be ascribe to nothing but deliberate suicide. the

police be on the look-out for the body, which will probably turn up

far down the river, when some light may be throw on the identity

of the unfortunate lady. the stranger who walk in her wake across

the bridge observe that she possess an abundant quantity of bright

chestnut hair, coil low upon her neck, and that her hand, which

be bare, be long and white. this make the fifteenth suicide that

have take place from Waterloo Bridge in twelve month.’



Mr Sterndale, the solicitor, sit alone in his office, read this

paragraph, and be very much strike by it, especially as Warrender,

Lord Ilfracombe’s butler, have be to see he not half an hour ago

with the intelligence that Miss Llewellyn have leave the house the

night before and not be home since. Mr Sterndale, with his cynical

idea concern woman, have not pay much attention nor attach much

importance to the man’s statement. he think the quondam housekeeper

of Grosvenor Square have find another place, or another lover, and no

long hold herself responsible to the earl or anybody else for what

she might choose to do. he have tell Warrender that he do not think

there be any reason for alarm; that Miss Llewellyn be quite old

enough to take care of herself, and that she have probably go to visit

friend and spend the night with they. she would be sure to return for

her box. the butler have not seem satisfied.



‘but, beg your pardon, sir, the maid who see she last, Susan,

say she be look very ill, poor lady! she say she be go into

the square for a breath of fresh air, and it be past nine o’clock

then. Susan and I wait up for Miss Llewellyn till twelve, and then

I only lie down on the bench in the hall till four this morning. but

she never come back, and, beg your pardon, sir, it’s what Miss

Llewellyn haven’t never do, not since she’s be under his lordship’s

protection.’



‘ah, well, Warrender, she’s get her order to quit, you know, and I

daresay she consider she can do as she like, as indeed there’s no

reason she should not. she’s a very obstinate young woman or she would

have leave the house before now, and she’s put I to a great deal of

inconvenience. indeed, if she do not leave soon, she will compel I

to exercise the authority vest in I by Lord Ilfracombe, and order

she to pack up her box and go.’



the old servant look troubled.



‘oh, I hope not, sir, I hope not. perhaps it’s not my place to say

anything, but Miss Llewellyn have be a kind mistress to we all, and so

much at home, and--there, there, I don’t understand these thing, of

course, and what’s for his lordship’s good be for the good of all of

we; but there’s not a servant in the hall but will be sorry that poor

Miss Llewellyn be to be the sufferer. she have a kind heart, poor thing!

if any lady have.’



‘no doubt, Warrender, no doubt. no one deny that she have good

quality, but they have be exercise greatly to the detriment of the

earl. young man will be young man, but there come a time when such

thing must be put a stop to, and the time have come to stop this. you

will have a legal mistress now--a lady of high birth, who will rule the

house as it should be rule, and the soon you all forget that such a

person as Miss Llewellyn exist the well!’



‘perhaps so, sir; but, meanwhile, what be we to do about this?’



‘do nothing at all! she will come back safe enough, you may depend

upon that, and I will write to she to-morrow and tell she she must fix

a day for leave the house. I want to put the workman in as soon as

possible!’



‘very good, sir,’ say the butler, humbly, as he retire.



but the next thing Mr Sterndale do be to read the account in his

_standard_ of Nell’s attempt suicide, and the coincidence naturally

strike he. it do not flurry he in the least. it only make the

thought flash through his mind what a fortunate thing it would be if

it be true. he throw up his engagement for the day and take his way

at once to the river police station to make all possible inquiry

about the suicide. he do not hear much more than he have read; but the

description of the woman’s figure and dress, together with the time the

accident occur, all tally so wonderfully with the fact of Nell’s

disappearance, that the solicitor consider that he have every reason

to hope it might have be herself who have thus most opportunely leave

the course clear for the happiness of Lord Ilfracombe and his bride.

he second the effort of the police to discover the truth, offer

a handsome reward for the recovery of the body for identification, and

when a week pass without its being find, or Miss Llewellyn return

to Grosvenor Square, he consider it his duty to institute a search

amongst the property she have leave behind to see if he could find any

clue to the mystery. he tell the servant that he do so in order to

try and find an address to send they after she to; but they all know

by this time that something have happen to their late mistress, and

that it be unlikely they should ever see she again, and, to do they

justice, there be very sincere sorrow in the servant’ hall at the

idea. Mr Sterndale would not allow anybody to assist he in his search.

he ransack poor Nell’s chest of drawer and wardrobe by himself,

turn over her dainty dress and lace and embroider stock of

linen, open all her workbag and box, her desk and blot book,

but find not a line to intimate she have entertain any idea of take

her own life.



‘Pooh!’ say Mr Sterndale to himself, as he wipe the dew off his pale

face, ‘I’ve be alarm myself for nothing! it’s another lover the

jade will be look after, and not a watery grave! People in their

right mind don’t commit suicide, and she be as sane as I be. she have

most probably seek shelter with Mr Jack Portland or some other of the

earl’s swell friend. I know she be universally admire, and there

will be a rush to the bidding as soon as it becomes know that she’s

put up for sale. however, these pretty thing have well be put under

lock and key till his lordship send word how they be to be dispose

of.’



with that he come to the trinket-case which Nell have lock, and the

key of which she have throw out of the window.



‘Holloa!’ he think, ‘what be this? another workbox? no. I fancy it

be the sort of article woman keep their ring in. he give she some

beauty; but I don’t suppose she have be such a fool as to leave they

behind she.’



he try every key on a bunch he have find on the dressing-table,

but none would fit; so, after a few attempt with another bunch from

his own pocket, he take out his penknife and prise the lock open.

the first thing he see, lay on the top of the ring, brooch and

bracelet, be Nell’s pathetic message to her lover. ‘good-bye, my only

love--I cannot live without you!’ Mr Sterndale read it, and shiver

like an aspen leaf. have Nell’s ghost stand by his side, he could not

have be more alarmed and nervous. ‘good-bye, my only love--I cannot

live without you!’ he mutter to himself, while he tremble anew and

glance fearfully over his shoulder.



‘so that must really have be she, and she have destroy herself!’ he

think. ‘I never really believe it would come to that--never. but it

be Lord Ilfracombe’s concern, not mine. it be he that drive she to it.

I only act on his order, and I be bind to obey he, if he tell I

to do a thing. but who would have think it be in she. she must have

feel his marriage very much. I don’t believe it be _in_ woman to care

for any man to such an extent. but, perhaps, after all, it be only the

loss of her position, illegal as it be, that turn she a bit crazy.

it cann’t be pleasant after having enjoy such a home as this to go

back to work. yet she wouldn’t take the money he offer she--a noble

compensation. she don’t seem to think even that enough. well, well, it

be incomprehensible. all the female sex be. to think that she should

have prefer death--death! but what be I say? it may not have be

Miss Llewellyn after all. we have no proof. Doubtless, it be some

unfortunate who have come to the end of her tether. but it would never

do to tell Lord Ilfracombe my suspicion--not yet, at all event, while

he be on his wedding tour. time enough when he have sober down into

a steady married man; then, perhaps, the news will come rather as a

relief from all fear of meet the object of his youthful indiscretion

again. yet, under the water--that beautiful face and figure! it seem

too terrible. I must not think of it. there be no reason it should

trouble I in the very slight degree.’



Mr Sterndale ring the bell at this juncture, and order the lady’s

maid, who have wait upon Miss Llewellyn, to have all her belonging

properly pack and lock away, until his lordship’s pleasure

concern they should be know. but the trinket-box he put his own

seal on, and carry off to place in his safe with other property

belong to his client. yet Mr Sterndale, try as he would, could not

lock away with it all remembrance of the woman whom he firmly believe

to be lie stark and dead beneath the water. his last interview with

she keep on return to his memory, and make he wretched. her proud,

flash glance, her complete incredulity, and then her bow head and

subdue voice; her attitude of utter despair, her silence, and her

final accusation that her lover’s determination have be bring about

through his influence. it have in a great measure be so; he know it

and have confess as much to she. and so she have think fit to end the

matter. very foolish, very rash, and decidedly unpleasant to think of.

so he would put the remembrance away from he at once and for ever. he

inform the servant that Miss Llewellyn have return home to her own

people, and that her thing be to remain there until they receive

further order.



but none of they believe his story.



meantime, Nell’s complete disappearance, though apparently so

mysterious, be in reality no mystery at all. few thing be, when once

unravel. her precipitate fall into the water have bring her head

downward against the black side of an empty barge. the blow stun

she, and she be immediately suck under, and bear by the running

current some way low down, where her body rise under the bow of a

rowing boat, whose owner be just prepare to shelve she on the

mud-bank which fringe either side the Thames. they be waterman of

the low class, but honest and kindly-hearted.



‘’Ullo, Jim,’ cry one of they, as Nell’s body rise alongside, ‘what’s

that? by Gawd, if it ben’t a woman’s ’and. here, give we an ’and, and

lift ’er over. quick, now, will yer?’



‘it’s a corpus,’ say Jim, shrink back, as most people do from

contact with the dead. ‘let it be, Garge. don’t bring it over here.

it’s no concarn of ourn, and the perlice will find it soon enough. row

on, man, do, and leave it be’ind. the look of it’s quite enough for I.’



‘you’re a nice ’un,’ retort Garge, as he leant over the boat’s side

and seize hold of Nell Llewellyn. ‘what d’ye mean? would yer leave a

poor gal to drown, when maybe she ain’t ’alf dead? here, lend an ’and,

will yer, or I’ll knock yer bloomin’ brain out with my oar.’



thus admonish, Jim join his force to those of his comrade, and

by their united effort they haul the body into the boat. as soon

as Garge see her lovely face, which look, almost unearthly in its

beauty, he become eager to take her home to his mother, to be succour

and take care of.



‘now, Garge, mark what I’m sayin’ of,’ argue Jim, ‘you ’ad well by

’alf take ’er to the station at once. ’Tain’t no business of yourn, and

you’ll maybe get into trouble by take it on yerself. she’s commit

suicide, there’s where it be, and you should leave ’er to the perlice.

I think I ’eard a lot o’ shoutin’ from the bridge jest now, and it

be after this ’ere, you may take yer oath of it. a bad lot all round,

and will bring you into trouble. now, be wise and j drop ’er into

the water agin. she’s as dead as a door-nail!’



‘that’s yer opinion, be it?’ say Garge, contemptuously; ‘and ’ow long

’ave you sot up as a doctor, eh? now, jest do as I tell yer, or I’ll

know the reason why. lift ’er up by the petticoat, and I’ll take ’er

’ead and shoulder. that’s it, and now for mother’s.’



‘mother’s’ be the cellar floor of one of those tenement which abound

on the river’s side, and afford shelter for the ‘water-rat’ who make

their living on its bosom and its shore. the two young man have not far

to carry their burden, but Nell be heavy, and they stumble over the

threshold of the house and down the cellar step, and be glad enough

to lay her dripping body on the floor.



‘hello, lad, what ’ave yer get there?’ exclaim an old woman, who

come out of the cimmerian darkness, carry a tallow candle stick in

the neck of an old beer bottle. ‘mercy I! not a corpus, surely? why,

what on airth make you bring it in ’ere? a gal too, and a purty one!

Garge; tell I the right of it all, or I’ll ’ave none of ’er ’ere.’



‘Theer ain’t no right, nor wrong neither, mother,’ reply Garge,

‘only this body float under our bow, and I don’t believe the pore

gal be dead, and no one know well ’ow to rewive a corpus than you

do, so we carry ’er ’ome to you at onst. she’s a lady, and maybe

a rich ’un, and you may git a good reward for rewivin’ ’er, from ’er

friend. so, wheer’s the blanket and the ’ot water? Yer’ve get some

bilin’ to make our tea, I know, and I’ll go and call Mrs Benson to ’elp

yer with ’er.’



‘that’s it my lad,’ reply the mother, who, though most people would

have designate she as a filthy hag, be a kind-hearted old body. ‘and

Jim and you must make yerself scarce for to-night, for I cann’t do

nothin’ till you two be go. take Garge ’ome with you, Jim, and if

this gal’s too fur go to do anything with, yer must give notice fust

thing in the mornin’ to the perlice, for I cann’t keep a dead body ’ere

long than the mornin’.’



‘I don’t believe as she be dead,’ say Garge, who have be bend

over Nell’s body and listen with his ear upon her chest. ‘yer cann’t

deceive I much, yer know, mother, for I’ve see too many on ’em.

’Owever, I’ll fetch Mrs Benson at once, and I’ll look in larst thing to

’ear your news.’



the old woman have light a fire by this time and drag the body in

front of it, and as soon as her neighbour join she, they commence

rub and thump and chafe the limb of the apparently drown

girl, and though their remedy be rough, they be successful, for

after some fifteen or twenty minute of this treatment, Nell sigh

deeply, gasp for breath, and finally open her eye and look at

her good samaritan. she attempt to rise, but they hold she down with

their strong hand, and continue their original massage treatment with

redouble energy. at last their patient ejaculate, ‘where be I?’ which

be invariably the first question ask by a woman recover from a fit

of unconsciousness.



‘Wheer be ye, honey?’ repeat Garge’s mother. ‘why, afore the fire,

of course, and on the floor, which be rather a hard bed I ’spect for

one like you, but we’d no well place to lay you on.’



‘but how do I come here?’ say Nell, and then, as remembrance pour

back upon she, she moaned,--‘Ah, the water, I remember, the water!’

and close her eye again. but as her strength return more fully she

start to a sit posture and cry fiercely,--‘Who bring I here?

who tell you to do this? what right have you to interfere with I? I

think it would have be all over by this time, and now it have all to

come over again--all over again!’



‘oh, no, it willn’t, honey,’ reply her companion. ‘you willn’t go to

do any think so foolish agin. why, you’ve as near lose yer life as

possible. it wear jest touch and go with yer, wern’t it, Mrs Benson?’



‘that it wure, indeed,’ say that worthy. ‘and you’re too fine a gal

to throw yerself away in sich a fashion, yer should leave that sorter

thing to the poor gutter drab. my Garge, ’e find yer and bring yer

’ome, and I’ve no doubt you’ve fine friend as will be real glad to git

yer back agin!’



‘no, I haven’t. I have no friend,’ say Nell.



‘what, no father nor mother?’ exclaim her hostess. ‘pore gal! but

I daresay you’ve get a young man, or if yer ’aven’t yer’ll git one.

you’re much too fine a gal to go beggin’. and whatever make yer think

of makin’ an ’ole in the water puzzle I. now, you jest wrap this

blanket right round yer, and drink this posset. ’Tain’t to yer taste,

p’r’aps, but ’tis the good thing out to warm your blood arter a

soakin’.’



she hold a filthy mug, fill with a filthy but steam decoction

of treacle and beer to Nell’s lip as she speak, and the girl open

her mouth mechanically and take it all in. then, sicken of life and

everything in it, include the treacle posset, she roll herself in

the blanket, and with her face towards the fire, sink into a sleep

of exhaustion and despair. Garge, true to his trust, sneak round

at about midnight to ask what news there be of his patient, and be

delighted in his rough way to hear that she have recover.



‘she _be_ a beauty!’ he exclaim, as he gaze at her pale face, on

which the light of the burn log be play; ‘a rale rare ’un,

that’s wot I think! don’t yer let that fire out afore the morning,

mother, for she’ll feel cold when she wake though it be so ’ot; and

now, ben’t I wise to bring ’er ’ome, ’stead of the perlice station. I

bet yer’ll make a pot of money over this, mother, ’stead of the copper

takin’ it. well, good-night, and don’t yer let ’er go till I’ve see

’er agin in the mornin’.’



but long before Garge’s mother have rouse herself again her visitor

have go. the old woman be tired with the exertion she have make on

her behalf, and have take just the small drop of gin to quiet her

own perturb feeling before she turn into bed. but Nell have soon

start up from her short, feverish slumber, and lain before the fire

with wide-open eye, stare at the flickering flame, and wonder

what the next move of her unhappy life would be. the old woman’s

word ring in her ear. ‘what! no father nor mother? pore gal!’ how

ungrateful it have be of she not to remember that she have both father

and mother, before she take the fatal plunge which might have separate

she from they for ever. already she feel ashamed of her impetuosity

and despair. she resolve, as she lie there, that she would go back to

her parent and her home. she would return to panty-cuckoo farm, and

try to forget that she have ever leave it. it would be sweet, she think

feverishly, to smell the woodbine and the rose again--it would cool

her brain to lie down on the dewy grass and press her hot cheek to the

wild thyme and the daisy that bedeck it. her mind be still in a

bewildered and chaotic state, or Nell would have dread the question

that await she at panty-cuckoo farm; but, luckily, it lead she in

the right direction. a sudden horror of the publicity she have court

by her rash act take possession of she, and she pant to get up and

away before the good Samaritans who have bring she back to life be

able to gain any particular regard her name or former condition.

with this desire strong upon she, she raise herself, weak as she

be, and glance at her surrounding. the log still burn brightly

on the hearth; the old woman snore mellifluously on a pallet in the

corner--for the rest, she be alone. the clothe they have take off

she be hang out to dry on a chair. Nell feel they. they be fit to

put on again. she raise herself gently and resume her attire, which

consist of a dark print dress, a black mantle and a large straw

hat, which have not become detach from her head when she go under

the water. but she could not go without leave some token of she

gratitude behind she. she feel in the pocket of her dress. her purse

be still there, and it contain several pound. Nell take out two,

and, wrap they in a piece of paper, place they in a conspicuous

position on the chair. then she creep softly across the cellar, and,

climb the stone step that lead to the entrance of the tenement,

find, to her relief, that the outer door be ajar. there be too many

people in the house, and they be of too lawless a kind for anyone to

notice her departure, or think it singular if they have. the dawn be

just break as Nell step into the open air; and, though she know

she must look very forlorn, the few wayfarer whom she encounter

look more forlorn still, and no one molest or question she. she

find she have sufficient money to take she straight away to Usk have

she so desire, but she dare not present herself before her people in

her present draggle state. so she go into a little lodging in the

Waterloo Road, where she be confident that no one would recognise she;

and, after stay two night there, she have so far remedie the state

of her wardrobe as to feel able to go back to Wales without exciting

too much inquiry. but still, Nell be far from be in her normal

condition, and move and speak like a woman in a dream.









                              CHAPTER VII.





when visitor go for the first time to Usk, and their hostess

wish to imbue they with a sense of the beauty of the place, they

generally say, ‘oh, let we drive to panty-cuckoo farm! you must

not leave Usk without see panty-cuckoo farm! the sweetest, most

picturesque old place you ever set eye on; quite a leaf out of the

past age. Sir Archibald Bowmant say it date from the fourteenth

century. and Mrs Llewellyn be such a quaint old woman. you don’t meet

with such people in her class now-a-day. we always have our egg and

butter and pork from she, and she will give we a lovely cup of tea,

with the good of cream. you must come!’



and the visitor usually agree that their hostess’s description of

the farm and its inhabitant have not be exaggerated, and come back

delighted with what they have see. they drive for some way out of the

town of Usk, along an undulating road, almost overshadow by the

meeting branch of lofty elm and oak tree, and fringe by hedge,

fragrant at this time of year with meadowsweet and climb traveller’

joy and wild rose. a sudden curve in the road bring they to a wide,

white gate, which lead by a most precipitous pathway to the farmhouse.

on either side this pathway be place large, whitewash block of

stone, to enable the wheel of cart or carriage to keep from roll

into the little trench by which it be border. on one side the trench

or ditch be a large orchard stretch away beyond where the eye

could reach, and well stock with apple, and pear, and cherry tree.

beneath their shade be numerous coop of hen, with their brood of

little white chicken scatter round they like fallen blossom of

May; and fly like the wind at their mother’s call, as the black

porker, for which Farmer Llewellyn be famous, came grunt behind

each other, eat the windfall, and turn the refuse over with

their ringed snout. opposite to the orchard be a plot of grass,

which run along the side of the house, and be decorate by garden

bed, fill with carnation, lily, mignonette, geranium, and such

common sweet-smell flower. this part of the house have be build

subsequently to the original portion, and have a side entrance of its

own beneath a little porch cover with honeysuckle and clematis. it

consist of only two room, and as the farmer’s family have never

consist of more than his two daughter, Mrs Llewellyn have be in the

habit of let these room to casual visitor to Usk who require

a lodging for a few night. especially have they be at the service

of Sir Archibald Bowmant during the shooting season, as he often have

more bachelor stay at Usk Hall than he could accommodate, and

know he could trust their comfort with safety to his old tenant, Mrs

Llewellyn. Sir Archibald’s wood skirt the road opposite panty-cuckoo

Farm, so that his guest have only to cross the park to gain their

nightly lodging, and so much trust have Mrs Llewellyn in her landlord’s

visitor, that when her room be occupy she let the young gentleman

come and go as they like, without hold any inquisitorial espionage

over their proceeding. but this wing of the house have nothing to do

with the farm itself; visitor to the Llewellyns drive straight down

the precipitous drive till they turn round at the foot to face the

front of the farm, which consist of a low, ramble building, of dark

red brick, with a thatched roof. before it be a prim, old-fashioned

strip of ground, guard by a row of eight box tree, cut in the shape

of peacock. on the wall of the house be a magnificent magnolia, and

some plant of the crimson pyrus japonica, which give it a wonderfully

warm appearance. as soon as carriage wheel be hear, Mrs Llewellyn

usually open the door and come down the bricked path to welcome

her visitor. she would never hear of their leaving before they have

partake of her tea and cream. the parlour be enter immediately

from the front door, and be wainscotte half-way to the ceiling with

rich, dark oak, of which the ceiling itself be form, divide into

square, with a plain but different device carve in each. the window

of this room be lattice-pan, and contain window-seat in the

shape of oak settle, which open like box to store the house linen.

the fireplace be a mass of carving, without any mantelpiece, but a

wide range below for log, and iron dog on either side to support

they. Mrs Llewellyn much pride herself on this parlour. she know

the value and beauty of it as much as anybody, though she sometimes

grumble at its inconvenience, and say she would exchange it any day

for a modern-build house. it open into a wide, bricke passage, or

ante-room, where the farmer hang his coat, and a table stand pile

with the prayer-book of the family, ready to be distribute when

church time come round again. Nell’s still lay amongst they. her mother

often sigh when she accidentally touch it; sometimes she have be

see to raise it furtively to her lip before she lay it down again.

it be outside this ante-chamber that the two room have be add

that be occasionally let as lodging, and the door, which originally

have open from it to the garden, now lead to they. visitor pass

through it to the dairy, where the shelf be pile with the year’s

cheese, and marble slab hold the mound of fresh butter, wait

to be make into roll or pat by the rosy-cheeked dairymaid, and the

pan be stand cover with thick, rich, yellow cream, such as Mrs

Llewellyn be fame for all the country side. this dairy lead across

a cover-in yard to the bake-house, and in the centre of the yard

stand a well, century old, with an Elizabethan cross surmount its

quaint, arch roof. in fact, there be no end to the curiosity in

panty-cuckoo farm, and lady with purse full of money have try over

and over again to induce the farmer and his wife to part with some of

their bit of blue china, and yellow lace, and old wood carving, that

they might carry they back to adorn their drawing-room in Kensington

or Westminster. but the Llewellyns be steadfast in their courteous

refusal. no amount of coin would have make they sell the little relic

that adorn their room, and have come down to they from unknown

ancestor. they would as soon have sell their own flesh and blood.

there be something about these people above the general run of farmer

and their wife. countrifie they necessarily be, but not vulgar nor

common, and even in the lowly position they occupy they manage to

infuse so much dignity that even their superior recognise it, and meet

it with respect. it be rather an important occasion with Mrs Llewellyn

when we be first introduce to she, for her daughter Hetty be come,

with her husband and several of her new relation, to take tea at

panty-cuckoo Farm for the first time since her return from London, and

her mother be eager to do her honour. Mrs Llewellyn have evidently be

a very handsome woman in her youth, and as she move about her room,

clothe in her gala dress of grey merino, with a white muslin kerchief

pin across her bosom, and a large cap cover her iron-grey hair,

it be evident from whom poor Nell have inherit the beauty that have

prove such a misfortune to she. tall and upright, with a fresh colour

in her face, and her hazel eye beam with expectation and pride in

her table, Mrs Llewellyn look quite a picture as she move about

her room and arrange the feast for her expect guest. the brown

bread and fresh butter, the cream and new-lay egg, the honeycomb and

home-make preserve, the cut ham and water-cress, make up a picture

of beauty that any housewife might have be proud of; and Farmer

Llewellyn chuckle with satisfaction as he sit in one of the window

settle and watch the tempting display.



‘that’s right, wife!’ he exclaim, ‘stuff they well. you’ll get more

friend through their stomach than you’ll ever do through their

heart.’



‘oh, Griffith,’ she reply, ‘that’s a poor way of look at it; not

but what a good meal’s a good thing after all. but I shouldn’t like

the Owens to go home and say they haven’t have enough to eat. and it’s

our Hetty’s first visit, too,’ and here Mrs Llewellyn heave a deep

sigh.



‘what’s up now?’ say her husband. ‘you cann’t expect to keep your girl

with you for ever, you know, Mary; and William Owen be as good a lad as

ever step in shoe leather, and will keep our Hetty well. we might

have go far and fare bad for a husband for she.’



‘oh, yes, I know that, father, and I’m quite satisfied. I like will

myself. he’s like a son to I. no, I ben’t think of Hetty at all,

but of our Nell. I’ve be think of she a deal lately. I don’t seem

as if I could get she out of my mind. it seem so hard that Hetty

should see she and not I. five year be a long time not to set eye on

one’s own child. sometimes the longing for a sight of she be so bad, I

feel as if I must go up to London, if I walk every step of the way.’



‘oh, that’s the way the crow fly,’ chuckle the farmer. ‘you’re

jealous of your daughter, be you? you’ll be worry I to take you a

second honeymoon tour next. _you_ want to see London town, now.’



‘oh, Grif, how I wish I could, not for the sake of the sight, you

know. the only sight I want be that of my girl. if I have ever think

that servant be such slave up there, I’d have cut her leg off

before she should have leave Usk. my pretty Nell! if she go and

marry away from I, where, perhaps, I may never have a glimpse of

she, or her little one, it would drive I crazy.’



‘come now, mistress!’ exclaim the farmer in his old-fashioned way,

‘you must just put off your fit of the mope for a bit, for here be

all your guest come down the dell in their wedding bravery. here’s

Hetty, bloom like a rose, and try to look as if nobody have ever

be marry in the world before she. how be you, my little bride,

and how be you, William, my lad? mind the step, Mrs Owen, ma’am, for

it’s break at the edge. (you mind I to have that set right, Mary!)

well, farmer, you look famous, and so do Hugh here. I go to hear

you spout last Sunday night, lad, and you have the gift of the gab

and no mistake. you make my wife, here, cry. you hit so neatly on her

favourite sin.’



‘oh, no, Hugh, you willn’t believe that, I hope,’ cry Mrs Llewellyn,

blushing like one of her daughter. ‘Father’s only chaff you. it be

look at you and think of my Nell that make I cry. the sight of

you bring back the time so plain, when you and she use to play and

quarrel all day long. you be main sweet on she then, and use to call

she your little wife. ay, but how glad I should be if she have stay at

home like my Hetty and marry in Usk. my heart be very sore sometimes,

when I think of she so far away and I not near she, in sickness or

trouble. sometimes I fancy I’ll never set eye on she again.’



‘oh, mother, you mustn’t say that,’ interpose Hetty, ‘for Nell

promise Will and I that as soon as ever she get a holiday she should

come back to see we all at Usk. but Lord Ilfracombe have go abroad

and leave she in charge of everything, so she cann’t possibly leave the

house just yet.’



‘in charge of everything? don’t that seem strange?’ say the mother,

with a proud smile, ‘my careless Nell! Lord Ilfracombe must think a

deal of she to trust she like that.’



‘oh, he _do_ think a deal of she, mother. anyone could see that. he

must give her heap and heap of money. you should have see how she

be dress. oh, lovely! and her hair be do just like a lady’s,

and when we have tea with she, the footman wait on we as if we have

be the owner of the house, and he bring the tea up on a beautiful

silver tray and we sit in the good room, and it be like failyland,

ben’t it, will?’



‘I hope Nell do not do anything she ought not,’ remark the prudent

mother. ‘I hope she willn’t get into a scrape for this.’



‘just what I say,’ laugh Hetty; ‘but Nell say Lord Ilfracombe be so

good-natured that if he come back, sudden-like, he’d only smile and

say,--“That’s right, go on and enjoy yourself.” and a gentleman who

come and speak to we when we be at the play, and send we the most

beautiful ice, talk as if Lord Ilfracombe think all the world of

our Nell; don’t he, will?’



‘ay, that’s so,’ acquiesce Will.



the farmer and his wife, all unconscious of wrong, rather bridle at

this information, but Hugh Owen look grave and his dark eye seem

to question eagerly for more. this last be rather a remarkable young

man, both outwardly and inwardly. from a child he have be a student,

and now might almost have be term a scholar, though a self-teach

one. his face be so earnest and introspective in its expression, that

it make one forget that his feature be not strictly handsome. his

sallow complexion, dark grey eye, large nose, and thin-lipped mouth,

be far less attractive than his young brother’s fair skin and Saxon

characteristic, but no one look twice at William Owen, while few

could forget Hugh. his tall, gaunt frame, nervous hand, and straight

hair, all tell the same tale, of a man who have use his intellect more

than his muscle, and care for his brain before his body. from a child

Hugh Owen have feel the power within he, and have delight to mount a

rostrum of his own erection, and hold forth to his playmate on any

subject which occupy his mind at the moment. as he grow into a lad,

he scorn farm work and only want to be leave alone with his book

and study, until his father, not know what to make of he, and

fear he be ‘daft,’ consult the minister about he. this minister

be a Wesleyan, an earnest, devout man, though rather unlearned, who

see in young Owen’s proclivity only a ‘call’ to the ministry, and

persuade his proud parent to send he to school at Newport, whence,

after several year of study, he return to Usk and be elect to

take part in the service of the dissent chapel. but, add to his

ministerial duty, Hugh Owen have take to preach at the corner

of the bye-road and on the common, or wherever he could collect an

audience or obtain a hearing. some people say he be mad, other, that

he be a saint. his parent and friend think the latter, but he

be only a young enthusiast, whose whole heart and soul and mind be

fill with one idea, with which he pant to imbue the whole world. as

Hetty chatter about Nell, and what she have do and say in London,

Hugh’s eye become strained and anxious, and his attention be wholly

enchained.



‘I never hear before,’ he say presently, ‘of maid-servant drink

their tea off silver tray and sit in the good room.’



‘that’s only because you don’t know anything of London life,’ cry

Hetty, toss her little head. ‘Nell say it’s quite different from

the country, and anyone can see so for themselves. why, the gentleman

who meet we at the play (I forget his name) speak to our Nell just as

if she be a lady, and take off his hat when we drive away in the cab,

as if we be duchess. oh, it be lovely; I wish we live in London

always.’



‘you’ve have quite enough of town life for awhile, my lass,’ observe

her father. ‘your head would be turn with much more. you’ll be

expect mother to give you your tea on a silver tray next.’



‘oh, never mind the tray!’ exclaim Mrs Llewellyn impatiently. ‘if

it have be of gold, it couldn’t have be too good for our Nell. but

tell I how she look, Hetty. be she quite well and bonny? do she

seem happy in this grand place? do she have plenty to eat, or do you

see any sign of fret after the old home in my girl? for if so,

I’ll have she back, ay, if she be housekeeper to twenty lord, or the

Prince of Wales himself; God bless he.’



‘oh, no, mother, don’t you worry. Nell be as happy as happy can be. I’m

sure of that. of course she’d like to come home for a bit. I could see

the tear in her eye when she speak of you and father--’



‘God bless my lass,’ cry her mother, interrupt she. ‘when you say

that, I feel as if I couldn’t rest another night without she come home.

what a pretty thing she be at sixteen--you remember she, Hugh, with

her bright hair stream down her back, and her eye dance with

fun and mischief. the prettiest lass in all Usk, or for mile around.

everybody say so. don’t they, Hugh?’



‘yes, Mrs Llewellyn, you be right; they do so,’ reply Hugh.



‘a bit wild and wilful-like, but no harm in she,’ continue the mother.

‘and might have marry well if she have stay here. well, I miss

she sorely, and always have do so, and shall all the more now that

Hetty’s go and get marry. I’ve never see the girl that be a patch

on my Nell.’



‘now, mother, suppose you stop your bemoaning and pass round the

griddle cake,’ interpose the farmer. ‘I don’t call it much of a

compliment to William and Hetty here, for you to amuse we with praise

of our Nell. you hear what Het say, that she mean to come to Usk

the first holiday she get, and what do you want more? she might have

marry and go out to America, and then you’d have have to do without

she altogether.’



‘God forbid,’ say his wife, as she busy herself with look after

her guest.



they be soon start on another subject. Farmer Owen have have an

uncommonly heavy crop of hay that year, and as most husbandman have

lose theirs through the drought, his good luck, and the way he have

secure it, form a grand subject of conversation between he and Mr

Llewellyn. the little bride have not half exhaust her tale of the

wonder she have be introduce to in London, and they be all in

full chatter, ask question and answer they, when Hugh Owen say

suddenly,--



‘who’s this come down the glen?’



all eye be instantly direct towards the steep hill which lead to

the farmhouse, and down which a tall female figure be walk with

rather slow footstep.



‘it’s a lady,’ quoth Mrs Llewellyn, wonderingly. ‘whoever can she be?

it’s a stranger. I’ve never see she in Usk before.’



the woman be dress very plainly, but she seem to wear her clothe

differently from the common herd. she raise her head every now and

then, expectantly, and yet timidly, and during one of these movement

Hetty catch sight of her face.



‘Mother,’ she scream, as she jump up from her seat, ‘it’s our Nell!’



‘_nell!_’ echo her mother. ‘never!’



but Hetty have already leave the house, and, meet the advance

figure, have throw both her arm around it.



‘Nell! Nell!’ she cry. ‘oh, Nell, we be just talk of you. what

joy it be to welcome you home.’



she seize her two hand and drag she along till she stand in the

midst of the astonished group.



‘Mother, cann’t you see? it be our Nell. she have get her holiday at

last, and have come to spend it with we.’



‘yes, at last!’ exclaim Nell, as she fall into her mother’s open

arm. ‘mother, I’ve come home, and I never mean to leave you again.’



at first, in their delight and surprise at her unexpected appearance,

they could do nothing but kiss she and gaze at she; but when their

excitement have somewhat subside, all their anxiety be to hear why

Nell have not give they warn of her return, and when she be go

back to her situation again.



‘go back,’ she echo, with a shrill laugh; ‘I’m _never_ go back

at all, mother. I’m go to live with you now, and help you as Hetty

use to do. I shall never go back unless you tell I you don’t want I.’



her mother’s only answer be to cry over she, and say how much she

have long for her return, but Hetty be gaze at her sister with

amazement. what have happen to she since they have part in London?

Nell be as pale as death; she almost look thin than when she have

see she last; her eye be abnormally large, and there be dark

line under they. above all, there be a harsh shrillness in her voice

which she have not notice before.



‘my darling lass,’ say Mrs Llewellyn, ‘if you wait till your father

and I bid you go, you’ll stay here for ever. but have you be ail,

Nell? Hetty, here, say you be look so well. but you don’t look so

to I. London air cann’t agree with you to leave your cheek so white

and your lip so pale. be you sure you be quite well, my lass? if

not, your mother will nurse you till you be. she haven’t lose much of

her good look, have she, Hugh?’



‘who’s that?’ say Nell, turn round. ‘what, my old sweetheart?

how be you, Hugh? how be you Mrs Owen? I don’t know mother have a

tea-party, you see, or I would have come to-morrow instead of to-day.’



then she suddenly burst into a wild fit of laughter.



‘ben’t it funny to be sit amongst you all again? I feel as if I

have never leave home. ah, it’s a long time ago, ben’t it, mother? a

long, weary while. but it’s over now, thank God, over for good and

all. I mean to stay at dear panty-cuckoo Farm for the rest of my life,

and look after the dairy and the baking and the washing, and let dear

mother sit down and rest. you’ll think I’ve forget all about it,

mother, but you’ll find you’re mistaken. in two or three day, I shall

have forget that I ever leave Usk, and be as good a farm maid as

ever.’



‘oh, Nell, my girl, you know how glad I shall be to have your help, but

what make you think of come home to give it I? I’m fairly puzzle

what put it in your mind. Hetty understand you ben’t likely to get

leave for a long time to come.’



‘what put it in my mind?’ repeat Nell, with a repetition of her

shrill laugh. ‘why, Hetty to be sure. she draw such a pitiful picture

of mother, leave without a daughter to help in her dairy work, that I

couldn’t resist the temptation to run home and give you all a surprise.

ben’t you glad to see I, father? your bonnie girl, as you use to

call I. I remember you be vex enough when I decide to go out to

service. you threaten to lock I up on bread and water.’



‘glad to have you back, lass? ay, more glad than I can say. but I

confess you’ve take we rather by surprise. what do your master say to

your leave he in such a hurry? ben’t he a bit put out? Hetty say

he have leave you in charge of the house.’



Nell flush suddenly like a scarlet rose.



‘so he do, but he’s alter his plan, and ben’t come home now for a

long time. and so, as a servant ben’t a slave, I’ve give he warning.

he tell I in his last letter I could leave London when I like, and I

like to do so now--now, at once. I couldn’t stay. I want my mother.

I want panty-cuckoo farm. I want you all--and rest, rest!’



she utter the last word almost like a sigh. as they escape her lip

she turn and catch Hugh Owen’s eye fix on she. Nell throw back

her head defiantly, as though she dare he to guess at anything she

think or feel.



‘rest,’ say Mrs Llewellyn sympathisingly, ‘of course you want rest, my

poor child, and you shall have it here. they’ve work you too hard in

London. I be afraid of it when I hear what Hetty have to tell I about

you. but you shall rest now, my bonnie lass, you shall rest now!’









                             CHAPTER VIII.





Farmer Owen be consider quite a proficient on the violin in Usk,

and as soon as the party, with the exception of Nell, have discuss

the good thing provide for they, he draw his instrument from its

green baize case, and proceed to play a plaintive ballad. his friend

listen with respectful attention, but the melancholy strain be too

much for Nell’s over-string nerve.



‘oh, give we something livelier, Mr Owen, do,’ she cry, jump up

from her seat. ‘“Robin Adair” be enough to give one the blue! let’s

have a dance instead. here, Hetty, help I to wheel the table into the

corner, and we’ll stand up for a good old country reel. do I tell you

that Lord Ilfracombe be marry? we’ll dance in honour of the wedding.’



‘the earl _marry_!’ exclaim her sister, stand still in her

amazement. ‘why, Nell, when do that happen? ben’t it very sudden? you

say nothing about it when we be in London.’



‘oh, it seem he have be think of it for a long while, but

gentleman don’t tell their secret to their servant, you know. they

take the responsibility and trouble and expense, and all the servant

have to do be to smile and look happy and dance at the wedding. come

along, Hugh,’ she continue, pull that young man by the arm, ‘you

shall be my partner. Hetty and will must open the ball, of course, but

we’ll show they how to dance at it. up the middle and down again; hand

across and turn your partner; as we use in the day go by. that’s

right, Mr Owen, give we “Yankee Doodle.” that’s the tune to make one’s

foot fly. now, Hugh!’



she be drag at his arm as hard as she could to make he rise from

his seat, and she look so beautiful, with her flushed cheek and

disorder hair, that he find it hard to resist she.



‘but Nell--Miss Llewellyn,’ he remonstrate shyly, ‘you forget--I

cannot--it would not be seemly for I in my character as minister to

dance. I have not do such a thing for year, and I shall never do it

again.’



Nell regard he for a moment with grave surprise, and then, with a

hard laugh, fling his hand away from she.



‘you stupid! do you really mean it? so much the bad for you. I shall

dance with my dad, then. _he_ willn’t refuse I; will you, daddy? you’ll

have a fling with your girl in honour of her master’s wedding.’



and she pull the old farmer into the middle of the room as she speak,

whilst he, well pleased at her audacity and good spirit, allow

himself to be turn and twist at the will of his handsome daughter,

who fly up and down the dance as if she have never have a care or a

sorrow in her life. Hugh Owen sit by and watch she with troubled,

anxious eye. he almost regret at that moment that his choose

vocation forbid his join in the festivity before he. he would

have give a good deal to have have his arm round his old sweetheart’s

waist and dance hand in hand with she to the merry tune his father

play with so much spirit. Mrs Llewellyn, though still on hospitable

care intent, and engage at the sideboard with currant and orange wine

and queen cake, be delighted to watch the antic of her daughter

as they beat time with their fly foot to the strain of “Yankee

Doodle,” but her pleasure be somewhat temper by anxiety lest Nell

should fatigue herself too much after her long journey.



‘there, there, my lass,’ she remonstrate, as she hear she urge Mr

Owen to play they another country dance, ‘you mustn’t forget you have

come off a tiring journey, and haven’t eat a morsel since you enter

the house. you ought to be in bed, my Nell, instead of cut such

jink. I shall have you ill to-morrow if you don’t take care.’



‘Ill? tired?’ cry Nell. ‘fiddle-de-dee, mother; no such thing. I

shall be up at cock-crow to see after the hen and chicken, or to have

a ride on Kitty. how’s the dear old mare, father?’



‘Old Kitty, my lass?’ reply Farmer Llewellyn. ‘why, she’s be dead

the good part of a year. surely your mother or Hetty tell you that. you

must have forget it, Nell.’



a shade come over the young woman’s laugh face.



‘Old Kitty dead,’ she murmur in a subdue voice. ‘dear old Kitty,

that I use to ride astride when I be in short frock. oh, I _be_

sorry. no one tell I, I be sure. I couldn’t have forget it. I love

old Kitty so well. she be part of home to I.’



‘ah, my girl,’ say her father, ‘if the old mare be the only thing

you’ve forget in Usk you’ve no call to blame yourself. I’ve be

sometimes afraid that your grand way and friend up in London might

make you too fine for panty-cuckoo farm, but it don’t seem so now.

they’ve make a lady of you, Nell; but not too fine a one to forget the

old folk at home. thank God for that! you willn’t look down on your

mother and sister because their way of speak be not so grand as

what you’ve be accustom to hear, nor despise they and the old farm

if we cann’t give you as many luxury as you get in your fine place in

London.’



‘despise they! look down on they!’ echo Nell. ‘oh, dad, you don’t

know what you be talk of. it be London that I hate and despise

and look down upon. it be the people there who be false and cold and

cruel. I want to forget it all. I want to forget I ever go there. I

hate service. it be degrading and despicable, and oh! so lonely to be

far away from home and mother and you. when I hear Hetty speak of you

both I could stand it no long. I be oblige to come straight back to

you all again.’



‘and now we’ve get you we sha’n’t let you go again in a hurry, Nell.

you must stay and be the comfort of our old age. but you have well

be hand round your wine and cake, wife. it’s get on for ten

o’clock, and our friend here have a matter of a couple of mile to

walk to Dale Farm. I’ll have the mare put in the cart in two minute,

farmer, and drive you home myself, if you’ll only say the word.’



‘not for we, sir,’ reply Owen. ‘my missus here like a walk, and as

for the young ’uns it do they good. come on, Hetty. you’ll be main

proud and happy now you’ve get your sister back again, and I expect we

shall have a job to keep you at Dale Farm. there’ll a be message or a

summat for panty-cuckoo most day of the week _I_ know.’



meanwhile Hugh Owen have draw near to Nell Llewellyn.



‘I be glad to find you haven’t quite forget I,’ he say, as he hold

her hand, ‘and I hope you will let I come sometimes and pay you a

visit at panty-cuckoo Farm as I use to do.’



‘why, surely. you be often here with Hetty and will I suppose?’



‘not often. my duty take up so much of my time. but sometimes I

have an hour to spare in the evening, and I shouldn’t like to let our

friendship drop now it have be renew. be you fond of reading?’



‘it depend on what I have to read. I’m not over fond of sermon, such

as you use to give I in the old day, Hugh.’



the young man colour.



‘use I to give you sermon? it must have be very presumptuous of I.

I will promise to give you no more--at least in private. but I have a

very fair library of book, and they be all at your service if you

should require they.’



‘thank you. I will tell you if I should want something to amuse I, but

for the present I shall be too busy help mother, and get my hand

in for dairy and laundry work.’



‘you will never come back to that now. you have grow above it,’

reply the young man, gaze admiringly at her smooth, pallid

complexion and white hand.



‘what do you know about it?’ say Nell curtly. ‘don’t bet against I,

Hugh, or you’ll lose your money. good-night. Mother say you preach out

in the field, and some day I’ll come with she to hear you, just for

old time’ sake. but if you be very prosy I shall walk straight home

again, so I give you fair warning.’



‘only tell I when you’re come, and I’ll not be prosy,’ cry Hugh

eagerly.



the rest of the party have put on their wrap by this time, and be

prepared to start. Hetty wind her arm around her sister’s waist, and

they walk together up the steep incline to the wide, white gate,

where the Dale Farm people join force and set out for home. Nell

stand in the moonlight, gaze after they till they have disappear

round the turning of the road, and then retrace her footstep. as she

find herself alone in the white moonlight, with only the solitude and

the silence, all the force gaiety she have maintain throughout the

evening desert she, and she stagger and catch at the slender trunk

of an apple tree to prevent herself from fall, ‘oh, my God, my God,’

she pray, ‘how shall I bear it?’



her eye be strained to the starry sky; her face look ghastly

in the moonlight; her frame tremble as if she could not support

herself. she might have remain thus for an indefinite time have she

not be rouse by the sound of her mother’s voice call she from the

farm-house door.



‘Nell, my lass, where be you? come in quick; there’s a dear. you will

catch a chill stand out there with nought on.’



she be hunger, poor mother, to take her stray lamb back to her

bosom, and have she all to herself. she have see with concern that Nell

have neither eat nor drank since she have return home, and she fear

the effect of the excitement on her health.



at the sound of her appeal, Nell come slowly down the dell again, and

enter the sitting-room.



‘now, my lass,’ say Mrs Llewellyn, ‘you must just sit down here on

the old settle, and eat and drink a bit. I’m afraid our fare seem

different from what you’ve be accustom to in London; but you’ll

soon relish it again. London folk haven’t the appetite of country

people, so they’re oblige to coax their stomach; but you’ll take this

junket, I’m sure, and a glass of wine, just to please your mother.’



and as she sit she on the settle, and press the dainty on she, Nell

feel constrain to eat they, though they taste like leather in her

mouth.



now that the excitement be over, her white, strained look and hollow

cheek go to her mother’s heart.



‘ay,’ she say complainingly, ‘but you be thin and pale, my lass. I

haven’t have time to see you rightly till now. why, you’re shake like

an aspen. have you be ill, Nell, or be this the effect of London?’



‘no, indeed, I be not ill,’ return Nell, with quivering lip, ‘only

rather tired after my journey, and maybe the excitement of come to

my dear old home. I think I have well go to bed now. I have take you

terribly by surprise; but I’m sure you’ll find a bed for I somewhere,

mother.’



‘find a bed for you, darling!’ say Mrs Llewellyn. ‘why, your father

and I would turn out of our own soon than you shouldn’t lie easy the

first night you come back to we. but your own room be ready for you,

Nell. no one have sleep in it since you go away,--not even Hetty--and

Martha have be set it to right for you all the evening. will you

come to it now, my dear, for you look ready to drop with fatigue?’



Nell be only too glad to accept the offer, and Mrs Llewellyn conduct

her upstairs, and undress she, and put she to bed with all the

tenderness and solicitude she have show in perform the same office

when she be a little child.



be there ever a time when a mother cease to regard the creature

she have bring into the world as other than a child? he may be a

bearded man, the father of a family, or the hero of a nation--or she

may be a weary and harassed woman, full of care and anxiety; but

to their mother they be always child, to be look after, love

and care for. there be no position in which maternal love shine

more brightly than when the infant she have nourish at her breast be

return upon her hand, a man or woman, perhaps in middle age, but

weak, ill, helpless, and require a mother’s care. she may mourn over

the necessity, but how she revel in have her baby back again, as

dependent on she as when he or she have not yet begin to walk! who would

nurse he and watch he, and know neither fatigue or privation for his

sake as she can do? happy those who have a mother to fly to when they

be ill or miserable!



Mrs Llewellyn smooth out Nell’s luxuriant braid of hair, revel

in their beauty, and put she own good night-dress on she, and lay

she between the snow-white sheet as if she have be four year old,

instead of four-and-twenty. but this latter necessity bring an

awkward question in its train. where have Nell leave her own thing? have

she bring they with she and deposit they at the railway station, or

be they to follow she from London?



at first the girl be silent. she do not know what to say. the

awkwardness of the situation have not strike she before. her face

blanch still pale, and her mother see she have introduce an

embarrassing subject. Nell have turn round on her pillow and hide

her face from view.



‘never mind think about it to-night, my dear,’ say Mrs Llewellyn

kindly; ‘you’re too tired. try and go to sleep, Nell, and you can tell

I everything to-morrow.’



‘yes,’ murmur Nell, with her face still hide, ‘you shall hear all

about it to-morrow. I have no box with I, mother. I--I get into a

little scrape--debt, you know--and I have to part with my clothe. you

willn’t be angry with I?’



‘angry with you, my dear? don’t get any foolish notion like that into

your head. if you sell your thing to pay your debt, it be an honest

thing to do, and we’d be the last, father and I, to blame you for it.

and we’ve get enough money in the stocking to buy you more. so set your

mind at rest about that, my girl, and now go to sleep and wake bright

to-morrow.’



she kiss her daughter as she speak, and go back to the parlour to

rejoin her husband. but the first word the farmer utter fan

the little breath of suspicion which she have entertain about Nell’s

sudden come home into a flame.



‘well, how be she?’ demand Llewellyn, as his wife enter the parlour.



‘oh, well enough, Griffith,’ she reply; ‘very tired, as you may have

see, and a bit inclined to be hysterical, but that’ll all wear off by

to-morrow.’



‘I hope it may,’ say the farmer; ‘but I don’t quite understand why

she come home without give we the least warning. it seem queer now,

don’t it? here be the girl in a first-class place, draw big wage,

as Hetty say she must from the lavish way in which she spend money

whilst they be in town, and without word or warning she chuck it all

up and rush home to we.’



‘well, father, you wouldn’t be the one to blame she for that, surely?’



‘not I, if she’d do it in a decent way. haven’t I ask she a dozen

time since she leave we to come home if she feel inclined? but big

situation ain’t throw up in that way, Mary. servant have to give

a month’s notice before they leave. have she leave Lord Ilfracombe’s

service before he have get someone to fill her place? there’s something

I don’t understand about it all, and I wish Nell have come back in a

more regular manner. where’s her box and thing? have she leave they in

London, or bring they with she? and if so, why don’t she bring they

on in Johnson’s fly, or ask I to send Bob with the cart to fetch they?’



at this query Mrs Llewellyn almost begin to cry.



‘oh, Griffith, my man, you mustn’t be hard on the lass, but she haven’t

get anything with she. no box, nor nothing--only the clothe she stand

upright in. she have just tell I so.’



‘what, from a situation like Lord Ilfracombe’s!’ exclaim the farmer.

‘what have she do with they then? there’s some mystery about all this

that I don’t like, Mary, and I mean to get to the bottom of it.’



‘there’s no mystery, Griffith, only a misfortune. Nell have tell

I all about it. I think she must have spend more than she could

afford--perhaps on her sister when she be in London--any way our Nell

get in debt, and sell her thing to pay it. it be very unfortunate,

but it be honourable, you see. and she be but a girl after all.

we mustn’t judge she too hardly. she don’t know how much she owe

perhaps, or she think she’d make it up from her wage, and then this

marriage take place, and she leave and find herself in a fix. it seem

very plain to I.’



‘but why should she leave when his lordship get marry? he’ll want a

housekeeper just the same. and likely would have raise Nell’s wage.

it be the very time for she to stay on.’



‘ah, well, father, she long to see we all again. you hear the dear

lass say so, and you’d be the last to blame she for that, I’m sure.’



‘of course,’ reply her husband, ‘no one be well pleased to have

the girl back than I be, but I wish it have be all straight and above

board, and with no mystery about it. for I’d lie my life you haven’t

get at the bottom of it yet, wife, nor ever will if the jade don’t mean

you to. you don’t know the trick they learn they up in London. well,

now she’s come back, she stay. I willn’t have no more London, and no

more mystery. she’s welcome back as the flower in May, but I wish

she’d tell the whole truth about it.’









                              CHAPTER IX.





Nell sleep only by snatch through that night, and wake the next

morning with a heart of lead in her bosom. she have be so long

unused to country sight and sound, that she open her eye with

the first gleam of sunshine that stream through her window. the

air be so pure, and the surrounding so peaceful, that she could

hear the gardener whet their scythe in Sir Archibald Bowmant’s

ground, and the milker whistle, or talk to each other, as they

take their way to the cowshed. a lark be execute his wonderful,

untaught trill far up somewhere in the blue heaven, and the farmyard

chorus have commence to tune up--hen cluck, duck quack, pig

grunt, and cow lowing, as they ask to be deliver of their

burden of milk. the honeysuckle and rose, which clamber outside

her window and tap against the pane, be fill the morning air

with their fragrance; the dew-laden grass send forth a sweet, faint

odour; the smell of ripen fruit and ripen vegetable permeate

the air. these be the thing of which Nell have dream in her town

life with intense longing; which she have sicken to see and hear

again; the re-enjoyment of which, she have believe would prove the

panacea for every pain, the cure for every trouble. and now they be

all before she in their full beauty, and she turn her face from

they and hide it on her pillow. the innocent sight and sound make she

tremble and turn faint with despair. they be no long for she; she

have outgrow they. the simple taste of her childhood mock she as

she lie there--a deceiver, a pretender, an act lie in her father’s

household. Nell have keep back the truth for year, but she have never

pervert it before--stoop to falsehood to hide her shame, deceive

her father and her mother, and come back to take her place amongst

they as a pure woman, when she know herself to be no long pure. the

very thing which she have believe would be her balm have prove she

bane. the very daisy and buttercup rise up in judgment against she,

until she feel herself unworthy even to pluck the flower of the field.

these thought so depress she, that she rise in a melancholy mood,

that quite preclude her keep up the farce of gaiety which she have

play the night before. she appear at the breakfast-table so pale

and heavy-eyed and languid, that her father gaze at she with surprise,

and her mother, in pity for her look, try to divert her husband’s

attention from they as much as possible by talk of Hetty and their

acquaintance in Usk. the conversation come round in time to their

landlord, Sir Archibald Bowmant.



‘be the family at home, mother?’ ask Nell. ‘I could hear the man

mow the lawn distinctly from my window this morning, and I fancy

I could smell the scent from those huge mound of heliotrope they

use to have in front of the dining-room window. I have never see

heliotrope grow in such profusion anywhere else.’



‘no, my girl, there’s nobody there, nor likely to be till the summer be

well over. Sir Archibald be our landlord, and a liberal one, so we’ve

no call to say anything against he, and perhaps it’s no business of

our, but he be a very different gentleman since he marry again. the

first Lady Bowmant be a good woman, and though I suppose Sir Archibald

be always inclined to be wild, she keep he straight as you may say.

but since his second marriage, well, Usk Hall be not the same place.’



‘how be it alter?’ say Nell, try to take a languid interest in

her mother’s conversation.



‘oh, in everything, my dear. in _my_ lady’s time (I always call she

_my_ lady, you know, Nell, on account of my having be her maid

before her marriage) the family use to go to church regularly every

Sunday; he and she in their carriage, and as many servant as could

be spare follow they up the aisle. but now their pew’s empty from

week’s end to week’s end. of course, if the master and mistress don’t

attend church, the servant cann’t be expect to do so. and I doubt if

they’d have the time, for they seem to be keep work more on sunday

than on any other day in the week.’



‘how be that, mother?’



‘they keep such a heap of company, my dear, and when they’re not

tear over the country on horseback, they’re play card all day.

James Powell, the under footman, say it’s something awful--like hell

open, be his word. they begin the first thing after breakfast, and

then it’s gamble and swearing, and brandy and soda, till night.

my lady seem to think nothing of it. she have a lot of brother, and I

suppose she be bring up amongst it all. she drive a tandem, and

have nearly kill several people by her fast driving--she _do_ run

over Betsy Rigden’s little girl one day; but it ben’t much hurt, and

Sir Archibald send Betsy a ten-pound note, so nothing more be say

about it; but, to my mind, it ben’t decent that just as sober people

be on their way to church, my lady should come tear down the road

in her tandem, with some young gentleman by her side, and both laugh

so loud you might hear they half a mile off. ah, it’s a very different

house to what it use to be.’



‘but they’re not at home now, you say.’



‘no, my lass, nor willn’t be till October or thereabout, and then they

will keep it up till it’s time to go back to London, or off to some of

those foreign place Sir Archibald be so fond of, and where, I hear,

they do nothing but gamble. it’s a dreadful habit for they to have get

into. I never think at one time that I should have live to see Sir

Archibald the bad for liquor, but I’m sorry to say I have, more than

once. however, as I say before, he’s be a good landlord to father

there, so we’re the last as should speak against he. he fill my two

room every autumn, and far into spring; and if I have six I could let

they to he. last year he come to ask I to let he have the whole

farmhouse, and find bed for ourselves elsewhere, and he would have

make it worth our while to, but I tell he it couldn’t be. I couldn’t

sleep away from my dairy and bakehouse; nothing would go right if I

ben’t on the spot.’



‘do you go to church still, mother, or to chapel?’ ask her daughter.



‘why, to church, Nell, of course. what make you think we should change

our religion? you go to church too, I hope?’



Nell waive the question.



‘only because of Hugh Owen,’ she say. ‘you speak so well of his

preaching, that I think you might have go over to the Dissenters.’



‘no, no, my lass. no go over for we. Father and I be bear and

breed church people, and we’ll be bury as such, eh, father?’



‘why, certainly,’ reply the farmer. ‘I never hold with chop and

change. live as you’ve be breed. that’s my motto.’



‘of course the Owens have always be dissenter,’ continue Mrs

Llewellyn, ‘so I would never say anything against Hetty go to chapel

with her husband, for where he go it’s her duty to follow; but we

only go to hear Hugh preach for friendship’s sake. but there, it be

beautiful and no mistake. the word seem to come flow out of his

mouth like milk and honey. they say as Mr Johnson, the curate, be quite

jealous of the way that Hugh draw his congregation away to chapel. you

must come with I and hear he one evening, Nell. it’s mostly Wednesday

evening that he take the open-air service in Mr Tasker’s field. he

stand on a high bench, and the people crowd round to hear he. he

seem to speak so much from his heart. I’m sure if there be one woman

cry, last Wednesday, there be a dozen.’



‘include Mrs Llewellyn,’ remark the farmer, as he rise from table,

and shake the crumb from his coat.



‘well, I don’t deny it, and I’m not ashamed of it,’ reply his wife,

‘Nell will cry too, maybe, when she hear her old sweetheart talk. it’s

not much of a match for Hetty, Nell--not such a match as I hope to see

_you_ make some day, my girl--but they’re good people, the Owens, and

she’s safe under their care.’



‘and what do you want more?’ demand the farmer. ‘it’s far well than

if she’d marry some half-and-half fellow, who’d have bring she down

to poverty, or bad. all I want for my girl be respectable husband,

man as will stick to they and work for they, not fashionable popinjay

that would give ’em fine clothe and fine word for awhile, and then

maybe desert ’em for another woman. you have well make a lot of Will

Owen, wife, for you willn’t get another son-in-law as good as he in a

hurry.’



with which Mr Llewellyn take his thick, crabthorn walking-stick, and

go on his way.



‘Lor’,’ say his wife, as he disappear, ‘the way father do stick up

for the Owens be wonderful. not that I’ve a word to say against they,

but I should have look high for Hetty myself. William be a good

lad, but not more than a labourer on his father’s farm, and John Nelson

at the post-office propose twice for she, but she wouldn’t look at

he, though he make three hundred a year in hard cash. but I willn’t

hear of any farm-hand for you, Nell. you’ve get the look to make a

good marriage, my girl, and I hope you’ll make it. you’re rather peaky

now, and your eye be sink and dark underneath. I shouldn’t wonder

if your liver ben’t out of order, but country fare and air will soon

set you right again, and then there willn’t be a pretty girl for mile

round. it be time you come back to we, for you’d have lose all your

good look if you’d remain in London much long.’



Nell have listen to this lengthy discourse almost in silence. she have

be think all the time, ‘oh, if they know--if they only know!’ she

have try to pull herself together several time, and laugh and chat

as she have do the night before, but she have find it impossible. it

be as if some weight have be attach to all her mental power and

drag they down. she have a horrible feeling that if she speak at

all she should blurt out the truth and tell they everything. so she

remain silent and miserable, wish that she have never come back to

Usk, but be drown in the deep bosom of the Thames.



‘I’m afraid you’ve get a bit of a headache still, my dear,’ remark

her voluble mother, as she rise from the breakfast-table, ‘and so I

willn’t ask you to come round the dairy with I this morning. you’d

rather rest on the sofa and read a book, I daresay?’



‘no, no,’ cry Nell, rouse herself, ‘I’d rather go where you go,

mother. I should go mad--I mean, I should feel my headache much more

sit here by myself. let I come and see all over the dear old house

with you. it will do I good--I must keep stir, or I shall feel

thing--my headache, so much bad for thinking of it.’



so she make a great effort, and follow her mother on her various

vocation, and make the dairymaid open their eye to hear the

refinement of her speech and to see her graceful movement and the

daintiness with which her clothe be make and wear. have they but

be able to read her mind they would have see with amazement that

she shrink from contact with they, because her dread secret be eat

into her very soul and make she feel unfit to associate with her

fellow-man. she have only realise the truth, and what her love for Lord

Ilfracombe have make she, by fit and start in London, but here, in the

heart of God’s country, it be bear in upon she to such an extent that

she feel as if every innocent animal, and fresh, modest, wild blossom

must proclaim it to the world. so she go moodily about the farmhouse

all day, and her mother believe that she be ill, and ransack she

brain to think of a remedy for she. in the evening, as they be all

sit quietly together (for Mrs Llewellyn have be ask her husband

for some money to get Nell a new outfit, which have recall to his mind

the impoverished condition in which his daughter have return home),

who should walk in amongst they, to the general surprise, but Hugh

Owen. he look rather conscious as he enter the room, but excuse

his visit on the score of ask how Nell have bear her journey, and to

bring she a book which he think she might like to read.



‘you need no excuse for come to panty-cuckoo Farm, my lad!’

exclaim the farmer; ‘you’re always welcome here. what’s the day?

Tuesday? ah, then to-morrow’s the grand field-night, which account for

your have the time to come over this evening.’



the young man blush, and look at Nell.



‘yes,’ he answer, ‘to-morrow be my field night, as you call it,

farmer. I hope it may prove a harvest field.’



‘now, just tell I how you do it, lad,’ say the old man. ‘do you lie

awake of night, and make up all you’re go to say, or do you wait

till the people be before you, and then just tell ’em what’s in your

mind? I’m curious to know, for your flow of word be wonderful, and I

cann’t understand how any man can talk for two mortal hour as you do

last Wednesday, unless he’s store it all up beforehand. it beat I

altogether. I never hear the like before.’



he have get Hugh astride his hobby, and the young man find his tongue

at once.



‘oh, Mr Llewellyn, if you love the people as I do, you would find it

quite as easy as talk to your family at home. I do think of what I

wish to say to they; sometimes the thought walk with I, as you might

say, all day long; but I seldom use the word I’ve be dream of. I

go to the spot with my mind full of some set speech, but when I see

the people who wait for I--all of they old neighbour or child whom

I’ve see grow up amongst we--and most of they dear friend, I feel as

if my very soul go out to meet they, yearn to gather they all safe

into the fold. the word in which to warn and entreat they come too

quick then to my lip for utterance, and sometimes I’ve have to swallow

down my sob before I could find a voice with which to speak. the

difficulty be _not_ to speak, Mr Llewellyn. the hard part be to keep

silence, when one see so many whom one love live for nothing but to

eat and to drink, and as if there be no God in the world.’



the farmer and his wife have be regard Hugh Owen during this speech

with open-eyed amazement--Nell, with a scared look, half fear and half

annoyance.



‘eh, lad,’ say Mr Llewellyn, ‘but it’s a rare gift, and you’ve get it,

there’s no doubt of that. but as for live to eat and drink, we must

do it, or we shouldn’t live at all, and we do it for other as well as

ourselves. what would become of my missus there, and Nell now for the

matter of that, if I don’t see after the ploughing and reaping, and

wife after the dairy and the bakehouse. we’d all be dead of starvation

by the end of the year if I take to preach in the field like you,

instead of farm they.’



‘indeed, yes, Mr Llewellyn, you quite mistake if you think I consider

it part of religion to neglect the work we have be give to do. but

we can live to God and do our duty at one and the same time. it seem

so difficult to I,’ continue the young enthusiast, as he fling his

hair off his brow, and lift his dark eye to Nell’s face, ‘to live in

the country, surround by God’s work, and _not_ remember he. why,

a countryside like Usk be a continual church-going. every leafy tree

be a cathedral--the flowery meadow be altar carpet--each wild bird

singing in its thankfulness a chorister. God’s face be reflect in the

least of his work. how can we look at they and forget he?’



‘ay, ay, my lad,’ respond the farmer, as with a glance at his wife,

as much as to say, ‘he’s as mad as a March hare,’ he rise to quit the

house for the stable.



Hugh direct his attention more particularly to Nell.



‘I hope I haven’t worry you,’ he say sweetly. ‘I do not often

introduce these subject into my ordinary conversation, but your father

draw I on before I be quite aware of it. I have bring you a book

to read, which cannot fail to interest you, Livingstone’s Travels in

Africa. have you see it yet?’



she take the volume listlessly, and answer ‘no.’



‘how I should love to travel amongst those wild tribe,’ continue

Hugh enthusiastically; ‘to make friend with they, and bring they to

a knowledge of the truth. the fauna and the flora, too, of strange

climate, how interesting they must be. to have undertake such a

journey--to have leave such a record behind one--would almost satisfy

the ambition of a lifetime.’



‘you should be a missionary,’ say Nell; ‘you be cut out for it.’



‘do you really think so, that I could be worthy of so high a vocation?

I have sometimes think of it, but always shrunk back from so great a

responsibility.’



‘you seem fond of sacrifice,’ say Nell, half mockingly; ‘you be

talk of make they just now. you would have plenty then. you would

have to leave your parent and brother and sister, perhaps for ever;

and be eat up by a lion or your interesting cannibal instead.’



‘yes, yes, it would be hard,’ he answer, ignore, or not perceive

the joke spirit in which she treat the idea, ‘and hard now than

it have ever seem before; but the prospect will be always before I,

to my life’s end, as something that may come to pass, if I find no

high duty to keep I at home. but I be tire you perhaps. you

have not yet recover from your long journey, Nell--if I may call you

so--your eye look weary, and your hand tremble. be you sure you be

quite well?’



‘yes, yes, perfectly so, only fatigued, as you surmise, and in need of

fresh air. all Londoners be oblige, as a rule, to leave town after

the hot season, you know, in order to recruit. I shall be all right

when I have spend a few week in Usk.’



‘and then I hope you will cease to speak or think of yourself as a

Londoner. I have never be there, but I have hear it be full of

temptation to frivolity and careless living, and that it be difficult

to keep close to God in London. tell I something of your life there,

Nell. have you liberty to go to church whenever you choose, and do you

hear any fine preacher, such as Dr Liddon and Dr Irons? do you ever

go amongst the poor--the poor who live in alley and back slum, or do

your employer disapprove of your visit such?’



‘I know nothing--I mean, I can tell you nothing,’ cry Nell, suddenly

rise to her foot. ‘I be weary. I must go to my own room. it will take

I day to recover the fatigue I have go through. good-night. don’t

think I rude, but I cannot talk to you of such thing now.’



and with a curt nod Nell go off in search of her mother, leave

he alone, and somewhat disconcert at the abrupt ending of their

conversation. Mrs Llewellyn be almost as puzzled as Hugh Owen at her

daughter’s strange behaviour. she could not understand she. the next

day drag itself disappointingly away. Nell continue in the same

passive, indifferent disposition, and when some neighbour, who have

hear of her return home, call at panty-cuckoo farm expressly to

welcome she, she lock herself into her bedroom, and refuse even to

answer Mrs Llewellyn’s entreaty that she would make an effort to come

down and see they. towards evening, however, she become feverishly

excitable again, and seem impatient to find some vent for it.



‘what can we do, mother?’ she exclaim as they rise from the

tea-table. ‘ben’t this the night for Hugh Owen’s preaching? let’s go

and hear he. it’ll make I scream with laughter to see old Hugh stick

up as a minister.’



‘ay, but, dearie, you mustn’t laugh when you get there, or there will

be a scandal, and poor Hugh will be main hurt. besides, you have well

rest in the garden; the field’s more than a mile off, and I’m afraid

you’ll feel tired before you get there.’



‘not a bit of it,’ cry the girl. ‘I’m just in the humour for walk

this evening, mother. I couldn’t remain in the garden; it’s too slow,

so, if you don’t want to hear Hugh, I’ll go by myself.’



‘oh, no, you don’t do that,’ reply Mrs Llewellyn hastily. ‘I’m too

proud of get my handsome daughter back again after so many year to

let she go tramp over Usk by herself the first day she be at home.

the Owens be sure to be there, and Hetty will be main glad to see we.

so put on your hat, Nell, and we’ll be off. I wish you’d something a

bit smart to wear than that big black thing; however, I cann’t deny

but it suit you all the same.’



so chattering, the old woman trot off by her tall daughter’s side,

until they have reach Mr Tasker’s field. the open-air service have

commence some time when they arrive there. the thirty or forty people

assemble have sing several hymn and listen to Hugh Owen’s earnest

prayer, and be now engross by his address. the young preacher stand

upon a bench, his long hair wave in the summer breeze; his eye fix

upon his small congregation, and his arm stretch out as though to

embrace they. he be not so enrapt, though, but that he perceive the

approach of Nell and her mother, who take up their stand on the outside

of the little group. his pale cheek glow for a moment, and his heart

beat more rapidly, but he soon subdue these feeling and throw his

soul once more into the work he have appoint himself to do. he pause

for one instant to recover his equanimity, and then proceed with his

discourse.



‘what be the great evil of this world, my friend?’ he say. ‘what be

the great sin we sin against each other and ourselves? the sin

of deceit. we deceive each other in trading--even the small grain

of cheating, be it the quarter of a quarter of an ounce less in the

scale than it should be, be as great a robbery in God’s eye; as

great a wrong to our neighbour; as great a wrong to ourselves, as if

it have be a hundredweight! we deceive each other in religion. we

go to church or chapel because other do, and other would think we

irreligious if we neglect to do so, but we do not tell our neighbour

this. we profess that we attend service for the love of God--because we

could not be happy without attend; because the duty be a comfort and

a delight to we. can any duty so fulfil bring any blessing in its

train? and many of we be live lie! this seem a hard judgment, but

look into your own heart and say if it be not true! which of you show

yourself in your true light to the world? your small meanness--your

hasty temper--your neglected duty--your backbiting--you put

they all aside in public, and let your neighbour think you good

mistress; kind wife and husband; liberal parent, and faithful

friend. but do you imagine you can deceive God--the God of truth,

who hate a lie--from whose heaven, we be tell, all liar shall be

exclude? how many of you now before I could enter that heaven to-day?

how many be there who, if their real character be know--if their

secret sin be lay bare--would be receive with the love and respect

which you all accept as your due? many a pure and beautiful outside

conceal a deceitful soul--many an apparently innocent face be the mask

for a guilty conscience; but you cannot deceive your God; he know

every sin you have commit--every wrong thought you have entertain.

be it not strange that what you be not afraid to let your God know

you have do, you would not have your neighbour find out for all the

world! but which be well, to be reject of man to-day or of God in

the day to come?--to endure a little scorn and contumely now, in a

life which can only last at the good for a few year, or to be shut

out from God’s love for ever? think, my dear friend, of what his

love _for ever_ mean! for ever and for ever and for ever!--without

sorrow, or sickness, or sin--wrap in the arm of his boundless mercy

and protection for all time, and then compare it with the paltry gain

of keep the good opinion of your neighbour here below--one, who

probably (if the truth be know) have sin in like proportion with

yourself! if I could only make you realise what God’s love be like,

you would, in order to gain it, throw all earthly consideration to the

wind and think of he and of he only! he love you as no mortal man

can ever love you, and he hate a liar. he have say he will have none

of they--that if man will not confess their sin before the world, he

will not number they with his elect in heaven; and this confessing

includes--’



but here Hugh Owen’s discourse be interrupt by a shrill scream, as

Nell Llewellyn fall back in her mother’s arm in a fit of violent

hysteric. of course everyone present (who have be long for the

address to be conclude, that they might renew their acquaintance

with she) rush forward simultaneously to offer their advice, or

assistance. but Nell shrink from they all alike, as she try to quell

the distressing cry that rise involuntarily from she, in her mother’s

bosom.



‘just stand aside a bit and let the poor lass have air,’ say Mrs

Llewellyn. ‘she’s so weak and faint after that nasty London, that the

walk’s be too much for she. I be afraid it might be, but she be so

bent on hear Hugh Owen preach! there! Nell--there, my lass! try and

control yourself, do! lean on I, and we’ll go slowly home again. I’m

main sorry we’ve interrupt your discourse, Hugh, but I hope you’ll go

on now all the same! and you must forgive poor Nell! it’s all because

she’s so weak and upset like.’



‘I’m sorry she come this evening,’ reply Hugh, who be the picture

of distress, ‘but let I take she, Mrs Llewellyn, I be strong than

you be and Nell can lean as hard as she like, on I!’



but Nell turn her head away, and at this juncture, one of the

neighbour, who live close by, return with a little chaise draw by

a ragged pony, which he have be to fetch, and put Nell and her

mother in it, he drive they home; and Mrs Llewellyn’s whole care be

then direct to get her daughter into bed, where she trust she

would sleep and recuperate her exhausted strength. but creep up an

hour afterwards to see how she be go on, she find she so ill that

she send for the village doctor, who pronounce she to be in a very

critical condition, and before another twelve hour be over her head,

Nell be rave in the delirium of a nervous fever.









                               CHAPTER X.





Lord and Lady Ilfracombe have a pleasant time, yacht in the

Mediterranean. the weather be perfect; their companion, Captain

Knyvett and Mr Castelton, whom they have invite to accompany they,

prove to be agreeable and entertaining; and the _débutante_ be as

luxurious a little vessel as can well be imagine. Nora, who be the

only lady on board, fascinate the whole crew, gentleman and sailor

alike. without be in the least masculine, she be as energetic and

as much to the fore as any man aboard. she do not suffer from _mal de

mer_, and have no feminine fad, fancy, or fear. she never fail to

appear at the breakfast-table, or to sit up playing card, or singe

song to her banjo, till the most wakeful among they be ready to turn

in. she sit on deck in all weather, even when they encounter a

sharp squall and a downpour of rain. Lady Ilfracombe say she prefer

the open air to the saloon cabin, and have her wicker chair lash to

the mast, and sit there, envelop in her husband’s rough great coat

and her own spicy little naval cap with a peaked brim, encourage

the effort of the sailor, and chat with her friend, as if she

do not know the name of danger. she be always lively, interested,

and good-temper, and a general favourite with everybody. and yet

the earl, although he admire and be proud of his wife, do not feel

so happy in her possession as he have hope to do. Nora’s disposition

have not alter with marriage. what woman’s ever do? the prudence

or coldness which have induce she to refuse her lover, a kiss or an

embrace before marriage, extend in a great measure to her behaviour

to her husband. ilfracombe, like many another man in the same position,

have imagine her coolness to be due to maidenly reserve, and think

that it would all disappear with wifehood. the great mistake man

ever make. of matrimony, it might be write, as the term on which

we be suppose to enter heaven be write of in the Bible, ‘let the

flirt be a flirt still, and the prude be a prude still.’ marriage be

far more likely to cool the ardent, than to warm the cold. and the

Countess of Ilfracombe have prove the truth of it. she do not actually

repulse her bridegroom, but she only permit his attention--she

never return they. the earl be more in love with she than ever he

have be, perhaps for this very reason, but he could not help wish

sometimes, with a sigh of disappointment, that she would put her arm

round his neck of her own accord, and press her lip to his, with

some little show of passion. perhaps at such moment a memory would

come to he, of a perfect mouth that have be use to cling to his

with unconcealed rapture, and a pair of white arm that would hold

he so closely, that he would unlock they by force, and tell their

owner jestingly, that she would squeeze he to death if she do not

take great care. he have enjoy these thing until he have weary

of they, accord to the manner of man, and now-- he almost think

sometimes that Nora be cold and more distant to he than she have

be before marriage, but that seem an impossibility. she preserve

the propriety in public with the great care, be always courteous,

and even respectful to he, before company--listen quietly whilst he

speak, and defer to his opinion in everything. but when they be

alone, she be just as courteous, that be all; and if he press his

attention on she, be apt to show the least sign of peevishness, or

weariness, or sudden illness, which never exhibit itself on other

occasion. but man in the flush of a new love be satisfied with

very little, and Nora’s indifference only serve to keep the flame

bright and burning. one day, as she be recline in her wicker chair,

surround by her court, she give vent to the wish that they have

bring her favourite sister, Susie, with they, as she be sure she

would have enjoy herself so much.



‘I wish we have,’ acquiesce Ilfracombe heartily. ‘and I wish I have

bring my old chum, Jack Portland, with I too! I invite he to

come out with I on the _débutante_, but that would have entail his

miss the Derby, and I don’t believe Jack would enter heaven, if he

have the chance, if the Derby have yet to be run!’



‘ay! _if_ he have the chance--which I much doubt he ever will have,’

laugh Captain Knyvett.



‘Jack--who?’ demand Nora.



‘Jack Portland, my darling,’ reply her husband, ‘I must have

mention he to you, surely! he’s one of my great friend, we’ve

be a lot together, on the turf and elsewhere. Jack’s one of the most

reliable prophet I ever come across. he can always give a fellow the

straight tip, and he’s marvellously correct; ben’t he, Castelton?’



‘oh, yes, very good, when he like,’ acquiesce that gentleman.



‘oh, come Castelton, that’s not fair,’ cry the earl; ‘old Jack’s

always ready to oblige a chum, and I never know he to make a wrong un.

I know he’s win I pot of money, over and over again!’



‘and lose they for you too, Ilfracombe,’ reply Mr Castelton.



‘be we likely to see much of this immaculate be on our return to

England?’ inquire the countess in a rather tart tone. ‘he do not

appear to I to be a very desirable acquaintance.’



‘oh, my darling, you be quite mistaken,’ exclaim Ilfracombe. ‘poor

old Jack be the well-natured fellow in the world. I be sure you will

like he immensely. you mustn’t think that he obtrude his sporting

proclivity on the drawing-room. no man know well how to behave

in the company of lady than Jack Portland--indeed, he have rather a

character for like their society too much. see the mischief you have

do, Castelton! you have make my wife’s lip curl at the mere idea of

our sporting friend.’



‘indeed, Mr Castelton have do nothing of the sort, Ilfracombe, for, as

it happen, I already know Mr Portland, though I have no idea he be one

of your friend.’



‘you know Jack Portland!’ cry the earl with unaffected surprise.

‘where on earth do you meet he, and why have you not speak of he

to I before?’



‘to answer your last question first, Ilfracombe, simply because the

subject be not sufficiently interesting to recall itself to my mind.

and as for where I meet he, it be of course in Malta, where, as you

know, I have vegetate for the good part of my life!’



‘in Malta?’ echo the earl; ‘why, of course Jack have be there. it

never occur to I before, but it be his recommendation of the place

that take I there. so I may almost say that I owe the happiness of

meet you to he. let I see! how long be it ago? two year?’



‘there or thereabout,’ say Nora indifferently.



‘and do you not like he, Nora? do you not think he a very charming

man?’



the countess shrug her shoulder.



‘be I to tell you the truth, or to bow to the fact that Mr Portland be

one of your great friend, ilfracombe?’ she reply.



‘the truth, of course, darling. I can hardly expect you to see

everybody with the same eye as myself; but I cannot imagine anybody,

and especially any woman, dislike old Jack.’



‘then I’m the odd man out,’ say his wife, with a _moue_.



‘really. what do he do to offend you? I’m sure he must have fall in

love with you; but you have experience that sort of thing too often to

make it a cause of offence.’



‘be it necessary for a person to actually affront you in order to

create a dislike? I don’t think I see enough of Mr Portland to do he

that honour. he stay, if I remember rightly, with Captain and Mrs

Loveless, in the dockyard, and they bring he to see my mother. he

be a tall, broad-shoulder fellow, be he not, with blue eye and

reddish hair? well, he strike I as horsey decidedly; and, perhaps,

that be the reason I don’t cotton to he. but, pray, don’t imagine,

Ilfracombe, that I be go to make myself disagreeable to any friend

of your. it be only that I be indifferent to he. my welcome will be

just in proportion to your wish.’



‘my dear girl, I be sure of that, and when you know he well,

you will like he as much as I do. he’s rattle good fun; ben’t he,

Castelton?’



‘yes, accord to our idea, perhaps, Ilfracombe, but he might not

suit a lady as well. Jack have drink rather more than he ought to have

do of late year, and spoil his beauty in consequence. else he use

to be one of the handsome fellow on the turf.’



‘be it necessary to talk about Mr Portland any long?’ demand the

countess, with a yawn behind her hand. ‘Captain Knyvett, do fetch the

card from the saloon, and let we have a game. we’ve be fool all

the afternoon away. it be time we exercise our brain a little.’



‘what a strange thing it seem,’ say Ilfracombe afterwards to

Castelton, as they be smoke together on the poop, ‘that man

and woman see with such different eye! I should have think Jack

Portland would have be an universal favourite with the beau sexe.

he’s a fine, manly, good-look chap, with any amount of brain; and

yet Lady Ilfracombe, who really admire our sex more than her own--a

regular man’s woman she be, as any man, I think, would admit--can’t see

anything, apparently, to like in he. it be incredible to I! I shall

make a point of bring they together as soon as we be settle at

thistlemere.’



‘Lady Ilfracombe be so thoroughly charming in every respect,’ reply

Castelton, with admirable tact, ‘that I should feel inclined to trust

her judgment before my own. it be not at all necessary that a man and

his wife should have the same friend, or so I take it. that would

entail a great deal of irksome duty on your part, pay to woman whom,

perhaps, you do not like. Mr Jack Portland be bind to get his full

due from so perfect a hostess as Lady Ilfracombe, without thrust

his company continually on she. and between ourselves, old fellow, I

really think his conversation and idea be more fit for the stable

than the drawing-room.’



‘no, no! I willn’t have you say that,’ cry the loyal earl. ‘Jack’s

a gentleman, and no man can be more. my wife will learn to like he

for my sake. Castelton, old chap! why don’t you get marry? it’s the

lovely experience in the world. don’t believe all the humbug people

talk on the subject. only try it, and you’ll agree with I.’



‘perhaps I might and perhaps I mightn’t, my boy,’ reply his

companion. ‘I expect matrimony depend a great deal on the woman, and

we cann’t all expect to draw a prize. you’ve draw the lucky number,

Ilfracombe, and I might get a blank; so rest satisfied with your _coup

de main_, and don’t persuade your friend to come a cropper in hope

of clear the thorny fence as you have. but I congratulate you, old

fellow. I never see a man so spooney in all my life; and it must really

be a delicious sensation when the object be your own wife, and not that

of some other man. by the way, now we be quite alone, may I ask you

what have become of Miss Llewellyn?’



the earl look round to see what his wife be do before he reply,

in a low tone,--



‘oh! that’s all right, old boy. I’ve pension she off handsomely, and

she have go back to her friend.’



Castelton open his eye.



‘really! I shouldn’t have think she be that sort of woman.’



‘what do you mean by “that sort of woman”?’



‘no offence, old chappie, be sure of that. no one admire she more than

I do. I think she be, without exception, the most beautiful creature

I ever see, and as good as she be beautiful. but I fancy she be too

much attach to you to accept a pension.’



‘oh, as to that,’ say the earl, rather shamefacedly, ‘she must be

provide for. I wouldn’t hear of anything else. you see, Castelton, you

mustn’t think I a brute; but it be on the card that soon or later

I should marry. my uncle be always at I about the necessity of an

heir, and all that sort of thing; and I suppose it be the penalty of

inherit a title, that one must think of carry it on. you know I

be fond of the woman--very fond, at one time--so be she of I, but

it have go on long enough. Sterndale have manage the business for I.

I don’t know that I should have have enough nerve to do it for myself.

but it’s all happily end by this time, and I’m go to give up such

frivolity for the future!’



‘of course, of course--naturally,’ say his friend.



but when Lord Ilfracombe meet his wife in the sanctity of their

state-cabin, he allude again to the subject of Jack Portland.



‘it’s the most extraordinary thing in the world to I, Nora,’ he

commence, ‘that Jack have not tell I that he meet you in Malta. for I

have have two letter from he since our marriage.’



‘most likely he do not remember my name,’ reply Nora; ‘I be hardly

out of the nursery then, remember!’



‘what! at eighteen? nonsense! you be not a woman for a man to see and

forget. he have never say that he meet your father. and that you should

have never speak his name, beat I altogether.’



‘why, you never mention he yourself till to-day,’ she retort.

‘consider he be such an intimate friend of your, be that not more

wonderful than the other?’



‘oh, I know such lot of man!’



‘so do I,’ say Nora.



she be sit on the side of the bed as she speak, nurse her knee

and look her husband straight in the face.



‘you talk like a fool,’ she continue hotly. ‘as if a girl could

remember every man she have meet! and you have not mention people much

nearer home to I. who be Miss Llewellyn?’



the question take Ilfracombe so completely by surprise, that he do not

know what to say.



‘Miss Llewellyn!’ he stammer. ‘who have ever say anything to you

about Miss Llewellyn?’



‘I hear you mention her name this evening to Mr Castelton.’



‘indeed! what sharp ear you must have!’



‘perhaps, but that be no answer to my question. who be she?’



‘well, if you must know, she be, or rather be, my housekeeper. an

interesting discovery, ben’t it?’



‘Cela depend! and be she to be our housekeeper now?’



‘certainly not! that be to say, she have go home--her mother be sick

and want her--’



the countess get off the bed, and go up to her husband, lay she

hand upon his mouth,--



‘there, there, that will do,’ she say quietly; ‘don’t soil your

soul any more on my account, for it be a matter of the most perfect

indifference to I who she be or why she go. there be plenty more

housekeeper to be procure, I suppose, in England. but don’t forget

what I tell you in Malta about the pot that call the kettle black,

_voila tout_!’



she give he a little kiss to sweeten the unpalatable dose as she

conclude, and the ordeal be over--only the earl would rather she

have show a little jealousy on the subject instead. he do not know

how much or how little she have overhear of his conversation with

Castelton, and he do not like to ask, lest she might blurt out some

disagreeable truth in his face. but the circumstance make he think

a great deal more of Nell Llewellyn than he would otherwise have do

whilst on his wedding tour. he wonder more than once if it be

possible that Nell would try to make thing unpleasant for he and

Nora, or if there be any chance of a rencontre between the two woman.

Nora might overlook or ignore a _liaison_ of the sort if it be not

bring beneath her immediate notice, but he feel sure she would hold

her own--perhaps make a public scandal if it become a personal affront.

he have hear nothing from Mr Sterndale since a letter in which he have

assure he that his instruction regard Miss Llewellyn should be

faithfully carry out, and he could not expect to hear more until he

meet the solicitor in England. he try as far as possible to dismiss

the idea from his mind for the rest of the voyage, but he become

restless and uneasy as they approach the termination of it; and when,

towards the end of October, he find himself safely instal with

his wife at thistlemere, the first thing he do be to summon his old

friend to render up an account of his stewardship. with the solicitor

arrive Mr Portland. Lord Ilfracombe have not advise the countess of

his advent. he want to give they both a surprise. perhaps also to

find out for himself how far Nora have tell the truth concern her

acquaintance with he. Ilfracombe have always be perfectly frank

whilst live with Nell Llewellyn. under the influence of Nora he be

begin to keep back thing which, theretofore, he would have never

dream of conceal. so truly do our intimate companion rule, to a

great degree, our character. we be tell that we cannot touch pitch

without be defile. so must we always derive good or evil from

those we associate with. but if Lord Ilfracombe fancy he be a match

for either his wife or Jack Portland, he be very much mistaken. at

any rate, neither he nor anyone could have discover a domestic plot

against his peace from the perfectly natural way in which they meet

each other, for if anything be apparent, it be an almost unnatural

indifference on both side. the countess be in the drawing-room when

her husband enter with both man in his train.



‘Nora,’ he commence, ‘I bring an old friend of yours to offer his

congratulation on your having obtain such a prize as myself.’



Nora glance at the two gentleman with affected surprise.



‘Mr Sterndale be an old friend of _yours_, I know, Ilfracombe,’ she

say, sweetly; ‘and, therefore, if he will accept I as such, I trust

he will consider I his friend also. But--’ turn to where Jack

Portland stand bow lowly before she, ‘this gentleman--surely I have

meet he before! why, of course, it be the very Mr Portland of whom we

speak once on board the _débutante_. how be you, Mr Portland? do you

remember I after all this time? do we not meet at Captain Loveless’s

once at a ball? be you not stay with they?’



‘I be, Lady Ilfracombe. Mrs Loveless be my sister. what a long time

ago it seem. how little I imagine, when dear old Ilfracombe here

write I he be engage to a Miss Abinger, that it actually be _the_

Miss Abinger with whom I have have the honour of dancing! but there be

so many of you!’



‘dear I, yes--dozen! I have three sister marry besides myself!

perhaps it be Bella or Marion, after all, whom you dance with instead

of I. we be consider very much alike.’



‘if you will excuse I say so, I do not think I could have make a

mistake. but you must have be very young at the time?’



‘I be eighteen; I be twenty now,’ laugh Nora in a nervous manner. ‘I

never conceal my age, and never mean to. it be such folly. if a woman

look too young for it, all the well. if too old, it will only make a

bad matter bad to take off a few year. don’t you agree with I, Mr

Sterndale?’



‘I agree with everything your ladyship say, even if it go against my

own judgment,’ reply the solicitor.



‘my goodness, you’re quite a courtier! I think the law allow man

no time for cultivate the small grace. if ever I want to get a

separation from Ilfracombe, Mr Sterndale, I shall come to you to make

term for I.’



‘oh, dear I!’ exclaim the solicitor, laugh; ‘your ladyship must

not depend on I in such a case, really! I have be his lordship’s man

of business for year, and I be not sure if such an unmitigated piece

of treachery would not rank with high treason.’



‘well, here be dinner, which appeal to we all alike,’ cry Lady

Ilfracombe, as she place her hand on the arm of Mr Jack Portland,

‘so let we drop all discussion, except that of good thing, until it

be over,’ and the earl and the solicitor follow she gaily to the

dining-room. but Ilfracombe be long to have a private interview

with Mr Sterndale, and as soon as the meal be conclude, he ask the

pardon of the other if he detain the solicitor for half an hour.



‘you can send we word when coffee be ready, Nora,’ he say to his wife

as Mr Portland hold the door open for her ladyship to pass through,

and then, with a nod to his host, go after she.



as soon as they be well out of hearing, Ilfracombe lend over the

table and say to Sterndale in a lowered voice,--



‘I don’t see why we need go to the library; I be not in a mood for

account or anything of that sort to-night. I only want to ask you

about Miss Llewellyn. how do she take the news of my marriage,

Sterndale, and be she well out of England? where do she go to, and

be she satisfied with the provision I make for she? to tell you the

truth, the thought of she have be bother I a good deal lately. the

countess be a noble, generous girl, and quite up to snuff, but she be

high-spirited, and if there be any chance of her meet the other,

or hear much about she, I wouldn’t answer for the consequence.’



‘you need not be in the least afraid of that, Lord Ilfracombe,’ reply

the solicitor.



‘be you sure? do she accept a sum down, or do you invest the money

for she, and if so, how and where? be she out of England, and likely to

remain so? I daresay you will vote I an alarmist, Sterndale, but you

see, when all’s say and do, Nell be very fond of I, and woman turn

into perfect devil sometimes when they be cross in such matter.’



‘I repeat, my lord, that you have no cause to fear the least annoyance

from Miss Llewellyn.’



‘thank God for that,’ say the earl, with a look of relief. ‘and now,

tell I all you can about it, Sterndale. be she much upset at the idea

of my give she up? have you any difficulty about it? or do she accept

the inevitable, and clear out quietly?’



Mr Sterndale prepare himself for a conference, previously to

commence which he rise, and having see that the dining-room door be

securely fasten, sit down again opposite to the earl.



‘I have rather a painful duty before I, my lord. painful, that be

to say, in one sense, but, to my mind, providential in another. your

lordship be now happily married, and, doubtless, would wish to cast

even the memory of the past behind you.’



‘it be my desire to do so, to forget it ever exist, if possible,’

say the young man eagerly; ‘but still I feel that will not be feasible

until I be assure that Miss Llewellyn be well provide for, and in a

fair way to be happy.’



‘very praiseworthy and generous,’ murmur the solicitor, ‘but quite

unnecessary. in the first place, my lord, Miss Llewellyn blankly

refuse to accept any settlement or provision at your hand. she take

the draft which I submit for her approval and tear it across, and

fling the piece in my face. indeed, I may say, the young woman be

exceedingly rude to I, but I can afford to forgive it now.’



‘I be sorry to hear that, Sterndale, but I suppose your news upset

she. she be not accustomed to be rude in manner or speech to any of

my friend. but, doubtless, she apologise. she take the settlement on

reconsideration.’



‘indeed, she do not, Lord Ilfracombe! she have never take it.’



‘then how be she live?’ ask the earl eagerly. ‘where be she at

present?’



‘I must prepare your lordship for a slight shock,’ reply the

solicitor gravely, ‘for it be a shock to I. Miss Llewellyn be no

more.’



‘_no more!_ do you mean I to understand that she be dead?’ exclaim

Ilfracombe with a look of horror.



‘exactly so, my lord. the unfortunate young woman be certainly dead.

she have an ungovernable temper, and it lead she to a rash end. she throw

herself into the river.’



the earl’s eye be almost start out of his head.



‘she commit suicide, and for my sake?’ he exclaim. ‘oh, my God! my

God!’



he bend his head down on his hand, and the tear trickle through his

clasp hand.



‘nell dead!’ he keep on murmur, ‘nell under the water! oh, it be

impossible. I cannot believe it. my poor Nell. this news will wreck all

my happiness.’



‘Lord Ilfracombe,’ exclaim Mr Sterndale, quickly, ‘I beg of you to

compose yourself. what if the servant, or her ladyship, be to enter

the room. this unfortunate affair be none of your doing. you have no

occasion to blame yourself. you do all, and more than most man would

have do to secure the welfare of the young person in question, and if

she choose to fle your kindness back in your face, the blame lie at

her own door.’



‘be you _sure_ of it?’ say Ilfracombe presently, as he make a great

effort to control his feeling. ‘how do you hear of it? do you

actually see and recognise her dead body?’



‘no, I cannot go so far as to say that, my lord, but I have every

circumstantial evidence of the fact. Miss Llewellyn disappear from

Grosvenor Square, as Warrender can tell you, on the night of the 20th

of August, and have never be see or hear of since. on that night a

woman throw herself into the Thames, whose description tally with

her. here be the account of the affair publish in the next morning’s

paper,’ hand the earl the paragraph he have cut from the _Standard_,

‘and on institute every inquiry, I have no reason to doubt that the

young woman, who either throw herself or fall into the river, be

our unfortunate friend. with a view to ascertain the truth more

accurately, I examine her belonging in Grosvenor Square, none of

which she have take with she, another fact which point conclusively,

in my mind, to the idea of suicide, and amongst they, in her jewel

case, I find this scrap of paper, evidently address to your

lordship, and which I preserve with a view of deliver over to you

when you should question I as to the matter you leave in my charge.’



say which, the solicitor place the scrap of paper he have find with

Nell’s trinket in the earl’s hand. Ilfracombe read the poor, pathetic

little message over and over again, ‘good-bye, my only love. I cannot

live without you,’ and then without comment, having fold the paper

and place it in his pocket-book, he rose tremble from the table and

stagger towards the door.



‘sterndale!’ he ejaculate in a faint voice, ‘I cannot speak with you

about this now, some other time, perhaps, but for the present I must

be alone. go to the countess, there’s a good fellow, and keep she from

follow I. say I have have a sudden summon to the stable, that

there be something wrong with one of the horse, and leave I to tell

my own story when I return. I willn’t be long. only give I a few minute

in which to overcome this fearful shock. you know I be fond of she,

Sterndale, and I must feel her death a little. I never dream it would

come to this--that death would part we--never, never.’



and with his pocket handkerchief to his eye, the earl rush up to his

own room.



meanwhile Mr Portland have be say to the countess,--



‘by George, Nora, I do think you be the very cleverest woman I know.

I always do think so, you know, and now I’m sure of it. no one to see

you this afternoon would have imagine we have ever meet before.’



‘well, naturally, I don’t intend they to think so. I determine on

that as soon as Ilfracombe tell I you be a friend of his. what be

the good of tell everybody everything? it only lead to quarrel.

so as I be quite sure Ilfracombe have not tell _I_ everything that he

have do before marriage, I determine he should have a _quid pro quo_.

but, Jack, you must keep the secret now for both our sake. you will

let I have back my letter, willn’t you?’



‘of course I will, that be if you be so hard-hearted as to take my

only comfort from I. but where be the good of it? you don’t want to

read they over yourself, surely?’



‘Goose! as if I would. they be awful rubbish, from what I can

remember. only it have become dangerous now, you know, and I should

never feel easy unless I have destroy they.’



‘willn’t my destroy they do as well?’



‘no, because you man be so careless, and something might happen to you

during your steeplechase or hunting, and then they would be find, and

the news would be all over the shop. you _will_ give they back to I,

Jack, willn’t you?’ in a plead tone.



‘do I ever refuse you anything, Nora? you shall have the letter, or

anything else you set your heart on, only continue to be nice to I as

you be in Malta.’



‘then give they to I,’ she say in an earnest voice.



‘why, you don’t imagine I carry they about with I in my waistcoat

pocket, do you? I take much more care of they that. they be at my

London digging, safely lock away in my dispatch box.’



‘oh, when shall you go back and fetch they?’ exclaim the countess.



‘that be not very hospitable of you, Nora,’ say Mr Portland, ‘when I

have not yet spend a day at thistlemere! no, no, you mustn’t be quite

so impatient as all that. you shall have the precious letter in good

time, though why you cannot leave they where they have be for the

last two year, beat I altogether.’



‘you know I ask for they back before you leave Malta, and you wouldn’t

give they to I,’ say Lady Ilfracombe, ‘and now it be much more

important than it be then. I be a fool not to make my father insist

on their return, but I be so dreadfully afraid that he would read

they.’



‘ah, that wouldn’t have do, would it?’ return Mr Portland

carelessly. ‘you have well leave they with I, Nora. I’m their good

custodian. the perusal of they give I pleasure, whilst on other it

might have a contrary effect, eh?’



‘no, no, you have promise to return they to I, and you must keep your

word,’ her ladyship be reply just as Mr Sterndale enter the room,

and said,--



‘Lord Ilfracombe send his apology to you, my lady, but one of the

horse require his attention and he have stroll out to the stable,

but he desire I to tell you that he will not be absent more than a

few minute.’









                             END of VOL. I.









               COLSTON and COMPANY, printer, EDINBURGH.









Transcriber’s note:



this book be write in a period when many word have not become

standardized in their spelling. word may have multiple spelling

variation or inconsistent hyphenation in the text. these have be

leave unchanged. Jargon, dialect, obsolete and alternative spelling

be retain. misspelled word be correct.



word and phrase in italic be surround by underscore, _like

this_. those in bold be surround by equal sign, =like this=.

obvious printing error, such as backwards, upside down, or partially

print letter and punctuation, be correct. final stop miss at

the end of sentence and abbreviation be add.











*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK a bankrupt heart, VOL. 1 (of 3) ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





