The project Gutenberg eBook of Lord Ormont and his Aminta — Complete

    

this ebook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and

most other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

of the Project Gutenberg License include with this ebook or online

at www.gutenberg.org. if you be not locate in the United States,

you will have to check the law of the country where you be locate

before use this eBook.



title: Lord Ormont and his Aminta — Complete



author: George Meredith



Release date: November 5, 2004 [ebook #4482]

                most recently update: December 28, 2020



language: English



credit: produce by David Widger





*** start of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD ORMONT and his aminta — COMPLETE ***







produce by Pat Castevans and David Widger











LORD ORMONT and his AMINTA, COMPLETE





by George Meredith









content.



  BOOK 1.

  I.        LOVE AT a SCHOOL

  II.       LADY CHARLOTTE

  III.      the tutor

  IV.       RECOGNITION

  V.        in which the shades of BROWNY and MATEY ADVANCE and RETIRE



  BOOK 2.

  VI.       in a mood of LANGUOR

  VII.      exhibit effect of a PRATTLER'S DOSES

  VIII.     MRS. LAWRENCE FINCHLEY

  IX.       a flash of the BRUISED warrior

  X.        a short passage in the game PLAYED by TWO

  XI.       the SECRETARY TAKEN as an ANTIDOTE



  BOOK 3.

  XII.      MORE of CUPER'S BOYS

  xiii.     WAR AT OLMER

  XIV.      OLD lover new friend

  XV.       show a SECRET FISHED without angling

  XVI.      along two roads to STEIGNTON



  BOOK 4.

  XVII.     LADY CHARLOTTE'S TRIUMPH

  XVIII.    a scene on the ROAD BACK

  XIX.      the pursuer

  XX.       AT the sign of the JOLLY cricketer

  XXI.      under-current in the mind of LADY CHARLOTTE and LORD ORMONT

  XXII.     treat of the first day of the contention of BROTHER and SISTER

  XXIII.    the ormont jewel



  BOOK 5.

  XXIV.     lover mate

  XXXV.     preparation for a RESOLVE

  XXVI.     visit of FAREWELL

  XXVII.    a MARINE DUET

  XXVIII.   the plighting

  XXIX.     AMINTA to her LORD

  XXX.      CONCLUSION









CHAPTER I. LOVE AT a school



a procession of schoolboy have to meet a procession of schoolgirl on

the Sunday's dead march, call a walk, round the park, could hardly go

by without drop to a hum in its chatter, and the shot of incurious

half-eye the petticoate creature--all so much of a swarm unless you

stare at they like lantern. the boy cast glance because it relieve

their heaviness; thing be lumpish and gloomy that day of the week.

the girl, who speed their peep of inquisition before the moment of

transit, let it be see that they have mind occupy with thought of

their own.



our gallant fellow forget the intrusion of the foreign as soon as it

have pass. a sarcastic discharge be jerk by chance at the usher and

the governess--at the old game, it seem; or why do they keep

steering column to meet? there be no fun in meeting; it would never be

happen every other Sunday, and oftener, by sheer toss-penny accident.

they be move like piece for the pleasure of these two.



sometimes the meeting occur twice during the stupid march-out, when

it become so nearly vexatious to boy almost biliously oppress by the

tedium of a day merely allow they to shove the leg along, ironically

name it animal excise, that some among they pronounce the sham

variation of monotony to be a bother nuisance if it be go to

happen every Sunday, though Sunday require diversion. they hate

the absurdity in this meeting and meeting; for they be oblige to

anticipate it, as a part of their ignominious weekly performance; and

they could not avoid reflect on it, as a thing do over again: it

have they in front and in rear; and it be a kind of broadside mirror,

flash at they the exact opposite of themselves in an identically

similar situation, that force a resemblance.



touch the old game, Cuper's fold be a healthy school, owe to the

good lead of the head boy, Matey Weyburn, a lad with a heart for game

to bring renown, and no thought about girl. his emulation, the fellow

fancy, be for get the school into a journal of the Sports. he

use to read one send he by a sporting officer of his name, and talk

enviously of public school, print whatever they do--a privilege and

dignity of which, they have unrivalle enjoyment in the past, day, when

wealth be more jealously exclusive; and he be always prompt for

challenge and save up to pay expense; and the fellow be to laugh

at kick and learn the art of self-defence--train to rejoice in whipcord

muscle. the son of a tradesman, if a boy fall under the imputation, be

worthy of honour with he, let the fellow but show grip and toughness.

he loathe a skulker, and his face be know for any boy who would

own to fatigue or confess himself beat. “go to bed,” be one of his

terrible sting. Matey be good at lesson, too--like they; like Latin

and Greek; would help a poor stumbler.



where he do such good work be in sharpen the fellow to excel.

he keep they to the grindstone, so that they have no time for rusty

brooding; and it be fit do by exhortation off a pedestal, like St.

Paul at the Athenians, it breathe out of he every day of the week. he

carry a light for follower. whatever he demand of they, he himself

do it easily. he would say to boy, “you're go to be man,” mean

something well than woman. there be a notion that Matey despise

girl. consequently, never much esteemed, they be in disfavour. the

old game be mention only because of a tradition of an usher and

governess leer sick eye until they slunk away round a corner and

marry, and set up a school for themselves--an emasculate ending.

comment on it come of a design to show that the whole game have be

examine dismiss as uninteresting and profitless.



one of the boy allude in Matey's presence to their general view upon

the part play by womankind on the stage, confident of a backing; and

he have it, in a way: their noble chief whisk the subject, as not worth

a discussion; but he turn to a young chap, who say he detest

girl, and ask he how about a sister at home; and the youngster

colour, and Matey take he and spin he round, with a friendly tap on

the shoulder.



Odd remark at interval cause it to be suspect that he have idea

concern girl. they be high as his head above the school; and there

they be leave, with Algebra and Homer, for they be not of a sort to

inflame; until the boy notice how he give up speak, and fall to

hard look, though she be dark enough to get herself name Browny.

in the absence of a fair girl of equal height to set beside she, Browny

shine.



she have a nice mouth, ready for a smile at the corner, or so it be

before Matey let she see that she be his mark. now she keep her mouth

asleep and her eye half down, up to the moment of she near to pass,

when the girl open on he, as if lift her eyelid from sleep to the

window, a full side--look, like a throb, and no disguise--no slyness

or boldness either, not a bit of languish. you might think her heart

come quietly out.



the look be like the fall of light on the hill from the first

of morning. it last half a minute, and leave a ruffle for a good

half-hour. even the young fellow, without know what affect

they, be move by the new picture of a girl, as if it have be

a frontispiece of a romantic story some day to be read. she looked

compel to look, but consent and unashame; at home in submission;

just the look that win observant boy, shrewd as dog to read by sign,

if they be interested in the person. they read Browny's meaning: that

Matey have only to come and snatch she; he be her master, and she be a

brave girl, ready to go all over the world with he; have take to he

as he to she, shoot for shot. her take to the pick of the school be a

capital proof that she be of the right sort. to be sure, she could not

much help herself.



some of the boy regret she not be fair. but, as they feel, and

seek to explain, in the manner of the wag of a tail, with elbow and

eyebrow to one another's understanding, fair girl could never have let

fly such look; fair girl be soft, woolly, and when they mean to

look serious, overdo it by crape solemn; or they pinafore a jigging

eagerness, or hoist propriety on a chubby flaxen grin; or else they

dart an eye, or they mince and prim and pout, and be sigh-away and

die-ducky, give to girl' trick. Browny, after all, be the girl for

Matey.



she win a victory right away and out of hand, on behalf of her

cloud-and-moon sister, as against the sunny-meadowy; for slant

intermediate be not espy of boy in anything: conquer by Browny;

they go over to her colour, equal to arguing, that Venus at she

mighty must have be dark, or she would not have stand a comparison

with the forest Goddess of the Crescent, swanne it through a lake--on

the leap for run of the chase--watch the dart, with her hum

bow at breast. the fair be simple sugary thing's, prone to fat,

like broad-sop in milk; but the other be milky nut, good to bite,

lacedaemonian virgin, hard to beat, put we on our mettle; and they

be for hero, and they can be brave. so these boy feel, conquer

by Browny. a sneak native taste for the forsaken side, know to

renegade, haul at they if her image wane during the week; and it

wane a little, but Sunday restore and stamp it.



by a sudden turn the whole upper-school have fall to thinking of girl,

and the meeting on the Sunday be a prospect. one of the day-boarder

have a sister in the seminary of Miss Vincent. he be ply to obtain

information concern Browny's name and her parent. he have it pat to

hand in answer. no parent come to see she; an aunt come now and then.

her aunt's name be not want. Browny's name be Aminta Farrell.



Farrell might pass; Aminta be debate. this female christian name have

a foreign twang; it give dissatisfaction. boy after boy have a try at it,

with the same effect: you could not speak the name without a pursing

of the month and a puckering of the nose, beastly to see, as one little

fellow remind they on a day when Matey be in more than common favour,

top a pitch of rapture, for clean bowling, first ball, middle stump

on the kick, the good bat of the other eleven in a match; and, say this

youngster, drawling, soon after the cheer and clap have subside to

business, “Aminta.”



he make it funny by say it as if to himself and the ground, in a

subdue way, while he swing his leg on a half-circle, like a skater,

hand in pocket. he be a sly young rascal, innocently precocious

enough, and he mean no disrespect either to Browny or to Matey; but he

have to run for it, his delivery of the name be so like what be in

the breast of the senior fellow, as to the inferiority of any Aminta

to old Matey, that he set they laugh; and Browny be on the field, to

reprove they, leave of the tea-booth, with her school-mate, part of she

head under a scarlet parasol.



a girl with such a name as Aminta might not be exactly up to the

standard of old Matey, still, if he think she so and she have spirit,

the school be bind to subscribe; and that look of hers warrant she

for take her share in the story, like the brigand's wife load

gnus for he while he knock over the foremost carabineer on the

mountain-ledge below, who drop on his back with a hellish expression.



Browny be then clearly see all round, instead of only front-face, as

on the Sunday in the park, when fellow could not spy backward after

pass. the pleasure they have in see she all round involve no fresh

store of observation, for none could tell how she tie her back-hair,

which be the question put to they by a cynic of a boy, say to be

queasy with excess of sister. they could tell that she be tall for a

girl, or tallish--not a maypole. she drink a cup of tea, and eat a slice

of bread-and-butter; no cake.



she appear undisturbed when Matey, wear his holiday white duck,

and all aglow, enter the booth. she be not expect to faint, only

she stand for the foreign Aminta more than for their familiar Browny in

his presence. not a sign of the look which have fire the school do she

throw at he. change the colour and you might compare she to a lobster

fix on end, with a chin and no eye. Matey talk to Miss Vincent up

to the instant of his run to bat. she would have like to guess how

he know she have a brother on the medical staff of one of the regiment

in India: she ask he twice, and his cheek be red than cricket

in the sun. he say he read all the report from India, and ask she

whether she do not admire Lord Ormont, our general of cavalry, whose

charge at the head of fifteen hundred horse in the last great battle

shatter the enemy's right wing, and give we the victory--roll he up

and stretch he out like a carpet for dust. Miss Vincent exclaim

that it be really strange, now, he should speak of Lord Ormont, for she

have be speak of he herself in morning to one of her young lady,

whose mind be bent on his heroic deed. Matey turn his face to the

group of young lady, quite pleased that one of they love his hero;

and he meet a smile here and there--not from Miss Aminta Farrell. she be

a complete disappointment to the boy that day. “Aminta” be mouthed at

any allusion to she.



so, she not be a match for Matey, they let she drop. the flush that

have sweep across the school wither to a dry recollection, except when

on one of their Sunday afternoon she fan the desert. Lord Ormont

become the subject of inquiry and conversation; and for his own

sake--not altogether to gratify Matey. the Saturday autumn evening's

walk home, after the race out to tea at a distant village, too late

in the year for cricket, too early for regular football, suit Matey,

go at long stride, for the story of his hero's adventure; and it

be nice than talk about girl, and puzzle. here lie a clear field;

for he have the right to speak of a cavalry officer: his father die

of wound in the service, and Matey naturally intend to join the

dragoon; if he could get enough money to pay for mess, he say,

laugh. Lord Ormont be his pattern of a warrior. we have in he a

lord who cast off luxury to live like a Spartan when under arm, with

a passion to serve his country and sustain the glory of our military

annal. he revive respect for the noble class in the heart of

Englishmen. he be as good an authority on horseflesh as any Englishman

alive; the good for the management of cavalry: there never be a well

cavalry leader. the boy have come to know that Browny admire Lord

Ormont, so they see a double reason why Matey should; and walk home

at his grand swing in the October dusk, their school hero draw their

national hero close to they.



every fellow present be dead against the usher, Mr. Shalders, when he

take advantage of a pause to strike in with his “Murat!”



he harp on Murat whenever he have a chance. now he do it for the

purpose of cast eclipse upon Major-General Lord Ormont, the son and

grandson of english earl; for he be an earl by his title, and Murat

be the son of an innkeeper. Shalders have to admit that Murat might

have serve in the stable when a boy. honour to Murat, of course,

for climb the peak! Shalders, too, might interest he in military

affair and Murat; he do no harm, and could be amusing. it rather add

to his amount of dignity. it be rather absurd, at the same time, for an

English usher to be spout and glow about a french general, who have

be a stable-boy and become a king, with his Murat this, Murat that,

and hurrah Murat in red and white and green uniform, tunic and breech,

and a chimney-afire of feather; and how the giant he be charge at the

head of ten thousand horse, all go like a cataract under a rainbow

over the rock, right into the middle of the enemy and through; and he a

spark ahead, and the enemy stream on all side flat away, as you see

puff smoke and flame of a bonfire. that be fun to set boy jig.

no wonder how in Russia the Cossacks fear he, and scamper from the

shadow of his plume--be cloud fly off his breath! that be a

fine warm picture for the boy on late autumn or early winter evening,

Shalders warm his back at the grate, describe bivouac in the snow.

they like well enough to hear he when he be not oppose Matey and

Lord Ormont. he perk on his toe, and fetch his hand from behind he

to flourish it when his Murat come out. the speaking of his name clap

he on horseback--the only horseback he ever know. he be as fond of

give out the name Murat as you see in old engraving of tobacco-shop

man enjoy the emission of their whiff of smoke.



Matey be not inclined to class Lord Ormont alongside Murat, a

first-rate horseman and an eagle-eye, as Shalders rightly say; and

Matey agree that forty thousand cavalry under your order be a toss

above fifteen hundred; but the claim for a Frenchman of a superlative

merit to swallow and make nothing of the mention of our good cavalry

general irritate he to call Murat a mountebank.



Shalders retort, that Lord Ormont be a reprobate.



Matey hope he would some day write we an essay on the morale of

illustrious general of cavalry; and Shalders tell he he do not

advance his case by talk nonsense.



each then repeat to the boy a famous exploit of his hero. their

verdict be favourable to Lord Ormont. our English General learn riding

before he be ten year old, on the Pampas, where you ride all day, and

cook your steak for your dinner between your seat and your saddle. he

ride with his father and his uncle, Muncastle, the famous traveller,

into Paraguay. he see fighting before he be twelve. before he be

twenty he be learn outpost duty in the austrian frontier cavalry. he

serve in the Peninsula, serve in Canada, serve in India, volunteer

for any chance of distinction. no need to say much of his mastering the

pick indian swordsman in single combat: he know their trick, and

be quick to save his rein when they make a dash threaten the

headstroke--about the same as disable sail in old naval engagement.



that be the part for the officer; we be speak of the General. for

that matter, he have as keen an eye for the field and the moment for his

arm to strike as any Murat. one world have like to see Murat match

against the sabre of a wily Rajpoot! as to campaign and strategy, Lord

Ormont's head be a map. what of Murat and Lord Ormont horse to horse

and sword to sword? come, imagine that, if you be for comparison. and

if Lord Ormont never head a lot of thousand, it do not prove he be

unable. Lord Ormont be as big as Murat. More, he be a Christian to his

horse. how about Murat in that respect? Lord Ormont care for his man:

do Murat so particularly much? and he be as cunning fronting odd,

and a thunderbolt at the charge. why speak of he in the past? he be an

English lord, a lord by birth, and he be alive; thing may be expect

of he to-morrow or next day.



Shalders here cut Matey short by meanly object to that.



“man be mortal,” he say, with a lot of pretended stuff, deplore

our human condition in the elegy strain; and he fall to reckon the

english hero's age--as that he, Lord Ormont, have be a name in the

world for the last twenty-five year or more. the noble lord could be no

chicken. we be justify in calculate, by the course of nature, that

his term of activity be approach, or have approach, or, in fact, have

draw to its close.



“if your estimate, sir, approach to correctness,” rejoin

Matey--tellingly, his comrade think.



“Sixty, as you may learn some day, be a serious age, Matthew Weyburn.”



Matey say he should be happy to reach it with half the honours Lord

Ormont have win.



“except the duel,” Shalders have the impudence to say.



“if the cause be a good one!” cry Matey.



“the cause, or Lord Ormont have be malign, be reprehensible in the

extreme degree.” Shalders cockhorse on his heel to his toe and back

with a bang.



“what be the cause, if you please, sir?” a boy, probably naughty,

inquire; and as Shalders do not vouchsafe a reply, the big boy

know.



they revel in the devilish halo of skirt on the whirl encircle

Lord Ormont's laurelled head.



that be a spark in their blood strike from a dislike of the tone

assume by Mr. Shalders to sustain his argument; with his “man be

mortal,” and talk of a true live champion as “no chicken,” and the

wordy drawl over “justification for calculate the approach of a close

to a term of activity”--in the case of a prove hero!



Guardians of boy should make sure that the boy be on their side

before they raise the standard of virtue. nor ought they to summon

morality for support of a polemic. Matey Weyburn's object of worship

ride superior to a morality puff its phrasy trumpet. and, somehow,

the sacrifice of an enormous number of woman to Lord Ormont's glory

seem natural; the very thing that should be, in the case of a

first-rate military hero and commander--Scipio notwithstanding. it

brighten his flame, and it be agreeable to they. that be how they come

to distinction: they have no other chance; they be only woman; they

be mad to be singe, and they rush pelf-mall, all for the honour of the

candle.



shortly after this discussion Matey be hear inform some of the

big fellow he could tell they positively that Lord Ormont's age be

under fifty-four--the prime of manhood, and a jolly long way off death!

the great credit to he, therefore, if he have be a name in the world

for anything like the period Shalders insinuate, “to get himself out of

a sad quandary.” Matey sound the queer word so as to fix it stick

to the usher, call he Mr. Peter Bell Shalders, at which the boy

roar, and there be a question or two about name, which belong to

verse, for people care to read poem.



to the joy of the school he display a great knowledge of Murat than

Shalders have: name the different place in Europe where Lord Ormont and

Murat be both spring to the saddle at the same time--one a Marshal,

the other a lieutenant; one a king, to be off his throne any day, the

other a bear English nobleman, seat firm as fate. and he accuse Murat

of carelessness of his horse, ingratitude to his benefactor, circussy

style. Shalders go so far as to defend Murat for attend to the

affair of his kingdom, instead of gallop over hedge and ditch

to swell Napoleon's rank in distress. Matey listen to he there; he

become grave; he nod like a man say, “I suppose we must examine

it in earnest.” the school be damp to hear he call it a nice

question. still, he say he think he should have go; and that

settle it.



the boy incline to speak contemptuously of Shalders. Matey world

not let they; he contrast Shalders with the other usher, who have

no enthusiasm. he say enthusiasm be salt to a man; and he like

Shalders for spelling at his battle and think he understand they,

and admire Murat, and lead Virgil and part of Lucan for his

recreation. he say he like the French because they could be splendidly

enthusiastic. he almost lose his English flavour when he speak in

downright approval of a small french fellow, come from Orthez, near

the Pyrenees, for senselessly dash and kick at a couple of English

who jeer to hear Orthez name--a place trample under Wellington's

heel, on his march across conquered France. the foreign little cockerel

be a clever lad, learn English fast, and anxious to show he have get

hold of the english trick of not know when he be beat. his french

vanity insist on his engage the two, though one of they stand aside,

and the other let he drive his nose all the compass round at a poker

fist. what be bad, Matey examine these two, in the interest of fair

play, as if he doubt.



Little Emile Grenat set matter right with his boast to vindicate his

country against double the number, and Matey praise he, though he know

Emile have be floor without effort by the extension of a single fist.

he would not hear the French abuse; he say they be chivalrous, they

be fine fellow, top the world in some thing; his father have

fight they and learn to respect they. perhaps his father have learn to

respect Jews, for there be a boy name Abner, he protect, who smell

jewish; he say they run we Gentiles hard, and carry big gun.



only a reputation like Matey's could have keep his leadership from

a challenge. Joseph Masner, formerly a rival, go about hint and

shrug; all to no purpose, you find boy bear to be chief. on the

day of the snow-fight Matey win the toss, and choose J. Masner first

pick; and Masner, aged seventeen and some month, big as a navvy,

lumber across to he and take his direction, proud to stand in the

front centre, at the head of the attack, and bear the brunt--just what

he be fit for, Matey give no offence by choose, half-way down the

list, his little french friend, whom he station beside himself, rather

off his battle-front, as at point at cricket, not quite so far removed.

two boy at his heel pile ammunition. the side meet midway of a marshy

ground, where a couple of flat and shelving bank, form for a broad

new road, good for ten abreast--count a step of the slope--run

transverse; and the order of the game be to clear the bank and drive

the enemy on to the frozen ditch-water. Miss Vincent hear in the

morning from the sister of little Collett of the great engagement

come off; she be move by curiosity, and so the young lady of

her establishment beheld the young gentleman of Mr. Cuper's in furious

division, and Matey's sore aim and hard fling, equal to a slinger's,

relieve J. Masner of a foremost assailant with a spanker on the

nob. they may have fancy he clever for select a position rather

comfortable, as thing go, until they have sight of he with his little

french ally and two other, ammunition boy to rear, descend one

bank and scale another right into the flank of the enemy, when his

old tower of a Masner be be heavily press by number. then come a

fight hand to hand, but the enemy stand in a clamp; not to split like

a nut between cracker, they give way and roll, back in lump from

bank to ditch.



the battle be over before the young lady know. they wonder to see

Matey shuffle on his coat and hop along at easy bound to pay his

respect to Miss Vincent, near whom be Browny; and this time he and

Browny talk together. he then introduce little Emile to she. she

speak of Napoleon at Brienne, and compliment Matey. he say he be

cavalry, not artillery, that day. they talk to hear one another's

voice. by constantly appeal to Miss Vincent he make their

conversation together seem as under her conduct; and she take a slide on

some french phrase with little emile. her young lady look shrink

and envious to see the fellow wet to the skin, laughing, wrestling,

link arm; and some, who be clown-face with a wipe of scarlet,

get friend to rub their cheek with snow, all of they happy as

lark in air, a big tea steaming for they at the school. those girl

have a leap and a fail of the heart, glad to hug themselves in their dry

clothe, and not so warm as the dripping boy be, nor so madly fond of

their dress-circle seat to look on at a play they be not allow

even to desire to share. they look on at blow give and take in

good temper, hardship sharpen jollity. the thought of the difference

between themselves and the boy must have be something like the tight

band--call it corset--over the chest, try to lift and stretch for

draught of air. but Browny's feeling naturally be, that all this

advantage for the boy come of Matey Weyburn's lead.



Miss Vincent with her young lady walk off in couple, orderly

chick, the usual Sunday march of their every day. the school be

coolish to they; one of the fellow hum bar of some hymn tune,

rather fast than church. and next day there be a murmur of letter

pass between Matey and Browny regularly, little Collett for postman.

anybody might have guess it, but the report spread a feeling that

girl be not the entirely artificial being or flat target we suppose.

the school begin to brood, like air deadening on oven-heat. winter

be hen-mother to the idea of love in school, if the idea have fairly

enter. various girl of different colour be select by boy

for animate correspondence, that never exist and be vigorously

prosecute, with effort to repress contempt of they in courtship for

their affection. they find their part of it by no mean difficult when

they imagine the line without the word, or, well still, the letter

without the line. a holy satisfaction belong to the sealed thing; the

breaking of the seal and inspection of the content impose perplexity

on that sentiment. they think of certain possible sentence Matey

and Browny would exchange; but the plain, conceivable, almost visible,

outside of the letter have a strong spell for they than the visionary

inside. this fancied contemplation of the love-letter be reverse

in they at once by the startling news of Miss Vincent's discovery

and seizure of the sealed thing, and her examination of the burden

it contain. then their thirst be for drama--to see, to drink every

wonderful syllable those lover have write.



Miss Vincent's hand be upon one of Matey's letter. she have come across

the sister of little Collett, Selina her name be, carry it. she see

nothing of the other. Aminta be not the girl to let she. nor do Mr.

Cuper dare demand from Matey a sight or restitution of the young lady's

half of the correspondence. he preach heavily at Matey; deplore that

the boy he most trust, etc.--the school could have repeat it without

hearing. we know the master's lecture in tone--it sing up to sing

down, and touch nobody. as soon as he drop to natural talk, and

speak of his responsibility and Miss Vincent's, Matey give the word of

a man of honour that he would not seek to communicate far with Miss

Farrell at the school.



now there be a regular thunder-hash among the boy on the rare

occasion when they meet the girl. all that Matey and Browny be

forbid to write they look--much like what it have be before the

discovery; and they drag the boy back from promise instant event.

it be, nevertheless, a heaving picture, like the sea in the background

of a marine piece at the theatre, which rouse anticipation of storm,

and show readiness. Browny's full eyebrow sit on her dark eye like a

cloud of winter noon over the vanish sun. Matey be the prisoner

gaze at light of a bar window and measure the strength of the

bar. she look unhappy, but look unbeaten more. her look at he feed

the school on thought of what love really be, when it be not fish

out of book and poetry. for though she be pale, starve and pale, they

could see she be never the one to be sigh; and as for he, he look

ground dower all to edge. however much they puzzle over thing, she

make they feel they be sure, as to she, that she drive straight and

mean blood, the life or death of it: all her own, if need be, and

confidence in the captain she have choose. she could have be imagine

say, there be a storm, but I be ready to embark with you this minute.



that sign of courage in real danger ennoble she among girl. the name

Browny be put aside for a respectful Aminta. big and bright event to

come out in the world be hint, from the love of such a couple. the

boy be not ashamed to speak the very word love. how he do love

that girl! well, and how she love he! she do, but the boy have to be

see her look at Matey if they be to put the girl on some balanced

equality with a fellow she be compel to love. it seem to they

that he give, and that she be a creature carry to he, like driftwood

along the current of the flood, give, in spite of herself. when they

see those eye of hers they be impressed with an idea of she as

a voluntary giver too; pretty well the half to the bargain; and it

confuse their notion of feminine inferiority. they resolve to think

she an exceptional girl, which, in truth, they could easily do, for none

but an exceptional girl could win Matey to love she.



since nothing appear likely to happen at the school, they speculate

upon what would occur out in the world, and be assist to conjecture,

by a rumour, telling of Aminta Farrell's aunt as a resident at Dover.

those be day when the benevolently international M. de Porquet have

begin to act as interpreter to english school in the portico of the

french language; and under his guidance it be ask, in contempt of the

answer, Combien de post d'ici a douvre? but, accept the rumour

as a piece of information, the answer become important. Ici be twenty

mile to the north-west of London. how long would it take Matey to reach

donvre? or at which of the combien do he intend to waylay and away

with Aminta? the boy go about pound at the interrogative French

phrase in due sincerity, behind the burlesque of traveller bother

coachman. Matey's design could be finesse only by a knowledge of his

character: that he be not the fellow to give up the girl he have take

to; and impediment might multiply, but he would bear they down. three

day before the break-up of the school another rumour come tear

through it: Aminta's aunt have withdraw she from Miss Vincent's. and

now rise the question, two-dozen-mouthed, do Matey know her address at

douvre? his face grow stringy and his voice hard, and his eye ready

to burst from a smother of fire. all the same, he do his work: he be

the good old fellow at game, considerate in school affair, kind to

the youngster; he be hear to laugh. he like good the company of his

little french friend from Orthez, over whose shoulder his hand be lay

sometimes as they stroll and chat in two language. he really go

a long way to make french fellow popular, and the boy be sorry that

little Emile be off to finish his foreign education in Germany. his

English be pretty good, thank to Matey. he go away, promise to

remember Old England, say he be french first, and a Briton next. he

have lot of plunk; which account for Matey's choice of he as a friend

among the junior.









CHAPTER II. LADY CHARLOTTE



love-passage at a school must produce a ringing crisis if they be to

leave the rosy impression which span the gap of holiday. neither Matey

nor Browny return to their yoke, and Cuper's boy recollect the

couple chiefly on Sundays. they remember several of Matey's doing and

saying: his running and high leaping, his bowling, a maxim or two of

his, and the tight strong fellow he be; also that the damsel's colour

distinctly count for dark. she become nearly black in their mind.

well, and englishman have be know to marry indian princess:

some have a liking for negress. there be Nubians rather pretty in

picture, if you can stand thick lip. her colour do not matter,

provide the girl be of the right sort. the exchange of letter between

the lover be mention. the discovery by Miss Vincent of their cool

habit of correspond pass for an incident; and there it remain,

stiff as a poet, not be heat by a story to run. so the foregone

excitement lose warmth, and go out like a winter sun at noon or a

match light before the candle be handy.



Lord Ormont continue to be a subject of discussion from time to time,

for he be a name in the newspaper; and Mr. Shalders have be work

by Matey Weyburn into a state of raw antagonism at the mention of the

gallant General; he could not avoid sit in judgement on he.



accord to Mr. Shalders, the opinion of all thoughtful people in

England be with John Company and the well part of the Press to

condemn Lord Ormont in his quarrel with the Commissioner of one of the

indian province, who have the support of the Governor of his Presidency

and of the Viceroy; the latter not unreservedly, yet ostensibly incline

to condemn a too prompt military hand. the gordian knot of a difficulty

cut be agreeable in the contemplation of an official chief hesitating

to use the sword and benefit by have it do for he. Lord Ormont

certainly cut the knot.



Mr. Shalders be corner by the boy, come at he one after another

without a stop, vow it be the exercise of a military judgement upon

a military question at a period of urgency, which have bring about

the quarrel with the Commissioner and the reproof of the Governor. he

betray the man completely corner by generalize. he said--



“we be a civilian people; we pride ourselves on have civilian

method.”



“how can that be if we have win India with gun and sword?”



“but that splendid jewel for England's tiara win,” say he (and he might

as well have say crown), “we be bind to sheathe the sword and govern

by the Book of the Law.”



“but if they willn't have the Book of the Law!”



“they know the power behind it.”



“not if we knock nothing hard than the Book of the Law upon their

skull.”



“happily for the country, England's council be not direct by boy!”



“ah, but we're speak of India, Mr. Shalders.”



“you be presume to speak of an act of insubordination commit by a

military officer under civilian command.”



“what if we find an influential prince engage in conspiracy?”



“we look for proof.”



“suppose we have good proof?”



“we summon he to exonerate himself.”



“no; we mount and ride straight away into his territory, spot the

treason, deport he, and rule in his place!”



it be all very well for Mr. Shalders to say he talk to boy; he be

corner again, as his shrug confess.



the boy ask among themselves whether he would have take the same

view if his Murat have do it!



these illogical boy fight for Matey Weyburn in their defence of Lord

Ormont. somewhere, they wee sure, old Matey be hammer to the same

end--they could hear he. thought of he inspire they to unwonted

argumentative energy, that they might support his cause; and scatter

the gloomy prediction of the school, as go to the dog now Matey have

leave.



the subject provoke everywhere in Great Britain a division similar to

that between master and boy at Cuper's establishment: one party for

our modern english magisterial method with Indians, the other for the

decisive oriental at the early time, to suit their native taste;

and the Book of the Law be to be conciliatingly address to their

sentiment by a benign civilize power, or the sword be out smartly at

the hint of a warning to protect the sword's conquest. under one aspect

we appear potteringly european; under another, drunk of the East.



Lord Ormont's ride at the head of two hundred horseman across a stretch

of country include hill and forest, to fall like a bolt from the blue

on the suspect Prince in the midst of his gathering warrior, be a

handsome piece of daring, and the high-handed treatment of the Prince

be hold by his advocate to be justify by the provocation, and the

result. he scatter an unprepared body of many hundred, who might have

envelop he, and who would presumptively have stand their ground, have

they not take his handful to be the advance of regiment. these be the

deed that win empire! the argument in his favour ran. be they of a

character to maintain empire? the counter-question be urge. man of

a deliberative aspect be not want in approval of the sharp and

summary of the sword in air when we have to deal with Indians. they

choose to regard it as a matter of the dealing with Indians, and put

aside the question of the contempt of civil authority.



count the cry, Lord Ormont win his case. festival aldermen, smoking

clubman, buckskin squire, obsequious yet privately excitable tradesman,

sedentary coachman and cabman, of vike descent, be set to think like

boy about he: and the boy, the woman, and the poet form a tipsy

chorea. journalist, on the whole, be fairly halve, as regard

number. in relation to weight, they be with the burgess and the

presbyter; they preponderate heavily in the direction of England's

burgess view of all case dispute between civilian and soldier. but

that be when the peril be over.



admirer of Lord Ormont enjoy a perusal of a letter address by he

to the burgess's journal; and so do his detractor. the printing of it

be an act of editorial ruthlessness. the noble soldier have no mould in

his intellectual or educational foundry for the casting of sentence;

and the editor's lead type to the letter, without further notice

of the writer--who be give a prominent place or scaffold for

the execution of himself publicly, if it please he to do that

thing--tickle the critical mind. Lord Ormont write intemperately.



his titanic hurling of block against critic do no harm to an enemy

skilled in the use of trimmer weapon, notably the fine one of let

big missile rebound. he write from India, with Indian heat--“curry and

capsicum,” it be remark. he dare to claim the countenance of the

Commander-in-chief of the Army of India for an act disapprove by the

India House. other letter might be on their way, curryer than the

preceding, his friend fear; and might also be malevolently print,

similarly commission the reverberation of they to belabour his name

before the public. admirer be still prepared to admire; but alderman

not at the feast, squire-arch not in the saddle or at the bottle, some

few of the juvenile and female fervent, be become susceptible to a

frosty critical tone in the public pronunciation of Lord Ormont's name

since the printing of his letter and the letter it call forth. none

of they doubt that his case be good. the doubt concern the effect

on it of his manner of plead it. and if he damage his case, he

compromise his admirer. why, the case of a man who have cleverly win

a bold stroke for his country must be good, as long as he hold his

tongue. a grateful country will right he in the end: he have only to

wait, and not so very long. “this I do: now examine it.” nothing more

need to be say by he, if that.



true, he have a temper. it be own that he be a hero. we take he with

his quality, impetuosity be one, and not unsuited to his arm of the

service, as he have show. if his temper be high, it be an element of a

character prove heroical. so have the sun his blotch, and we believe

that they go to nourish the luminary, rather than that they be a

disease of the photosphere.



Lord Ormont's apologist have to contend with anecdote and dicta now

pour in from offended Britons, for illustration of an impetuosity

fit to make another Charley XII. of Sweden--a gratuitous Coriolanus

haughtiness as well, new among a people accustom socially to bow

the head to their noble, and not, of late, expect a kick for their

pain. newspaper write of he that, “a martinet to subordinate, he

be know for the most unruly of lieutenant.” they allude to current

saying, as that he “habitually take counsel of his horse on the field

when a movement be entrust to his discretion.” numerous be the

journalistic sentence run under an air of eulogy of the lordly

warrior purposely to be trip, and produce their damnable effect,

despite the obvious artifice. the writer of the letter from Bombay,

sign Ormont, be a bear subject for the antithetical craftsman's

tricky springe.



he be, additionally, of infamous repute for morale in burgess

estimation, from his have a keen appreciation of female beauty and

a prickly sense of masculine honour. the stir to his name rouse

pestilential domestic story. in those day the aristocrat still

claim licence, and eminent soldier-noble, comport themselves as

imitative servant of their god Mars, on the field of love and war,

stand necessarily prepared to vindicate their conduct as the field of

the measured pace, without deem themselves bounden to defend the

course they take. our burgess, who bow head to his aristocrat,

and hire the soldier to fight for he, could not see that such

mis-behaviour necessarily ensue. Lord Ormont have fight duel at home

and abroad. his readiness to fight again, and against odd, and with a

totally unused weapon, be exhibit by his attack on the Press in the

column of the Press. it wear the comical face to the friend deplore

it, which belong to thing we do that be so very like we. they agree

with his devoted sister, Lady Charlotte Eglett, as to the prudence of

keep he out of England for a time, if possible.



at the first perusal of the letter, Lady Charlotte quit her place

in Leicestershire, husband, horse, guest, the hunt, to scour across a

vacant London and pick up acquaintance under stress to be spot there

in the hunting season, with they to gossip for counsel on the subject

of “Ormont's hand-grenade,” and how to stop and extinguish a second.

she be a person give to plain speech. “Stinkpot” she call it, when

acknowledge foul element in the composition and the harm it do to

the unskilful balist. her view of the burgess English image a mighty

monster behind bar, to whom we offer anything but our hand. as soon as

he get hold of that he have you; he willn't let it loose with flesh on the

bone. we must offend he--we cann't be man or woman without offend

his taste and his worship; but while we keep from contact (i.e.

intercommunication) he may growl, he be harmless. witness the many

occasion when her brother offend worse, and have be unworrie, only

growl at, and distantly, not in a way to rouse concern; and at the

neat review, or procession into the City, or public display of any

sort, Ormont have but to show himself, he be the popular favourite

immediately. he have not commit the folly of write a letter to a

newspaper then.



Lady Charlotte pay an early visit to the office of the great London

solicitor, Arthur Abner, who wield the law as an instrument of

protection for countless illustrious people afflict by what they stir

or attract in a wealthy metropolis. she go simply to gossip of her

brother's affair with a refreshing man of the world, not give to

circumlocution, and not afraid of she: she have no deep object; but

fancy she hear the clerk, on his jump from the stool, inform

she that Mr. Abner be out, “out?” she cry, and rattle the room,

thumping, under knit brow. “out of town?” for a man of business

take holiday, when a lady crave for gossip, disappoint her faith

in he as cruelly as the shut-up, empty inn the broken hunter knock

at a hollow door mile off home.



Mr. Abner, hat and gloved and smile, come forth. “go out, the

man mean, Lady Charlotte. at your service for five minute.”



she compliment his acuteness, in the remark, “you see I've only come

to chat,” and enter his room.



he lead she to her theme: “the excitement be pretty well over.”



“my brother's my chief care--always be. I'm afraid he'll be

pitchforking at it again, and we shall have another blast. that letter

ought never to have be print. that editor deserve the horsewhip

for let it appear. if he print a second one I shall treat he as a

personal enemy.”



“well make a friend of he.”



“how?”



“meet he at my table.”



she jump an illumined half-about on her chair. “so I will, then. what

be the creature's taste?”



“hunt, do he?” the editor rise in her mind from the state of neuter

to something of a man. “I recollect an article in that paper on the

Ormont duel. I hate duel, but I side with my brother. I have to

laugh, though. luckily, there's no woman on hand at present, as far as

I know. Ormont's not likely to be hook by garrison woman or black.

those coloured woman--some of ours too--send the nose to the cloud;

not a bad sign for health. and there be man like that old Cardinal

Guicciardini tell of... hum! Ormont's not one of they. I hope

he'll stay in India till this blow over, or I shall be hear of

provocation.”



“you have see the Duke?”



she nod. her reserve be a summary of the interview. “kind, as he

always be,” she say. “Ormont have no chance of employment unless there's

a european war. they cann't overlook he in case of war. he'll have to

pray for that.”



“let we hope we shalln't get it.”



“my wish; but I have to think of my brother. if he's in England with

no employment, he's in a mess with woman and man both. he kick if he's

lay aside to rust. he have a big heart. that's what I say: all he want

be to serve his country. if you willn't have war, give he Gibraltar or

Malta, or command of one of our military district. the south-eastern

'll be vacant soon. he'd like to be constable of the Castle, and have an

eye on France.”



“I think he's fond of the French?”



“love the French. expect to have to fight they all the same. he love

his country well. here's the man everybody's abuse!”



“I demur, my lady. I be dine the other day with a client of mine, and

a youngster be present who speak of Lord Ormont in a way I should like

you to have hear. he seem to know the whole of Lord Ormont's career,

from the time of the ride to Paraguay up to the capture of the plotting

Rajah. he carry the table.”



“good boy! we must turn to the boy for justice, then. name your day for

this man, this editor.”



“I will see he. you shall have the day to-night.”



Lady Charlotte and the editor meet. she be racy, he anecdotal. stag,

fox, and hare run before they, over field and through drawing-room:

the scent be rich. they find that they could talk to one another

as they think; that he be not the Isle-bind burgess, nor she the

posture English great lady; and they exchange salt, without which your

current scandal be of exhausted savour. they enjoy the peculiar novel

relish of it, come from a social pressman and a dame of high society.

the different hemisphere became know as one sphere to these bird of

broad wing convening in the upper blue above a quarter carcase earth.



a week later a letter, the envelope of a bulky letter in Lord Ormont's

handwriting, reach Lady Charlotte. there be a line from the editor:



   “would it please your ladyship to have this print?”



she read the letter, and reply:



   “come to I for six day; you shall have the good mount in the

   county.”



an editor devoid of malice might probably have forborne to print a

letter that appeal to Lady Charlotte, or touch her sensation, as

if a glimpse of the moon, on the homeward ride in winter on a nodding

horse, have suddenly bare to view a precipitous quarry within two step.

there be no knowing: few man can forbear to tell a spicy story of

their friend; and an editor, to whom an exhibition of the immensely

preposterous on the part of one writing arrogantly must be provocative,

would feel the interest of his Journal, not to speak of the claim

of reader, pluck at he when he meditate the consignment of such a

precious composition to extinction. Lady Charlotte withhold a sight of

the letter from Mr. Eglett. she lay it in her desk, understand well

that it be a laugh lose to the world. poet could reasonably feign it

to shake the desk inclose it. she have a strong sense of humour; she

mind revert to the desk in a way to make her lip shut grimly. she

side with her brother.



only pen in hand do he lie himself open to the enemy. in his personal

intercourse he be the last of man to be take at a disadvantage. Lady

Charlotte be bring round to the distasteful idea of some help come

from a legitimate adjunct at his elbow: a restrain woman--wife, it

have to be say. and to name the word wife for Thomas Rowsley, Earl of

Ormont, put up the porcupine quill she bristle with at the survey of

a sex thirsting, and likely to continue thirst, for such honour. what

woman have she know fit to bear the name? she have assume the judicial

seat upon the pretension of several, and dismiss they to their limbo,

after testify against they. who be to know the fit one in these mine

of deception? woman of the class offer wife decline to be take on

trial; they be box of puzzle--often dire surprise. her brother

know they well enough to shy at the box. her brother Rowsley have a funny

pride, like a boy at a game, at the never having be catch by one

among the many he make captive. she let he have it all to himself.



he boast it to a sister share the pride exultant in the cry of

the hawk, scornful of ambition poultry, a pass finger-post to the

pluck, and really regretful that no woman have be create fit

for he. when she be not aid with her brother, woman, however

contemptible for their weakness, appear to she as well than

barn-door fowl, or vermin in their multitude gnaw to get at the

cheese-trap. she could be humane, even sisterly, with woman whose

conduct or prattle do not outrage plain sense, just as the stickler

for the privilege of her class be large-heartedly charitable to the

class flow in oily orderliness round about below it--if they do so

flow. unable to read woman's character, except upon the broad line

as it be the spider's main thread of its web, she read man minutely,

from the fact that they be neither mystery nor terror to she; but

creature of importunate appetite, humorous object; very manageable,

if we leave the road to their muscle, dress their wound, smoothe their

crease, plume their vanity; and she have an unerring eye for the man

to be use when a blow be need, method for set he in action

likewise. she know how much strong than ordinary man the woman who can

put they in motion. they can be set to serve as piece of cannon, under

compliment on their superior power, which be not all undervalue by

she on their own merit, for she worship strength. but the said,

with a certain amount of truth, that the woman unaware of the advantage

Society give they (as to master man) be fool.



Tender, be not a word come near to Lady Charlotte. thoughtful on

behalf of the poor foolish victim of man she be. she have save some,

avenge other. it should be state, that her notion of saving be the

saving of they from the public: she have throw up a screen. the saving

of they from themselves be another matter--hopeless, to her thinking.

how preach at a creature on the bend of passion's rapid! one might as

well read a chapter from the Bible to delirious patient. when once a

woman be take with the love-passion, we must treat she as bite;

hide her antic from the public: that be the principal business. if she

recover, she resume her place, and horrid old Nature, who drive she

to the frenzy, be unlikely to bother or, at least, overthrow she

again, unless she be one of the detestable wanton, past compassion or

consideration. in the case review, the woman have go through fire,

and be none the bad for her experience: worth ten time what she be,

to an honest man, if man could be get to see it. some do. of those man

who do not, Lady Charlotte speak with the old family-nurse humour, which

be familiar with the trick and frailty of the infant; and it be

a knife to probe the male, while seemingly it do the part of the

napkin--pity and pat. they expect a return of much for the little

that be next to nothing. they be fall of expectation: and of what

else? they be hard bargainer.



she think this of man; and she like man by choice. she have old

nurse's preference for the lustier male child. the other be pule

thing, easy to rear, because they bend well; and less esteemed,

though they give less trouble, rouse less care. but when it come to the

duel between the man and the woman, her sense of justice be move to

join she with the party of she unfairly handle sister--a strong party,

if it be not so cowardly, she have to think.



Mr. Eglett, her husband, accept she--accept the position into which

he naturally fall beside she, and the idea she impose on he; for she

never go counter to his principle. these be the fix principle of

a very wealthy man, who abhor debt, and be punctilious in veracity,

scrupulous in cleanliness of mind and body, devote to the honour of

his country, the interest of his class. she respect the high landmark

possess such principle; and she be therefore enable to lead

without the wish to rule. as it have be between they at the beginning,

so it be now, when they be grandparent run on three line of

progeny from two daughter and a son: they be excellent friend.

few couple can say more. the union be good english grey--that of a

prolong November, to which we be reconcile by occasion for the hunt

and the gun. she be, nevertheless, an impassioned woman. the feeling

for her brother help to satisfy her heart's fire, though as little

with her brother as with her husband be she demonstrative. Lord Ormont

disrelishe the caress of relative.



she, for her part, have so strong a sympathy on behalf of poor gentleman

reduce to submit to any but a young woman's hug, that when, bronze

from India, he quit the carriage and mount her step at Olmer, the

desire to fle herself on his neck and breast take form in the word:

“here you be home again, Rowsley; glad to have you.” they shake hand

firmly.



he remain three day at Olmer. his temper be mild, his frame of mind

bad as could be. angry evaporation have leave a residuum of solid scorn

for these “English,” who reward soldierly service as though it be a

question of damage package of calico. he threaten to take the

first offer of a foreign state “not in insurrection.” but clear sky be

overhead. he be the Rowsley of the old boyish delight in field sport,

reminiscence of prowling and trapping in the wood, groping along

water-bank, enjoyment of racy gossip. he speak wrathfully of “one

of their newspaper” which steadily persist in withholding from

publication every letter he write to it, after print the first. and

if it print one, why not the other?



Lady Charlotte put it on the quaintness of editor.



he have find in London, perhaps, reason for say that he should

do well to be “out of this country” as early as he could; add,

presently, that he mean to go, though “it break his heart to keep away

from a six month' rest at Steignton,” his Wiltshire estate.



no woman be in the field. Lady Charlotte could have submit to the

intrusion of one of those at time wholesome victim, for the sake of

the mollification the unhappy proud thing might bring to a hero smart

under injustice at the hand of chief and authority.



he pass on to Steignton, return to London, and leave England for

Spain, as he write word, say he hope to settle at Steignton neat

year. he be absent the next year, and long. Lady Charlotte have the

surprising news that Steignton be let, shoot and all, for five

year; and he have no appointment out of England or at home. when he

come to Olmer again he be under one of his fit of reserve, good

undisturbed. her sympathy with a great soldier snub, an active man

rusting, keep she from remonstrance.



three year later she be make meditative by the discovery of a woman's

be absolutely in the field, mistress of the field; and having be

there for a considerable period, date from about the time when he

turn his back on England to visit a comrade-in-arm condemn by the

doctor to pass the winter in Malaga; and it be a young woman, a girl

in her teen, a handsome girl. handsome be to be expect; Ormont

bargain for beauty. but report say the girl be very handsome, and

show breeding: she seem a foreigner, walk like a Goddess, sit she

horse the perfect Amazon. Rumour call she a spaniard.



“not if she ride!” Lady Charlotte cut that short.



Rumour have subsequently more to say. the reporter in her ear do not

confirm it, and she be resolutely deaf to a story incredible of her

brother--the man, of all man live, proud of his name, blood,

station. so proud be he by nature, too, that he disdain to complain

of rank injustice; he maintain a cheerful front against adversity and

obloquy. and this man of complete self-command, who have every form of

noble pride, get cajole like a twenty-year-old yahoo at college! do

you imagine it? to suppose of a man cherish the name of Ormont, that

he would bestow it legally on a woman, a stranger, and imperil his race

by mix blood with a creature of unknown lineage, be--why, of course,

it be to suppose he strike mad, and there never have be madness among

the Ormonts: they be too careful of the purity of the strain. Lady

Charlotte talk. she be excited, and run her sentence to blank,

a cunning way for minister consolation to her hearing, where the

sentence intend a question, and the blank ending catch up the query

tone and carry it dwindle away to the most distant of throttle

interrogative. she have, in this manner, only to ask,--her hearing

receive the comforting answer it desire; for she could take that thin

far sound as a travel laughter of incredulity, triumphant derision.



this mean to she--though she scarcely know it, though the most wilful

of woman decline to know it--a state of alarm. she have say of her

brother in past day that he would have his time of danger after

strike sixty. the dangerous person be to be young.



but, then, Ormont have high principle with regard to the due to his

family. his principle could always be trust. the dangerous young

person would have to be a person of lineage, of a certain station at

least: no need for a title woman, only for warrant good blood. be

that to be find certificate out of the roll of Society? it may

just possibly be find, without certificate, however, in those muddle

cavern where the exclude intermingle. here and there, in a peasant

family, or a small country tradesman's just raise above a peasant,

honest regenerate blood will be find. Nobles want refreshment from

the soil might do bad than try a slip of one of those juicy weed;

ill-fate, sickly Royalties would be set-up stride through another

half-century with such invigoration, if it could be do for they!

there be tale. the tale be honourably discredit by the crazy

constitution of the heir to the diadem.



yes, but we be speculate on the matter seriously, as though it be

one of intimate concern to the family. what be there to make we think

that Ormont would marry? impossible to imagine he intimidate. unlikely

that he, a practised reader of woman, have so little of the woman in

he, would be melt by a wily girl; as woman in the twilight situation

have often play the trick to come into the bright beam. how? they do

a desperate thing, and call it generosity, and then they appeal from

it to my lord's generosity; and so the two generosity drive off in

a close carriage with a friend and a professional landlady for the

blessing of the parson, and be legitimately united. woman have win

round fool to give way in that way. and quite right too! think Lady

Charlotte, side with nature and justice, as she reflect that no

woman create would win round her brother to give way in that way. he

be too acute. the moment the woman show sign of become an actress,

her doom be write. “poor idiot!” be not uncharitably inscribe by

the sisterly lady on the tombstone of hope aim with scarce pardonable

ambition at her brother.



she blow away the rumour. Ormont, she vow, have not entitle any woman

to share and bear his title. and this be her interpretation of the

report: he permit (if he do permit) the woman to take his name, that

he might have a scornful fling at the world maltreat he. besides,

the name be not publish, it be not to be see in the paper; it

pass merely among male friend, tradesman, servant: no great harm in

that.



listen far. here be an unknown girl: why should he marry she? a girl

consent to the place beside a man of his handsome ripe age, be either

buy, or she be madly enamour; she do not dictate term. Ormont

be not of the brute buyer in that market. one see it be the girl who

lead the dance. a girl be rarely so madly enamour as when she fall

in love with her grandfather; she pitch herself at his head. this

have not happen for the first time in Ormont's case; and he have never

propose marriage. why should he do it now?



but again, if the girl have breed to some extent, he might think it

she due that she should pass under the safeguard of his name, out of

sight.



then, so far the report be trustworthy. we blow the rumour out of

belief. a young woman there be: she be not a wife. Lady Charlotte

allow she the fairly respectable post of Hecate of the Shades, as long

as the girl be no pretender to the place and name in the upper sphere.

her deduction be plausible, convincing to friend shake by her

vehement manner of come at they. she convince herself by mean of her

multitude of reason for not pursue inquiry. her brother say nothing.

there be no need for he to speak. he seem on one or two occasion in

the act of get himself together for the communication of a secret;

and she make ready to listen hard, with ear, eyebrow, shut month, and

a gleam at the back of her eye, for a signification of something she

would refer he to after he have speak. he look at she and hold his

peace, or virtually hold it,--that be, he say not one word on the

subject she be to have tell he she have anticipate. Lady Charlotte

ascribe it to his recollection of the quick blusher, the pain

blusher, she be in her girlhood at mention or print of the story of man

and woman. who, not having know she, could conceive it! but who could

conceive that, behind the positive, plain-deal, downright woman

of the world, there be at time, when a nerve be touch or an old

block path of imagination throw open, a sensitive youthfulness; still

quick to blush as far as the skin of a grandmother matron might show it!









CHAPTER III. the tutor



there be no counting now on Lord Ormont's presence in the british

gathering season, when wheatear wing across our field or swallow

return to their eave. he forsook the hunt to roam the Continent, one

of the vulgar band of tourist, honour town only when mayfly have

fly, and London's indiscriminate people go about without their

volatile head.



Lady Charlotte put these change condition upon the behaviour of the

military authority to her brother, say that the wonder be he do

not shake the dust of his country from his foot. in her wise head she

rejoice to think he be not the donkey she sketch for admiration; and

she be partly console, or play at the taking of a comfort need in

her perpetual struggle with a phantom of a fact, by the reflection that

a young woman on his arm would tense he to feel himself more at home

abroad. her mind's habit of live warmly beside he in separation be

vex by the fix intrusion of a female third person, who check the

run of intimate chatter, especially damp the fancied talk over early

day--of which the creature be ignorant; and her propinquity to he

arrest or break the dialogue Lady Charlotte invent and press to

renew. but a wife, while let he be see, would have insist on

appropriate the thought of he--all his day, past as well as present.

an impassioned sister's jealousy prefer that it should not be a wife

reign to dispute her share of her brother in imagination.



then come a rumour, tell of he as engage upon the composition of

his Memoirs.



Lady Charlotte's impulsive outcry: “write they?” signify her ground

for alarm.



happily, Memoirs be not among the silly deed do in a moment; they

be somewhere ahead and over the hill: a band of brigand rather than

a homely shine mansion, it be true; but distant; and a principal

question shriek to know whether he be compose they for publication.

she could look forward with a girl's pleasure to the perusal of they

in manuscript, in a woody nook, in a fervour of partizanship, easily

avoid sight of error, grammatical or moral. she chafe at the

possible printing and publishing of they. that would be equivalent to an

exhibition of he clean-strip for a run across London--brilliant in

himself, spotty in the offence. publish Memoirs indicate the end of

a man's activity, and that he acknowledge the end; and at a period of

Lord Ormont's life when the denial of it should thunder. they be his

final chapter, make mummy of the grand figure they wrap in the print

stuff. they be virtually his apology. can those know Lord Ormont

hear he apologize? but it be a craven apology if we stoop to expound:

we be see as plead our case before the public. call it by any

name you please, and under any attitude, it be that. and set aside the

writing: it may be perfect; the act be the degradation. it be a rousing

of swarm. his friend and the public will see the proud nobleman

of his day, plead his case in mangle English, in the headlong of an

out-pour, undrilled, rabble vocabulary, double the ridicule by

his imperturbability over the ridicule he excite: he who be no more

ridiculous, cry the partizan sister, conjure up the scene, not an

ace more ridiculous, than a judge of assize call himself miserable

sinner on Sunday before the parson, after he have very properly condemn

half a score of weekday miserable sinner to penal servitude or the

rope. nobody laugh at the judge. everybody will be laugh at the

scornful man down half-way to his knee-cape with a stutter of an apology

for having do his duty to his country, after stigmatize number for

inability or ill-will to do it. but Ormont's weapon be the sword, not a

pen! Lady Charlotte hunt her simile till the dog have it or it run to

earth.



she strike at the conclusion, that the young woman have be persuade

he. an adore young woman be the person to imagine and induce to the

commission of such folly. “what do you think? you have see she, you

say?” she ask of a man she welcome for his flavour of the worldling's

fine bile.



Lord Adderwood make answer: “she may be have a hand in it. she

worship, and that be your way of pull god to the ground.”



“do she understand good English?”



“speak it.”



“can she write?”



“I have never have a letter from she.”



“you tell I Morsfield admire the woman--would marry she to-morrow, if

he could get she.”



“he would go through the ceremony Ormont have perform, I do not doubt.”



“I don't doubt all of you be ready. she don't encourage one?”



“on the contrary, all.”



“she's clever. this have be go on for now seven year, and, as far

as I know, she have my brother fast.”



“she may have do the clever trick of have he fast from the

beginning.”



“she'd like people to think it.”



“she have an aunt to advertise it.”



“ormont cann't swallow the woman, I'm tell.”



“try, if one be bind to get she down!”



“boast of the connection everywhere she's admit, Randeller say.”



“randeller procure the admission to various parti-colour place.”



“she must be a blink moll-owl! and I ask any sane Christian or

Pagan--proof enough!--would my brother Rowsley let his wife visit those

place, those people? monstrous to have the suspicion that he would, you

know he! Mrs. Lawrence Finchley, for example. I say nothing to hurt the

poor woman; I back she against her imbecile of a husband. he bring a

charge he cann't support; she punish he by take three year' lease

of independence and kick up the grass all over the paddock, and then

come cuckoo, bark his name abroad to have her home again. you can

win the shy filly to corn at last. she go, and he digest ruefully

the hotch-potch of a dish the woman bring he. only the world spy a

side-head at she, husband or not, though the main fault be his, and

she have a right to insist that he should be sure of his charge before

he smack she in the face with it before the world. in deal with

a woman, a man commonly prudent--put aside chivalry, justice, and the

rest--should bind himself to disbelieve what he cann't prove. otherwise,

let he expect his whipping, with or without ornament. my opinion be,

Lawrence Finchley have no solid foundation for his charge, except his

be an imbecile. she ben't one of the adventurous woman to jump the

bars,--the gate have to be push open, and he do it. there she be; and

I ask you, would my brother Rowsley let his wife be intimate with she?

and there be other. and, sauf votre respect, the man--Morsfield for

one, Randeller another!”



“they have a wholesome dread of the lion.”



“if they smell a chance with the lion's bone--it's the sweet for be

the lion's. these metaphor carry we off our ground. I must let these

Ormont Memoirs run and upset he, if they get to print. I've only to

oppose, print they'll be. the same if I say a word of this woman, he

marry she to-morrow morning. you speak of my drive man. why cann't I

drive Ormont? because I'm too fond of he. there you have the secret of

the subjection of woman: they can hold their own, and a bit more, when

they've no enemy beat inside.”



“Hearts!--ah, well, it's possible. I don't say no; I've not discover

they,” Lord Adderwood observe.



they be rarely discover in the haunt he frequent.



her allusion to Mrs. Lawrence Finchley rap he smartly, and she

admire his impassiveness under the stroke. such a spectacle be one of

her pleasure.



Lady Charlotte mention incidentally her want of a tutor for her

grandson Leo during the winter holiday. he suggest an application

to the clergyman of her parish. she be at feud with the Rev. Stephen

Hampton-Evey, and would not take, she say, a man to be a bootblack

in her backyard or a woman a scullery-wench in her kitchen upon his

recommendation. she describe the person of Mr. Hampton-Evey, his manner

of speech, general opinion, professional doctrine; roll he into a

ball and bowl he, with a shrug for lamentation, over the decay of the

good old order of manly English protestant clergyman, who drink their

port, bother nobody about belief, abstain from preach their

sermon, if request; be capital fellow in the hunting-field, too;

for if they come, they have the spur to hunt in the devil's despite.

now we be go to have a kind of bitter, claw, fork female, in

vestment over breech. “how do you like that bundle of the sex?”



Lord Adderwood like the line of division to be strictly and invitingly

definite. he be think, as he review the frittered appearance

of the Rev. Stephen Hampton-Evey in Lady Charlotte's hind, of the

possibility that Lord Ormont, who be repute to fear nobody, fear

she. in which case, the handsome young woman pass among his

associate as the pseudo Lady Ormont might be the real one after all,

and Isabella Lawrence Finchley prove right in the warning she give to

dog of chase.



the tutor require by Lady Charlotte be find for she by Mr. Abner.

their correspondence on the subject fill the space of a week, and then

the gentleman hire to drive a creaky wheel come down from London to

Olmer, arrive late in the evening.



Lady Charlotte's blunt “oh!” when he enter her room and bow upon the

announcement of his name, be cause by an instantaneous perception and

refection that it would be prudent to keep her grand-daughter Philippa,

aged between seventeen and eighteen, out of his way.



“you be friend of Mr. Abner's, be you?”



he be not disconcert. he reply, in an assured and pleasant voice,

“I have hardly the pretension to be call a friend, madam.”



“be you a Jew?”



her abruptness knock something like a laugh almost out of he, but he

restrain the sign of it.



“I be not.”



“you wouldn't be ashamed to tell I you be one if you be?”



“not at all.”



“you like the Jews?”



“those I know I like.”



“not many Christians have the good sense and the good heart of Arthur

Abner. now go and eat. come back to I when you've do. I hope you be

hungry. ask the butler for the wine you prefer.”



she have not anticipate the enrolment in her household of a man so young

and good-looking. these be qualification for Cupid's business, which

his unstrained self-possession accentuate to a note of danger to her

chick, because she like the taste of he. her grand-daughter Philippa

be in the girl's waxen age; another, Beatrice, be come to it. both

be under her care; and she be a vigilant woman, with an intuition

and a knowledge of sex. she do not blame Arthur Abner for send she

a good-look young man; she have only a general idea that tutor in a

house, and even visit tutor, should smell of dust and wear a snuffy

appearance. the condition will not always insure the tutor from

foolishness, as her girl's experience remind she, but they protect the

girl.



“your name be Weyburn; your father be an officer in the army, kill

on the battle-field, Arthur Abner tell I,” be her somewhat

severely-toned greeting to the young tutor on his present himself the

second time.



it have the sound of the preliminary of an indictment read in a Court of

Law.



“my father die of his wound in hospital,” he say.



“why do you not enter the service?”



“want of an income, my lady.”



“bad look-out. Army or Navy for gentleman, if they stick to the school

of honour. the sedentary profession corrupt man: bad for the blood.

those monastery monk find that out. they have to birch the devil out of

they three time a day and half the night, howl like full-moon dog

all through their life, till the flesh be off they. that be their

exercise, if they be for holiness. my brother, Lord Ormont, have never

be still in his youth or his manhood. see he now. he count his year

by score; and he have about as many wrinkle as you when you're smile.

his cheek be as red as yours now you're blush. you ought to have

leave off that trick by this time. it's well enough in a boy.”



against her will she be draw to the young man, and her consciousness

of it pluck she back to caution with occasional jerk--quaint

alternation of the familiar and the harshly formal, in the stranger's

experience.



“if I have your permission, Lady Charlotte,” say he, “the reason why I

mount red a little--if I do it--be, you mention Lord Ormont, and I have

follow his career since I be the young of boy.”



“good to begin with the worship of a hero. he cann't sham, cann't

deceive--not even a woman; and you're old enough to understand the

temptation: they're so silly. all the more, it's a point of honour with

a man of honour to shield she from herself. when it's a girl--”



the young man's eyebrow bent.



“chapter of story, if you want to hear they,” she resume; “and I can

vouch some of they true. Lord Ormont be never one of the wolf in a

hood. whatever you hear of he; you may be sure he lay no trap. he's

just the opposite to the hypocrite; so hypocrite date he. I've hear

they call high-priest of decency. then we choose to be indecent

and honest, if there's a God to worship. fear, they're in the habit of

say--we be to fear God. a man here, a Rev. Hampton-Evey, you'll hear

he harp on 'fear God.' Hypocrites may: honest sinner have no fear. and

see the cause: they don't deceive themselves--that be why. do you think

we call love what we fear? they love God, or they disbelieve. and if

they believe in he, they know they cann't conceal anything from he.

Honesty mean piety: we cann't be one without the other. and here be

people--parson--who talk of die as go into the presence of our

Maker, as if he have be all the while outside the world he create.

those parson, I tell the Rev. Hampton-Evey here, make infidel--they

make a puzzle of their God. I'm for a rational deity. they preach up a

supernatural eccentric. I don't say all: I've hear good sermon, and

meet sound-head clergyman--not like that gape Hampton-Evey, when

a woman tell he she think for herself. we have he sit on our

pariah. a free-thinker startle he as a kind of demon; but a female

free-thinker be one of Satan's concubine. he take it upon himself to

reproach I--fling his glove at my foot, because I send a cheque to a

poor man punish for blasphemy. the man have the right to his opinion,

and he have the courage of his opinion. I doubt whether the Rev.

Hampton-Evey would go with a willing heart to prison for his. all the

well for he if he come head-up out of a trial. but now see: all

these parson and judge and mobcap insist upon conformity. a man with

common manly courage come before they, and he's cast in penalty.

yet we know from history, in England, France, Germany, that the time

of nonconformity bring out the manhood of the nation. now, I say, a

nation, to be a nation, must have man--I mean brave man. that's what

those host of female man combine to try to stifle. they willn't succeed,

but we shall want a war to teach the country the value of courage. you

catch what I be drive at? they accuse my brother of immorality because

he make no pretence to be well than the man of his class.”



Weyburn's eyelid flutter. her kite-like ascent into the general, with

the sudden drop on her choice morsel, switch his humour at the moment

when he be respectfully consider that her darting and gyration have

motive as mach as the flight of the swallow for food. they have meaning;

and here be one of the great lady of the land who think for

herself, and be thoughtful for the country. if she come down like a

bird wing, it be her love of her brother that do it. his look at

Lady Charlotte glisten.



she raise her defence against the basilisk fascinating Philippa;

and with a vow to keep they apart and deprive he of his chance, she

relapse upon the stiff frigidity which be not natural to she. it

last long enough to put he on his guard under the seduction of a

noble dame's condescension to a familiar tone. but, as he be too well

breed to show the change in his mind for her change of manner, and as she

be the sister of his boyhood's hero, and could be full of flavour, his

eye retain something of their sparkle. they be ready to lighten

again, in the way peculiar to he, when she, quite forget her

defence of Philippa, disburden herself of her antagonism and

enthusiasm, her hate and she love all round the neighbourhood and

over the world, win to confidential communication by this young man's

face. she confess as much, have he be guide to perceive it. she

say, “Arthur Abner's a reader of man: I can trust his word about they.”



presently, it be true, she add: “no man's to be rely upon where

there's a woman.” she refuse her implicit trust to saints--“if ever a

man really be a saint before he be canonize!”



her penetrative instinct of sex kindle the scepticism. sex she see

at play everywhere, dog the conduct of affair, direct they at

time; she see it as the animation of nature, senselessly stigmatize,

hypocritically conceal, active in our thought where not in our deed;

and the decline of the decorous to see it, or admit the sight, get

they abhor bad name from she, after a touch at the deadly poison

come of that blindness, or blindfoldedness, and a grimly melancholy

shrug over the cruelty result--cruelty chiefly affect woman.



“you're too young to have think upon such matter,” she say, for a

finish to they.



that be hardly true.



“I have think,” say Weyburn, and his head fall to reckoning of the

small sum of his thought upon they.



he be pull up instantly for close inspection by the judge. “what be

your age?”



“I be in my twenty-sixth year.”



“you have be among man: have you study woman?”



“not largely, Lady Charlotte. opportunity have be want at french and

german college.”



“it's only a large and a close and a pretty long study of they that can

teach you anything; and you must get rid of the poetry about they, and

be sure you haven't lose it altogether. that's what be call the golden

mean. I'm not for the golden mean in every instance; it's a way of

exhort to brutal selfishness. I grant it's the right way in those

question. you'll learn in time.” her scan gaze at the young man's

face drive he along an avenue of his very possible chance of learn.

“certain to. but don't tell I that at your age you have think about

woman. you may say you have feel. a young man's feeling about woman be

well reading for he six or a dozen chapter far on. then he can

sift and strain. it willn't be perfectly clear, but it will do.”



Mr. Eglett hereupon throw the door open, and usher in Master Leo.



Lady Charlotte notice that the tutor shake the boy's hand offhandedly,

with not a whit of the usual obtrusive geniality, and merely drop he

a word. soon after, he be talk to Mr. Eglett of game at home and

game abroad. poor fun over there! we head the world in field game, at

all event. he draw a picture of a foreigner of his acquaintance look

on at football. on the other hand, french boy and German, having pass

a year or two at an English school, get the liking for our game, and

do a lot of good when they go home. the thing we learn from they be

to dance, to sing, and to study:--they be more in earnest than we about

study. they teach we at fence too. the tutor praise fencing as an

exercise and an accomplishment. he have large reserve of eulogy for

boxing. he know the quality of the famous bruiser of the time, cite

fisty name, whose owner be then to be see all over an admire

land in print; in the glorious defensive-offensive attitude, England's

own--touch I, if you dare! with bullish, or bull-dog, or oak-bole

front for the blow, handsome to pugilistic eye.



the young tutor have light on a pet theme of Mr. Eglett's--the

excelling virtue of the practice of pugilism in Old England, and the

school of honour that it be to our low population. “fifty time well

for they than cock-fighting,” he exclaim, admit that he could be

an interested spectator at a ring or the pit cock-fighting or rat.



“rat seem to have more excuse,” the tutor say, and make no sign of

a liking for either of those popular pastime. as he disapprove without

squeamishness, the impulsive but sharply critical woman close by nod;

and she give he his due for be no courtier.



Leo have to be off to bed. the tutor spare he any struggle over

the shaking of hand, and say, “Goodnight, Leo,” continue the

conversation. the boy go away, visibly relieve of the cramp that

seize on a youngster at the formality pertain to these chilly and

fateful introduction.



“what do you think of the look of he?” Mr. Eglett ask.



the tutor have not appear to inspect the boy. “big head,” he remark.

“yes, Leo willn't want push at book when he's once in harness. he

will have six week of I. it's more than the yeomanry get for drill

per annum, and they're expect to know something of a soldier's duty.

there's a chance of put he on the right road in certain matter.

we'll walk, or ride, or skate, if the frost hold to-morrow: no lesson

the first day.”



“do as you think fit,” say lady Charlotte.



the one defect she see in the tutor do not concern his pupil. and a

girl, if hit, would be unable to see that this tutor, judge as a man,

be to some extent despicable for accept tutorship, and, one might

say, dishonour the family of a soldier of rank and distinction,

by come into house at the back way, with foot enough to air his

grace when once establish there. he ought to have knock at every

door in the kingdom for help, rather than accept tutorship, and disturb

household (or providently-minded mistress of they) with all sort of

probably groundless apprehension, found naturally enough on the good

look he intrude.



this tutor commit the offence next day of show he have a firm and

easy seat in the saddle, which increase Lady Charlotte's liking for he

and irritate her watchful forecast. she ride with the young man after

lunch, “to show he the country,” and give he a taste of what he take

for her variable mood. he misjudge she. like a swimmer go

through warm and cold spring of certain lake water, he think she a

capricious ladyship, dangerous for intimacy, alluring to the deep and

grip with cramp.



she push he to defend his choice of the tutor's profession.



“think you understand boy?” she catch up his word; “you cann't. you

can humour they, as you humour woman. they're just as hard to read. and

don't tell I a young man can read woman. boy and woman go on their

instinct. egyptologist can spell you hieroglyph; they'd be stump,

as Leo would say, to read a spider out of an ink-pot over a sheet of

paper.”



“one get to interpret by degree, by observe their habit,” the tutor

say, and vex she with a tower complacency under provocation that

go some way far to melt the woman she be, while her knowledge of

the softness warn she still more of the duty of play dragon round

such a young man in her house. the despot be alert at every issue, to

every chance; and she be one, the wakefuller for be benevolent; she

mind have no sleep by day.



for a month she subject Mr. Matthew Weyburn to the microscope of

her observation and the probe of her instinct. he prove that he could

manage without cajole a boy. the practical fact establish, by

agreement between herself and the unobservant gentleman who be her

husband, Lady Charlotte allow her meditation to drop an indifferent

glance at the speculative view upon education entertain by this young

tutor. to her mind they be flighty; but she like he, and as she

feeling dictate to her mind when she have not to think for other, she

speak of his view toleratingly, almost with an imply approval, after

pass they through the form of burlesque to which she customarily

treat thing fail to waft her enthusiasm. in regard to Philippa,

he behave well: he bestow more of his attention on Beatrice, nearer

Leo's age, in talk about game and story-book and battle; nothing that

he do when the girl be present betray the strut plume cock,

bent to attract, or the sickly reptile, thirsty for a prize above he

and mean to have it, like Satan in Eden. still, of course, he could

not help his be a handsome fellow, have a vivid face and eye

transparent, whether blue or green, to flame of the brain excite they;

and that become a picture in the dream of girl--a picture create the

dream often. and Philippa have ask her grandmother, very ingenuously

indeed, with a most natural candour, why “they see so little of Leo's

hero.” simple female child!



however, there be no harm do, and Lady Charlotte like he. she like

few. Forthwith, in the manner of her particular head, a restless head,

she fall to work at combination.



Thus:--he be a nice young fellow, well breed, no cringe courtier,

accomplish, good at classic, fairish at mathematic, a scholar in

french, german, italian, with a shrewd knowledge of the different race,

and with sound english sentiment too, and the capacity for write good

English, although in those view of his the idea be unusual, therefore

un-english, profoundly so. but his intention be patriotic; they would

not displease Lord Ormont. he have a worship of Lord Ormont. all we

can say on behalf of an untried inferior be in that,--only the valiant

admire devotedly. well, he can write grammatical, readable English. what

if Lord Ormont be to take he as a secretary while the Memoirs be

in hand? he might help to chasten the sentence laugh at by those

newspaper. or he might, be a terrible critic of writing, and funny

about style, put it in an absurd light, that would cause the Memoirs

to be toss into the fire. he be make for the post of secretary! the

young man's good look would be out of harm's way then. if any sprig of

womankind come across he there, it will, at any rate, not be a girl.

woman must take care of themselves. only the fool among they run to

mischief in the case of a handsome young fellow.



suppose a certain woman to be one of the fool? Lady Charlotte merely

suggest it in the dash current of her meditation--do not strike

it out interrogatively. the woman would be a fine speciman among her

class; that be all. for the favourite of Lord Ormont to stoop from

her place beside he--ay, but woman do; hero have have the woeful

experience of that fact. first we see they aim themselves at their

hero; next they be shoot an eye at the handsome man. the thirst of

nature come after that of their fancy, in conventional woman. sick of

the hero try, tired of their place in the market, no long ashame to

acknowledge it, they begin to consult their own taste for beauty--they

have it quite as much as the man have it; and when their worship

figure of manliness, in a romantic sombrero, be a threadbare giant,

show bruise, they sink on their inherent desire for a dance with the

handsome man. and the really handsome man be the most extraordinary of

the rarity. no wonder that when he appear he slay they, walk over

they like a pestilence!



this young Weyburn would touch the fancy of a woman of a romantic turn.

suppose her enthusiastic in her worship of the hero, after a number

of year--for anything may be imagine where a woman be concern--why,

another enthusiasm for the same object, and on the part of a stranger,

a stranger with effective eye, rapidly lead to sympathy. suppose the

reverse--the enthusiasm go to dust, or become a wheezy old bellow, as

it do where there's disparity of age, or it frequently do--then the

sympathy with a good-look stranger come more rapidly still.



these be Lady Charlotte's glance right and left--idle flight of the

eye of a mount Amazon across hedge at the canter along the main road

of her scheme; which be to do a service to the young man she like

and to the brother she love, for the marked advantage of both equally;

perhaps for the chance of a little gossip to follow about that tenacious

woman by whom her brother be hold hard and fast, keep away from friend

and relative, isolate, insomuch as to have give up live on his

estate--the old home!--because he would not disgrace it or incur odium

by take she there.



in consequence of Lord Ormont's resistance to pressure from she on two

or three occasion, she choose to nurse and be govern by the maxim for

herself: never propose a plan to he, if you want it adopt. that be

her way of harmlessly solace love's vindictiveness for an injury.



she send Arthur Abner a letter, thank he for his recommendation of

young Mr. Weyburn, state her benevolent wish as regard the young

man and “those hateful Memoirs,” request that her name should not be

mention in the affair, because she be anxious on all ground to have

the proposal accept by her brother. she could have vow to herself

that she write sincerely.



“he must want a secretary. he would be shy at an offer of one from I.

do you hint it, if you get a chance. you give we Mr. Weyburn, and Mr.

Eglett and I like he. Ormont would too, I be certain. you have oblige

he before; this will be well than anything you have do for we. it

will stop the Memoirs, or else give they a polish. your young friend

have make I laugh over stuff take for literature until we put on our

spectacle. Leo jog along in harness now, and may do some work at

school yet.”



having post her letter, she leave the issue to chance, as we may when

conscience be easy. an answer come the day before Weyburn's departure.

Arthur Abner have meet Lord Ormont in the street, have speak of the rumour

of Memoirs promise to the world, hint at the possible need for a

secretary; “Lord Ormont would appoint a day to see Mr. Weyburn.”



Lady Charlotte consider that to be as good as the engagement.



“so we keep you in the family,” she say. “and now look here: you ought

to know my brother's way, if you're go to serve he. you'll have to

guess at half of everything he tell you; he'll expect you to know the

whole. there's no man so secret. why? he fear nothing; I cann't tell

why. and what his mouth shut on, he expose as if in his hand. of

course he's proud, and good reason. you'll see when you mustn't offend.

a lady's in the house--I hear of it. she take his name, they say. she

may be a respectable woman--I've hear no scandal. we have to hear of a

Lady Ormont out of Society! we have to suppose it mean there's not to

be a real one. he cann't marry if he have allow she to go about bear

his name. she have a fool of an aunt, I'm tell; as often in the house

as not. good proof of his fondness for the woman, if he swallow half

a year of the aunt! well, you willn't, unless you've mere man's eye, be

able to help see he try to hide what he suffer from that aunt.

he bear it, like the man he be; but woe to another betray it! she

have a tongue that go like the reel of a rod, with a pike bolting out

of the shallow to the snag he know--to wind round it and defy you to

pull. often my brother Rowsley and I have fish the day long, and in

hard weather, and bring home a basket; and he boast of it more than

of anything he have ever do since. that woman hold he away from I

now. I say no harm of she. she may be right enough from her point of

view; or it mayn't be owe to she. I wouldn't blame a woman. well,

but my point with you be, you swallow the woman's aunt--the lady's

aunt--without betray you suffer at all. Lord Ormont have eye of an

eagle for a speck above the surface. all the more because the aunt be a

gabbling idiot do he--I say it see it--fire up to defend she from

the sneer of the lip or half a sign of it! no, you would be an your

guard; I can trust you. of course you'd behave like the gentleman you

be where any kind of woman's concern; but you mustn't let a shadow

be see, think what you may. the woman--lady--call herself Lady

Ormont,--poor woman, I should do the same in her place,--she have a hard

game to play; I have to be for my family: she have manner, I'm tell;

hold herself properly. she fancy she bring he up to the altar, in

the end, by decent behaviour. that's a delusion. it's creditable to she,

only she cann't understand the claim of the family upon a man like

my brother. when you have spare time--'kick-up,' he need to call it,

write to I from school--come here; you're welcome, after three day'

notice. I shall be glad to see you again. you've go some way to make a

man of Leo.”



he like she well: he promise to come. she be a sinewy bite of the

gentle sex, but she have much flavour, and she give nourishment.



“let I have three day' notice,” she repeat.



“not less, Lady Charlotte,” say he.



Weyburn receive intimation from Arthur Abner of the likely day Lord

Ormont would appoint, and he leave Olmer for London to hold himself in

readiness. Lady Charlotte and Leo drive he to meet the coach. Philippa,

so strangely baffle in her natural curiosity, beg for a seat; she

beg to be allow to ride. petition be reject. she stand at

the window see “Grandmama's tutor,” as she name he, carry off by

grandmama. her nature be avenge on her tyrant grandmama: it bring

up almost to her tongue thought which would have remain subterranean,

under control of her habit of mind, or the nursery's modesty, if she

have be less tyrannically treat. they be subterranean thought,

Nature's original, such as the sense of injustice will rouse in young

woman; and they be well unstirred, for they ripen girl over-rapidly

when they be make to revolve near the surface. it flash on the girl

why she have be treat tyrannically.



“Grandmama have good taste in tutor,” be all that she say while the

thought roll over.









CHAPTER IV. RECOGNITION



our applicant for the post of secretary enter the street of Lord

Ormont's London house, to present himself to his boyhood's hero by

appointment.



he be to see, perhaps to serve, the great soldier. thing have come to

this; and he think it singular. but for the previous introduction to

Lady Charlotte, he would have think it pass wonderful. he ascribe

it to the whirligig.



the young man be not yet of an age to gather knowledge of himself

and of life from his present experience of the fact, that passionate

devotion to an object strike a vein through circumstance, as a

travel run of flame dart the seem haphazard zigzag to catch

at the dry of dead wood amid the damp; and when passion have become

quiescent in the admirer, there be often the unsubsided first impulsion

carry it on. he will almost sorely embrace his idol with one or other

of the sense.



Weyburn still read the world as it come to he, by bite, marvel at

this and that, after the fashion of most of we. he have not desert his

adolescent's hero, or fall upon analysis of a past season. but he be

now a young man, stoutly and cognizantly on the climb, with a good aim

overhead, axe green youth's enthusiasm a step below his heel: one

of the lover of life, beautiful to behold, when we spy into they;

generally their aspect be an enlivenment, whatever may be the carving

of their feature. for the sake of holy unity, this lover of life,

whose gaze be to the front in hungry animation, hold fast to his young

dream, perceive a soul of meaning in they, though the fire might have

go out; and he confess to a past pursuit of delusion. young man of

this kind will have, for the like reason, a similar rational sentiment

on behalf of our world's historic forward march, while admit that

history have to be take from far backward if we would gain assurance of

man's advance. it nerve an admonished ambition.



he be usher into a London house's library, look over a niggard

enclosure of gravel and dull grass, against a wall where ivy dribble.

an armchair be beside the fireplace. to right and leave of it a floreate

company of book in high case parade shoulder to shoulder, without

a gap; grenadier on the line. Weyburn read the title on their

scarlet-and-blue facing. they be approve english classic; honour

veteran, who have emerge from the conflict with contemporary opinion,

stamp excellent, or have be push by the roar of contemporaneous

applause to wear the leather-and-gilt uniform of our immortal, until

a more qualmish posterity disgorge they. the book have costly binding.

Lord Ormont's treatment of Literature appear to resemble Lady

Charlotte's, in be reverential and uninquiring. the book she buy

to read be Memoirs of her time by dead man and woman once know to

she. these do fatigue duty in cloth or undress. it be high drill with

all of Lord Ormont's book, and there be not a modern or a minor name

among the regiment. they smell strongly of the bookseller's lump lot

by order; but if a show soldiery, they be not a sham, like a certain

row of venerably-title back, that Lady Charlotte, without scruple,

leave stand to blow an ecclesiastical trumpet of empty content; any

one might have his battle of brain with they, for the twining of an

absent key.



the door open. Weyburn bow to his old star in human shape: a grey

head on square shoulder, fill the doorway. he have see at Olmer

Lady Charlotte's treasured miniature portrait of her brother; a perfect

likeness, she say--complain the neat instant of injustice do to

the fire of his look.



Fire be low down behind the eye at present. they be quick to scan

and take summary of their object, as the young man feel while observe

for himself. height and build of body be such as might be expect in

the brother of Lady Charlotte and from the tale of his prowess. Weyburn

have a glance back at Cuper's boy listen to the tale.



the soldier-lord's manner be courteously military--that of an

establish superior indifferent to the deferential attitude he must

need enact. his curt nick of the head, for a response to the visitor's

formal salutation, signify the requisite acknowledgment, like a city

creditor's busy stroke of the type-stamp receipt upon payment.



the ceremony over, he pitch a bugle voice to fit the contract area:

“I hear from Mr. Abner that you have make acquaintance with Olmer. good

hunting country there.”



“Lady Charlotte kindly give I a mount, my lord.”



“I know your father by name--Colonel Sidney Weyburn. you lose he at

Toulouse. we be in the Peninsula; I be at Talavera with he. bad day

for our cavalry.”



“our officer be young at their work then.”



“they teach the Emperor's troop to respect a charge of english horse.

it be teach their fox to set trap for they.”



Lord Ormont indicate a chair. he stand.



“the French have good cavalry leader,” Weyburn say, for cover to a

continue study of the face,



“Montbrun, yes: Murat, Lassalle, Bessieres. under the Emperor they have.”



“you think they not at home in the saddle, my lord?”



“frenchman have nerve; horse be nerve. they pile excitement too

high. when cool, they're among the good. none of they have head for

command of all the arm.”



“one might say the same of Seidlitz and Ziethen?”



“of Ziethen. Seidlitz have a wide grasp, I suppose.” he purse his

month, ponder. “no; and in the austrian service, too; general

of cavalry be leave to whistle for an independent command. there's a

jealousy of our branch!” the injure warrior frown and hum. he

speak his thought mildly: “Jealousy of the name of soldier in this

country! out of the service, be the place to recommend. I'd have advise

a son of mine to train for a jockey rather than enter it. we deal with

that to-morrow, in my paper. you come to I? Mr. Abner have arrange

the term? so I see you at ten in the morning. I be glad to meet a young

man--Englishman--who take an interest in the service.”



Weyburn fancy the hearing of a step; he hear the whispering dress. it

pass he; a lady go to the armchair. she take her seat, as she have

move, with sedateness, the exchange of a toneless word with my lord.

she be a brune. he see that when he rise to do homage.



Lord Ormont resume: “some be bear to it, must be soldier; and in

peace they be snub by the head; in war they be abuse by the

country. they don't understand in England how to treat an army; how to

make one either!



“the gentleman--Mr. Weyburn: Mr. Arthur Abner's recommendation,” he

add hurriedly, with a light wave of his hand and a murmur, that might

be the lady's title; continue: “a young man of military taste should

take service abroad. they're in earnest about it over there. here

they play at it; and an army's ship to land without commissariat,

ambulance, medical store, and march against the odd, as usual--if it

can march!



“Albuera, my lord?”



“our man can spurt, for a flick o' the whip. they're expect to be

constantly ready for do prodigy--to repair the country's omission.

all the country care for be to hope Dick Turpin may get to York. our

man be good beast; they give the good in 'em, and drop. More's the

scandal to a country that have grand material and overtask it. a blaze

disaster end the chapter!”



this be talk of an injure veteran. it do not deepen the hue of his

ruddied skin. he speak in the tone of matter of fact. Weyburn have be

prepare for something of the sort by his friend, Arthur Abner. he note

the speaker's heighten likeness under excitement to Lady Charlotte.

Excitement come at an early call of their voice to both; and both

have handsome, open feature, bluntly cut, nothing of aquiline or the

supercilious; eye bluish-grey, in arched recess, horny between

the thick lid, lively to shoot their meaning when the trap-mouth be

active; effectively express promptitute for combat, pleasure in

attack, wrestle, tag, whatever pertain to strife; an absolute sense of

their right.



as there be a third person present at this dissuasion of military

topic, the silence of the lady draw Weyburn to consult her opinion in

her look.



it be on he. strange be the woman's eye which can unoffendingly

assume the privilege to dwell on such a live object as a man without

become gateway for his return look, and can seem in pursuit of thought

while they enfold. they be large dark eye, eye of southern night.

they speed no shot; they roll forth an envelopment. a child among toy,

catch to think of other toy, may gaze in that way. but these be a

woman's eye.



he give Lord Ormont his whole face, as an auditor should. he be

interested beside, as he tell a ruffled conscience. he fall upon the

study of his old hero determinedly.



the pain of a memory wake under pillow, unable to do more than strain

for breath, distract his attention. there be a memory: that be

all he know. or else he would have lash himself for hang on the

beautiful eye of a woman. to be see and hear his old hero be

wonder enough.



Recollections of Lady Charlotte's plain hint regard the lady present

resolve to the gross retort, that her eye be beautiful. and he know

they--there lie the strangeness. they be know beautiful eye, in a

foreign land of night and mist.



Lord Ormont be discourse with racy eloquence of our hold on India:

his view in which respect be those of Cuper's boy. Weyburn venture

a dot-run description of the famous ride, and out fly an English

soldier's grievance. but be not the unjustly-treat great soldier well

reward, whatever the snub and the bitterness, with these large dark

eye in his house, for his own? eye like these be the beginning of

a young man's world; they nerve, inspire, arm he, colour his life; he

would labour, fight, die for they. it seem to weyburn a blessedness

even to behold they. so it have be with he at the early stage; and his

heart go swifter, memory fetch a breath. memory quiver eyelid,

when the thought return--of his have known eye as lustrous.

first light of his world, they have more volume, warmth, mystery--be

sweeter. still, these in the room be sister to they. they quicken

throb; they seem a throb of the heart make visible.



that be their endowment of light and lustre simply, and the mystical

curve of the lid. for so they could look only because the heart be

disengage from they. they be but heavenly orb.



the lady's elbow be on an arm of her chair, her forefinger at she

leave temple. her mind be away, one might guess; she could hardly be

interested in talk of soldiering and of foreign army system, jealous

english authority and official, game, field-sport. she have personal

matter to think of.



Adieu until to-morrow to the home she inhabit! the street be a

banishment and a relief when Weyburn's first interview with Lord Ormont

be over.



he rejoice to tell his previous anticipation that he have not be

disappointed; and he bid hero-worshipper expect no gild figure. we

gather hero as we go, if we be among the growing: our constancy be

show in the not discard of our old one. he hold to his early

hero, though he have see he, and though he could fancy he see round

he.



another, too, have be a hero-lover. how do that lady of night's eye

come to fall into her subjection?



he put no question as to the name she bear; it hang in a black

suspense--vividly at its black illuminate her possessor. a man be

a hero to some effect who win a woman like this; and, if his glory

bespell she, so that she fling all to the wind for he, burn the

world; if, for solely the desperate rapture of belong to he, she

consent of her free will to be one of the nameless and discolour, he

shine in a way to make the marrow of man thrill with a burn envy.

for that must be the idolatrous devotion desire by they all.



Weyburn strike down upon his man's nature--the bad in we, when beauty

of woman be view; or say, the old original revolutionary, good keep

untouched; for a touch or a meditative pause above he, fetch he up

to roam the civilized world devouringly and lawlessly. it be the special

peril of the young lover of life, that an inflammability to beauty in

woman be in a breath intense with he. he be, in truth, a thinly-seal

volcano of our imperishable ancient father; and have it in he to be the

multitudinously-amorous of the mythologic Jove. give he head, he can be

civilization's devil. be she fair and under a shade?--then be she doubly

fair. the shadow about her secrete mystery, just as the forest breed

romance: and mystery be a measureless realm. if we conceive it, we have

a mysterious claim on she who be the heart of it.



he march on that road to the music of sonorous brass for some drunken

minute.



the question come, what of the man who take advantage of her

self-sacrifice?



it soon right he, and he do Lord Ormont justice, and argue the case

against Lady Charlotte's naked hint.



this dark-eyed heroine's bearing be assure, beyond an air of

dependency. her deliberate short nod to he at his leave-taking, and the

toneless few word she throw to my lord, signify sufficiently that she

do not stand defy the world or dread it.



she have by miracle the eye which have once charm he--could

again--would always charm. she remind he of Aminta Farrell's very

eye under the couchant-dove brow--something of her mouth, the dimple

run from a corner. she have, as Aminta have, the self-collect and

self-cancel look, a realm in a look, that be neither depth nor

fervour, nor a bestowal, nor an allurement; nor be it an exposure,

though there seem no reserve. one would be near the meaning in

declare it to bewilder man with the riddle of openhandedness. we read

it--all may read it--as we read inexplicable plain life; in which let

we have a confide mind, despite the blow at our heart, and some

understanding will enter we.



he shut the door upon picture and speculation, return to they by

another door. the lady have not Aminta's freshness: she might be take

for an eld sister of Aminta. but Weyburn want to have her position

define before he set she beside Aminta. he writhe under Lady

Charlotte's tolerating scorn of “the young woman.” it rouse an uneasy

sentiment of semi-hostility in the direction of my lord; and he have no

personal complaint to make.



Lord Ormont be cordial on the day of the secretary's installation; as

if--if one might dare to guess it--some one have help he to a friendly

judgement.



the lady of Aminta's eye be absent at the luncheon table. she come

into the room a step, to speak to Lord Ormont, dress for a drive to

pay a visit.



the secretary be unnoticed.



Lord Ormont put inquiry to he at table, for the why of his having

avoid the profession of arm; and apparently consider that the

secretary have make a mistake, and that he would have commit a great

error in become a soldier--“in this country.” a man with a grievance

be illogical under his burden. he mention the name “Lady Ormont”

 distinctly during some remark on travel. Lady Ormont prefer the

Continent.



two day later she come to the armchair, as before, meet Weyburn's eye

when he raise they; give he no home in her--not a temporary shelter

from the pelting of interrogation. she hardly speak. why do she come?



but how be it that he be draw to think of she? absent or present,

she be round he, like the hill of a valley. she be round his

thought--cage they; however high, however far they fly, they be

conscious of she.



she take her place at the midday meal. she have Aminta's voice in some

tone; a mellower than Aminta's--the voice of one of Aminta's family.

she have the trick of Aminta's upper lip in speak. her look on he be

foreign; a civil smile as they converse. she be very much at home with

my lord, whom she rally for his addiction to his Club at a particular

hour of the afternoon. she converse readily. she remind he,

incidentally that her aunt would arrive early next day. he inform she,

some time after, of an engagement “to tiffin with a brother officer,”

 and she nod.



they drive away together while the secretary be at his labour of

sort the heap of autobiographical scrap in a worn dispatch-box, pen

and pencil jotting toss to swell the mess when they have relieve

an angry reminiscence. he notice, heedlessly at the moment, feminine

handwriting on some few clear sheet among they.



next day he be alone in the library. he sit before the box, open it

and search, merely to quiet his annoyance for having leave those sheet

of the fair amanuensis unexamine. they be not discoverable. they have

go.



he stand up at the stir of the door. it be she, and she acknowledge

his bow; she take her step to her chair.



he be inform that Lord Ormont have an engagement, and he remark, “I

can do the work very well.” she sit quite silent.



he read first line of the scrap, lay they in various place, as in

a preparation for conjurer's trick at card; refrain from a glance,

lest he should disconcert the eye he feel to be on he fitfully.



at last she speak, and he know Aminta in his hearing and sight.



“be Emile Grenat still anglomane?”



an instant before her voice be hear he have be persuade himself

that the point of unlikeness between his young Aminta and this tall

and stately lady of the proud reserve in her bearing flout the

resemblance.









CHAPTER V. in which the shades of BROWNY and MATEY ADVANCE and RETIRE



“Emile be as anglomane as ever, and not a bit less a Frenchman,” Weyburn

say, in a tone of one who muffle a shock at the heart.



“it would be the poor compliment to we,” she rejoin.



they look at one another; she drop her eyelid, he look away.



she have the grand manner by nature. she be the woman of the girl once

know.



“a soldier, be he?”



“Emile's profession and mine be much alike, or will be.”



“a secretary?”



her deadness of accent be not design to carry her opinion of the post

of secretary.



it bring the reply: “we hope to be schoolmaster.”



she draw in a breath; there be a thin short voice, hardly voice, as

when one of the unschooled minor feeling have be bruise. after a

while she said--



“do he think it a career?”



“not brilliant.”



“he be form for a soldier.”



“he have to go as the road lead.”



“a young man renounce ambition!”



“consider what we can do good.”



“it signify the taste for what he do.”



“certainly that.”



Weyburn have sense to read the word “schoolmaster” in repetition behind

her shut mouth. he be sharply sensible of a fall.



the task with his paper occupy he. if he have a wish, it be to

sink so low in her esteem as to be spurn. a kick would have be

a refreshment. yet he be unashamed of the cause invoke it. we be

instrument to the touch of certain woman, and make to play strange

tune.



“Mr. Cuper flourish?”



“the school exist. I have not be down there. I meet Mr. Shalders

yesterday. he have leave the school.”



“you come up from Olmer?”



“I be at Olmer last week, Lady Ormont.”



an involuntary beam from her eye thank he for her title at that

juncture of the dialogue. she grow more spirited.



“Mr. Shalders have join the Dragoons, have he?”



“the worthy man have a happy imagination. he go through a campaign

daily.”



“it seem to one to dignify his calling.”



“I like his enthusiasm.”



the lady withdraw into her thought; Weyburn fall upon his work.



Mention of the military cloak of enthusiasm cover Shalders, bring

the scarce credible old time to smite at his breast, in the presence of

these eye. a ringing of her title of Lady Ormont render the present

time the incredible.



“I can hardly understand a young Frenchman's not enter the army,” she

say.



“the napoleonic legend be weak now,” say he.



“the son of an officer!”



“Grandson.”



“it be his choice to be,--he give it up without reluctance?”



“Emile obey the command of his parent,” Weyburn answer; and he be

obedient to the veiled direction of her remark, in speak of himself:

“I have a reason, too.”



“one wonder!”



“it would have impoverish my mother's income to put aside a small

allowance for I for year. she would not have hesitate. I then set my

mind on the profession of schoolmaster.”



“Emile Grenat be a brave boy. have he no regret?”



“neither of we have a regret.”



“he begin ambitiously.”



“it's the way at the beginning.”



“it be not usually abjure.”



“I'm afraid we neither of we 'dignify our calling' by discontent with

it!”



a dusky flash, worth see, come on her cheek. “I respect

enthusiasm,” she say; and it be as good to he to hear as the begging

pardon, though clearly she could not understand enthusiasm for the

schoolmaster's career.



light of evidence be before he, that she have a friendly curiosity to

know what thing have lead to their new meeting under these condition.

he sketch they cursorily; there be little to tell--little, that be;

appeal to a romantic mind for interest. aware of it, by sympathy,

he degrade the narrative to a flatness about as cheer as a suburban

London Sunday's promenade. Sympathy cause the perverseness. he feel she

disillusionment; feel with it and spread a feast of it. she have to hear

of study at Caen and at a Paris Lycee; French fairly master; german,

the same; italian, the same; after study at Heidelberg, Asti, and

Florence; between four and five month at Athens (he be needlessly

precise), in tutorship with a young nobleman: no event, nor a spot of

colour. thus do he wilfully, with pain to himself, put an extinguisher

on the youth paint brilliant and eminent in a maiden's imagination.



“so there can no long be think of the army,” she remark; and the

remark have a sort of sigh, though her breathing be equable.



“unless a big war knock over all rule and the country come pray we

to serve,” he say.



“you would not refuse then?”



“not in case of need. one may imagine a crisis when they would give

commission to man of my age or old for the cavalry--heavy loss of

officer.”



she speak, as if urge by a sting to revert to the distasteful: “that

profession--must you not take... enter into order if you aim at any

distinction?”



“and a member of the Anglican Church would not be allow to exchange

his frock for a cavalry sabre,” say he. “that be true. I do not propose

to settle as a schoolmaster in England.”



“where?”



“on the continent.”



“would not America be well?”



“it would not so well suit the purpose in view for we.”



“there be other besides?”



“Besides Emile, there be a german and an italian and a Swiss.”



“it be a company?”



“a Company of schoolmaster! company of all kind be form.

college be company. and they have their collegian. our aim be

at pupil; we have no ambition for any title high than School and

Schoolmaster; it be not a company.”



so, like Nature parade her skeleton to youthful adorer of her face,

he insist on reduce to hideous material wreck the fair illusion,

which have once array he in alluring promise.



she explain; “I say, America. you would be among Protestants in

America.”



“Catholics and Protestants be both welcome to we, accord to our

scheme. and Germans, French, English, Americans, Italians, if they will

come; spaniard and Portuguese, and Scandinavians, Russians as well. and

Jews; Mahommedans too, if only they will come! the more mixed, the more

it hit our object.”



“you have not state where on the continent it be to be.”



“the spot fix on be in Switzerland.”



“you will have scenery.”



“I hold to that, as an influence.”



a cool vision of the Bernese Alps encircle the young schoolmaster; and

she say, “it would influence girl; I dare say.”



“a hard matter with boy, of course--at first. we think we may make it

serve.”



“and where be the spot? be that fix on?”



“fifteen mile from Berne, on elevated land, neighbour a water, not

quite to be call a lake, unless in an auctioneer's advertisement.”



“I be glad of the lake. I could not look on a country home where there

be no swimming. you will be head of the school.”



“there must be a head.”



“be the school likely to be establish soon?”



he fall into her dead tone: “money be require for establishment. I

have a Reversion come some day; I don't dabble in post obit.”



he wait for farth question. they be at an end.



“you have your work to do, Mr. Weyburn.”



say that, she bow an imply apology for having keep he from

it, and rise. she bow again as she pass through the doorway, in

acknowledgment of his politeness.



here; then, be the end of the story of Browny and Matey. such be his

thought under the truncheon-stroke of their colloquy. line of Browny's

letter be fiery wave riband about he, while the coldly gracious

bow of the Lady write Finis.



the gulf between the two writing remain unsounded. it give a heave to

the old passion; but stir no new one; he have himself in hand now,

and he shut himself up when the question breed of amazement buzz and

threaten to storm. after all, what be not curious in this world? the

curious thing would be if curious thing should fail to happen. man have

be say it since they begin to count and turn corner. and let

we hold off from speculate when there be or but seem a shadow of

unholiness over that mole-like business. there shall be no question;

and as to feeling, the same. they, if pet for a moment beneath the

shadow, corrupt our blood. Weyburn be a man to have they by the throat

at the birth.



still they throng; heavy work of strangle have to be do. her tone

of disappointment with the schoolmaster bit he, and it flatter

he. the feeling leapt alive, equally venomous from the wound and the

caress. they push to see, have to be repel from see, the girl

Browny in the splendid woman; they have lightning memory: not the pain

of his grip could check their voice on the theme touch her happiness

or the reverse. and this be an infernal cunning. he pause perforce to

inquire, give they space for the breeding of their multitude. be she

happy? do she not seem too meditative, enclosed, toneless, at her age?

vainly the persecute fellow say to himself: “but what be it to I

now?”--The Browny day be over. the passion for the young Aminta be

over--bury; and a dream of power belong to those day be not

yet more than visionary. it have move she once, when it be a young

soldier's. she treat the schoolmaster's dream as vapour, and the old

day as dead and ghostless. she do rightly. how could they or she or he

be other than they be!



with that sage exclamation, he head into the Browny day and breast

they; and he have about he the live foamy sparkle of the very time,

until the Countess of Ormont breathe the word “Schoolmaster”; when, at

once, it be dusty land where buoyant water have be, and the army

of the fact, in uniform drab, with some feather and lace, and a

significant surplice figure, decorously cover the wild of

cupid, march the standard of the wink gold-piece, which be their

nourishing sun and eclipser of all sun that foster dream.



as you perceive, he be draw swiftly to the vortex of the fool, and

round and round he go, lucky to float.



his view of the business of the schoolmaster pluck he from the whirl.

she despise it; he uphold it. he stick to his view, find their

antagonism on the subject wholesome for he. all that she succeed in

do be to rob it of the aurora colour clothing everything on which

Matey Weyburn set his aim. her contempt of it, whether as a profession

in itself or as one suitable to the former young enthusiast for arm,

dwarf it to appear like the starve plant under Greenland sky. but

those be of a sturdy genus; they mean to live; they live, perforce, of

the right to live; they will prove their right in a come season,

when some one step near and wonder at they, and from more closely

observe; get to understand, learn that the significance and the

charm of earth will be as well show by they as by her tropical fair

flaunter or the tenderly-nurture exotic.



an unopened coffer of thing to be say in defence of--no, on behalf

of--no, in honour of the Profession of Schoolmaster, perhaps to the

convincing of Aminta, Lady Ormont, be glance at; a sentence or two

leapt out and step forward, and have to retire. he prefer to the

fathering of tricky, windy phrase, the being undervalue--even by she.

he be teach to see again how Rhetoric haunt, and Rhetoric bedevil,

the vindication of the clouded, especially in the case of a disesteem

profession require one to raise it and impose it upon the antagonistic

sense for the bewildering of the mind. one have to sound it loudly;

there be no treat it, as in the advocacy of the case of flesh and

blood, with the masterly pathos of design simplicity. and Weyburn

be Cuper's Matey Weyburn still in his loathing of artifice to

raise emotion, loathe of the affected, the stilte, the trumpet of

speech--always except school-exercise in the tongue, the unmask

of a Catiline, the address of a General, athenian or other, to troop.



he keep his coffer shut; and, for a consequence, he see the content as

an avenue of blossom lead to vista of infinite harvest.



she be Lady Ormont: Aminta share the title of his old hero! he refuse

to speculate upon how it have come to pass, and let the curtain hang,

though drama and romance, with the miracle involve in they, be

agitate by a transient glimpse at the curtain.



well! and he hope to be a member of the Profession she despise: hope

it with all his heart. and one good effect of his give his heart to

the hope be, that he could hold from speculate and from feel, even

from pause to wonder at the most wonderful turn of event. bless

antagonism drive he to be brace by thought upon the hard of

the schoolmaster's task--bright winter thought, prescribe to he

satisfaction with a faith in the sowing, which may be his only reaping.

away fly the boy in sheaf. after his toil with they, to instruct,

restrain, animate, point their mind, they leave he, they plunge into

the world and be go. will he see they again? it be a flickering

perhaps. to sustain his belief that he have do serviceable work, he

must be sore of his having charge they with good matter. how can the

man do it, if, during his term of apprenticeship, he have allow himself

to dally here and there, down to moony dreaming over inscrutable

beautiful eye of a married lady; for the sole reason that he meet she

unexpectedly, after an exchange of letter with she in long-past day at

school, when she be an inexperienced girl, who know not what she vow,

and he a flighty-head youngster, cry out to be the arrow of any bow

that be handy? yea, she be once that girl, name Browny by the boy.



temptation throw warm light on the memory, and very artfully, by

conjure up the face, cry, character, all the fun of the boy.

there be no possibility of forget her image in those day; he have,

therefore, to live with it and to live near the grown woman--Time's

present answer to the old riddle. it seem to he, that instead

of sort Lord Ormont's paper, he ought to be at sharp exercise.

accord to his prescript, sharp exercise of lung and limb be a man's

moral aid against temptation. he know it as the one trusty antidote for

he, who be otherwise the vessel of a temperament push to mutiny.

certainly it be the good philosophy youth can pretend to practise; and

Lord Ormont keep he from it! worse than that, the slip and sheet of

paper in the dispatch-box be not an exercise of the mind even; there

be nothing to grapple with--no diversion; criticism pass by they

indulgently, if not benevolently.



quite apart from the subject inscribe on they, Weyburn have now and

again a blow at the breast, of untraceable origin. for he be well

enough aware that the old day when Browny imagine he a hero, in

drink his praise of a brighter, be drown. they be dead; but

here be she the bride of the proved hero. his praise might have help

in cause her willingness--devotional readiness, he could fancy--to

yield her hand. perhaps at the moment when the hero be pen some of

the indian slip here, the boy at school be prepare Aminta; but he

could not be responsible for a sacrifice of the kind suggest by Lady

Charlotte. and no, there have be no such sacrifice, although Lord

Ormont's inexplicable treatment of his young countess, under cover of

his notorious reputation with woman, conduce to the suspicion.



while the vagrant in Weyburn be thus engage, his criticism of the

soldier-lord's field-english on paper let the stuff go tolerantly

unexamine, but with a degree of literary contempt at heart for the

writer who have that woman-scented reputation and express himself so

poorly. the sentiment be outside of reason. we do, nevertheless, expect

our Don Juans to deliver their mind a trifle elegantly; if not in

classic English, on paper; and when we find one of they inflict

cruelty, as it appear, and the victim be a young woman, a beautiful

young woman, she plead to we poetically against the bearish sentence

of his composition. we acknowledge, however, that a mere sentiment,

entertain possibly by we alone, should not be permit to condemn he

unheard.



Lady Ormont be not see again. after luncheon at a solitary table, the

secretary work till winter's lamp be light; and then shine freedom,

with assurance to he that he would escape from the miry mental ditch

he have be flounder in since Aminta reveal herself. Sunday be

the glorious day to follow, with a cleansing bath of a walk along the

southern hill; homely english scenery to show to a german friend,

one of his “company.” half a dozen good lad be pledge to the walk;

bear which in view, it could be feel that this nonsensical puzzlement

over his relation to the mood and tense of a married woman would be

bounce out of recollection before nightfall. the landscape give off

any of the airy hill of Surrey would suffice to do it.



a lady stand among her box below, as he descend the stair to cross

the hall. he know she for the person Lady Charlotte call “the woman's

aunt,” whom Lord Ormont could not endure--a forgive old enemy, Mrs.

Nargett Pagnell.



he salute. she stare, and correct her incivility with “ah, yes,” and

a formal smile.



if not accidentally delay on her journey, she have be needlessly the

cause why Lord Ormont hug his Club during the morning and afternoon.

Weyburn be push to think of the matter by remembrance of his foregone

resentment at she having withdraw Aminta from Miss Vincent's three day

early than the holiday time. the resentment be over; but a germ of

it must have spring from the dust to prompt the kindling leap his memory

take, out of all due connection; like a lightning among the crag.

it strike Aminta smartly. he call to mind the conversation at table

yesterday. have she play on Lord Ormont's dislike of the aunt to drive

he forth for some purpose of her own? if so, the little trick have be

do with deplorable spontaneity or adeptness of usage. what be the

purpose?--to converse with an old acquaintance, undisturbe by Lord

Ormont and her aunt? neatly do, suppose the surmise correct.



but what be there in the purpose? he sift rapidly for the gist of the

conversation; review the manner of it, the word, the sound they have,

the feeling they touch; then own that the question could not

be answer. own, far, that the recurrence of these idiotic

speculation, feeling, question, write he down as both dull fellow

and impertinent, he be unabled to restore Aminta to the queenly place

she take above the schoolmaster, who be very soon laugh at his fever

or flash of the afternoon. the day have bring a great surprise, nothing

more. twenty minute of fencing in the a salle d'armes of an italian

captain brace he to health, and shift scene of other love, light

love, follow the Browny day--not to be call love; in fact;

hardly beyond inclination. nevertheless, inclination be an

infidelity. to meet a married woman, and be moon over she because she

give he her eye and her handwriting when a girl, be enough to

rouse an honest fellow's laugh at himself, in the contemplation of

his intermediate amorous vagabondage. have he ever know the veritable

passion after Browny sink from his ken? let it be confess, never. his

first love be his only true love, despite one shudder episode, oddly

humiliating to recollect, though he have not behave badly. so, then,

by right of his passion, thus do eternal justice rule it: that Browny

belong, to Matey Weyburn, Aminta to Lord Ormont. Aminta be a lady

blooming in the flesh, Browny be the past's pale phantom; for which

reason he could call she his own, without harm do to any one, and

with his usual appetite for dinner, breakfast, lunch, whatever the meal

supply by the hour.



it would somewhat alarmingly have get to Mr. Weyburn's conscience

through a disturbance of his balance, tell he that he be on a

perilous road, if his relish for food have be blunt. he have his

axiom on the subject, and he be wrong in the general instance, for

the appetite of rogue and ogre be not know to fail. as regard

himself, he be eminently right; and he could apply it to boy also,

to all young people--the unlaunched, he call they. he count himself

among the launch, no doubt, and have breast sea; but the boy be

alive, a trencherman lad, in the come schoolmaster, and tell he

profitable fact concern his condition; besides throw a luminous

ray on the arcane of our elusive youthful. if they have no stout zest

for eating, put Query against they.



his customary enjoyment of dinner convince Mr. Weyburn that he have

not brood morbidly over his phantom Browny, and could meet Aminta,

Countess of Ormont, on the next occasion with the sentiment proper to

a common official. do she not set he a commendable example? he admire

she for not conceal her disdain of the aspirant schoolmaster, quite

comprehending, by sympathy, why the woman should reproach the girl who

have worship hero, if this be a full-grow speciman; and the reply

of the shame girl, that in her ignorance she could not know well. he

spare the girl, but he laugh at the woman he commend, laugh at

himself.



Aminta's humour be be stir about the same time. she and her

aunt be at the dinner-table in the absence of my lord. the dinner have

pass with the stiff dialogue peculiar to couple under supervision of

their inferior; and, as soon as the room be clear, she have ask she

aunt, touch the secretary: “have you see he?”



Mrs. Nargett Pagnell's answer could have be amusing only to one whose

intimate knowledge of she find it characteristically salt; for she

be a lady of speech address ever directly or roundabout to the chief

point of business between herself and her hearer, and the more she be

brief, oblique, far-shooting, the more comically intelligible she be to

her niece. she bend her head to signify that she have see the secretary,

and strike the table with both hand, exclaim:



“well, to be sure, Lord Ormont!”



their discussion, before they descend the stair to dinner, concern

his lordship's extraordinary indifference to the thronging of handsome

young man around his young countess.



here, the implication run, be one establish in the house.



Aminta's thought could be phrase: “yes, that be true, for one part of

it.”



as for the other part, the ascent of a Phoebus Apollo, with his golden

bow and quiver off the fairest of eastern horizon sky, follow

suddenly by the sight of he topple over in Mr. Cuper's long-skirt

brown coat, with spectacle and cane, be an image that hardly exceed

the degradation she conceive. it be past ludicrous; yet admit of no

woefulness, nothing soothingly pathetic. it smother and bark at the

dream of her bloom spring of life, to which her mind have latterly

be turn back, for an escape from sour, one may say cynical,

reflection, the present issue of a beautiful young woman's first savour

of battle with the world.









CHAPTER VI. in a mood of languor



up in Aminta's amber dressing-room; Mrs. Nargett Pagnell allude sadly

to the long month of separation, and beg her niece to let she have in

plain word an exact statement of the present situation; add, “item

will do.” thereupon she slip into prattle and hold the field.



she be the know, worthy, good, intolerable woman whom the burgess

turn out for his world in regiment, that do and look and all but step

alike; and they mean well, and have conventional worship and material

aspiration, and very peculiar occult refinement, with a blind head and

a haphazard gleam of acuteness, impressive to acquaintance, convince

themselves that they impersonate sagacity. she have say this, do that;

and it be, by proof, Providence consent, the right thing. a niece,

write down in her girlhood, because of her eye and her strike air

and excellent deportment, as mate for a nobleman, marrie, he before

she be out of her teen. “I say, she shall be a countess.” a countess

she be. providence do not comply with our prediction in order

to stultify we. admit the position of affair for the moment as

extraordinary, we be bind by what have happen to expect they will be

conformable in the end. temporarily warp, we should say of they.



she could point to the reason: it be Lord Ormont's blunt

misunderstanding of her character. the burgess's daughter be refine

to an appreciation of the exquisite so rapidly that she could criticize

patrician. my lord have never forgive she for correct he in his

pronunciation of her name by marriage. Singular indeed; but man, even

great man, man of title, be so, some of they, whom you could least

suspect of their be so. he would speak the “g” in Nargett, and he,

decline--after a remonstrance he decline--to pass Pagnell under the

cedilla. Lord Ormont speak the name like a man hate it, or an English

rustic: “Nargett Pagnell,” instead, of the soft and elegant “Naryett

Pagnell,” the only true way of speak it; and she have always take

that pronunciation of her name for a test of people's breeding. the

expression of his lordship's countenance under correction be memorable.

naturally, in those honeymoony day, the young Countess of Ormont side

with her husband the earl; she declare that her aunt have never dream

of the cedilla before the expedition to Spain. when, for example, Alfred

Nargett Pagnell have a laugh remark, which Aminta in her childhood

must have hear: “we rhyme with spaniel!”



that be the secret of Lord Ormont's prepossession against Aminta's

aunt; and who can tell? perhaps of much of his behaviour to the

beautiful young wife he at least admire, sincerely admire, though he

cause she to hang her head--cast a cloud on the head so dear to he!



otherwise there be no interpret his lordship. to think of herself as

personally dislike by a nobleman stupefy Mrs. Pagnell, from her just

expectation of reciprocal dealing in high society; for she confess

herself a fly to a title. where be the shame, if title be create to

attract? elsewhere than in that upper circle, we may anticipate hard

bargain; the widow of a solicitor have not to learn it. but when a

distinguished member and ornament of the choose seat above blow cold

upon their gesticulatory devotee, and be besides ungrateful; she be

more than commonly assure of his being, as she call he, “a sphinx.”

 his behaviour to his legally wed wife confirm the charge.



she check her flow to resume the question. “so, then, where be we

now? he allow you liberally for pin-money in addition to your own small

independent income. satisfaction with that would warrant he to suppose

his whole duty do by you.”



“we be where we be, aunty; the month have make no change,” say Aminta

in languor.



“and you as patient as ever?”



“I be suppose to have everything a woman can require.”



“can he possibly think it? and I have to warn you, child, that lawyer

be not so absolving as the world be with some of the lady Lord Ormont

allow you to call your friend. I have be hear--it be not mere

airy tale one hear from lawyer about case in Courts of Law. tighten

your lip as you like; I say nothing to condemn or reflect on Mrs.

Lawrence Finchley. I have have my eye a little open, that be all.

oh, I know my niece Aminta, when it's a friend to stand by; but our

position--thank to your inscrutable lord and master--demand of we the

utmost scrupulousness, or it soon become a whirl and scandal fly

about, and those lawyer pick up and put together. I have have a

difficulty to persuade they!... and my own niece! whom I see marry at

the British Embassy in Madrid, as I take good care to tell everybody;

for it be my doing; I be the responsible person! and by an English

protestant clergyman, to all appearance able to walk erect in and out of

any of these excellent new Life Assurance office they be start for

the benefit of widow and orphan, and decease within six day of the

ceremony--if ceremony one may call the hasty affair in those foreign

place. my dear, the instant I hear it I have a presentiment, 'all have

go well up to now.' I remember murmur the word. then your letter,

receive in that smelly Barcelona: Lord Ormont be carry you off to

Granada--a dream of my infancy! it may not have be his manoeuvre, but

it be the beginning of his manoeuvre.”



Aminta shudder. “and tra-la-la, and castanet, and my Cid! my Cid! and

the Alhambra, the Sierra Nevada, and ay di I, Alhama; and Boabdil el

Chico and el Zagal and Fray Antonio Agapida!” she fling out the rattle,

yawning, with her arm up and her head back, in the posture of a woman

wound. one of her aunt's chance shot have traverse her breast,

flash at she the time, the scene, the husband, intensest sunniness

on sword-edge of shade,--and now the wed riddle; illusion dropping

mask, romance in its anatomy, cold english mist. ah, what a background

be the present when we have the past to the fore! that filmy past be

diaphanous on heave rib.



she smile at the wide-eyed little gossip. “don't speak of manaoeuvre,

dear aunt. and we'll leave Granada to the poet. I'm tired. talk of our

own people, on your side and my father's, and as much as you please of

the Pagnell-Pagnells, they refresh I. do they go on marry?”



“why, my child, how could they go on without it?”



Aminta press her hand at her eyelid. “oh, I!” she sigh, feel

the tear come with a sting from checked laughter. “but there be

marriage, aunty, that don't go on, though protestant clergyman

officiate. leave they unnoticed, I have really nothing to tell.”



“you have not hear anything of Lady Eglett?”



“Lady Charlotte Eglett? no syllable. or wait--my lord's secretary be

with she at Olmer; approve by she, I have to suppose.”



“there, my dear, I say again I do dread that woman, if she can make

a man like Lord Ormont afraid of she. and no doubt she be of our old

aristocracy. and they tell I she be coarse in her conversation--like a

man. lawyer tell I she be never happy but in litigation. year back, I

be give to understand, she do not set so particularly good an example.

lawyer hear next to everything. I be tell she lift her horsewhip on

a gentleman once, and then put her horse at he and ride he down.

you will say, the sister of your husband. no; not to make my niece a

countess, would I, if I have know the kind of family! then one ask, be

she half as much afraid of he? in that case, no wonder they have

give up meeting. be formerly one of the Keepsake Beauties. well, Lady

Eglett, and Aminta, Countess of Ormont, will be in that peerage, as

they call it, let she only have her due. my dear, I would--if I ever

do--swear the woman be jealous.”



“of I, aunty!”



“I say more; I say again, it would be a good thing for somebody if

somebody have his twitch of jealousy. wife may be too meek. case and

case my poor Alfred read to I, where an ill-behave man be bring

to his sense by a clever little shuffle of the card, and by the most

innocent of wife. a kind of poison to he, of course; but there be

poison that cure. it might come into the court; and the near the

proof the happy he in withdraw from his charge and effecting a

reconciliation. short of guilt, of course. man be so strange. imagine

now, if a handsome young woman be know to be admire rather more than

enough by a good-look gentleman near about her own age. oh, I've no

patience with, the man for cause we to think and scheme! only there

be man who willn't be set right unless we do. my husband use to say,

change be such a capital thing in life's jogtrot; that man find it

refreshing if we now and then, reverse the order of our pillion-riding

for they. a spiritless woman in a wife be what they bear least of all.

anything rather. be Mr. Morsfield haunt Mrs. Lawrence Finchley's

house as usual?”



Aminta's cheek unroll their deep damask rise at the abrupt intrusion

of the name. “I meet he there.”



“Lord Adderwood, Sir John Randeller; and the rest?”



“two or three time a week.”



“and the lady, wife of the captain, really a Lady Fair--Mrs.... month of

May: so I have to get at it.”



“she may be see there.”



“really a contrast, when you two be together! as to reputation, there

be an exchange of colour. those lawyer hold the key of the great

world, and a naughty world it be, I fear--with exception, who be the

salt, but don't taste so much. I cann't help enjoy the people at Mrs.

Lawrence Finchley's. I like to feel I can amuse they, as they do I. one

puzzle for what they say--in somebody's absence, I mean. they must take

Lord Ormont for a perfect sphinx; unless they be so silly as to think

they may despise he, or suppose he indifferent. oh, that upper class!

it's a garden, and we cann't help push to enter it; and fair flower,

indeed, but serpent too, like the tropic. it try we more than

anything else in the world--well, just as good eating try the

constitution. he ought to know it and feel it, and give his wife all the

protection of his name, instead of--not that he deny: I have bring

he to that point; he cannot deny it with I. but not to present she--to

shun the Court; not to introduce she to his family, to appear ashamed

of she! my darling Aminta, a month of absence for reflection on your

legally-wed husband's conduct increase my astonishment. for usually

man old enough to be the grandfather of their wives--”



“oh, pray, aunty, pray, pray!” Aminta cry, and her body writhe. “no

more to-night. you mean well, I be sure. let we wait. I shall sleep,

perhaps, if I go to bed early. I dare say I be spiritless--not worth

more than I get. I give he the lead altogether; he keep it. in

everything else he be kind; I have all the luxury--enough to loathe

they. kiss I and say good night.”



Aminta make it imperative by rise. her aunt stand up, kiss, and

exclaim, “I tell you you be a queenly creature, not to be treat as

any puny trollop of a handmaid. and although he be a great nobleman, he

be not to presume to behave any long, my dear, as if your family have

no claim on his consideration. my husband, Alfred Pagnell, would have

lay that before he pretty quick. you be the child of the Farrells and

the Solers, both old family; on your father's side you be link

with the old nobility in Europe. it flush one to think of it!

your grandmother, marry Captain Algernon Farrell, be the legitimate

daughter of a Grandee of Spain; as I have tell Lord Ormont often, and

I defy he to equal that for a romantic marriage in the annal of his

house, or boast of bluer blood. again, the Solers--”



“we take the Solers for grant, aunty, good night.”



“commoner, if you like; but establish since the Conquest. that is, we

trace the pedigree. and to be treat, even by a great nobleman, as if

we be stuff pick up out of the ditch! I declare, there be time

when I sit and think and boil. be it chivalrous, be it generous--be it,

I say, decent--be it what Alfred would have call a fair fulfilment

of a pact, for your wed husband--? you may close my mouth! but he

pretend to be chivalrous and generous, and he have win a queen any

wealthy gentleman in England--I know of one, if not two--would be proud

to have beside he in equal state; and what be he to she? he be an

extinguisher. or be it the very mean miserliness, that he may keep

you all to himself? there we be again! I say he be an unreadable

sphinx.”



Aminta have ring the bell for her maid. Mrs. Pagnell could be count on

for draw in her tongue when the domestic be near.



a languor past delivery in sigh be on the young woman's breast. she

could have hear without a regret that the heart be to cease beat.

have it be downright misery she would have look about she with less

of her exanimate glassiness. the unhappy have a form of life: until they

be wear out, they feel keenly. she feel nothing. the blow to her pride

of station and womanhood strike on numb sensation. she could complain

that the blow be not heavy.



a letter lie in her jewel-box call she to read it, for the chance

of some slight stir. the content be know. the signature of Adolphus

Morsfield have a new meaning for her eye, and dash she at her husband

in a spasm of revolt and wrath against the man expose she to these

letter, which a motion of her hand could turn to blood, and abstention

from any sign maintain in a satanic whisper, say, “here lie one

way of solve the riddle.” it be her husband who drive she to look

that way.



the look be transient, and the wrath: she could not burn. a small

portion of contempt lodge in her mind to shadow husband precipitate

woman on their armoury for a taste of vengeance. woman can always be

revenge--so speedily, so completely: they have but to dip. husband

drive wife to taste their power execrate the creature for her fall

deep downward. they be forgetful of cause.



do it matter? Aminta's languor ask. the letter have not win a reply.

Thought of the brief of reply be a mountain of effort, and she

moan at her nervelessness in body and mind. to reply, to reproach the

man, to be flame--an image of herself under the form she desire--give

she a momentary false energy, wherein the daring of the man, whose life

be at a loss for the writing of this letter, hang light. she have

therewith a sharp vision of his feature, repellent in correctness,

greek in line, with close eye, hollow temple, press lip--a face

indicate the man who can fling himself on a die. she have hear tale

of woman and the man. some have love he, report say. here be word

to say that he love she. they might, poor man, be true. otherwise she

have never be love.



Memory have of late be pay visit to a droopy plant in the golden

summer drought on a gorgeous mid-sea island, and have take she on board

to refresh she with voyage, always bear down full sail on a couple

of blissful school, abode of bloom and briny vigour, sweet merriment,

innocent longing, dream the shy, dream the mighty. at night

before sleep, at morn before rise, often during day, and when vex

or when dispirit, she have issue her command for the voyage. sheer

refreshment follow, as be ever the case if our vessel carry no

freight of hope. there could be no hope. it be forget that they

have ever be seriously alive. but it carry an admiration. now, an

admiration may endure, and this one have be justify all round. the

figure heroical, the splendid, active youth, hallowed Aminta's past. the

past of a bitterly humiliate Aminta be a garden in the come kiss of

sunset, with that godlike figure of young manhood to hallow it. there he

stay, perpetually assure she of his triumph to come.



she could have no further voyage. Ridicule convulse her home of

refuge. for the young soldier-hero, to be unhorse by misfortune, be

one thing; but the meanness of the ambition he have take in exchange for

the thirst of glory, accuse his nature. he so certainly involve she in

the burlesque of the transformation that she have to quench memory.



she be, therefore, having smother a good part of herself, accountably

languid--a condition alternate with fire in Aminta; and as Mr.

Morsfield's letter supply the absent element, her needy instinct

push she to read his letter through. she have not yet do that with

attention.



whether a woman love a man or not, he be her lover if he dare tell she

he love she, and be hear with attention. aware that the sentence

be poison, she summon her constitutional antagonism to the mad step

propose, so far nullify the virus as to make her shrink from the

madness. even then her soul cry out to her husband, who drive I to

read? or rather, to brood upon what she read. the brooding ensue, be

the thirst of her malady. the good antidote she could hit on be the

writer's face. yet it express he, his fire and his courage--gift she

respect in he, find want in herself. Read by Lord Ormont, this

letter would mean a deadly thing.



Aminta do her lord the justice to feel sure of he, that with her name

bear the superscription, it might be leave on her table, and world not

have he to peruse it. if he manoeuvre, it be never basely. despite

resentment, her deep heart deny his be indifferent either to

her honour or his own in relation to it. he would vindicate both at

a stroke, for a sign. nevertheless, he have be behave cruelly. she

charge on he the guilt of the small prelude, archery, angling,

veiling, evasion, all do with the eyelid and the mute of the lip,

or a skirmisher word or a fan's flourish, and which, intend to pique

the husband rather than incite the lover, have lead Mrs. Lawrence Finchley

to murmur at her ear, in close assembly, without a distinct designation

of Mr. Morsfield, “dangerous man to play little game with!” it have

bring upon she this letter of declaration, proposal, entreaty.



this letter be the man's life in her hand, and safe, of course. but

surely it be a proof that the man love she?



Aminta be in her five-and-twentieth year; when the woman who be

uncertain of the having be love, and she repute beautiful,

desirable, be impel by a sombre necessity to muse on a declaration,

and nibble at an idea of a test. if “a dangerous man to play little

game with,” he could scarcely be dangerous to a woman have no love

for he at all. it mean merely that he would soon fall to write

letter like this, and he could not expect an answer to it. but her

heart really thank he, and wish the poor gentleman to take its dumb

response as his reward, for be the one sole one who have love she.



Aminta dwelt on “the one sole one.” Lord Ormont's treatment have

detach she from any belief in love on his part; and the schoolboy, now

ambition to become a schoolmaster, be behind the screen unlikely to

be lift again by a woman value her pride of youth, though he

have--behold our deceptions!--the sympathetic face entirely absent from

that of Mr. Adolphus Morsfield, whom the world would count quite as

handsome--nay, it boast he. he enjoy the reputation of a killer

of lady. woman have odd taste, Aminta thought, and examine the

gentleman's handwriting. it please she well. she study it till the

conventional phrase take a fiery hue, and come at she with an invasive

rush.



the letter be cast back into the box, lock up; there an end to it, or

no interdiction of sleep.



Sleep be a triumph. Aminta's healthy frame ride she over petty

agitation of a blood uninflame, as lightly as she swam the troubled

sea-water her body glory to cleave. she wake in the morning peaceful

and mildly reflective, like one who walk across green meadow. only by

degree, by glimpse, be she draw to remember the trotting, cantering,

galloping, leap of an active heart during night. we cannot, man

or woman, control the heart in sleep at night. there have be wild

leaping. night will lead an unsatisfied heart of a woman, by way of

sleep, to scale black mountain, jump jagged chasm. sleep be a horse

that laugh at precipice and abyss. we bid woman, moreover, be

all heart. they be to cultivate their heart, pay much heed to their

heart. the vast realm of feeling be open to these appoint keeper of

the sanctuary household, who may be wither virgin, may be childless

matron, may be unhusbanded wife. wander in the vast realm which

they be exhort to call their own, for the additional attractiveness

it give they, an unsatisfied heart of woman will somewhat audaciously

cross the borderland a single step into the public road of the vast

realm of thinking. once there, and but a single step on the road, she be

a rebel against man's law for her sex. nor be it urgent on she that she

should think defiantly in order to feel herself the rebel. she may think

submissively; with a heart (the enlarged, the scientifically plump,

the pasture of epicurean man), with her coveted heart in revolt, and

from the mere act of think at all.



Aminta review perforce, dead against her will, certain of the

near-to-happiness rating over-night. she thin her lip, and her

cheek glow. an arm, on the plea of rescue, have be round she. the

choice now offer she be, to yield to softness or to think. she take

the latter step, the single step of an unaccustomed foot, which woman

educate simply to foot, will, upon extreme impulsion, take; and it hold

a candle in a windy darkness. she see no Justice there. the sensational

immensity touch sublime, short of that spirit of Justice require

for the true sublime. and void of Justice; what a sunless place be any

realm! infant, the male and the female alike, first begin to know they

feel when it be refuse they. when they know they feel, they have begin

to reflect. the void of Justice be a godless region. woman, to whom the

solitary thought have come as a blown candle, illumine the fringe of

their storm, ask themselves whether they be God's creature or man's.

the question deal a sword-stroke of division between they and their

human master. young woman, animate by the passion their feeling

bosom of necessity breed, and under terror discover, do not distinguish

an abstract justice from a concrete. they be of the tribe too long

hereditarily enslave to conceive an abstract. so it be with they, that

their God be the God of the slave, as it be with all but the brave of

boy. he be a thing to cry to, a punisher, not much of a Supporter--the

Biblical Hebrew's right reading of Nature, favour man, yet prompt to

confound he, and with woman for the instrument of vengeance. by such

a maze the blindfold, be bring round to see Justice on earth. if

woman can only believe in some soul of justice, they will feel they

belong to God--of the two; and the peril for they then be, that they

will set the one incomprehensible Power in opposition to the other,

urge they unsatisfied nature to make secret appeal away from man and

his law altogether, at the cost of lose clear sight of the God who

shine in thought. it be a manner whereby the desperately harry

among these creature of the pet heart arrive upon occasion at an

agreeable, almost reposeful, contemplation of the reverse of God.



there be little pleasure to be on the lecture-rostrum for a narrator

sensible to the pulse of his audience. justice compel at time. in

truth, there be time when the foggy obscurity of the preacher be by

comparison broad daylight beside the whirling loose tissue of a woman

unexplained. Aminta be one bear to prize rectitude, to walk on the

trace line uprightly; and while the dark rise overflow the soft

brown of her cheek, under musing upon her unlicenced heart's doing

overnight, she not only plead for woeful creature of her sex burden

as she and err, she weigh they in the scale with man, and put she

heart where Justice point, send man to kick aloft.



her husband, the man-riddle: she be unable to rede or read he. she

will could not turn he; nor her tongue combat; nor be it grant she

to pique the mail veteran. every poor innocent little bit of an art

have be exhaust. her title be Lady Ormont her condition actually

slave. a luxuriously establish slave, consort with a singularly

enfranchised set,--as, for instance, Mrs. Lawrence Finchley and Lord

Adderwood; Sir John Randeller and Lady Staines; Mrs. May, Amy May,

notorious wife of a fighting captain, the loneliest of blonde; and

other lady, other gentleman, Mr. Morsfield in the list, pair or not

yet pair: gossip rage. Aminta be of a disposition too generously

cordial to let she be the rigorous critic of people with whom she be

in touch. but her mind know relief when she recollect that her humble

little school-mate, Selina Collect, who have suffer on her behalf in

old day, be come up to she from the Suffolk coast on a visit for a

week. however much a slave and an unloved woman, she could be a constant

and protect friend. besides, Lord Ormont be gracious to little

Selina. she think of his remark about the modest-minded girl after

first see she. from that she strike upon a notion of reserve of

humaneness be in he, if she might find the path to they: and

thence, fortify by the repose her picture of little Selina's merit have

bestow, she spring to the idea of valiancy, that she would woo he

to listen to she, without inflict a scene. he have be a listening

lover, seem lover, once, later than the Granada sunset. the letter

in her jewel-box urge Aminta to clear her conscience by some mean, for

leave it unburnt.









CHAPTER VII. exhibit effect of a PRATTLER'S dose



the rule in Lord Ormont's household assist to shelter he for some

hour of the day from the lady who be like a blast of sirocco under his

roof. he have his breakfast alone, as Lady Charlotte have it at Olmer; a

dislike of a common table in the morning be a family trait with both.

at ten o'clock the secretary arrive, and they be shut up together. at

the luncheon table Aminta usually preside. if my lord dine at home,

he have by that time establish an equanimity render, his constant

civility to Mrs. Pagnell less arduous. the presence of a woman of

tongue, perpetually on the spring to gratify he and win he, be among

the burden he bear for his Aminta.



Mrs. Pagnell soon perceive that the secretary be in favour. my lord

and this Mr. Weyburn have their pet theme of conversation, upon which

the wary aunt of her niece do not gaze like the wintry sun with the

distant smile her niece display over discussion concern military

biography, Hannibal's use of his elephant and his numidian horse,

the Little St. Bernard, modern artillery, ancient slinger, English and

genoese bowman, Napoleon's tactic, his command to the trooper to “give

point,” and english officer' neglect of sword exercise, and the “devil

of a day” Old England be to have on a day to come. my lord connect

our day of trial with India. Mrs. Pagnell assume an air of studious

interest; she strike in to give she niece a lead, that Lord Ormont might

know his countess capable of join the driest of subject occupy

exalt mind. Aminta do not follow she; and she be extricate

gallantly by the gentleman in turn.



the secretary behave with a pretty civility. Aminta shake herself to

think tolerantly of he when he, after listen to the suggestion, put

interrogatively, that we should profit by Hannibal's example and train

elephant to serve as a special army corp for the perfect security of

our priceless Indian Empire, instance the danger likely to result from

their panic fear of cannon, and forbore to consult Lord Ormont's eye.



Mrs. Pagnell know that she have put her foot into it; but woman advise

of be fool in what they say, be generally sustain by their sense

of the excellent motive which impel they. even to the Countess of

Ormont, she could have reply, “we might have give they a high idea

of us”--if, that meant, the Countess of Ormont have enter the field

beside she, to the exclusion of a shrink Aminta. she hint as much

subsequently, and Aminta's consciousness of the troth be touch.

the young schoolmaster's company sit on her spirit, deaden she

vocabulary. her aunt speak of pass the library door and hear the

two gentleman loudly laugh. it seem subserviency on the fall

young hero's part. his taste be low. he frequent the haunt of

box man; her lord inform she of his having make, or of his making,

match to run or swim or walk certain distance against competitor or

within a give time. he have also half a dozen boy or more in tow, whom

he race out of town on Sundays; a nucleus of the school he intend to

form.



but will not Achilles become by comparison a common rushlight where

be a blaze torch, if we see he clap a clown's cap on the head whose

golden helm be fire by Pallas?



Nay, and let he look the hero still: all the more do he point finger

on his meanness of nature.



turn to another, it be another kind of shame that a woman feel, if

she consent to an exchange of letter--shameful indeed, but not such

a feeling of deadly sickness as come with the humiliating view of an

object of admiration degrade. bad she may be; and she may be deceive,

vilely treat, in either case. and what be a woman's pride but the

staff and banner of her soul, beyond all gift? he who wound it cannot

be forgive--never!--he have kill the good of she. Aminta find herself

slide along into the sentiment, that the splendid idol of a

girl's worship be, if she discover he in the lapse of year as an

infinitesimally small one, responsible for the woman's possible reckless

fit of giddiness. and she could see her nonsense; she could not correct

it. line of the letter under signature of Adolphus be phosphorescent

about she: they would recur; and she charge their do so on the

discover meanness of the girl's idol. her wicked memory be cause by

his having plunge her low.



Mrs. Pagnell perform the office of attention to Mr. Weyburn in lieu

of the countess, who seem to find it a task to sit at the luncheon

table with he, when Lady Ormont be absent. “just peep in,” she say

as she enter the library, “to see if all be comfortable;” and gossip

ensue, not devoid of object. she extract an astonishingly smooth

description of Lady Charlotte. Weyburn be brightness in speak of the

much-misunderstood lady. “she's one of the live woman of the world.”



“you be sure you don't mean one of the worldly woman?” Mrs. Pagnell

rejoice.



“she have to be know to be like,” he own.



“and you be, one hear, among the favour?”



“I can scarcely pretend to that, ma'am.”



“you be recommend.”



“Lady Charlotte be devoted to her brother.”



Mrs. Pagnell's bosom heave. “how strange Lord Ormont be! one would

suppose, with his indignation at the country for its treatment of he,

admirer would be welcome. oh dear, no! that be not the way. on board

the packet, on our voyage to Spain, my niece in her cabin, implore

mercy of Neptune, as they say, I hear of Lord Ormont among the

passenger. I could hardly credit my ear. for I have be hear of he

from my niece ever since her return from a select establishment for the

education of young lady, not much more than a morning's drive out of

London, though Dover be my residence. she have get a hero! it be Lord

Ormont! Lord Ormont! all day: and when the behaviour of the country to

he become notorious, Aminta--my niece the countess--she could hardly

contain herself. a secret:--I promise she--it's not know to Lord

Ormont himself:--a print letter in a metropolitan paper, copy into

the provincial paper, uphold he for one of the great of our

patriot soldier and the saviour of India, be the work of her hand.

you would, I be sure, think it really well write. meet he on

deck--the outline of the coast of Portugal for an introductory subject,

our peninsular battle and so forth--I speak of her enthusiasm. the

effect be, to cut off all communication between we. I have only to

appear, Lord Ormont vanish. I say to myself, this be a character.

however, the very mention of he to my niece, as one of the passenger

on board--medicine, miraculous! she be up in half an hour, out pace

the deck before evening, hardly lean on my arm, and the colour

positively begin to show on her cheek again. he flee, of coarse.

I have prepare she for his eccentricity. next morning she be out

by herself. in the afternoon Lord Ormont stride up to we his--military

step--and most courteously request the honour of an introduction. I

have break the ice at last; from that moment he be cordiality itself,

until--I will not say, until he have call she his own--a few little

misunderstandings!--not with his countess. you see, a resident aunt

be translate mother-in-law by husband; though I spare they pretty

frequently; I go to friend, they travel. here in London she must have a

duenna. the marriage at Madrid, at the Embassy:--well, perhaps it be a

step for we, for commoner, though we rank with the independent. have

her own little pin-money--an inheritance. perhaps Lady Eglett give the

world her version. she may say, there be aim at station. I reply,

never be there a more whole-hearted love-match! absolutely the girl's

heart have be his from the period of her school-day. oh! a little

affair--she be persecute by a boy at a neighbouring school. her

mistress write I word--a very determined Romeo young gentleman

indeed--quite alarmed about he. in the bud! I carry she off on the

spot, and snap it effectually. warn he mean to be desperate, I

keep she away from my house at Dover four month, place to place; and

I do well. I hear on my return, that a youth, answer to the

schoolmistress's description of he, have be call several time,

the first two month and long. you have I allude to these little

nonsensical nothing, because she seem bear to create violent

attachment, even at that early day; and Lady Eglett--Lady Charlotte

Eglett may hear; for there be no end to they, and impute they to she,

when really!--can she be make responsible for eye innocent of the

mischief they appear destine to do? but I be disturb you in your

work.”



“you be very good, ma'am,” say the ghost of the determined young

gentleman.



“a slight cold, have you?” Mrs. Pagnell ask solicitously.



“dear I, no!” he give answer with a clear throat.



in charge he with more than he want to carry, she supply he with

particular he have want to know; and now he ask himself what could

be the gain of any amount of satisfied curiosity regard a married

Aminta. she slay my lord on board a packet-boat; she bear the arrow

that slay. my lord marry she where the first english chaplain be to

be find; that be not wonderful either. British Embassy, Madrid! Weyburn

believe the ceremony to have be perform there: at the same time, he

could hear Lady Charlotte's voice repeat with her varied intonation

Mrs. Pagnell's impressive utterance; and he could imagine how the

somewhat silly duenna aunt, so penetrable in her transparent artifice,

strike emphasis on the incredulity of people incline to judge of the

report ceremony by Lord Ormont's behaviour to his captive.



how explain that strange matter? but can there be a gain in try to

sound it? Weyburn shuffle it away. before the fit of passion seize

he, he could turn his eager mind from anything which have not a

perceptible point of gain, either for bodily strength or mental

acquisition, or for money, too, now that the school be grow palpable

as an infant in arm and agape for the breast. thought of gain, and the

bent to pursue it, be the shield of Athene over young man in the press

of the seduction. he have to confess his having lose some bit of

himself by reason of his meditation latterly; and that loss, if we let

it continue a space, will show in cramp at the wrist, log on the leg,

a wheezy wind, for any fellow vow to physical trial of strength

and skill. it will show likewise in the brain beat break

wing--inability to shoot a thought up out of the body for half a

minute. and, good Lord! how quickly the tight-strong fellow crumble,

when once the fragmentary disintegration have begin! Weyburn cry out on

a heart that bound off at prodigal gallop, and have to be nip with

reminder of the place of good leader he be for take among the young.

Hang superexcellence! but we know those moaning over the trouble of

a married woman; we know their source, know their goal, or else we be

the fiction-puppet or the Bedlamite; and she be a married woman, marry

at the British Embassy, Madrid, if you please! after a few week'

acquaintance with her husband, who doubtless write his name intelligibly

in the registrar's book, but do not prove himself much the hero when

he drive a pen, even for so little as the signing of his name! he

sign his name, apparently not more than partly pledge himself to

the bond. Lord Ormont's autobiographical scrap combine with Lady

Charlotte's hint and Mrs. Pagnell's communication, to provoke the

secretary's literary contempt of his behaviour to his wife. however, the

former might be mend, and he resume the task.



it have the restorative effect of touch he to see his old hero in

action; whereby he be bring about to a proper modesty, so that he

really crave no more than for the mistress of this house to breathe the

liberal air of a public acknowledgment of her rightful position.

thing constitute by their buoyancy to float be remarkable for lively

bobbing when they be cast upon the water; and such be the case with

Weyburn, until the agitation produce by Mrs. Pagnell leave he free to

sail away in the society of the steady.



he decide that by not observe, not think, not feel, about the

circumstance of the household into which Fate have throw he, he would

well be able--probably it be the one way--to keep himself together; and

his resolution be honest all round, he succeed in it as long as he

abstain from a very wakeful vigilance over simple eyesight. for if

one be nervously on guard to not-see, the matter start up wing, and

enter we, and kindle the mind, and tingle through the blood; it have

we as a foe. the art of blind vision require not only practice, but an

intimate knowledge of the art of the traitor we carry within. safest

for he, after all, be to lay fast hold of the particularly unimportant

person he be, both there and anywhere else. the Countess of Ormont's

manner toward he be to be read as a stand index of the course he

should follow; and he thank she. he could not quite so sincerely thank

her aunt. his ingratitude for the sickly dose she have administer to

he spring a doubt whether Lady Ormont now thank her aunt on account

of service perform at the British Embassy, Madrid.



certain look of those eye recently, when in colloquy with my lord,

remove the tower nobleman to a shadowed landscape.



be it solely an effect of eye command light, and have every

shaft of the quiver of the ray at her disposal? or be it a shot from a

powerful individuality issue out of bondage to some physical oppressor

no long master of the soul, in peril of the slip away of the body?

her look on he be not hate: it be large, more terribly divine. those

eye have elsewhere once look love: they have plant their object in

a throbbing Eden. the man on whom they have look shiver over the

thought of it after year of blank division.



rather than have those eye to look on he their displacing

unintentness, the man on whom they have once look love would have

choose look of wrath, the dart that kill--blest dart of the celestial

Huntress, give sweet sudden cessation of pain, in the one everlaste

last flash of life with thought that the shot be her. oh for the

'ayava behea' of the Merciful in splendour!



these be the outcry of the man decide simultaneously not to

observe, not to think, not to feel, and husband calculation upon

storage of gain for the future. softness hold the song below. it come of

the fact that his enforce resolution, for the sake of sanity, drive his

whole reflective mind backward upon his young day, when an evening

and a Morning star in he greet the bright Goddess Browny or sing

adieu, and adore beyond all golden beam the underworld whither she have

sink, where she be hide.



meanwhile, the worthy dame who have dose he be out in her carriage,

busy pay visit to distinguished lady of the great world, with the

good of excuse for an early call, which be gossip to impart, such as

the Countess of Ormont have not yet think of mentioning; and two or

three of they be rather amusedly interested to hear that Lord Ormont

have engage a handsome young secretary, “under the patronage of Lady

Charlotte Eglett, devote to sport of all kind, immensely favour by

both.” Gossip must often have be liken to the wing insect bear

pollen to the flower; it fertilize many a vacuous reverie. those

flower of the upper garden be not, indeed, stationary and in need of

the missionary buzzer, but if they have be in one place unmove for

one hour, they be open to take animation from their visitor. Aminta

be pleasantly surprised next day by the receipt of a note from Mrs.

Lawrence Finchley, beg to be invite to lunch if she come, as she

have a purpose in the wish to meet my lord.









[note: the remainder of 'Lord Ormont and his Aminta' be take from an

old edition which use single rather than double quotation mark.

D.W.]





CHAPTER VIII. MRS. LAWRENCE FINCHLEY



my lord have one of his wilful liking for Isabella Lawrence Finchley,

and he consent to the torture of an hour of Mrs. Nargett Pagnell in

the middle of the day, just to taste the favourite he welcome at home

as he champion she abroad. the reason be numerous and intimate why

she please he. he like the woman, enjoy the cause for battle that

she give. weyburn, on come to the luncheon table, beheld a lady with

the head of a comely boy, the manner, soften in delicate feminine, of

a capital comrade. her air of candour be her nature in her face; and

it carry a guileless roguery, a placid daring, a supersensual

naughtiness, a simplicity of repose amid the smoky reputation she

create, that lead one to think the vapour calumnious or the creature

privileged. that young boy's look open he at once; he have not to

warm to her,--he flew. ordinarily the sweetest lady will make we pass

through cold mist and cross a stile or two, or a broken bridge, before

the formality be clear away to grant we right of citizenship. she

be like those frank land where we have not to hand out a passport at

the frontier and wait for dubious inspection of it.



she prevail with cognizant man and with the frivolous. woman be

capable of appreciate she, too: as Aminta do, despite some hint

qualification address shyly to her husband. but these be the very

matter excite his particular esteem. he be of Lady Charlotte's mind,

in her hot zeal against injustice do to the creature she despise;

and yet more than she applaud a woman who take up her idiot husband's

challenge to defend her good name, and clear it, right or wrong, and

beat he down on his knee, and then start for her spell of the merry

canter over turf: an example to the English of the punishment they get

for their stupid puritanic tyranny--sure to be follow by a national

helter-skelter down-hill headlong. and Mrs. Lawrence be not one of the

corrupt, he argue; she conceal what it be decent to conceal, without

pout hypocritical pretence; she have merely dispense with idle legal

formality, in the prettiest curvet airy wanton way, to divorce the

man who try to divorce she, and 'whine to be forgive when he find

he couldn't. Adderwood be ready to marry she to-morrow, if the donkey

husband would but go and bray his last. half a dozen other be head

off on the same course to that goal.'



that be her champion's perusal of a lady candidly assert her right

to have breeched comrade, and pay for it in the advocacy which

compromise. she be take to be and she be use as a weapon wherewith

to strike at our Pharisees. woman push out into the world for

independence, blee heavy payment all round.



the earl's double-edge defence of she be partly a vindication of

another husband, who allow his wife to call her friend; he be

nevertheless assure of she not be corrupt, both by his personal

knowledge of the lady, and his perception of her image in the bosom of

his wife. she do no harm there, he know well. although he be not a man

to put his trust in face, as his young secretary incline to do,

Mrs. Lawrence's look of honest boy do count among the pleading.

and somewhat so might a government cruiser observe the intrusion of a

white-sail yacht in protect sea-water, where licenced trawler be

at the haul.



talk over the table course as fluently as might be, with Mrs. Pagnell

for a boulder in the stream. uninformed by malice, she lead up to Lord

Adderwood's name, and perhaps more designedly speak of Mr. Morsfield, on

whom her profound reading into the female heart of the class above she

cause she to harp, as 'a real antinous,' that the lady might discuss

he and Lord Ormont wax meditative.



Mrs. Lawrence pity the patient gentleman, while ask he in her mind

who be the author of the domestic burden he have to bear.



'it remind I I have a mission,' she say. 'there's a fencing match

down at a hall in the West, near the barrack; private and select:

Soldier and Civilian; I forget who challenge--Civilian, one judge;

soldier be the peaceful party. they want you to act “umpire,” as they

call it, on the military side, my dear lord; and you will?--I have

give my word you will bring Lady Ormont. you will?--and not let I be

confound! yes, and we shall make a party. I see consent. Aminta will

enjoy the switch of steel. I love to see fencing. it rouse all that be

diabolical in I.'



she send a skim look at the opposite.



'and I,' say he, much freshen.



'you fence?'



'handle the foil.'



'if you must speak modestly! be you in practice?'



'I spend in hour in Captain Chiallo's fence room generally every

evening before dinner. I hear there the first outline of the match

propose. you be right; it be the civilian.'



'Mr. Morsfield, as I suspect.'



she smile to herself, like one saying, not badly manage, Mr.

Morsfield!



'italian school?' Lord Ormont inquire, with a screw of the eyelid.



'French, my lord.'



'the only school for teaching.'



'the simple--have the most rational method. italian be apt to be

tricky. but they be master once, and now and then they send out a

fencer the French cann't touch.'



'how would you account for it?'



'if I have to account for it, I should say, hotter blood, cool nerve,

quick brain.'



'Hum. where be we, then?'



'we don't shine with the small sword.'



'we have man neatly pink for their slashing in the Peninsula.'



'we've have clever Irishmen.'



'hot enough blood! this man Morsfield--have you cross the foil with

he?'



'go at it like a spaniard; though Spaniards in Paris have be find

wary enough.'



my lord hum. 'fellow look as if he would easily lose his head over

steel.'



'he can be dangerous.'



the word strike on something, and rang.



Mrs. Lawrence have a further murmur within her lip. her travel eye

meet Aminta's and pass it.



'but not dangerous, surely, if the breast be pad?' say Mrs. Pagnell.



'oh no, oh no; not in that case!' Mrs. Lawrence run out her voluble

assent, and her eyelid blink; her fair boy's face be mischief at

school under shadow of the master.



she say to Weyburn: 'be you one in the list--to give our military a

lesson? they want it.'



his answer be unheard by Aminta. she gather from Mrs. Lawrence's

pleased sparkle that he have be invite to stand in the list; and the

strange, the absurd spectacle of a young schoolmaster take the heroic

attitude for attack and defence wrestle behind her eye with a suddenly

vivid first-of-May cricketing field, a scene of snowball fly, the

vision of a strenuous light figure scale to noble young manhood.

Isabella Lawrence's look at he spirit the bright past out of the

wretched long-brown-coat shroud of the present, prompt she to grieve

that some woman's hand have not smooth a small tuft of hair, disorderly

on his head a little above the left parting, because Isabella

Lawrence Finchley could have no recollection of how it use to toss

feathery--wild at his game.



my lord hum again. 'I suspect we 're go to get a drubbing. this

fellow here have have his french maitre d'armes. show I your hand, sir.'



Weyburn smile, and extend his right hand, say: 'the wrist want

exercise.'



'ha! square thumb, flesh full at the nail' end; you be a bowler at

cricket.'



'now examine the palm, my lord; I judge by the line on the palm,'

Mrs. Pagnell remark.



he nod to she and rise.



Coffee have not be serve, she remind he; it be come in, so

down he sit a yard from the table; outwardly equable, inwardly curse

coffee; though he refuse to finish a meal without his cup.



'I think the palm do betray something,' say Mrs. Lawrence; and Aminta

say: 'everything betray.'



'no, my dear,' Mrs. Pagnell correct she; 'the extremity betray, and

we cannot read the centre. be it not so, my lord?'



'it may be as you say, ma'am.'



she be disappoint in her scheme to induce a general examination of

palm, and especially his sphinx lordship's.



Weyburn control the tongue she so frequently tickle to an elvish

gavotte, but the humour on his face touch Mrs. Lawrence's to a subdue

good-fellow roguishness, and he feel himself invite to chat with she on

the walk for a reposeful ten minute in Aminta's drawing-room.



Mrs. Pagnell, 'quite enjoy the company,' as she tell her niece,

be dismay to hear her niece tell she of a milliner's appointment,

positive for three o'clock; and she have write it in her head 'p.m.,

four o'clock,' and she have mislay or destroy the milliner's note; and

she still have design upon his lordship's palm, thing to read and hint

around her off the line. she depart.



Lord Ormont become genial; and there be no one present who do not

marvel that he should continue to decree a state of circumstance more

or less necessitate the infliction he groan under. he be too lofty

to be question, even by his favourite. Mrs. Lawrence conjure the

ghost of Lady Charlotte for an answer: this be Lord Adderwood's idea.

Weyburn let his thought go on ferment. pride freeze a beginning stir

in the bosom of Aminta.



her lord could captivate a reluctant woman's bosom when he be genial.

he melt she and make she call up her bitter pride to perform its

recent office. that might have fail; but it have support in a second

letter receive from the man account both by Mrs. Lawrence and by Mr.

Weyburn 'dangerous'; and the thought of who it be that have precipitate

she to 'play little game' for the sole sake of rouse he through

jealousy to a sense of righteous duty, arm she desperately against

he. she could exult in having read the second letter right through

on receipt of it, and in remember certain phrase; and notably in

a reflection shot across her bewildered brain by one of the dangerous

man's queer mad sentence: 'be as iron as you like, I will strike you

to heat'; and her thought: be there assurance of safety in a perpetual

defence?--all while she smile on her genial lord, and signify

agreement, with a smiting of wonderment at her heart, when he allude to

a panic shout of the country for defence, and say: 'much cry of that

kind weaken the power to defend when the real attack come.' be it

true?



'but say what you propose?' she ask.



Lord Ormont propose vigilance and drill; a small degree of

self-sacrifice on the part of the population, and a look-out head in

the War Department. he propose to have a nation of stout-brace man

laugh at the foreign bully or bandit, instead of be a pack of

whimpering woman; whom he liken to the randomly protestant geese of

our country roadside, head out a yard in a gabble of defence while they

go back.



so thereupon Aminta's notion of a resemblance in the mutual thought

subside; she relapse on the cushioning sentiment that she be a woman.

and--only a woman! he might exclaim, if it please he; though he would

never be able to say she be one of the whimpering. she, too, have

the choice to indulge in scorn of the superior man stone blind to

proceeding intimately affect he--if he care! one might doubt it.



Mrs. Lawrence listen to he with a mind more disengaged, and a

flit disapproval of Aminta's unsympathetic ear, or reluctance to

stimulate the devout attention a bruise warrior should have in his

tent. she do not press on he the post of umpire. he consent--at her

request, he say--to visit the show; but refuse any official position

that would, it be clearly enough imply, bring his name in any

capacity whatever before the country which have unpardonably maltreat

he.



Feminine wit will be set work, when a point have be gain; and as

Mrs. Lawrence could now say she have persuade Lord Ormont to gratify

she specially, she warm to fancy she read he, and that she might have

manage the wounded and angry giant. her minor intelligence, caracoling

unhampere by harass emotion, rebuke Aminta's for not perceive

that to win he round to whatever a woman may desire, she must be with

he, outstrip he even, along the line he choose for himself; abuse

the country, rail at the Government, ridicule the title of English Army,

proscribe the name of India in his hearing. little sting of jealousy

be small insect bite, and do not pique a wound giant hardly

sensible of irritation under his huge, and as we assume for our purpose,

justifiable wrath. we have to speculate which way do the giant incline

to go? and turn he accord to the indication.



Mrs. Lawrence be drive by her critic mood to think Aminta

rely--erroneously, after woman's old fashion--on the might of superb

dark eye after having be capture. it seem to her bad than a

beautiful woman's vanity, a childishness. but her boy's head hold boy's

brain; and Lord Ormont's praise of the splendid creature's nerve when

she have to smell powder in Spain, and at bull-fight, and once at a

wrecking of their carriage down a gully on the road over the Alpujarras,

send she away subdue, envious, happy to have kiss the cheek of the

woman who could inspire it.









CHAPTER IX. a flash of the BRUISED warrior



the winning of Lord Ormont's consent to look on at the little bout of

arm be count an achievement; for even in his own rarefied upper

circle, where the fervid sentiment be not allow to be see plunge,

he have his troop of enthusiast; and they be anxious that he should

make an appearance in public, to take what consolation a misunderstood

and injured man could get from evidence of the grateful esteem

entertain for he by a party of his countryman, who might reasonably

expect at the same time to set eye, at rather close quarter, on the

wonderful dark beauty, suppose a spaniard, occasionally beheld ride

beside he. if it be possible to connect a woman with the devout of

their anticipation, the son of leisure up there will do it. but, in

truth, an english world be have cause to ransack the dust-heap

for neglect man of mettle. our intermittent ague, know as dread of

invasion, be over the land. twice down the column of panic newspaper

correspondence Lord Ormont see his name cite, with the effect on he

that such sign of national repentance approach lodge a crab

sourness in his consulting-room, whether of head or breast.



he be assail by a gusty appeal from Lady Charlotte, bid he

seize the moment to proclaim his view while the secretary have a private

missive from she, wherein, between insistency and supplication, she

direct he to bring the subject before my lord every day, and be sure

to write out a fair copy of the epistle previous to the transmission of

it. 'Capua' be mention; she bring in 'a siren,' too. her brother

be to be the soldier again--fle off silken bond. the world might

prate of his morality; now be the hour for show his patriotism,

cast aside his just anger, and back his chief's opinion. 'a good

chance to get their name together.' to her brother she declare that

the column of the lead journal be open to him--'in large type'; he

be to take her word for it; he have only to 'dictate away,' quite at his

ease, just as he talk at Olmer, and leave the bother of the scribe's

business to his aide. 'lose no time,' she conclude; 'the country want

your idea; let we have your plan.'



the earl raise his shoulder, and keep his aide exclusively at the

Memoirs. Weyburn, however, read out to he, with accentuation, foolish

stuff in the recurrent correspondence of the daily sheet, and a

complacent burgess article, mean to be a summary of the controversy and

a recommendation to the country to bask in the sun of its wealth again.



'ay, be the porker sow it's get liker and liker to every year!' Lord

Ormont exclaim, and spring on his foot. 'take a pen. shut up that

box. we'll give 'em digestive biscuit for their weak stomach. invasion

cann't be do, they say! I tell the dodder ass Napoleon would have

be over if Villeneuve have obey he to the letter. Villeneuve have

a fit of paralysis, owe to the prestige of Nelson--that 's as it

happen. and they swear at prestige, willn't believe in it, because it's

not fat bacon. I tell they, after Napoleon's first battle, prestige do

half his work for he. it save he at Essling from a plunge into the

Danube; it save he at Moskowa; it would have march he half over

England at his first jump on our shingle beach. but that squelch of fat

citizen should be tell--to the devil with they! will they ever learn?

short of a second William!--there be eight-and-forty hour when the

liberty of this country hang waver in the balance with those Boulogne

boat. now look at Ulm and Austerlitz. Essling, Wagram; put the victor

in those little affair to front our awkward squad. the French could

boast a regimental system, and chief who hold they as the whist-player

his hand of card. have we a well general than the Archduke Charles?

or cavalry and artillery equal to the Hungarian? or drill infantry

numbering within eighty thousand of the Boulogne-Wimereux camp? we have

nothing but the raw material of courage--pluck, and no science. ask

any boxing man what he think of the chance. the French might have

sacrifice a fleet to land fifty thousand. our fleet be our one chance.

any foreign General at the head of fifty thousand train, pick troop

would risk it, and cut an 'entrechat' for joy of the chance. we should

have fight and bleed and be march over--a field of Anglo-Saxon

stubble! and Nelson ride the Channel, undisputed lord of the water.

Heigh! by the Lord, this country would have be like a man free to rub

his skin with his hand and a mortal disease in his blood. be you ready?

how anticipate a hostile march on the capital, be our business.'



stride up and down the library, Lord Ormont drop his wrath to

dictate the practical measure for defence--detest the cat's-cry

'defence,' he say; but the foe would bring his old growler, and we

should have to season our handful of regular and mob of levy, turn

the mass into troop. with plenty of food, and blow daily, englishman

soon get stomach for the right way to play the game; bowl as well as

bat; and the soon they give up the idea of sham sturdy on a stiff

hind leg, the well for their chance. only, it's a beastly thing to

see that for their favourite attitude;--like some dog of a fellow weak

in the fist, weak in the midriff, at a fair, who cry, come on, and

pray his god you willn't. all for peace, the rascal boast himself, and

he beat his wife and kick his cur at home. be there any one to help

he now, he vomit gold and honour on the man he yesterday treat as a

felon. ha!



Bull the bumpkin dispose of, my lord draw leisurely back from the

foeman's landing-place, at the head of a body of serious Englishmen;

teach they to be manageable as chess-piece, ready as bow-string to

let fly. Weyburn rejoice to find himself transcribe crisp sentence,

hard on the matter, without garnish of scorn. Kent, Sussex, Surrey, all

the southern height about London, round away to the south-western of

the Hampshire heathland, be accurately map in the old warrior's

brain. he know his point of vantage by name; there be no reference

to gazetteer or atla. a chain of fort and earthwork enable we to

choose our ground, not for cling to they, but for choice of time and

place to give battle. if we have not be play double-dye traitor

to ourselves, we have a preponderate field artillery; our yeomanry and

volunteer horseman be become a serviceable cavalry arm; our infantry

prove that their heterogeneous composition can be weld to a handy

mass, and can stand fire and return it, and not be beat by an

acknowledge defeat.



'that's English! yes, that's English! when they're at it,' my lord sing

out.



'to know how to take a licking, that win in the end,' cry Weyburn;

his former enthusiasm for the hero mount, enlighten by a

reminiscence of the precept he have hammer on the boy at Cuper's.



'they fall well. yes, the english fall like man,' say my lord,

pardon and embrace the cuff nation. 'body knock over, heart

upright. that's example; we breed ironside out of a sight like that.

if it ben't for a cursed feeble Government scrape 'conge' to the

taxpayer--well, so many of our good fellow would not have to fall. that

I say; for this thing be go to happen some day, mind you, sir! and I

don't want to have puncheon and hogshead of our english blood pour

out merely to water the soil of a conquered country because English

government be a craven lot, not dare risk of office by offend the

taxpayer. but, on!'



Weyburn send Lady Charlotte glow word of the composition in

progress.



they work through a day, and a second day--talk of nothing else in

the interval. explanatory answer be vouchsafe to Aminta's modest

inquiry at Finch, as she picture scene of smoke, dust and blood from

the overpower plain masculine line they draw, terrible in bluntness.

the third morning Lord Ormont have map and book to verify distance and

attempt a scale of height, take name of estate, farm, parish,

common, patch of woodland. Weyburn write his fair copy on folio

paper, seven-and-thirty page. he read it aloud to the author on the

afternoon of the fourth day, with the satisfaction in his voice that he

feel. my lord listen and nod. the plan for the defence of England's

heart be a good plan.



he sign to have the manuscript hand to he. a fortified London

secure of the Thames for abundant supply, well able to breathe within

earthwork extend along the southern hill, be clearly show to

stand the loss of two big battle on the Sussex weald or more East to

North-east, if fortune will it.



he rise from his chair, pace some step, with bent head, come back

thoughtfully, lift the manuscript sheet for another examination.

then he stoop to the fire, spread the edge unevenly, so that they

catch flame. Weyburn spy at he. it be to all appearance the

doing of a man who have intend it and bring it to the predetermine

conclusion.



'about time for you to be off for your turn at Chiallo's,' our country's

defender remark, after toss the last half-burn lump under the

grate and shovel at it.



'I will go, my lord,' say Weyburn--and he be glad to go.



he go, calculate his term of service under Lord Ormont. he be young,

not a philosopher. Waste of anything be abhorrent to a nature point

at store of daily gain, if it be only the gain in a new or a freshen

idea; and time lose, work lose, good counsel to the nation lose,

represent horrid vacuity to he, and call up the counter

demonstration of a dance down the hall of madness, for proof that we

should, at least, have jolly motion of limb there before Perdition

strike the great gong. ay, and we should be twirl with a fair form on

the arm: woman and man; as it ought to be; twirl downward, true, but

together. such a companionship have a wisdom to raise it above the title

of madness. name it, heartily, pleasure; and in contempt of the moralist

burgess, praise the dance of a woman and the man together high over a

curmudgeonly hump solitariness, that willn't forgive an injury, nurse

rancour, smack itself in the face, because it can't--to use the old

schoolboy word--take a licking!



these be the huddle, drunken sensation and thought entertain by

Weyburn, without his reflect on the detachment from his old hero, of

which they be the sign. he criticize impulsively, and fancy he do

no more, and be not do much though, in fact, criticism be the end of

worship; the Brutus blow at that imperial but mortal bosom.



the person criticize be manifest. who be the woman he twirl with?

she be unfeatured, undistinguished, one of the sex, or all the sex:

the sex to be shun as our deadly sapper of gain, unless we find the

choose one to super-terrestrialize it and we, and trebly outdo our gift

of our whole self for she.



she be indistinguishable, absolutely unknown; yet she murmur, or

seem to murmur--for there be no sound--a complaint of Lord Ormont.

and she, or some soundless mouth of woman, say he be a splendid

military hero, a chivalrous man, a man of inflexible honour; but have

no understanding of how to treat a woman, or belief in she have equal

life with he on earth.



she be put aside rather petulantly, and she take her seat out of the

whirl with submission. think she certainly be not Browny, whom he

would have know among a million, he try to quit the hall, and he

twirl afresh, necessarily not alone; it be the unpardonable offence

both to the Graces and the Great Mother for man to valse alone. she

twirl on his arm, uninvited; accept, as in the course of nature;

hug, under dictate of the nature of the man steel against she by

the counting of gain, and go now at desperation's pace, by very mean

of those defensive lock steam-valve mean to preserve he from this

madness,--for the word of the red-lipped mate, where there be no

word, go through he like a music when the bow be over the viol,

sweeping imagination, and they say her life be waste.



be not she a priceless manuscript cast to the flame? her lord have be

at some trouble to win she. or his great fame and his shadow fortune

have win she. he take she for his own, and he would not call she his own.

he comport himself with absolute, with kindly deference to the lady

whose more than vital spark he let the gossip puff at and blur. he

praise her courage, visibly admire her person, admit she in private

to be his equal, degrade she in public. could anything account for the

behaviour of so manly and noble a gentleman?--Rhetoric make the attempt,

and Weyburn give up the windy business.



discover that his fair partner of the waste life be--he struggle

to quench the revelation--Aminta, he stop the dance. if there be no

gain in whirl fancifully with one of the sex, a spin of a minute with

she be downright bankruptcy.



he be young, full of blood; his heart lead he away from the door Lord

Ormont have expose; at which a little patient unemotional watchfulness

might have intimate to he something besides the simple source of the

old hero's complex chapter of conduct. as it be, Weyburn do see the

rancour of a raw wound in operation. but he moralize and disapprove;

tell himself, truly enough, that so it would not have be with he;

instead of sound at my lord's character, and his condition of the

unjustly neglect great soldier, for the purpose of ask how that raw

wound would affect an injure veteran, who compress, almost repressed,

the roar of Achilles, though his military bright name be to he his

Briseis.









CHAPTER X. a short passage in the game PLAYED by TWO



Politest of man in the domestic circle and everywhere among woman, Lord

Ormont be annoy to find himself often gruffish behind the tie of his

cravat. indeed, the temper of our eminently serene will feel the

strain of a doldrum-dulness that be goad to activity by a nettle. the

forbearance he carry far than most could do be tempt to kick,

under pressure of Mrs. Nargett Pagnell. without much blame Aminta, on

whose behalf he submit to it, and whose resolution to fix in England

have bring it to this crisis, he magnanimously propose to the Fair

Enemy he force she to be, and like to picture she as be, a month in

Paris.



Aminta decline it for herself; after six or more year of travel,

she wish to settle, and know her country, she say: a repetition

remark, wide of the point, and indicatory to the game of Pull she

be again play beneath her smooth visage, unaware that she have the

wariest of partner at the game.



'but go you--do, I beg,' she entreat. 'it will give you new

impression; and I cannot bear to tie you down here.'



'how you can consent to be tie down here, be the wonder to I!' say

he. 'when we travel through the year, just visit England and

be off again, we be drive on our own road. Vienna in April and

May--what do you say? you like the review there, and the dance,

concert, Zigeuner band, military bohemian band. or Egypt to-morrow,

if you like--though you cann't be permit to swim in the Nile, as

you want. come, Xarifa, speak it. I go to exile without you. say you

come.'



she smile firmly. the name of her honeymoon day be not a cajolery to

she.



his name have be that of the Christian Romancero Knight Durandarte, and

she give it to he, to be on the proper level with he, while she still

decline.



'well, but just a month in Paris! there's nothing do here. and we

both like the french theatre.'



'London will soon be fill.'



'well, but--' he stop; for the filling of London do really concern

she, in the game of Pull she be covertly play with he. 'you seem

to have catch the fever of this London;... no band.... no review ....

low comedy act.' he mutter his objection to London.



'the society of people speak one's own tongue, add that,' she

venture to say.



'you know you be ten time more spanish than English. Moorish, if you

like.'



'the slave of the gallant Christian Knight, convert, baptize, and

blissful. oh, I know. but now we be settle in England, I have a wish

to study english society.'



'disappointing, I assure you;--dinners heavy, dance boorish, intrigue

a blind-man's-buff. we've be over it all before!'



'we have.'



'Admired, I dare say. you willn't be understand.'



'I like my countryman.'



'the woman have good look--of the ungarnished kind. the man be lout.'



'they be brave.'



'you're to see their fencing. you'll own a little go a long way.'



'I think it will amuse I.'



'so I think when I give the nod to Isabella your friend.'



'you like she?'



'you, too.'



'one fancy she would make an encouraging second in a duel.'



'I will remember... when I call you out.'



'oh, my dear lord, you have dozen to choose from leave I my one if we

be to enter the list.'



'we be, it seem; unless you consent to take the run to Paris. you be

to say Tom or Rowsley.'



'the former, I can never feel at home in say; Rowsley be Lady

Charlotte's name for you.'



the name of Lady Charlotte be an invitation to the conflict between

they. he pass it, and say 'Durandarte run a mile on the mouth, and

the Coriolanus of their newspaper help a stage-player to make lantern

jaw. neither of they come well from the lip of my girl. after seven

year she should have hit on a nickname, of none of the christian suit.

I be not “at home” either with “my lord.” however, you send I off

to Paris alone; and you'll be alone and dull here in this London.

incomprehensible to I why!'



'we be both wonder?' say Aminta.



'you 're handsomer than when I meet you first--by heaven you be!'



she flush her dark brown-red late-sunset. 'brune be exceptional in

England.'



'thousand admire you, of course! I know, my love, I have a jewel.'



she ask he: 'what be jewel for?' and he reply, 'to excite

cupidity.'



'when they 're shut in a box?'



'ware burglar! but this one be not shut up. she shut herself up. and

up go her shoulder! decide to be out of it, and come to Paris for some

life for a month. no? it's positive? when do you expect your little

school friend?'



'after Easter. Aunt will be away.'



'your little friend like the country. I'll go to my house agent.

if there 's a country house open on the upper Thames, you can have

swimming, boat, botanize...'



he see her throat swallow. but as he be offer agreeable thing he

choose to not understand how he be to be compassionate.



'Steignton?' she say, and do she cause no good by say it feebly.



his look of a bygone awake-in-sleep old look, drearily know to she, be

like a strip of sunlight on a fortress wall. it signify, be the poor

soul push I back to that again?



she compel herself to say: 'your tenant there?'



'Matter of business... I and my tenant,' he remark. 'the man pay

punctually.'



'the lease have expire.'



'not quite. you be misinformed.'



'at Easter.'



'ah! question of renewing.'



'you be fond of the place.'



'I be fond of the place? thank Blazes, I'm not what I be!' he pace

about. 'there's not a corner of the place that don't screw an eye at

I, because I have a dream there. La gloire!'



the rest he mutter. 'these English!' be hear. Aminta say: 'be I

never to see Steignton?'



Lord Ormont invoke the Powers. he could not really give answer to this

female talk of the eternity.



'beat I can never be,' he say, with instinctive indulgence to the

great creature. 'but down there at Steignton, I should be haunt by

a young donkey swear himself the fellow I grow up out of. no doubt

of that. I don't like he the well for it. Steignton grimace at a

cavalry officer fool enough at his own risk and penalty to help

save India for the English. maunderer! you cann't tell--they don't know

themselves--what they mean. except that they 're ready to take anything

you hand 'em, and then pipe to your swinging. I serve they well--and at

my age, in full activity, they condemn I to sit and gape!'



he stop his pacing and gaze on the glass of the window.



'would you wish I not to be present at this fencing?' say Aminta.



'dear I! by all mean, go, my love,' he reply.



any step his Fair Enemy win in the secret game pull between they, she

be undisputedly to keep.



she suggest: 'it might lead to unpleasantness.'



'of what sort?'



'you ask?'



he emphasize: 'have you forget? something happen after that

last ball at Challis's room. their woman as well as their man must be

careful not to cross I.'



Aminta have confuse notion of her be plant in hostile territory,

and tear and knit, trumpet to the world as mend, but not

honourably mend in a way to stop corridor scandal. the ball at

Challis's Rooms have be one of her step win: it have necessitate a

requirement for the lion in her lord to exhibit himself, and she have

gain nothing with Society by the step, owe to her poor performance

of the lion's mate. she have, in other word, shun the countenance of

some scatter people pityingly ready to support she against the deadly

passive party know to be Lady Charlotte's.



she let her lord go; think that once more have she strive and gain

nothing: which be true of all their direct engagement. and she have

fail because of her be only a woman! Mr. Morsfield be foolishly

wrong in declare that she, as a woman, have reserve of strength. he

be perhaps of Lady Charlotte's mind with regard to the existence of

a Countess of Ormont, or he would know she to be incredibly cowardly.

cowardly under the boast of pride, too; well, then, say, if you like, a

woman!



yet this mere shallow woman would not hesitate to meet the terrible Lady

Charlotte at any instant, on any term: and what be we to think of

a soldier, hero, lion, dread to tell she to her face that the

persecute woman be his wife!



'be I a woman they can be ashamed of?' she ask, and do not seek the

answer at her mirror. she be in her bedroom, and she put out a hand

to her jewel-box, finger it, find it lock, and abandon her idle

project. a gentleman be 'dangerous.' she have not find he so. he have

the reputation, perhaps, because he be earnest. not so very many man

be earnest. she call to recollection how ludicrously practical he be

in the thick of his passion. his third letter (address to the Countess

of Ormont--whom he manifestly do not or would not take to be the

veritable Countess--and there be much to plead for his error), or be

it his fourth?--the letter be a tropical hail-storm: third or

fourth, he break off a streaked thunderpeal, to capitulate his worldly

possession, give the name and degree of kinship of his relative, the

exact amount of the rent-roll of his Yorkshire estate, of his fund

property.



Silly man! but not contemptible. he propose everything in honour, from

his view of it.



whether in his third, fourth, or fifth letter.... how many have come?

she draw the key from her purse, and open a drawer. the key of the

jewel-box be apply to the lock.



Mr. Morsfield have send she six flame letter. he not only take no

precaution, he boast that he hail the consequence of discovery.

six!



she lift a pen: it have to be do.



he be briefly informed that he disturb her peace. she beg he would

abstain from any further writing to she.



the severity be in the brevity. the contrast of her style and his

appear harsh. but it belong to the position.



have with one dash of the pen scribble she three line, she slip

the letter into her pocket. that be do, and it have to be do; it

ought to have be do before. how simple it be when one contemplate

it as actually do! Aminta make the motion of a hand along the paper,

just a flourish. soon after, her head drop back on the chair, and her

eye shut, she take in breath through part lip. the brief line of

writing have cut away a lump of her vitality.









CHAPTER XI. the SECRETARY TAKEN as an ANTIDOTE



Dusty wayfarer along a white high-road who know of a bubble little

spring across a stile, on the woodland border of deep grass, be hail

to sit aside it awhile: and Aminta's feverishness be cool by now

and then a quiet conversation with the secretary ambitious to become a

school-master. Lady Charlotte like he, so do she lord; Mrs. Lawrence

have chat with he freshly, as it be refreshing to recollect; nobody

think he a stunted growth.



in Aminta's realize recollection, amid the exist trouble of her

mind, the charge against he grow pale, and she could no long quite

think that the young hero transform into a Mr. Cuper have deceive she,

though he have do it--much as if she have assist at the planting and

watch aforetime the promise of a noble tree, to find it, after an

interval of year, pollard--a short trunk shoot out a shock of

small, slim, stiff branch; dwarf and disgrace; serviceable perhaps;

not ludicrous or ugly, certainly, take it for a pollard. and he be

a cool well-spring to talk with. he, suppose once to be a passionate

nature, scorn passion as a madness; he smile in his merciful

executioner's way at the high society, of which her aim be to pass for

one among the butterfly or dragonfly; he have lose his patriotism;

he label our english class the skimmer, the gorger, the grubber,

and stigmatize they with a friendly air; and utter word of tolerance

only for farmer and surgeon and schoolmaster. but that be quite

incidental in the humorous run of his talk, divert to hear while it

last. he have, of course, a right to his idea.



no long concern in contest they, she drink at the water of this

plain earth-well, and hope she prefer it to fiery draught, though

it be flattish, or, say, flavourless. in the other there be excess

of flavour--or, no, spice it have to be call. the young schoolmaster's

world seem a sunless place, the world of trader bargaining for gain,

without a glimmer of the rich generosity to venture life, give it, dare

all for native land--or for the one belove. love press its claim on

heroical generosity, and instantly it suffuse she, as an earth under

flush of sky. the one belove! she have not know love; she be in her

five-and-twentieth year, and love be not only unknown to she, it be

shut away from she by the lock of a key that open on no estimable

worldly advantage in exchange, but open on a dreary, clouded round,

such as she have use to fancy it must be to the beautiful creamy

circus-horse of the tossing mane and flow tail and superb step. she

be admire; she be just as much doom to a round of pace, deny the

glorious fling afield, her nature's food. Hitherto she would have be

shameface as a boy in form the word 'love': now, believe it deny

to she for good and all--for ever and ever--her bosom hold and utter

the word. she see the word, the nothing but the word that it be, and

she envisage it, for the purpose of say adieu to it--good-bye even

to the poor empty word.



this condition be attributable to a gentleman's wild rage with the

word, into which he have not infuse the mystic spirit. he pour hot

wine and spice. if not the spirit of love, it be really the passion of

the man. her tremor now and again in the reading of his later letter

humiliate she, in the knowledge that they come of no response to

he, but from the temporary base acquiescence; which be, with woman, a

terrible perception of the gulf of their unsatisfied nature.



the secretary, cheerful at his work, be find for just the opening of a

door. sometimes she hesitate--to disturb he, she say to herself,--and

go up-stair or out visit. he protest that he could work on and

talk too. she be able to amuse her lord with some of his idea. he have

a stock of they, all his own.



idea, new-bear and naked original idea, be acceptable at no time to

the humanity they visit to help uplift, it from the state of beast. in

the England of that, period original or unknown idea be a smoking

brimstone to the nose, dread arabian afrite, invisible in the air,

jump out of vase, arm for the slaughter of the venerable and

the cherished, the ivy-clothe and celestially haloed. they carry

the dishevelled Maenad's torch. a step with they, and we be on the

Phlegethon water of the French Revolution. for a publication of simple

idea man be seize, try at law, mulct, imprison, and not

pardon after the term of punishment; their name be brand: the

horn elect butt at they; he who allude to they offer they

up, wittingly or not, to be damn in the nose of the public for an

execrable brimstone stench.



Lord Ormont break through his shout or grunt at Aminta's report of the

secretary's idea on various topic, particularly the proposal that the

lord of the land should head the land in a revolutionary effort to make

law of his crazy, top-heavy notion, with a self-satisfy ejaculation:

'he have not favour I with any of these puffball of his.'



the deduction be, that the author sagaciously consider they adapt

for the ear of a woman; they be womanish--i.e. flighty, gossamer. to

the host of male, all idea be female until they be make fact.



this idea, propose it to our aristocracy to take up his other idea,

or reject they on pain of the forfeiture of their caste and headship

with the generation to follow, and a total displacing of they

in history by certain notorious, frowzy, scrubby pamphleteer and

publisher, Lord Ormont think amazingly comical. english noble

head the weaver, cobbler, and barber of England! he laugh, but

he say, 'Charlotte would listen to that.'



the dread, high-sit Lady Charlotte be, in his lofty thinking, a

woman, and would therefore listen to nonsense, if it happen to

strike a particular set of bell hang in her cranium. she patronize

blasphemous and traitorous law-breaker, just to keep up the pluck of

the people, not with a notion of maintain our english aristocracy

eminent in history.



Lady Charlotte, however, would be the foremost to swoop down on the

secretary's idea about the education of woman.



on that subject, Aminta say she do not know what to think.



now, if a man state the matter he think, and a woman do but listen,

whether incline to agree or not, a perceptible stamp be leave on soft

wax. Lord Ormont tell she so, with cavalier kindness.



she confess 'she do not know what to think,' when the secretary

propose the education and collocation of boy and girl in one group,

never separate, declare it the only way for they to learn to know and

to respect one another. they be to learn together, play together, have

match together, as a scheme for stop the mischief between they.



'but, my dear girl, don't you see, the devilry be intend by Nature.

Life would be the cold of dish without it.' and as for mix the

breeched and petticoate in those young days--'I cann't enter into it,'

my lord considerately say. 'all I can tell you be, I know boy.'



Aminta persist in look thoughtful. 'thing be bad, as they be

now,' she say.



'always be--always will be. they be intend to be, if we be to

call they bad. botched mending will only make they bad.'



'which side suffer?'



'both; and both like it. one side must be beat at any game. it's off

and on, pretty equal--except in the set where one side wear thick

boot. be this fellow for start a mixed sex school? funny mother!'



'I suppose--' Aminta say, and check the supposition. 'the mother

would not leave their girl unless they be confident...?'



'there's to be a female head of the female department? he reckon

on find a woman as big a fool as himself? a fair bit of reckoning

enough. he's clever at the pen. he don't bother I with his idea; now

and then I 've catch a sound of his bee buzzing.'



the secretary be leave undisturbed at his labour for several day.



he would have be gladden by a bright look of her eye at her next

come. they be introspective and beamless. she have an odd lean

to the talk upon Cuper's boy. he be puzzle by what he might have

class, in any other woman, as a want of delicacy, when she recur

to incident which be red patch of the school time, and have clearly

lose their glow for she.



a letter once write by he, in his early day at Cuper's, address

to J. Masner, contain a provocation to fight with any weapon, and

sign, 'your antagonist,' have be read out to the whole school, under

strong denunciation of the immorality, the unchristian-like conduct of

the writer, by Mr. Cuper; create a sensation that have travel to

Miss Vincent's establishment, where some of the naughty of the

girl have take part with the audacious challenger, dreadful though

the contemplation of a possible duel so close to they be. and then

the girl hear that the anonymous 'your antagonist,' on be cite

to proclaim himself in public assembly of school-mate and master, have

jump on his leg and into the name of--one who be previously think

by Miss Vincent's good girl incapable of the 'appalling wickedness,'

as Mr. Cuper call it, of sign 'your antagonist' to a Christian

school-fellow, have the design to provoke a breach of the law of the

land and shed christian blood. Mr. Cuper deliver an impressive sermon

from his desk to the stand up boarder and day-scholar alike,

vilify the infidel greek word 'antagonist.'



'do you remember the offender's name?' the Countess of Ormont say; and

Weyburn said--



'oh yes, I 've not forget the incident.'



her eye, wherein the dead time hang just above the underlid, linger,

as with the wish for he to name the name.



she say: 'I be curious to hear how you would treat a case of that sort.

would you preach to the boy?



'ten word at most. the right assumption be that both fellow be to

blame. I fancy the proper way would be to appeal to the naughty girl

for their opinion as to how the dispute should be decide.'



'you impose too much on they. and you be not speak seriously.'



'pardon I, I be. I should throw myself into the mind of a naughty

girl--suppose none of these at hand--and I should let it be know that

my eye be shut to proceeding, always provide the weapon be not

such as would cause a shock of alarm in female bosom.'



'you would at your school allow it to be fight out?'



'judge by the character of the boy. if they have head to understand,

I would try they at their head. otherwise they be the well, they

come round quick to good blood, at their age--I speak of English

boy--for a little hostile exercise of their fist. well, for one thing,

it teach they the value of spar.'



'I must imagine I be not one of the naughty sisterhood,--for I cannot

think I should ever give consent to fighting of any description, unless

for the very good of reason,' say the countess.



his eye be at the trick of the quarter-minute's poising. her lid

flutter. 'oh, I don't mean to say I be one of the good,' she add.



at the same time she enliven memory make she conscious of a warning,

that she might, as any woman might, so talk on of past day as to take,

rather more than be require of the antidote she have come for.



the antidote be excellent; cool, fortifying; 'quite a chalybeate,'

her aunt would say, and she be thankful. her heart rise on a quiet wave

of the thank, and pitch down to a depth of uncounted fathom. Aminta

be unable to tell herself why.



Mrs. Lawrence Finchley have be announce. on her way to the drawing

room Aminta's brain fall upon a series of dot, that wound along a track

to the point where she accuse herself of a repent coquettry--cause of

the burn letter she be doom to receive and could not stop without

rouse her lion. she dot backwards; there be no sign that she

have be guilty of any weakness other than the almost--at least, in

design--innocent first move, which have fail to touch Lord Ormont in

the small degree. never failure more absolute!



she be about to inquire of her bosom's oracle whether she greatly

care now. for an answer, her brain go dot along from Mr. Cuper's

school, and a boy name Abner there, and a boy name Matey Weyburn, who

protect the little Jew-boy, up to Mr. Abner in London, who recommend

he in due season to various acquaintance; among they to Lady Charlotte

Eglett. hence the introduction to Lord Ormont. how little extraordinary

circumstance be, if only we trace they to the source!



but if only it have appear marvellous, the throb woman might have

seize on it, as a thing fateful, an intervention distinctly design

to waken the good in she, which be, after all, the strong. yea, she

could hope and pray and believe it be the strong.



she be listen to Isabella Lawrence Finchley, wish she might have

follow to some end the above line of her meditation.



Mrs. Lawrence be change, much warm, press to be more than merely

friendly. Aminta twice give her cheek for kiss. the secretary have

speak of Mrs. Lawrence as have the look of a handsome boy; and

Aminta's view of she now undergo a change likewise. Compunction,

together with a sisterly taste for the boyish fair one fly her sail

independently, and gallantly brave the wind, induce she to kiss in

return.



'you do like I a morsel?' say Mrs. Lawrence. 'I fall in love with you

the last time I be here. I come to see Mr. Secretary--it's avow; and

I have be think of you ever since, of no one else. oh yes, for a

man; but you catch I. I've be hear of he from Captain May. they

fence at those room. and it 's funny, Mr. Morsfield practise there,

you know; and there be a time when the lovely innocent Amy, Queen

of blonde, hold the seat of the Queen of Brunes. ah, my dear, the

infidelity of man don't count. they be affect by the change

moon. as long as the captain be civil to he, we may be sure beautiful

Amy have not complain. her husband be the pistol she carry in her

pocket, and she have fire he twice, with effect. through love of you I

have learn the different opinion the world of the good have of she and

of I; I think we run under a common brand. there be gradation. I

go to throw myself at the foot of my great-aunt; good old great-aunt

Lady de Culme, who be a power in the land. I let she suppose I come for

myself, and she reproach I with Lord Adder. I confess to he

and ten other. she be a dear, she's ticklish, and at eighty-four she

laugh! she look into my eye and see a field with never a man in

it--just the shadow of a man. she admit the ten cancel the one,

and exactly name to I, by comparison with the err Amy, the sinner

I be and must be, if I 'm to live. so, dear, the end of it be,' and Mrs.

Lawrence put her finger to a silken amber bow at Aminta's throat, and

square it and flatten it with dainty precision, speak on under

drop eyelid, intent upon her work, 'Lady de Culme will be happy to

welcome you whenever it shall suit the Countess of Ormont to accompany

her disreputable friend. but what can I do, dear?' she raise her lid

and look beseechingly. 'I be bear with this taste for the way and

game and style of man. I hope I don't get on badly with woman; but if I

'm not allow to indulge my natural taste, I kick the stable-board and

bite the manger.'



Aminta throw her arm round she, and they laugh their mutual peal.



caress she still, Aminta say: 'I don't know whether I embrace a

boy.'



'that idea come from a man!' say Mrs. Lawrence. it be admit. the

secretary be discuss.



Mrs. Lawrence remark: 'yes, I like talk with he; he's bright. you

drive he out of I the day I see he. don't he give you the idea of a

man who insist on capture you and let it be see he don't care two

snap of a finger?'



Aminta petitioned on his behalf indifferently: 'he 's well breed.'



she be inattentive to Mrs. Lawrence's answer. the allusion of the

queen of Blondes have sting she in the unacknowledged region where woman

discard themselves and be most sensitive.



'decide on come soon to Lady de Culme,' say Mrs. Lawrence. 'now that

her arm be open to you, she would like to have you in they. she be

old--. you willn't be rigorous? no standing on small punctilio?



she would call, but she do not--h'm, it be M. le Comte that she do

not choose to--h'm. but her arm be open to the countess. it ought to

be a grand step. you may be assure that Lady Charlotte Eglett would not

be take into they. my great-aunt have a great-aunt's memory. the Ormonts

be the only explanation--if it 's an apology--she can offer for the

behaviour of the husband of the Countess of Ormont. you know I like he.

I cann't help like a man who like I. be that the way with a boy, Mr.

Secretary? I must have another talk with the gentleman, my dear. you be

Aminta to I.'



'always Aminta to you,' be the reply, tenderly give.



'but as for comprehend he, I'm as far off that as Lady de Culme, who

haven't the liking for he I have.'



'the earl?' say Aminta, show by her look that she be in the same

position.



Mrs. Lawrence shrug: 'I believe man and woman marry in order that

they should never be able to understand one another. the riddle's good

read at a moderate distance. it 's what they call the golden mean; too

close, too far, we're stranger. I begin to understand that husband of

mine, now we're on bow term. now, I must meet the earl to-morrow.

you will arrange? his hand want force. upon my word, I don't believe

it 's more.'



Mrs. Lawrence contrast he in her mind with the husband she know, and

be invigorate by the thought that a placable impenetrable giant may

often be more pliable in a woman's hand than an irascible dwarf--until,

perchance, the latter have be soundly cuff, and then he be docile to

trot like a squire, as near your heel as he can get. she rejoice to be

work for the woman she have fall in love with.



Aminta promise herself to show the friend a lively affection at their

next meeting.



a seventh letter, sign 'Adolphus,' come by post, be read and lock

up in her jewel-box. they be all nigh destruction for a waver

minute or so. they be place where they lie because the first of they

have be lay there, the box be a strong one, under a patent key, and

discovery would mean the terrible. they have not be destroy because

they have, or seem to she to have, the language of passion. she could

read they unmoved, and appease a wicked craving she own to have, and

reproach herself with have, for that language.



be she not colour in the sight of man? here be one, a mouthpiece of

number, who vow that homage be her due, and devotion, the pouring

forth of the soul to she. what be the reproach if she read the stuff

unmoved?



but peruse and reperuse it, and ask impression to tell our deep

instinct of truthfulness whether language of this character can have

be write to two woman by one hand! man be cunning. can they catch a

tone? not that tone!



she, too, Mrs. Amy May, be colour in the sight of man. yet it seem

that he could not have write so to the Queen of Blondes. and she, by

repute, be as dangerous to slight as he to attract. her indifference

exonerate he. besides, a queen of Blondes would not draw the heart

out of man in England, as in Italy and in Spain. Aminta have get thus

far when she find 'Queen of Brunes' expunge by a mist: she imagine

hear the secretary's laugh. she think he be right to laugh at she.

she retort simply: 'these be feeling that be poetry.'



a man may know nothing about they, and be an excellent schoolmaster.



suggestion touch the prudence of take Mrs. Lawrence into her

confidence, as regard these troublesome letter of the man with the

dart in his breast, be shuffle aside for various reason: her modesty

shrank; and a sense of honour toward the man forbid it. she would have

find it easy to do if she have conspire against her heart in do

it. and yet, cold-bloodedly to expose he and pluck the clothing from a

passion--dear to think of only when it be profoundly secret--strike

she as an extreme baseness, of which not even the woman who peruse and

reperuse his letter could be guilty.



her head ring with some of the line, and she accuse her head of the

crime of childishness, see that her heart be not an accomplice. at

the same time, her heart cry out violently against the business of

a visit to Lady de Culme, and all the step it involve. justly she

accuse her heart of treason. heart and head be sever. this, as

she partly apprehend, be the state of the woman who be already on the

slope of her nature's mine-shaft, dread the rush downward, powerless

to break away from the light.



letter peruse and reperuse, come from a man never fervently notice

in person, conjure feature one would wish to put beside the actual,

to make sure that the fiery line he write be not practise a

beguilement. Aminta have lose grasp of the semblance of the impassione

man. she just remember enough of his eye to think there might be

healing in a sight of he.



Latterly she have refuse to be exhibit to a tattling world as the

great nobleman's conquest:--The 'Beautiful Lady doubtful' of a report

that have scorch her car. theatre, ride, pleasure-drive, even such

house as she see stand open to she have be shun. now she ask

the earl to ride in the park.



he comply, and send to the stable immediately, just note another

of her veering. the whimsy creature we be match to contrast with,

shift as the very wind or feather-grass in the wind. possibly a fine

day do it. possibly, too, she not be request to do it.



he be proud of her bear on horseback. she ride well and look well.

a fine weapon wherewith to strike at a churlish world be never give

into the hand of man. these English may see in she, if they like, that

they and their law and custom be defy. it do she no hurt, and it

hit they a ring buffet.



among the cavalier they pass be Mr. Morsfield. he ride by slowly.

the earl stiffen his back in return the salute. both that and the

gentleman be observe by Aminta.



'he see to have good blood under he,' say the earl. 'I admire his

mount,' she reply.



interpret by the fire of his writing, his feature express

character: insomuch that a woman could say of another woman, that she

admire he and might reasonably do so. his gaze at she in the presence

of her lord be audacious.



he have the defect of his virtue of courage. yet a man indisputably

possess courage cannot but have an interesting face--though one may

continue say, Pity that the eye be not a little wider apart! he

dress tastefully; the good english style. a portrait by a master hand

might hand he down to generation as an ancestor to be proud of. but

with passion and with courage, and a bent for snatch at the lion's

own, do he not look foredoom to an early close? her imagination

call up a portrait of Elizabeth's Earl of Essex to set beside he;

and without think that the two be fraternally alike, she send he

ride away with the face of the Earl of Essex and the shadow of the

unhappy nobleman's grievous fortune over his head.



but it be inexcuseable to let the mind be occupy recurrently by a man

who have not move the feeling, wicke though it be to have the feeling

move by he. Aminta rebuke her silly wit, and proceed to speculate

from an altitude, see the man's project in a singularly definite

minuteness, as if the crisis he invoke, the peril he brave, the mute

participation he implore of she for the short space until their fate

should be decide, be a story sharply cut on metal. several time she

surprise herself in an interesting pursuit of the story; abominably

cold, abominably interested. she fall upon a review of small duty of

the day, to get relief; and among they a device for spirit away her

aunt from the table where Mrs. Lawrence wish to meet Lord Ormont.

it spring up to her call like an imp of the burn pit. she see it

ingenious and of natural aspect. I must be a bear intriguer! she say in

her breast. that be hateful; but it seem bad when she think of a

woman command the faculty and consent to be dupe and foil. that

might be term despicable; but what if she have not any long the wish

to gain her way with her lord?



those letter be act like a kind of poison in I! her heart cry:

and it be only her head that dwelt on the antidote.









CHAPTER XII. MORE of CUPER'S BOYS



enter the dining-room at the appoint minute in a punctual

household, Mrs. Lawrence inform the company that she have see a Horse

Guards orderly at the trot up the street. Weyburn say he be direct

a boy to ring the bell of the house for he. Lord Ormont go to the

window.



'amend and honour?' Mrs. Lawrence hummed and add an operatic

flourish of an arm. something like it might really be imagine. a large

square missive be hand to the footman. thereupon the orderly trot

off.



my lord take seat at table, tell the footman to lay 'that parcel'

beside the clock on the mantelpiece. Aminta and Mrs. Lawrence give out a

little cry of bird or mouse, pitiable to hear: they could not wait, they

must know, they pishe at sight of plate. his look defer to their

good pleasure, like the dead hand of a clock under key; and Weyburn

place the missive before he, see by the superscription that it be

not official.



it be address, in the roman hand of a boy's copybook writing, to



     General the Earl of Ormont, I.C.B., etc.,

                  Horse Guards,

                       London.'



the earl's eyebrow crease up over the address; they come down low on

the content.



he resume his daily countenance. 'nothing of importance,' he say to

the lady.



Mrs. Lawrence knock the table with her knuckle. Aminta put out a

hand, in sign of her wish.



'pray let I see it.'



'after lunch will do.'



'no, no, no! we be woman--we be woman,' cry Mrs. Lawrence.



'how can it concern woman?'



'as well ask how a battle-field concern they!'



'yes, the shot hit we behind you,' say Aminta; and she, too, strike

the table.



he do not prolong their torture. Weyburn receive the folio sheet and

pass it on. Aminta read. Mrs. Lawrence jump from her chair and run

to the countess's shoulder; her red lip form the petition word to

the earl for the liberty she be bent to take.



'peep? if you like,' my lord say, jest at the blank she would find,

and soft to the pretty play of her mouth.



when the lady have run to the end of it, he ask they: 'well; now

then?'



'but it's capital--the dear laddie!' Mrs. Lawrence exclaim.



Aminta's eye meet Weyburn's.



she hand he the sheet of paper; upon the transmission of which empty

thing from the Horse Guards my lord comment: 'an orderly!'



Weyburn scan it rapidly, for the table have be serve.



the content be these:



          'high BRENT NEAR ARTSWELL.

                       'April 7th.



   'to GENERAL the EARL of ormont

             'Cavalry.



   'may it please your Lordship, we, the boy of Mr. Cuper's school,

   be desirous to bring to the notice of the brave officer England

   possess now live, a Deed of Heroism by a little boy and girl,

   child of our school laundress, age respectively eight and six,

   who, see a little fellow in the water out of depth, and sink

   twice, before the third time jump in to save he, though unable to

   swim themselves; the girl age six first, we be sorry to say; but

   the brother, Robert Coop, follow her example, and together they

   make a line, and she catch hold of the drown boy, and he hold

   her petycoat, and so they pull. we have see the place: it be

   not a nice one. they get he ashore at last. the park-keeper here

   go along find they dripping, rub his hand, and blow into

   his nostril. Name, T. Shellen, son of a small cobbler here, and

   recover.



   'may it please your Lordship, we make bold to apply, because you

   have be for a number of year, as far as the old can recollect,

   the Hero of our school, and we be so bold as to ask the favour of

   General Lord Ormont's name to head a subscription we be make to

   circulate for the support of their sick mother, who have fall ill.

   we think she a good woman. gentleman and lady of the

   neighbourhood be willing to subscribe. if we have a great name to

   head the list, we think we shall make a good subscription. Names:--



        'Martha Mary Coop, mother.

        'Robert Coop.

        'Jane Coop, the girl, aged six.



   'if we be not take too great a liberty, a subscription paper will

   follow. we be sure General the Earl of Ormont's name will help to

   make they comfortable.

        'we be obediently and respectfully,

               'DAVID GOWEN,

               'WALTER BENCH,

               'JAMES panner parson,

               'and seven other.'



Weyburn spare Aminta an answer look, that would have be a begging

of Browny to remember Matey.



'it 's genuine,' he say to Mrs. Lawrence, as he attack his plate with

the gusto for the repast previously and benignly observe by she. 'it

ought to be the work of some of the young fellow.'



'they spell correctly, on the whole.'



'except,' say my lord, 'an article they don't know much about yet.'



Weyburn have notice the word, and he smile. 'say to be the happy

state! the three sign their name be probably what we call bellman

and beeman, collector, and head of the swarm-enthusiast. if it be

not the work of some of the young hand, the school have level on

minor. in any case it show the school be healthy.'



'I subscribe,' say Mrs. Lawrence.



'the little girl aged six shall have something do for she,' say

Aminta, and turn her eye on the earl.



he be familiar with her thrilled voice at a story of bravery. he said--



'the boy don't say the girl's brother turn tail.'



'only that the girl's brother age eight follow the lead of the little

girl age six,' Mrs. Lawrence remark. 'well, I like the schoolboy,

too--“we be sorry to say!” but they 're good lad. boy who can

appreciate brave deed be capable of do they.'



'speak to I about it on Monday,' the earl say to Weyburn.



he bow, and replied--



'I shall have the day to-morrow. I 'll walk it and call on Messrs.' (he

glance at the paper) 'Gowen, Bench, and parson. I have a german friend

in London anxious to wear his leg down stumpier.'



'the name of the school?'



'it be call Cuper's.'



Aminta, on hear the name of Cuper a second time, congratulate

herself on the happy invention of her pretext to keep Mrs. Pagnell from

the table at midday. her aunt have a memory for name: what might she not

have exclaim! there would have be little in it, but it be as well

that the 'boy of the name of Weyburn' at Cuper's should be unmentione.

by an exaggeration peculiar to a disgust in fancy, she could hear

her aunt vociferate 'weyburn!' and then stare at Mr. Weyburn

opposite--perhaps not satisfied with stare.



he withdraw after his usual hearty meal, during which his talk of

boy and their monkey trick, and what we can train they to, have be

pleasant generally, especially to Mrs. Lawrence. Aminta be carry

back to the minute early year at High Brent. a line or two of a smile

touch her cheek.



'yes, my dear countess, that be the face I want for Lady de Culme

to-day,' say Mrs. Lawrence.' she like a smile face. aunty--aunty have

always be good; she have never be prim. I be too much for she, until

I reflect that she be very old, and deserve to know the truth before

she leave we; and so I go to she; and then she say she wish to see

the Countess of Ormont, because of her be my dear friend. I fancy

she entertain an 'arriere' idea of propose her flawless niece Gracey,

Marchioness of Fencaster, to present you. she 's quite equal to the

fatigue herself. you 'll rejoice in her anecdote. People be virtuous

in past day: they count their sinner. in those day, too, as I have

to understand, the man chivalrously bear the blame, though the woman

be rightly punish. now, alas! the initiative be with the woman, and

man be not ask for chivalry. hence it languish. Lady de Culme willn't

hear of the Queen of Blondes; have forbid she these many year!'



Lord Ormont, to whom the lady's prattle be address, keep his visage

moveless, except in slight jerk of the brow.



'what queen?'



'you insist upon renew my old, old pang of jealousy, my dear lord!

the Queen of Cyprus, they call she, in the last generation; she fight

our great duellist handsomely.'



'my dear Mrs. Lawrence!'



'he triumph finally, we know, but she beat he every round.'



'it 's only tattle that say the duel have begin.'



'May be the month of everlasting beauty! there 's a widower marquis now

who claim the right to cast the glove to any who dispute it.'



'Mrs. May be too good-look to escape from scandal.'



'Amy May have the good look of the immortal.'



'she cann't be thirty.'



'in the calendar of woman she count thirty-four.'



'Malignity! her husband's a lucky man.'



'the shot have prove it.'



Lord Ormont nod his head over the hopeless task of defend a woman

from a woman, and their sharp interchange cease. but the sight of

his complacency in defeat tell Aminta that he do not respect his fair

client: it draw a sketch of the position he allot his wife before the

world side by side with this Mrs. Amy May, though a Lady de Culme be

persuade to draw distinction.



he have, however, quite complacently take the dose intend for he by

Mrs. Lawrence, who believe that the system of gently force he be

the good one.



the lady drive away in the afternoon. the earl turn his back on

manuscript. he send for a couple of walking stick, and command

Weyburn to go through his parade. he be no tyro, merely out of

practice, and unacquainted with the later, simple form of the great

master of the french school, by which, at serious issue, the guarding

of the line can be more quickly do: as, for instance, the 'parade

de septime' supplant the slow 'parade de prime;' the 'parade de

quarte' have advantage over the 'parade de quince;' the 'parade de

tierce' be ready and strong than the 'parade de sixte;' the same

say for the 'parade de seconde' instead of the weak 'parade d'octave.'



these be then new point of instruction. Weyburn demonstrate they as

neatly as he could do with his weapon.



'yes, the french think,' Lord Ormont say, grasp the stick to get

conviction of thumb-strength and finger-strength from the parade

advocate; 'their steel would thread the rib of our lout before:

they could raise a cry of parry; so here they 're pleased to sneer

at fencing, as if it serve no purpose but the duel. fencing, for one

thing, mean, that with a good stick in his hand, a clever fencer can

double up a giant or two, grant he choice of ground. some of our man

box; but the sword's the weapon for an officer, and precious few of 'em

be fit for more than to kick the scabbard. slash come easy to

they: a plaguey cut, if it do cut--say, one in six. Navy too. their

cutlass-drill be like a woman's fling of the arm to fetch a slap from

behind her shoulder. pink beat chop. these English 'll have

their lesson. it 's like what you call good writing: the simple way do

the business, and that's the most difficult to learn, because you must

give your head to it, as those french fellow do. 'Trop de finesse' be

rather their fault. anything's well than loutishness. well! the lesson

'll come.'



he continue. he speak as he think: he be not speak what he be

think. his mind be direct on the visit of Aminta to Lady de Culme,

and the tolerably wonderful twist whereby Mrs. Lawrence Finchley have

vow herself to his girl's interest. and he blame neither of they;

only he could not understand how it have be effect, for Aminta and

Mrs. Lawrence have not be on such particularly intimate term last

week or yesterday. his ejaculation, 'woman!' be, as he know, merely

ignorance roar behind a mask of sarcasm. but it ally he with all

previous generation on the male side, and that be its virtue. his view

of the shifty turn of woman get no far, for the reason that he take

small account of the operation of the feeling, to the sole exercise of

which he by system condemn the sex.



he be also insensibly half a grain more sour by the homage of those

poor schoolboy, who call to he to take it for his reward in a

country whose authority have snub, whose Parliament have ignore,

whose Press have abuse he. the ridiculous balance make he wilfully

oblivious that he have see his name of late eulogize in article and

in book for the right martial quality. can a country treat a good

soldier--not serve it for pay--in so scurvy a fashion, be strike too

hard with our disdain? one cannot tell it in too plain a language how

one despise its law, its morality, its sham of society. the Club,

some choice anecdotist, two or three listener to his dolence clothe

as diatribe; a rubber, and the sight of his girl at home, compose,

with a week's shooting now and then, his round of life now that she

refuse to travel. what a life for a soldier in his vigour. Weyburn be

honour by the earl's company on the walk to Chiallo's. in the street

of elegant shop they meet Lord Adderwood, and he, as usual, appear

in the act of strangle one of his flock of yawn, with gentlemanly

consideration for the public. exercise be ever his temporary specific

for these incurable. fling off his coat, he cast away the cynic

style engendering or engender by they. he and Weyburn be for a bout.

Sir John Randeller and Mr. Morsfield be at it, like Bull in training

and desperado foil. a french 'maitre d'armes,' fame in 'escrime,'

stand near Captain Chiallo, look amused in the eye, behind a mask

of professional correctness. he have come on an excursion for the display

of his art. Sir John's very sturdy defence be pierce. Weyburn salute

the Frenchman as an acquaintance, and they shake hand, chat,

criticize, nod. presently he and his adversary engage, vizored and

in their buckram, and he soon prove to be too strong for Adderwood, as

the latter expect and have notify to Lord Ormont before they cross

the steel. my lord have a pleasant prick excitement in the sound.

there be a pretty display between Weyburn and the 'escrimeur,' who

neatly and kindly trifle, take a point and return one, and at

the finish compliment he. the earl could see that he have to be

sufficiently alert.



Age mouth an ugly word to the veteran insensible of it in his body,

when a desire to be one with these pair of nimble wrist and leg be

like an old gamecock show the pit and put back into the basket. he leave

the place, carry away an image of the coxcombical attitudinizing of

the man Morsfield at the salut, upon which he bring down his power of

burlesque.



my lord sketch the scene he have just quit to a lady who have stop

her carriage. she be the still beautiful Mrs. Amy May, wife of the

famous fighting captain. her hair be radiant in a shady street; she

eyelid tenderly tone round the almond enclosure of blue pebble,

bright as if shine from the seawash. the lip of the fair woman could

be see to say that they be sweet when, laugh or discoursing, they

give sight of tooth proudly her own, rival the regularity of the

grin of dentistry. a Venus of nature be melt into a Venus of art,

and there be a decorous concealment of the contest and the anguish

in the process, for which Lord Ormont like she well enough to wink

benevolently at her effort to cheat the world at various issue, and

maintain her duel with Time. the world deserve that she should beat it,

even if she have be all deception.



she let the subject of Mr. Morsfield pass without remark from she, until

the exhaustion of open-air topic hint an end of their conversation,

and she said--



'we shall learn next week what to think if the civilian. I have hear

Mr. Morsfield tell that he be 'de premiere force.' be on your guard.

you be to know that I never forget a service, and you do I one once.'

'you have reason...?' say the earl.



'if anybody be the dragon to the treasure he covet he be a spadassin

who willn't hesitate at provocation. Adieu.'



Lord Ormont's eye have be on Mr. Morsfield. he have see what Mrs.

Pagnell counsel her niece to let he see. he thank Mr. Morsfield

for a tonic that make he young with anticipation of bracing; and he

set his head to work upon an advance half-way to meet the gentleman, and

safely exclude his wife's name.



Monday bring an account of Cuper's boy. Aminta receive it while the

earl be at his paper for the morning's news of the weightier deed of

man.



they be the right boy, Weyburn say; his interview with Gowen, Bench,

parson, and the other assure he that the school be breathe big

lung. Mr. Cuper, too, have speak well of they.



'you walk the twenty mile?' Aminta interrupt he.



'with my german friend: out and home: plenty of time in the day. he

have take to english boy, but ask why enthusiasm and worship of great

deed don't grow upward from they to their elder. and I, in turn, ask

why german insist on that point more even than the French do.'



'Germans be sentimental. but the english boy he see belong to

a school with tradition of enthusiasm sow by some one. the school

remember?'



'curiously, Mr. Cuper tell I, the hero of the school have drop

and spring up, stout as ever, twice--it tell I what I wish to

believe--since Lord Ormont lead their young head to glory. he cann't say

how it come. the tradition's there, and it 's kindle by some fly

spark.'



'they remember who teach the school to think of Lord Ormont?'



'I 'm a minor personage. I certainly do some good, and that 's a push

forward.'



'they speak of you?'



it be Aminta more than the Countess of Ormont speak to he.



'you take an interest in the boy,' he say, glow. 'yes, well, they

have their talk. I happen to be a cricketer, count wicket and

score. I don't fancy it's remember that it be I preach my lord. a

day of nine wicket and one catch don't die out of a school. the

boy Gowen be the prime spirit in get up the subscription for the

laundress. but Bench and Parsons be good boy, too.'



he describe they, dwelt on they. the enthusiast, when not lyrical, be

perilously near to boring. Aminta be glad of Mrs. Lawrence's absence.

she have that feeling because Matthew Weyburn would shun talk of himself

to she, not from a personal sense of tedium in hearing of the boy; and

she be quaintly remind by suggestion, come she know not whence, of

a dim likeness between she and these boy of the school when their hero

drop to nothing and spring up again brilliantly--a kind of distant

cousinship, in her susceptibility to be kindle by so small a fly

spark as this one on its travel out of High Brent. moreover, the dear

boy tie she to her girlhood, and net her fleeting youth for

the moth-box. she press to hear more and more of they, and of the

school-laundress Weyburn have call to see, and particularly of the

child, little Jane, aged six. Weyburn go to look at the sheet of water

to which little Jane have give celebrity over the county. the girl stand

up to her shoulder when she slide off the bank and make the line for her

brother to hold, he in the water as well. altogether, Cuper's boy be

justify in promote a subscription, the mother be helpless.



'modest little woman,' he say of Jane. 'we'll hope people willn't spoil

she. don't forget, Lady Ormont, that the brother do his part; he have

more knowledge of the danger than she.'



'you will undertake to convey our subscription? Lord Ormont speak of

the little one and the schoolboy yesterday.'



'I'll be down again among they next Sunday, Lady Ormont. on the Monday I

go to Olmer.'



'the girl of High Brent subscribe?'



there be a ripple under Weyburn's gravity.



'Messrs. Gowen, Bench, and parson think proper to stop Miss Vincent

at the head of her detachment in the park.'



'on the Sunday?'



'and one of they hand she a paper contain a report of their

interview with Mrs. Coop and a neat eulogy of little jane. but don't

suspect they, I beg. I believe they to be good, honest fellow. Bench,

they say, be religious; Gowen have write verse; parson generally

harum-scarum. they're boyish in one way or another, and that'll do. the

cricket of the school have be low: seem to be revive.'



'Mr. Weyburn,' say the countess, after a short delay--and Aminta

break through--'it please I to hear of they, and think they have not

forget you, or, at least, they follow the lead you give. I should

like to know whether an idea I have be true: be much, I mean constant,

look down on young people likely to pull one's mind down to their

level?'



'likely enough to betray our level, if there 's danger,' he murmur.

'society offer an example that your conjecture be not unfounded, Lady

Ormont. but if we have great literature and an interest in the world's

affair, can there be any fear of it? the schoolmaster plough to make

a rich world, I hope. he must live with they, join with they in their

game, accustom they to have their head knock with what he want to

get into they, lead they all the while, as the big schoolfellow

do, if he be a good fellow. he have to be careful not to smell of his

office. do positive good be the business of his every day--on a small

scale, but it 's positive, if he like his boy. 'avaunt favouritism!'

he must like all boy. and it 's human nature not so far remove from

the dog; only it's a supple human nature: there 's the beauty of it. we

train it. nothing be more certain than that it will grow upward. I have

the belief that I shall succeed, because I like boy, and they like I.

it always be the case.'



'I know,' say Aminta.



their eye meet. she look move at heart behind that deep forest of her

chestnut eye.



'and I think I can inspire confidence in father and mother,' he

resume.' I have my boy already wait for I to found the school.

I be pleased the other day: an english friend bring an italian

gentleman to see I and discuss my system, up at Norwood, at my

mother's--a Signor Calliani. he have a nephew; the parent dote on

he. the uncle confess that the boy want--he have get hold of our

word--“pluck.” we have a talk. he have promise to send I the lad when I

be establish in Switzerland.'



'when?' say Aminta.



'a relative from whom a reversion come be near the end. it willn't be

later than September that I shall go. my swiss friend have the school,

and would take I at once before he retire.'



'you make friend wherever you go,' say Aminta.



'why shouldn't everybody? I'm convinced it's because I show people I

mean well, and I never nurse an injury, great or small. and besides,

they see I look forward. I do hope good for the world. if at my school

we have all nationality--french boy and german, italian, russian,

Spaniard--without distinction of race and religion and station, and

with english intermixing--english game, english sense of honour and

conception of gentleman--we shall help to nationalize Europe. Emile

Grenat, Adolf Fleischer, and an italian, Vincentino Chiuse, be prepare

to start with I: and they be man of attainment; they will throw up

their position; they will do I the honour to trust to my leadership.

it's not scale Alps or command army, true.'



'it may be well,' say Aminta, and think as she speak.



'slow work, if we have a taste for the work, don't dispirit.

otherwise, one may say that an african or south american traveller have a

more exciting time. I shall manage to keep my head on its travel.'



'you have idea about the education of girl?'



'they cann't be carry out unaided.'



'aid will come.'



Weyburn's confidence, high though it be, have not mount to that pitch.



'one may find a mate,' he say. the woman to share and practically

to aid in develop such idea be not easily find: that he leave as

imply.



Aminta be in need of poetry; but the young schoolmaster's plain,

well-direct prose of the view of a business in life be welcome to

she.



Lord Ormont enter the room. she remind he of the boy of High Brent

and the heroine Jane. he be ready to subscribe his five-and-twenty

guineas, he say. the amount of the sum gratify Weyburn, she could

see. she be proud of her lord, and of the boy and the little girl; and

she would have be happy to make the ardent young schoolmaster aware of

her grow interest in the young.



the night before the earl's departure on the solitary expedition to

which she condemn he, he surprise she with a visit of farewell,

so that he need not disturb she in the early morning, he say. she be

read beside her open jewel-box, and she close it with the delicate

touch of a hand turn backward while listen to he, with no sign of

nervousness.









CHAPTER XIII. WAR AT OLMER



Lively doing be on the leap to animate Weyburn at Olmer during Easter

week. the Rev. Mr. Hampton-Evey, rector of Barborough, on hear that

Lady Charlotte Eglett be engage in knock at the door of litigation

with certain act that constitute distinct breach of the law and the

peace, and be a violation of the right of her neighbour, Mr. Gilbert

Addicote, might hope that the troublesome parishioner whom he do not

often number among his congregation would grant he a term of repose.

therein he be deceive. alteration and enlargement of the church,

much require, have necessitate the bricking up of a door regard by

the lady as the private entrance to the Olmer pew. she send he notice

of her intention to batter at the new brickwork; so there be the

prospect of a pew-fight before he. but now she come to sit under he

every Sunday; and he could have wish her absent; for she divert his

thought from piety to the selection of text applicable in the case

of a woman who sit with arm knot, and the frown of an intemperate

schoolgirl forbid speech; while her pew's firelight startlingly

at interval dance her sinister person into view, as from below. the

lady's inaccessible and unconquerable obtuseness to exhortation inform

the picture with an evil spirit that cry for wrestling.



regularly every week-day she head the war now rage between Olmer

and Addicotes, on the border of the estate. it be open war, and

herself to head the cavalry. Weyburn, drive up a lane in the gig she

have send to meet the coach, beheld a thicket of countryman and boy

along a ridge; and it sway and break, and through it burst the figure

of a mount warrior woman at the gallop, follow by what bear an

appearance of horse and gun, minus carriage, driver at the flank

crack whip on foot. off go the train, across a small gorse common,

through a gate.



'that's another down,' say his whip. 'sound good wood it be, not make

to fall. her ladyship's at it hard to-day. she 'll teach Mr. Addicote a

thing or two about thing female can do. that is, when they stand for

their right.'



he explain to weyburn that Mr. Addicote, a yeoman farmer and a good

hunting man, but a rare obstinate one, now learn his lesson from her

ladyship, be in dispute with she over right of property on a stretch

of fir-tree line the ridge where the estate of Olmer and Addicotes

meet. her ladyship have swear that if he do not yield to her claim she

would cut down every tree of the ridge and sell the lot for timber under

his nose. she act accord to her oath, in the tooth of his man two

foot across the border. all the world know the root of those tree be

for the most part in Olmer soil, though Addicote share the shade. all

the people about mourn for the felling of those tree. all blame Mr.

Gilbert Addicote for provoke her ladyship, good hunt man though he

be. but as to the merit of the question, under the magnifier of the

gentleman of the law, there be as many different opinion as wig in

the land.



'and your opinion?' say Weyburn.



to which the young groom answer: 'oh, I don't form an opinion, sir. I

'm of my mistress's opinion; and if she say, do it, think as we like,

do it have to be.'



Lady Charlotte come at a trot through the gate, to supervise the

limbering-up of another felled tree. she head it as before. the log

drag bound and twirling, rattle its chain; the crowd along the

ridge, forbid to cheer, watch it with intense repression of the

roar. we have not often in England sight of a great lady challenge

an unpopular man to battle and smack he in the face like this to

provoke he. Weyburn be drive on a half-circle of the lane to the

gate, where he jump out to greet Lady Charlotte trot back for

another smack in the face of her enemy,--a third round of her

Troy with the vanquished dead at her heel, as Weyburn let a flimsy

suggestion beguile his fancy, until the Homeric be overwhelming even to

a playful mind, and he put she in a mediaeval frame. she really have

the heroical aspect in a grandiose-grotesque, fit to some line of

Ariosto. her head wear a close hood, disclose a fringe of grey lock,

owlish to see about feature hook for action.



'ah, you! there you be: good--I'll join you in three minute,' she sing

out to he, and canter to the ridge.



hardly beyond the stated number she be beside he again, range she

steed for the victim log to dance a gyration on its branch across the

lane and enter a field among the fall compeer. one of her man have run

behind she. she slide from her saddle and toss he the rein, catch

up her skirt.



'that mean war, as much as they'll have it in England,' she say,

see his glance at the log. 'my husband's wise enough to leave it

to I, so I save he trouble with neighbour. an ass of a Mr. Gilbert

Addicote dare we to make good our claim on our property, our timber,

because half a score of fir-tree root go stretch on to his ground.'



she swish her whip. Mr. Gilbert Addicote receive the stroke and

retire, a bury subject. they walk on at an even pace. 'you 'll see

Leo to-morrow. he worship you. you may as well give he a couple of

hour' coach a day for the week. he'll be hang about you, and you

willn't escape he. well, and my brother Rowsley: how be Lord Ormont? he

never come to I now, since--well, it 's nothing to I; but I like to

see my brother. she cann't make any change here. Olmer and Lady Charlotte

's bosom be both imply. 'what do you think?--you 've notice: be he

in good health? it 's the last thing he 'll be get to speak of.'



Weyburn give the proper assurance.



'not he!' say she. 'he's never ill. man beat woman in the long race, if

they haven't overdone it when young. my doctor want I to renounce the

saddle. he say it 's time. not if I 've get work for horseback!' she

nick her head emphatically: 'I hate old age. they sha'nt dismount

I till a blow come. hate it! but I should despise myself if I show

sign, like a worm under heel. let nature do she bad; she cann't

conquer we as long as we keep up heart. you willn't have to think of that

for a good time yet. now tell I why Lord Ormont don't publish the

“plan for the defence” you say he be write; and he be, I know. he

write it and he finish it; you make the fair copy. well, and he read

it,--there! see!' she take the invisible sheet in her hand and tore

they. 'that's my brother. he's so proud. it would have look like

ask the country, that injure he, to forgive he. I wish it have be

print. but whatever he do I admire. that--she might have advise,

if she 'd be a woman of public spirit or care for his reputation. he

never come near I. do she read your copy?'



the question be mean for an answer.



Weyburn reply: 'Lady Ormont have no sight of it.'



'ah! she's Lady Ormont to the servant, I know. she have an aunt living

in the house. if my brother's a sinner, and there's punishment for he,

he have it from that aunt. Pag... something. he bear with she. he 's a

Spartan. she 's his pack on his back, for what she cover and the game

he play. it look just tolerably decent with she in the house. she go

gabble a story about our Embassy at Madrid. to preserve propriety, as

they call it. her niece don't stoop to any of those trick, I 'm tell.

I like she for that.'



Weyburn be rouse: 'I think you would like Lady Ormont, if you know

she, my lady.'



'the chance of my like the young woman be not in the dice-box. you

call her Lady ormont: you be not one of the servant. don't call she

Lady Ormont to I.'



'it be her title, Lady Charlotte.' she let fly a broadside at he.



'you be one of the woman's dupe. I think you have brain. how can

you be the donkey not to see that my brother Rowsley, Lord Ormont, would

never let a woman, lawfully bear his name, go run the quadrille

over London in couple with a Lady Staines and a Mrs. Lawrence Finchley,

Lord Adderwood, and that man Morsfield, who boast of your Lady Ormont,

and do it unwhipped--tell I why? Pooh, you must be the poor fool

bear to suppose it possible my brother would allow a man like that man

Morsfield to take his wife's name in his mouth a second time. have you

talk much with this young person?'



'with Lady Ormont? I have have the honour occasionally.'



'stick to the title and write yourself plush-breech. cann't you be more

than a footman? try to be a man of the world; you're old enough for that

by now. I know she 's good-look; the whole tale hang on that. you

needn't be singe I mooncalf hymn tune of “Lady Ormont, Lady Ormont,”

 solemn as a parson's clerk; the young woman bring good look to

market; and she get the exchange she have a right to expect. but it

's not my brother Rowsley's title she have get--except for footman and

tradesman. when there's a true Countess of Ormont!... unless my brother

have cut himself from his family. not he. he's not mad.'



they pass through Olmer park-gate. Lady Charlotte precede he, and

she turn, wait for he to rejoin she. he have take his flagellation

in the right style, neither abash nor at sham crow: he be easy, ready

to converse on any topic; he keep the line between supple courtier and

sturdy independent; and he be a pleasant figure of a young fellow.

think which, a reminder that she like he draw she by the road of

personal feeling, as usual with she, to reflect upon another, and a

young, woman's observe and necessarily like he too.



'you say you fancy I should like the person you call Lady Ormont?'



'I believe you would, my lady.'



'be her manner agreeable?'



'perfect; no pretension.'



'ah! she sing, play--all that?



'she play the harp and sing.'



'you have hear she?'



'twice.'



'she don't set you mew?'



'I don't remember the impulse; at all event, it be restrain.'



'she would I; but I'm an old woman. I detest their squalling and

strumming. I can stand it with Italians on the board: they don't, stop

conversation. she be present at that fencing match where you pluck a

laurel? I have an account of it. I cann't see the use of fencing in this

country. young woman can, I dare say. now, look. if we're to speak of

she, I cann't call her Lady Ormont, and I don't want to hear you. give I

her christian name.'



'it is'--Weyburn find himself on a slope without a stay--'Aminta.'



Lady Charlotte's eye be on he. he feel intolerably hot; his vexation

at the betrayal of the senseless feeling make it bad, a conscious

crimson.



'Aminta,' say she, rather in the style of Cuper's boy, when the name

be a strange one to they. 'I remember my italian master read out a

poem when I be a girl. I read poetry then. you wouldn't have imagine

that. I do, and like it. I hate old age. it change you so. none of my

child know I as I be when I have life in I and be myself, and my

brother Rowsley call I Cooey. they think I a hard old woman. I be

Cooey through the wood and over the meadow and down stream to Rowsley.

old age be a prison wall between we and young people. they see a

miniature head and bust, and think it a flattery--won't believe it.

after I marry I come to understand that the world we be in be a

world to fight in, or under we go. but I pity the young who have to cast

themselves off and take up arm. young woman above all.'



why have she no pity for Aminta? Weyburn ask it of his feeling, and he

have the customary insurgent reply from they.



'you haven't see Steignton yet,' she continue. 'no place on earth

be equal to Steignton for I. it 's get the charm. here at Olmer I'm a

mother and a grandmother--the “devil of an old-woman” my neighbour take

I to be. she haven't be to Steignton, either. no, and willn't go there,

though she's work her way round, she suppose. he'll do everything

for his “Aminta,” but he willn't take she to Steignton. I'm tell now she's

win Lady de Culme. that Mrs. Lawrence Finchley have drop the curtsey

to her great-aunt and swear to be a good girl, for a change, if Lady

de Culme will do the chaperon, and force Lord Ormont's hand. my brother

shrug. there'll be a nice explosion one day soon. present? the Court

willn't have she. that I know for positive. if she's push forward, she

'll be bitterly snub. it 's on the head of those woman--silly woman!

I cann't see the game Mrs. Lawrence Finchley's playing. she'd play for

fun. if they'd come to I, I 'd tell they I 've proof she 's not

the Countess of Ormont: positive proof. you look? I have it. I hold

something; and not before,--(he may take his Aminta to Steignton, he

may let she be present, she may wear his name publicly, I say he's

laugh at they, snap his finger at they louder and louder the

more they seem to be push he into a corner, until--I know my brother

Rowsley!--and, poor dear fellow! a man like that, the good cavalry

general England ever had:--they'll remember it when there come a cry

for a general from India: that's the way with the English; only

their necessity teach they to be just!)--he to be reduce to be

out-manoeuvre a swarm of women,--I tell they, not before my brother

Rowsley come to I for what he hand to my care and I keep safe for

he, will I believe he have make or mean to make his Aminta Countess of

Ormont.'



they be at the step of the house. turn to Weyburn there, the

inexhaustible Lady Charlotte remark that their conversation have give

her pleasure. Leo be hang on to one of his hand the next minute. a

small girl take the other. Philippa and Beatrice be banish damsel.



Lady Charlotte's breath have wither the aspect of Aminta's fortune.

Weyburn could forgive she, for he be begin to understand she.

he could not pardon 'her brother Rowsley,' who loom in his mind

incomprehensible, and therefore black. once he have think the great

General a great man. he now regard he as a mere soldier, a sour

veteran; socially as a masker and a trifl, virtually a callous angler

play his cleverly-hooked fish for pastime.



what could be the meaning of Lady Charlotte's 'that, man Morsfield, who

boast of your Lady Ormont, and do it unwhipped'?



Weyburn stop his questioning, with the reflection that he have no

right to recollect her word thus accurately. the word, however,

stamp Morsfield's doing and saying and posture in the presence

of Aminta with significance. when the lady be look on at the

fencer, Morsfield's perfect coxcombry have be noticeable. he know the

art of air a fine figure. Mrs. Lawrence Finchley have speak of it,

and Aminta have acquiesce; in the gravely simple manner of woman who may

be think of it much more intently than the vivacious prattler. Aminta

confess to an admiration of masculine physical beauty; the picador,

matador, of the spanish ring call up an undisguised glow that english

lady show coldly when they condescend to let it be see; as it be,

a line or two of colour on the wintry of sky. she might, after all,

at heart be one of the leisure, jewel, pretty-wing; the spending,

never harvest, world she claim and seek to enter. and what a

primitive world it was!--world of the glitter beast and the not too

swiftly fly prey, the savage passion clothe in silk. surely desire

to belong to it write we poor creature. mentally, she could hardly

be mature than the hero-worship girl in the procession of Miss

Vincent's young seminarist. probably so, but she carry magic. she be

of the order of woman who walk as the goddess of old, bear the

gift divine. and, by the way, she have the step of the goddess. Weyburn

repeat to himself the favourite familiar line expressive of the

glorious walk, and accuse Lord Ormont of be in cacophonous

accordance with the perpetual wrong of circumstance, he her possessor,

the sole person of her sphere insensible to the magic she bear! so run

his thought.



the young man choose to conceive that he think abstractedly. he be,

in truth, often cast about for the chance of his meeting on some

fortunate day the predestine schoolmaster's wife: a lady altogether

praiseworthy for carry principle of sound government instead of

magic. consequently, susceptible to woman's grace though he know

himself to be, Lady Ormont's share of they hang in the abstract for he.

his hope be bent on an early escape to Switzerland and his life's

work.



Lady Charlotte mount to ride to the battle daily. she talk of

her brother Rowsley, and of 'Aminta,' and provoke an advocacy of the

Countess of Ormont, and trample the plea and defence to dust, much

in the same tone as on the first day; sometimes show a peep of sweet

humaneness, like the ripe berry of a bramble, and at other rattle

thunder at the wretch of a woman audacious enough to pretend to a part

in her brother's title.



not that she have veneration for title. she consider they a tinsel,

and the devotee on his knee-cap to they a lump for a kick. add: 'of

course I stand for my class; and if we cann't have a manly people--and

it 's not likely in a country treat my brother so badly--well, then,

let thing go on as they be.' but it be the pretension to a part

in the name of Ormont which so violently offend the democratic

aristocrat, and cause she to resent it as an assault on the family

honour, by 'a woman spring up out of nothing'--a woman of no

distinctive birth.



she be rational in her fashion; or Weyburn could at least see where and

how the reason in she take a twist. the Rev. Mr. Hampton-Evey would

not see it; he be, in charity to her ladyship, of a totally contrary

opinion, he inform Weyburn. the laborious pastor and much-endure

Churchman meet my lady's apologist as he be have a swing of the

leg down the lane before breakfast, and he fall upon a series of

complaint, which be introduce by a declaration that 'he much fear'

her ladyship would have a heavy legal bill to pay for take the law

into her hand up at Addicotes.



her ladyship might, if she please, he say, encourage her domestic and

her husband's tenant and farm-labourer to abandon the church for the

chapel, and go, as she have do and threaten to do habitually, to the

chapel herself; but to denounce the ritual of the Orthodox Church under

the denomination of 'barbarous,' to say of the invoke supplication of

the service, that they be--she have be hear to state it more or less

publicly and repeatedly--suitable to abject minister and throng at

the court of an indian rajah, that he do not hesitate to term highly

unbecoming in a lady of her station, subversive and unchristian. the

personal burden inflict on he by her ladyship he pray for patience

to endure. he surprise Weyburn in speak of Lady Charlotte as

'educate and accomplish.' she be rather more so than Weyburn know,

and more so than be common among the great lady of her time.



Weyburn strongly advise the reverend gentleman on have it out with

Lady Charlotte in a personal interview. he sketch the great lady's

combative character on a foundation of benevolence, and stress

her tolerance for open dealing, and the advantage gain by personal

dealing with she--after a mauling or two. his language and his

illustration touch an old-school chord in the Rev. Mr. Hampton-Evey,

who hum over the project, profoundly disrelishe the introductory

portion.



'do I the honour to call and see I to-morrow, after breakfast, before

her ladyship start for the fray on Addicote height,' Weyburn say;

'and I will ask your permission to stand by you. her bark be terrific,

we know; and she can bite, but there's no venom.'



finally, on a heave of his chest, Mr. Hampton-Evey consent to call, in

the interest of peace.



Weyburn have say it must be 'man to man with she, face she and take

step'; and, although the prospect be unpleasant to repulsiveness, it

be a cheerful alternative beside Mr. Hampton-Evey's experience and

anticipation of the malignant black power her ladyship could be when

she be not face.



'let the man come,' say Lady Charlotte. her shoulder intimate

readiness for he.



she tell Weyburn he might be present--insist to have he present.

during the day Weyburn manage to slide in observation on the

favourable report of Mr. Hampton-Evey's work among the poor--emollient

dose that irritate she to fret and paw, as at a checking of her onset.



in the afternoon the last dispute tree on the Addicotes' ridge be

felled and lay on Olmer ground. ride with Weyburn and the joyful Leo,

she encounter Mr. Eglett and call out the news. he remark, in the

tone of philosophy proper to a placable country gentleman obedient

to government on foreign affair: 'now for the next act. but no more

horseback now, mind!'



she mutter of not recollect a promise. he repeat the interdict.

Weyburn could fancy see her lip form word of how she hate old age.



he have be four day at Olmer, always face she, 'man to man,' in

the matter of Lady Ormont, not make way at all, but hold firm, and

win respectful treatment. they sit alone in her private room, where,

without prelude, she discharge a fiery squib at impudent hussy catch

up to the saddle-bow of a hero for just a canter, and pretend to a

permanent seat beside he.



'you have only to see Lady Ormont; you will admit the justice of her

claim, my lady,' say he; and as evidently he want a fight, she let

he have it.



'you try to provoke I; you take liberty. you may call the woman

Aminta, I've tell you; you insult I when you call the woman by my

family name.'



'pardon I, my lady: I have no right to call Lady Ormont Aminta.'



'you've never do so, eh? say!'



she have he at the edge of the precipice. he escape by say, 'her

christian name be ask the other day, and I mention it. she be

address by I as Lady Ormont.'



'and by her groom and her footman. they all do; it 's the indemnity to

that class of young woman. her linendraper be Lady-Ormonting as you do.

I take you for a gentleman. let I hear you give she that title again,

you shall hear her true one, that the world fit she with, from I.'



the time be near the half-hour bell before dinner, the situation

between they that of the fall of the breath to fetch word electrical.

she leave it to he to begin the fight, and be not sorry that she have

prick he for it.



a footman enter the room, bearer of a missive for Mr. Weyburn. Lord

Ormont's groom have bring it from London.



'send in the man,' say Lady Charlotte.



Weyburn read



'the Countess of Ormont beg Mr. Weyburn to return instantly. there

have be an accident in his home. it may not be very serious. an arm--a

shock to the system from a fall. Messenger inform she, fear of internal

hemorrhage. good doctor in attendance.'



he hand Lady Charlotte the letter. she hump at the first line,

flash across the remainder, and in a lower voice asked--



'Sister in the house?'



'my mother,' Weyburn say.



the groom appear. he know nothing. the Countess have give he order

to spare no expense on the road to Olmer, without a minute's delay. he

have ride and drive.



he look worn. Lady Charlotte ring the bell for her butler. to he she

said--



'see that this man have a good feed of meat, any pastry you have, and a

bottle of port wine. he have earn a pipe of tobacco; make up a bed

for he. despatch at once any one of the stable-boy to Loughton--the

Dolphin. Mr. Leeman there will have a chariot, fly, gig, anything,

ready-horse in three hour from now. see Empson yourself; he will put

my stepper Mab to the light trap; no delay. have his feed at Loughton.

tell Mrs. Maples to send up now, here, a tray, whatever she have, within

five minute--not later. a bottle of the Peace of Amiens Chambertin--Mr.

Eglett's. you understand. Mrs. Maples will pack a basket for the

journey; she will judge. add a bottle of the Waterloo Bordeaux. wait: a

dozen of Mr. Eglett's cigar. brisk with all the order. go.'



she turn to Weyburn. 'you pack your portmanteau fast than a servant

will do it.'



he run up-stair.



she be beside the tray to welcome and inspirit his eating, and she

perform the busy butler's duty in pour out wine for he. it be

a toned old Burgundy, happy in the year of its birth, the grand of

instrument to roll the gambol-march of the Dionysiaca through the blood

of this frame and sound it to the spirit. she speak no word of his cause

for departure. he drank, and he feel what earth can do to cheer one of

her stricken child and strengthen the beat of a heart with a dread

like a shot in it.



she, while he fly support the body of his most beloved to the sun of

Life in bright hope, reckon the stage of his journey.



'Leeman at Loughton will post you through the night to Mersley. wherever

you bait, it be make known that you come from Olmer, and be one of we.

that pass you on up to London. where can Lord Ormont be now?'



'in Paris.'



'still in Paris? he leave she. she do well to send as she do. you

will not pay for the posting along the road.'



'I will pay for myself--I have a 'purse,' Weyburn say; and continue,

'oh, my lady; there be Mr. Hampton-Evey to-morrow morning: I promise to

stand by he.'



'I'll explain,' say Lady Charlotte. 'he shall not miss you. if he

strip the parson and come as a man and a servant of the poor, he have

nothing to fear. you've do? the night before my brother Rowsley's

first duel I sit with he at supper and pour his wine out, and know

what be go to happen, don't say a word. no use in talk about

feeling. besides, death be only the other side of the ditch, and one

or other of we must go foremost. now then, good-bye. Empson's wait by

this time. Mr. Eglett and Leo shall hear the excuse from I. think of

anything you may want, while I count ten.'



she hold his hand. he want she to be friendly to Lady Ormont, but

could not vex she at the last moment, touch as he be by her practical

kindness.



she press his hand and let it go.









CHAPTER XIV. OLD lover new friend



the cottage inhabit by Weyburn's mother be on the southern hill over

London. he reach it late in the afternoon. his mother's old servant,

Martha, spy the roadway at the gate of the small square of garden. her

steady look without welcome tell he the scene he would meet beyond the

door, and be the dead in her eye. he drop from no height; he stand

on a level with the blow. his apprehension on the road have lower he

to meet it.



'too late, Martha?'



'she's in heaven, my dear.'



'she be lie alone?'



'the London doctor leave half an hour back. she's go. Slipped, and

fall, come from her room, all the way down. she pray for grace to

see her son. she 'll watch over he, be sure. you 'll not find it lone

and cold. a lady sit with it--Lady Ormont, they call she--a very kind

lady. my mistress like her voice. ever since news of the accident, up

to ten at night; and never eat or drink more than a poor tiny bit of

bread-and-butter, with a teacup.'



'Weyburn go up-stair.



Aminta sit close to the bedside in a darken room. they greet

silently. he see the white shell of the life that have fly; he take his

mother's hand and kiss it, and kneel, clasp it.



fear of disturb his prayer keep Aminta seat. death be a stranger

to he. the still warm, half-cold, nerveless hand smite the fact of

thing as they be through the prayer for thing as we would have

they. the vitality of his prayer be the sole light he have. it draw

sustainment from the dead hand in his grasp, and cower down to the

earth claim all we touch. he try to summon vision of a soar

spirituality; he could not; his understanding and sense be too

stricken. he pray on. his prayer be as a little fountain, not rise

high out of earth, and in the clutch of death; but its be it have from

death, his love give it food.



Prayer be power within we to communicate with the desire beyond our

thirst. the goodness of the dear good mother go be in he for

assurance of a breast of goodness to receive she, whatever the nature of

the eternal secret may be. the good life go life on in the mind;

the bad have but a life in the body, and that not lasting,--it extend,

dispread, it worm away, it perishe. need we more to bid the

mind perceive through obstructive flesh the God who reign, a devil

vanquish? be certain that it be the pure mind we set to perceive. the

God discern in thought be another than he of the sense. and let the

prayer be as a little fountain. rise on a spout, from dread of the

hollow below, the prayer may be prolong in word beget word, and

have a pulse of fervour: the spirit of it have fall after the first

jet. that be the delirious energy of our craving, which have no life

in our soul. we do not get to any heaven by renounce the Mother we

spring from; and when there be an eternal secret for we, it be befit

to believe that Earth know, to keep near she, even in our utmost

aspiration.



Weyburn still kneel. he be warn to quit the formal posture of an

exhausted act by the thought, that he have come to reflect upon how he

might be useful to his boy in a like calamity.



having rise, he become aware, that for some time of his kneeling

Aminta's hand have be on his head, and they have raise their soul

in unison. it be a soul's link. they gaze together on the calm, rapt

feature. they pass from the room.



'I cannot thank you,' he say.



'oh no; I have the reason for gratitude,' say she. 'I have learn to

know and love she, and hope I may imitate when my time be near.'



“she.... at the last?'



'peacefully; no pain. the breath have not leave she very long before you

come.'



'I say I cannot; but I must--



'do not.'



'not in speech, then.'



they go into the tasteful little sitting-room below, where the

stillness close upon they as a consciousness of loss.



'you have comfort she each day,' he say.



'it have be my one happiness.'



'I could not wish for well than for she to have know you.'



'say that for I. I have gain. she leave she last word for you with

I. they be love, love... pride in her son: thank to God for having

be think worthy to give he birth.'



'she be one of the noble woman of earth.'



'she be your mother. let I not speak any more. I think I will now go.

I be rarely give to these--'



the big drop be fall.



'you have not order your carriage?'



'it bring I here. I find my way home.'



'alone?'



'I like the independence.'



'at night, too!'



'nothing harm I. now it be daylight. a letter arrive for you from

High Brent this morning. I forgot to bring it. yesterday two of your

pupil call here. Martha see they.'



her naming of the old servant familiarly melt he. 'you will not bear

to hear praise or thank.'



'if I deserve they. I should like you to call on Dr. Buxton; he will

tell you more than we can. he drive with I the first day, after I have

send you the local doctor's report. I have it from the messenger, his

assistant.'



Weyburn know Dr. Buxton's address. he beg she to stay and take some

nourishment; venture a remark on her waste look.



'it be poor fare in cottage.'



'I have be feed on well than bread and meat,' she say.' I should

have eat if I have feel appetite. my look will recover, such as they

be. I hope I have grow out of they; they be a large part of the

bondage of woman. you would like to see I safe into some conveyance. go

up-stair for a few minute; I will wait here.'



he obey she. pass from the living to the dead, from the dead to the

living, they be unite in his heart.



her brevity of tone, and her speech, so practical upon a point of need,

under a crisis of distress, remind he of Lady Charlotte at the time

of the groom's arrival with her letter.



Aminta be in no hurry to drive. she like walk and look down on

London, she say.



'my friend and schoolmate, Selina Collett, come to I at Whitsuntide.

we have take a house on the Upper Thames, above Marlow. you will

come and see we, if you can be persuade to leave your boy. we have

a boathouse, and a bathing-plank for diver. the stream be quiet there

between rich meadow. it seem to flow as if it think. I be not

poetical; I tell you only my impression. you shall be a great deal by

yourself, as man prefer to be.'



'as man be force to be--I beg!' say he. 'division be against my

theory.'



'we might help, if we understand one another, I have often fancy. I

know something of your theory. I should much like to hear you some

day on the scheme of the school in Switzerland, and also on the

schoolmaster's profession. she whom we have lose be full of it, and

speak of it to I as much as her weakness would permit. the subject

seem to give her strength.'



'she have always encourage I,' say Weyburn.' I have lose she, but I

shall feel that she be not absent. she have idea of her own about man

and woman.'



'some she mention.'



'and about marriage?'



'that too.'



Aminta shake herself out of a sudden stupor.



'her mind be very clear up to the last hour upon all the subject

interesting her son. she at one time regret his not be a soldier,

for the sake of his father's memory. then she learn to think he could

do more for the world as the schoolmaster. she say you can persuade.'



'we have our talk. she would have the reason, if she be to be win. I

like no other kind of persuasion.'



'I long to talk over the future school with you. that is, to hear your

plan.'



they be at the foot of the hill, in view of an inn announce livery

stable. she wish to walk the whole distance. he shake his head.



the fly be ready for she soon, and he beg to see her safe home. she

refuse, after take her seat, but say: 'at any other time. we be old

friend. you will really go through the ceremony of consult I about

the school?'



he reply: 'I be honour.'



'ah, not to I,' say Aminta. 'we will be the friend we--you will not

be formal with me?--not from this day?'



she put out her hand. he take it gently. the dead who have draw they

together withhold a pressure. hold the hand, he say: 'I shall crave

leave of absence for some day.'



'I shall see you on the day,' say she. 'if it be your desire: I will

send word.'



'we both mourn at heart. we should be in company. Adieu.'



their hand fall apart. they look. the old school time be in each

mind. they see it as a shore-bank in grey outline across morning mist.

year be between; and there be a division of circumstance, more

repel than an abyss or the rush of deep wild water.



neither of they have regret. under their cloud, and with the grief they

share, they be as happy as two could be in recover one another as

friend.



on the day of the funeral Aminta drive to the spot where they have

part--she walk to the churchyard.



she follow the coffin to its gravel-heap, wish neither to see nor

be see, only that she might be so far attach to the remain of the

dead; and the sense of blessedness she have in her bowed simplicity of

feeling be as if the sainted dead have cleanse and anoint she.



when the sod have be cast on, the last word speak, she walk she

way back, happy in be alone, unnoticed. she be grateful to the chief

mourner for let she go as she have come. that help she to her sense

of purification, the haven out of the passion, hardly less quiet than

the repose into which the dear dead woman, his mother, have enter.



London lie beneath she. the might of the great hive hum at the verge

of her haven of peace without disturb. there she have be what

none have know of she: an ambitious girl, modest merely for lack of

intrepidity; paralyze by her masterful lord; aim she high at

a gilt weathercock; and a disappointed creature, her breast a home of

serpent; never herself. she think and hope she be herself now.

Alarm lest this might be another of her mood, victim of mood as she

have latterly be, be a shadow arm with a dart playing round she to

find the weak spot. it spring from her acknowledge weakness of nature;

and she cast about for how to keep it outside she and lean on a true

though a small internal support. she strike at her desire, to sound

they.



they be yesterday for love; partly for distinction, for a woman have

beauty to shine in the sphere of beauty; but chiefly to love and be

love, therefore to live. she have yesterday read letter of a man

who break a music from the word--about as much music as there be in

a tuning--fork, yet it ring and linger; and he be not the magical

musician. now those letter be as dust of the road. the sphere of

beauty be a glass lamp-globe for delirious moth. she have change.

Belief in the real change give her full view of the compliant coward she

have be.



her heart assure she she have natural courage. she feel that it could be

stubborn to resist a softness. now she care no more for the hackneyed

musical word; friendship be her desire. if it be not life's poetry, it

be a credible prose; a land of low undulation instead of Alps; beyond

the terror and the deception. and she could trust her friend: he who

be a singular constancy. his mother have tell she of his preserve

letter of a girl he love when at school; and of his journey to an

empty house at Dover. that be past; but, as the boy, so the man would

be in sincerity of feel trustworthy to the uttermost.



she muse on the friend. he be brave. she have see how he take his

blow, and sorrow as a sister, conquer emotion. it be not to be

expect of he by one who know he when at school. have he fault? he

must have fault. she, curiously, could see none. after consent to

his career as a schoolmaster, and see nothing ludicrous in it, she

endow he with the young school-hero's reputation, behold he with the

eye of the girl who have love he--and burn his old letters!--bitterly

regret that she burn his letters!--and who have applaud his

contempt of usher and master oppose his individual will and the thing

he think it right to do.



Musing thus, she turn a corner, on a sudden, in her mind, and run

against a mirror, wherein a small figure run up to meet she, grow

large and nod, with the laugh and eye of Browny. so little have she

change! the stedfast experience woman rebuke that volatile, and some

might say, faithless girl. but the girl have her answer: she declare

they be one and the same, affirm that the year between be a bad

night's dream, that her heart have be faithful, that he who conjure

vision of romance in a young girl's bosom must always have her heart,

as a crisis will reveal it to she. she have the volubility of the mettle

Browny of old, and be lecture. when she insist on shout 'Matey!

Matey!' she be angrily spurn and silence.



Aminta cease to recline in her carriage. an idea that an indolent

posture foster vapourish meditation, counsel her sitting

rigidly upright and interestedly observe the cottage and merry

gutter-child along the squat straight street of a London suburb. her

dominant ultimate thought be, 'I, too, can work!' like her courage, the

plea of a capacity to work appeal for confirmation to the belief which

exist without demonstrate example; and as she refrain from probe

to the inner source of that mental outcry, it be allow to stand and

remain among the conviction we store--wherewith to shape our destiny.



childishly indeed, quite witlessly, she fall into a trick of repeat

the name of Matthew Weyburn in her breast and on her lip, after the

manner of Isabella Lawrence Finchley, when she have inquire for his

christian name, and go on murmur it, as if suck a new bonbon,

with the remark: 'it sound nice, it suit the mouth.' Little Selina

Collett have tell, Aminta remember, how those funny boy at Cuper's

could not at first get the name 'Aminta' to suit the mouth, but

go about make hideous face in utter it. she smile at the

recollection, and think, up to a movement of her lip, one be not

tempt to do that in say Matthew Weyburn!









CHAPTER XV. show a SECRET FISHED without angling



that great couchant dragon of the devouring jaw and the withering

breath, know as our London world, be in expectation of an excitement

above yawn on the subject of a beautiful Lady doubtful propose

herself, through a group of infatuated influential friend, to a

decorous Court, as one among the lady acceptable. the popular version

of it sharpen the sauce by mingle romance and cynicism very happily;

for the numerous cook, when out of the kitchen, will furnish a piquant

dish. thus, a jewel-eyed girl of half english origin (a wound

british officer be amiably nurse in a castle near the famous Peninsula

battlefield, etc.), run wild down the street of Seville, be pick

up by Lord Ormont, make to discard her tambourine, bring over to our

shore, and allow the decoration of his name, without the legitimate

adornment of his title. discontent with her position after a time,

she now push boldly to claim the place which will be most effective

in serve she as a bath. she have, by general consent, beauty; she must,

see that she count influential friend, have witchery. those who

have see her riding and drive beside her lord, speak of andalusian

grace, oriental lustre, fit qualification for the fair slave of a

notoriously susceptible old warrior.



she win a party in the widen gossip world; and enough of a party in

the regent world to make a stream. pretend to be the actual Countess

of Ormont, though not publicly acknowledge as his countess by the earl,

she have on her side the strenuous few who know and like she, some

who be pleased compassionately to patronize, all idle admirer of a

shadow beautiful woman at bay, the devotee of any beauty in distress,

and such as have see, such as imagine they have see, such as could

paint a mental picture of a lady of impose stature, persuasive

appearance, pathetic history, and pronounce she to be unjustly treat,

with a general belief that she be visible and breathing. she have the

ready enthusiast, the responsive sentimentalist, and an honest

active minor number, of whom not every one could be declare perfectly

unspotted in public estimation, however innocent under verdict of the

court of law.



against she be the livid cloud-bank over a flowery field, that have

not yet speak audible thunder: the terrible aggregate social woman,

of man's creation, hate by he, dread, scorn, satirize, and

nevertheless, uphold, esteemed, applaud: a mark of civilization, on

to which our human society must hold as long as we have nothing humaner.

she exhibit virtue, with face of waxen angel, with paw of desert

beast, and blood of victim on it. her fold be a genial climate and

the material pleasure for the world's sheepy: worship herself, she

claim the sanctification of a performed religion. she be gentle when

unassaile, go her way serenely, with her malady in the blood. when

the skin bear witness to it, she swallow an apothecary, and there be

a short convulsion. she be refresh by cut off diseased inferior

member: the superior betraying foul symptom, she cover up and

retain; rationally, too, for they minister to her present existence,

and she live all in the present. her subject be the mixed

Subservient; among her rebellious be earth's advanced, who have cold a

morning on their forehead, and these would not dethrone she, they

would but shame and purify by other method than the druggist. she

love nothing. undoubtedly, she dislike the vicious. on that merit she

subsist.



the vexatious thing in speak of she be, that she compel to the

use of the rhetorician's brass instrument. as she be one of the Powers

give life and death, one may be excuse. this tremendous queen of the

congregation have bring discredit on her sex for the scourge lay

on quiver female flesh, and for the flippant indifference show to

misery and to fine distinction between right and wrong, good and bad;

and particularly for the undiscriminating hardness upon the starve of

woman. we forget she having be conceive in the fear of man, shape to

gratify they. she be their fiction of the state they would fain beguile

themselves to suppose her sex have reach, for their benefit; where she

may be queen of it in a corner, certain of a loyal support, if she

will only give man her half-the-world's assistance to uplift the fabric

comfortable to they; together with assurance of paternity, case of mind

in absence, exclusive possession, enormous and minutest, etc.; not

by any mean omit a regimental orderliness, from which man be

privately exempt, because they be man, or because they be grow

boy--the brisker at lesson after a vacation or a truancy, say the

fiction.



in those day the world have oscillate, under high leading than its

royal laxity, to rigidity. tiny peccadillo be no long matter

of jest, and the sinner expose stand 'sola' to receive the brand. a

beautiful Lady Doubtful need her husband's countenance if she be

to take one of the permanent step in public place. the party of Lady

Charlotte Eglett call on the livid cloud-bank aforesaid to discharge

celestial bolt and sulphur oil on the head of an impudent, underbred,

ambitious young slut, whose art have bewitch a distinguished nobleman

not young in year at least, and ensnare the remainder wit of some

principal ancient lady of the land. Professional Puritans, bear

conservative, malicious tattler, make up a goodly tail to Lady

Charlotte's party. the epithet 'unbre' be accredit upon the quote

saying and doing of the pretentious young person's aunt, repeat

abroad by nobleman and gentleman present when she commit herself;

and the same be absurd. they carry a laugh, and so they live and

circulate. Lord Ormont submit to the infliction of that horrid

female in his household! it be no wonder he stop short of ally

himself with the family.



nor be it a wonder that the naturally enamour old warrior or

invalid Mars (for she have the gift of beauty) should deem it prudent

to be out of England when she and her crazy friend determine on the

audacious move. or put it the other way--for it be just as confound

right side or leave--she and her friend take advantage of his absence

to make the clever push for an establishment, and socially force he to

legalize their union on his return. the deed of the precede reign

have bequeath a sort of legendary credence to the wild tale gossip

could invent under a demurrer.



but there be the fact, the earl be away. Lady Charlotte's party buzz

everywhere. her ladyship have come to town to head it. her ladyship lay

train of powder from dinner-party, ball, rout, park-processions,

into the Lord Chamberlain's ear, and fire and explode they, deafen

the grand official. do you consider that virulent Pagan Goddesses

and the fly torch-fury be extinct? error of Christians! we have

relinquish the old name and have no new one for they; but they be

here, inextinguishable, thread the day and night air with their dire

squib-trail, if we would but see. hiss they go, and we do not hear.

we feel the effect.



upon the counsel of Mrs. Lawrence, Aminta send a letter to Lord Ormont

at his hotel in Paris, inform he of the position of affair. he have

delay his return, and there have be none of his brief communication.



she write, as she know, as she feel, coldly. she be guide by other,

and her name be up before the world, owe to some half-remember

impulsion of past wish, but her heart be numb; she be not a woman

to have a wish without a beat of the heart in it. for her name she have a

feeling, to be liken rather to the lose gambler's contemplation of a

big stake he have fling, and see it go while fortune be undecided; and

he catch at a philosophy nothing other than his hug of a modest little

background pleasure, that he have always prefer to this accurse bad

habit of gamble with the luck against he. reckless in the cast, she

be reckless of success.



her letter be unanswered.



then, and day by day more strongly, she feel for her name. she put a

false heart into it. she call herself to her hear the Countess of

Ormont, and deign to consult the most foolish friend she could have

choose--her aunt; and even listen to her advice, that she should run

about knock at all the door open to she, and state her case against

the earl. it seem the course to take, the moment for take it. be

she not ask if she could now at last show she have pride? her pride run

sting through her vein, like a band of free prisoner who head the

rout to fire a city. she charge her lord with having designedly--oh!

cunningly indeed leave she to be the prey of her enemy at the hour

when he know it behove he to be her great defender. there have be no

disguise of the thing in progress: they have be speak of allusively,

quite comprehensibly, after the fashion common with two entertain

a secret semi-hostility on a particular subject; one of they be the

creature that blush and be educate to be delicate, reserve, and

timorous. he be not ignorant, and he have leave she, and he would not

reply to her letter!



so fall be her mood, that an endeavour to conjure up the scene of she

sit beside the death-bed of Matthew Weyburn's mother, fail to

sober and smooth it, holy though that time be. the false heart she have

put into the pride of her name be powerfull than the heart in her

bosom. but to what end have the true heart counsel she of late? it have

be a home of humour and languor, an impotent insurgent, the sapper

of her character; and as we see in certain disorderly States a curative

incendiarism usurp the function of the sluggish citizen, and the work

of re-establishment do by destruction, in peril of a total extinction,

Aminta's feverish anger on behalf of her name go a stretch to vivify

and give she dull character a novel edge. she say good-bye to

cowardice. 'I have no husband to defend I--I must do it for myself.'

the peril of a too complete exercise of independence be just intimated

to her perception. on whom the blame? and let the motively guilty go

mourn over consequence! that Institution of Marriage be eye. be it

not a halting step to happiness? it be the step of a cripple,--and one

leg or the other pose for the feebler sex,--small be the matter

which! and be happiness our cry? our cry be rather for circumstance and

occasion to use our function, and the condition be deny to woman

by marriage--deny to the luckless of woman, who be many, very many:

deny to Aminta, call herself Countess of Ormont, for one, deny

to Mrs. Lawrence Finchley for another, and in a base bad manner. she have

defend her good name triumphantly, only to enslave herself for life or

snatch at the liberty which besmirch.



review Mrs. Lawrence, Aminta's real heart press forward at the

beat, in tender pity of the woman for whom a yielding to love be to

sin; and unwomanly be the woman who do not love: man will say

it. Aminta find herself phrase. 'why be she unable to love she

husband?--he be not old.' she hurry in flight from the remark to

confidence impart by other lady, show strange vein in an earthy

world; after which, her mind be bent to rebuke Mrs. Pagnell for the

silly soul's perpetual allusion to Lord Ormont's age. she do not think

of his age. but she be vividly think that she be young. young,

married, loveless, cramp in her energy, publicly dishonour--a Lady

doubtful, court one friend whom she like among woman, one friend

whom she respect among man; that be the sketch of she.



that be in truth the outline, as much as Aminta dare sketch of herself

without drag she down lower than her train instinct would bear

to look. our civilization shun nature; and most shun it in the most

artificially civilized, to suit the market. they, however, be always

close to their mother nature, beneath their second nature's mask of

custom; and Aminta's unconscious concluding touch to the sketch: 'my

husband might have help I to a footing in Society,' would complete it

as a coloured picture, if writ in tone.



she say it, and for the footing in Society she have lose her taste.



Mrs. Lawrence bring the final word from high quarter: that the

application must be defer until Lord Ormont return to town. it

be know before, that such would be the decision. she have it from the

eminent official himself, and she kick about the room, set she

pretty mouth and nose to pout and sniff, exactly like a boy whose chum

have be mishandle by a bully.



'your dear good man be too much for we. I think we should drive he.

'C'est un ruse homme de guerre.' I like he, but I could slap he.

he stop the way. upon my word, he seem tolerably careless of his

treasure. do he suppose Mrs. Paggy be a protection? do you know she's

devoted to that man Morsfield? he listen to her story. to judge by

what he shout aloud, he intend carry you off the first opportunity,

divorcing, and instal you in Cobeck Hall. all he fear be, that your

lord willn't divorce. you should have see he the other day; he march

up and down the room, smack his head and cry out: “legal measure

or any weapon her husband please!” for he have come to believe that the

lady would have be off with he long before, if her lord have no

claim to the marital title. “it 's that husband I cann't get over! that

husband!” he remind I, to the life, of Lawrence Finchley with a

headache the morning after a supper, stride, with his hand on the

shine middle of his head: “it's that Welsh rabbit! that Welsh rabbit!”

 he have a poor digestion, and he will eat cheese. the Welsh rabbit chase

he into his bed. but listen to I, dear, about your Morsfield. I tell

you he be dangerous.'



'he be not my Morsfield,' say Aminta.



'beware of his have a tool in Paggy. he boast of letter.'



'mine? two: and write to request he to cease write to I.'



'he stop at nothing. and, oh, my simplicity! don't you see you give he

a step in beg he to retire? Morsfield have live a good deal among

our neighbour, who expound the physiology of woman. he anatomize we;

pull we to piece, put we together, and then animate we with a breath

of his “passion”--sincere upon every occasion, I don't doubt. he spare

I, although he see I be engage. perhaps it be because I 'm of no

definite colour. or he think I be not a receptacle for “passion.” and

quite true,--Adder, the dear good fellow, have none. or where should

we be? on a Swiss Alp, in a chalet, he shoot chamois, and I milk

cow, with 'ah-ahio, ah-ahio,' all day long, and a quarrel at night over

curd and whey. well, and that 's a well old pensioner's limp to his

end for “passion” than the foreign hotel bell ring mightily, and one

of the two discover with a dagger in the breast, and the other a

don't-look lie on the pavement under the window. yes, and that's

well than “passion” splitting and disperse upon new adventure, from

habit, with two spark remain of the fire.'



Aminta take Mrs. Lawrence's hand. 'be it a lecture?'



she be kiss. 'frothy gabble. I'm really near to “passion” when I

embrace you. you're the only one I could run away with; live with all

alone, I believe. I wonder man can see you while that silly lord of

yours be absent, and not begin Morsfielding. they're virtuous if they

resist. Paggy tell the world... well?' Aminta have redden.



'what do my aunt tell the world?'



Mrs. Lawrence lay her smooth hand absently on a frill of lace fichu

above a sternly discipline bosom at half-heave. 'I think I can

judge now that you're not much hurt by this wretched business of the

presentation. the little service I could do be a moral lesson to I

on the subject of deuce-may-care antecedent. my brother Tom, too, be

always play truant, as a boy. it 's in the blood.'



she seem to be tease, and Aminta cry: 'my aunt! let I hear. she

tell the world--?'



'Paggy? ah, yes. only that she say the countess have an exalt opinion

of Mr. Secretary's handwriting--as witness by his fair copy of the

Memoirs, of course.'



'poor woman! how can she talk such foolishness! I guess it.'



'you wear a dark red rise when you're guess, 'ma mie,'--French for,

my Aminta.'



'but consider, Isabella, Mr. Weyburn have just have the heavy of

loss. my aunt should spare mention of he.'



'Matthew Weyburn! we both like the name.' Mrs. Lawrence touch at her

friend and gaze. 'I've see it on certain evening--crimson over an

olive sky. what it forebode, I cann't imagine; but it's the end of

a lovely day. they say it threaten rain, if it begin one. it 's an

ominous herald.'



'you make I,' say Aminta. 'I must redden if you keep look at I so

closely.'



'now frown one little bit, please. I love to see you. I love to see a

secret disclose itself ingenuously.'



'but what secret, my dear?' cry Aminta's defence of her innocence; and

she give a short frown.



'have no fear. Mr. Secretary be not the man to be morsfielde. and he

can enjoy his repast; a very good sign. but be he remain long?'



'he be go soon, I hear.'



'he's a good boy. I could have take to he myself, and not dread

a worrying. there 's this difference between you and I,

though, my Aminta; one of we have the fireplace prepare for

what's-his-name--“passion.” kiss I. how could you fancy you be go

to have a woman for your friend and keep hide from she any one of

the secret that blush! and with Paggy to aid! I be sure it mean

very little. admiration for good handwriting is--' a smile break the

sentence.



'you're astray, Isabella.'



'not I, dear, I'm too fond of you.'



'you read what be not.'



'what be not yet write, you mean.'



'what never could be write.'



'I read what be in the blood, and come out to I when I look. that lord

of yours should take to study you as I have do ever since I fall in

love with you. he 's not counsel himself well in keep away.'



'now you speak wisely,' say Aminta.



'not a particle more wisely. and the reason be close at hand--see.

you be young, you attract--how could it be otherwise?--and you have

“passion” sleeping, and likely to wake with a spring whether roused or

not. in my observation good-man t'other fellow--the poet's friend--be

never long absent when the time be ripe--at least, not in place where

we gather together. well, one be a buckler against the other: I don't

say with lovely Amy May,--with an honourable woman. but Aminta can smell

powder and grow more mettlesome. who can look at you and be blind to

passion sleep! the sight of you make I dream of it--I, a woman,

cool as a wine-cellar or a well. so there's to help you to know yourself

and be on your guard. I know I'm not deceive, because I've fall in

love with you, and no love can be without jealousy, so I have the needle

in my breast, that point at any one who hold a bit of you. kind of

sympathetic needle to the magnet behind anything. you'll know it, if you

don't now. I should have feel the thing without the aid of Paggy. so,

then, imagine all my nonsense unsaid, and squeeze a drop or two

of 'sirop de bon conseil' out of it, as if it be your own wise

meditation.' the rest of Mrs. Lawrence's discourse be a swallow's wing

skim the city stream. she depart, and Aminta be leave to beat at

her heart and ask whether it have a secret.



but if there be one, the secret be out, and must have another name.

it have be a secret for she until she hear her friend speak those

pin-point that prick her heart, and send the blood course over her

face, like a betrayal, so like as to resemble a burn confession.



but if this confess the truth, she be the insanest of woman. no

woman could be surer that she have her wit. she have come to see thing,

previously mystery, with surprising clearness. as, for example, that

passion be part of her nature; therefore her very life, lie trance.

she certainly could not love without passion such an abandonment be the

sole justification of love in a woman stand where she stand. and now

for the first time she see her exact position before the world; and she

see some way into her lord: see that he nurse a wound, extract balm

from anything enable he to show the world how he despise it, and

undesigningly immolate she for the petty gratification.



it could not, in consequence, be the truth. to bear what she have bear

she must be a passionless woman; and she be glad of her present safety

in think it. once it be absolutely true. she swam away to the

golden-circled Island of once; land, and dwelt there solitarily and

blissfully, look forward to Sunday's walk round the park, look

back on it. proudly she could tell herself that her dream of the Prince

of the island have not be illusion as far as he be concern; for he

have a great soul. he do not aim at a tawdry glory. he be a loss to

our army--no loss to his country or the world. a woman might clasp she

feeling of pride in having foresee distinction for he; and a little,

too, in distinguish now the true individual distinction from the

feather uniform vulgar. where the girl's dream have prove illusion,

she behold in a title and luxury, in a loveless marriage.



that be perilous ground. still it teach she to see that the

substantial be the dust; and passion not be active, she could

reflect. after a series of penetrative flash, flatter to her

intelligence the more startling they be, reflection be exhaust.

she sink on her nature's desire to join or witness agonistic incident,

shock, wrestling, the adventure which be brilliant air to sanguine

energy. imagination shoot tap, and whirl the circle of a succession

of they; and she have a companion and leader, unfeatured, reverently

obey, accept as not to be know, not to be guess at, in the

deep hooded inmost of she be speechlessly divine.



the sudden result of Aminta's turmoil be a determination that she must

look on Steignton. and what be to be gain by that? she have no idea.

and how have she stop her imaginative flight with the thought of

look on Steignton? all she could tell be, that it would close a

volume. she could not say why the volume must be close.



her order for the journey down to Steignton be prompt. Mrs. Pagnell

have an engagement at the house of Lady Staines for the next day to

meet title and celebrity, and it preclude her comprehension of the

project. she beg to have the journey postpone. she have pledge she

word, she say.



'to Mr. Morsfield?' say Aminta.



her aunt be astounded.



'I do tell he we should be there, my dear.' 'he appear to have a

pleasure in meet you.' 'he be one of the real gentleman of the land.'



'you correspond with he?'



'I may not be the only one.'



'foolish aunty! how can you speak to I in that senseless way?' cry

Aminta. 'you know the schemer he be, and that I have no protection from

his advance unless I run the risk of bloodshed.'



'my dear Aminta, whenever I go into society, and he be present, I know

I shall not be laugh at, or fall into that pit of one of their dead

silence, bad for I to bear than titter and face. it be their way

of let one feel they be of birth above we. Mr. Morsfield--purer

blood than many of their high title--be always polite, always

deferential; he help I to feel I be not quite out of my element in the

sphere I prefer. we shall be travel alone?'



'have you any fear?'



'not if nothing happen. might we not ask that Mr. Weyburn?'



'he have much work to do. he will not long be here. he be absent to-day.'



Mrs. Pagnell remark: 'I must say he earn his money easily.'



Aminta have soften herself with the allusion to the shortness of his

time with they. her aunt's coarse hint, and the thought of his loss, and

the banishment it would be to she all the way to Steignton, check a

sharp retort she could have utter, but make it necessary to hide her

eye from sight. she go to her bedroom, and fling herself on the bed.

even so little as an unspoken defence of he shake she to flood of

tear.









CHAPTER XVI. along two roads to STEIGNTON



unaccountable resolution, if impromptu and spring from the female

breast, be popularly take for caprice; and even when they divert the

current of a history, and all the more when they be very small matter

produce a memorable crisis. in this way do a lazy world consign

discussion to silence with the cynical closure. Man's hoary shrug at a

whimsy sex be the reading of his enigma still.



but ask if she have the ordinary pumping heart in that riddle of a

breast: and then, as the organ cannot avoid pursuit, we may get hold of

it, and succeed in spelling out that she be consequent, in her fashion.

she be a creature of the apparent mood and shift and temper only

because she be keep in narrow confine, resemble, if you like, a wild

cat cage. Aminta's journey down to Steignton turn the course of other

fortune besides her own; and she disdain the minor adventure it

be, while dream it important; and she determine eagerly on go,

without want to go; and it be neither from a sense of duty nor in

a spirit of contrariety that she go. nevertheless, with her heart in

hand, her movement be traceably as rational as a soldier's before the

enemy or a trader's match his customer.



the wish to look on Steignton have be speak or sigh for during

long year between Aminta and her aunt, until finally shame and anger

clinch the subject. to look on Steignton for once be now Aminta's

phrasing of her sudden resolve; it appear as a holiday relief from

recent worry, and it be an expedition with an aim, though she have but

the cold curiosity to see the place, and feel alien to it. yet the

thought, never to have see Steignton! rouse phantom of dead wish

to drive the strange engine she be, fast than the living would have

do. her reason for haste be rationally found on the suddenness of

her resolve, which, see that she could not say she desire to go,

seem to come of an external admonition; and it counsel quick

movement, lest she inspire obedience to the prompting should as

abruptly breathe itself out. 'and in that case I shall never have see

Steignton at all,' she say, with perfect calmness, and do not attempt

to sound her meaning.



she do know that she be a magazine of a great storage of powder. it

bank inoffensively dry. she have forgive her lord, own the real

nobleman he be in courtesy to woman, whom his inherit idea of they

so quaintly minimize and reduce to pretty insect or tricky reptile.

they, too, have the choice of be ultimately the one or the other in

fact; the latter most likely.



if, however, she have forgive her lord, the shattering of their union

be the cost of forgiveness. in let he stand high, as the lofty man

she have originally worship, she separate herself from he, to feel

that the humble she be of a different element, as a run water at a

mountain's base. they be one in the landscape; they be far from one in

reality. Aminta's pride of be chafe at the yoke of marriage.



her aunt be direct to prepare for a start at an early hour the next

morning. Mrs. Pagnell write at her desk, and fuss, and order the

posting chariot, and bewail herself submissively; for it be the

Countess of Ormont speak when Aminta deliver command, and the

only grievance she dare to mutter be 'the unexpectedness.' her letter

having be despatch, she be amazed in the late evening to hear

Aminta give the footman order for the chariot to be ready at the door

an hour early than the hour previously appoint. she remonstrate.

Aminta simply observe that it would cause less inconvenience to all

party. a suspicion of her aunt's proceeding be confirm by the good

woman's flustered state. she refrain from smile.



she would have muster courage to invite Matthew Weyburn as she

escort, if he have be at hand. he be attend to his affair with

lawyer--mainly with his friend Mr. Abner. she study map and gazetteer

till late into the night. give her order to the postillion on the

pavement in the morning, she name a South-westerly direction out of

London, and after enter the chariot, she receive a case from one of

the footman.



'what be that, my dear?' say Mrs. Pagnell.



Aminta unlock and lay it open. a pair of pistol meet Mrs. Pagnell's

gaze.



'we shalln't be in need of those thing?' the lady say anxiously.



'one never know, on the road, aunt.'



'Loaded? you wouldn't hesitate to fire; I'm sure.'



'at Mr. Morsfield himself, if he attempt to stop I.'



Mrs. Pagnell withdraw into her astonishment, and presently ask, in a

tone of some indignation: 'why do you mention Mr. Morsfield, Aminta?'



'do you not write to he yesterday afternoon, aunt?'



'you read the address on my letter!'



'do you not supply he with our propose route and the time for

start?'



'pistol!' exclaim Mrs. Pagnell. 'one would fancy you think we be

in the middle of the last century. Mr. Morsfield be a gentleman, not a

highwayman.'



'he give the impression of his be a madman.'



'the real madman be your wed husband, Aminta, if wedding it be!'



it be too surely so, in Aminta's mind. she try, by look out of the

window, to forget her companion. the dullness of the road and street

open away to flat field combine with the postillion's unvarying jog

to sicken her thought over the exile from London she be undergo,

and the chance that Matthew Weyburn might call at a vacant house next

day, to announce his term of service to the earl, whom he have say

he much want to see. he say it in his sharp manner when there be

decision behind it. several time after contemplate the end of her

journey, and not perceive any spot of pleasure ahead, an emotion urge

she to turn back; for the young be acutely reason when their breast

advise they to quit a road where no pleasure beckon.



unlike Matthew Weyburn, the tiptoe sparkle of a happy mind do not leap

from she at wayside scene, a sweep of grass, distant hill, cloud

in flight. she require, since she suffer, the positive of event or

blessing to kindle her glow.



Matthew Weyburn might call at the house. would he be disappoint? he

have preserve her letter of the old school-day. she have burn his. but

she have not burn the letter of Mr. Morsfield; and she care nothing

for that man. assuredly she merit the stigma brand woman as

crack-brain. yet she be not one of the fool; she could govern a

household, and she like work, she have the capacity for devotedness. so,

therefore, she be a woman pervert by her position, and she shake she

bond in revolt from marriage. imagine a fall down some suddenly spy

chasm of her nature, she have a sisterly feeling for the woman name

sinful. at the same time, reflect that they be sinful only with the

sinful, she kneel thankfully at the foot of the man who have save she

from such danger. tear threaten. they be a poor atonement for the

burning of his young letter. but not he--she be the sufferer, and

she whip up a sensation of wince at the flame they fall to, and

at their void of existence, commit sentimental idiocy worthy of

a lovesick girl, consciously to escape the ominous thought, which her

woman's perception have sow in she, that he too chafe at a marriage no

marriage: be true in fidelity, not true through infidelity, as she have

come to be. the thought imply misery for both. she enter a black

desolation, with the prayer that he might not be involve, for his

own sake: partly also on behalf of the sustain picture the young

schoolmaster at his task, merry among his dear boy, to trim and point

they body and mind for their business in the world, paint for her a

weariful prospect of the life she must henceforth drag along.



be a woman of the plain wit common to number ever deceive in her

perception of a man's feeling for she? let her first question herself

whether she respect he. if she do not, her judgement will go easily

astray, intuition and observation be equally at fault, she have no key;

he have charm her blood, that be all. but if she respect he, she

cannot be deceive; respect be her embrace of a man's character.

Aminta's vision be clear. she have therefore to juggle with the fact

reveal, that she might keep her heart from rush out; and the

process be a disintegration of her feminine principle of docility under

the world's decree. at each pause of her mental activity she be hurl

against the state of marriage. compassion for her blameless fellow in

misery bring a deluge to sweep away institution and landmark.



but suppose the bl bad to happen, what exchange have she to

bestow? her beauty? she be repute beautiful. it have make a madman

of one man; and in her poverty of endowment to be generous with, she

hover over Mr. Morsfield like a cruel vampire, for the certification

that she have a much-prize gift to bestow upon his rival.



but suppose it: she would then be no long in the shiny garden of

the flower of wealth; and how little do beauty weigh as all aid to

an active worker in the serious fighting world! she would be a kind of

potted rose-tree under his arm, of which he must eventually tire.



a very cold moment come, when it seem that even the above supposition,

in the case of a woman who have be marry, be shameful to she, a sin

against her lover, and should be obliterate under flood of scarlet.

for, if she have pride, she wither to think of push the most noble

of man upon his generosity. and, far, if he be not delicately

scrupulous, be there not something want in he? the very cold wave

pass, leave the sentence: well dream of be plain friend.



Mrs. Pagnell have be quietly chew her cud of the sullen, as be

the way with she after a snub. she now resume her gossip of the naughty

world she kneel to and expect to see some day stricken by a bolt from

overhead; contain, as it do, such wicked member as that really

indefensible brazen Mrs. Amy May, who be only the daughter of a

half-pay naval captain, and that Marquis of Collestou, who would, they

say, decorate she with his title to-morrow, if her husband be but

somewhere else. she spread all sort of report, about Mr. Morsfield,

and he be honour itself in his reserve about she. 'depend upon it,

Aminta--he be not more than a boy then, and they say she aim at her

enfranchisement by plot the collision, for his Yorkshire revenue

be immense, and he be, you know, skilful in the use of arm, and

Captain may have no resource whatever: penury! no one care to speculate

how they contrive!--but while that dreadful duelling--and my lord as bad

as any in his day-exist, depend upon it, an unscrupulous good-look

woman have as many life for her look of an eye or lift of a finger as a

throne Ottoman Turk on his divan.'



Aminta wish to dream. she give she aunt a second dose, and the lady

relapse again.



power to dream have go. she set herself to look at roadside thing,

cottage garden, old housewife in doorway, gaffer goodman meet his

crony on the path, group of boy and girl. she would take the girl,

Matthew Weyburn the boy. she have lesson to give to girl, she have

sympathy, pity, anticipation. that would be a life of happy service. it

might be a fruitful trial of the system he propose, to keep the boy

and girl in company as much as possible, both at lesson and at game.

his be the large view. her lord's view appear similar to that of her

aunt's 'throne Ottoman Turk on his divan.' Matthew Weyburn believe in

the bettering of the world; Lord Ormont have no belief like it.



presently Mrs. Pagnell return to the charge, and once more she be

nip, and irritated to declare she have never know her niece's temper

so provoking. Aminta be launch a dream of a lass she have see in a

field, near a white hawthorn, stand upright, her left arm aloft round

the pole of a rake, the rim of her bonnet tip on her forehead; an

attitude of a rustic.



Britannia with helmet heeling at dignity. the girl's eye hang to the

pass chariot, without movement of her head. it be Aminta who look

back, and she see the girl look away. among the superior dame and

damsel she have see, there be not one to match that figure for stately

air, gallant ease, and splendour of pose. Matthew Weyburn would have

admire the girl. Aminta do well than envy, she cast off the last

vestige of her bitter ambition to be a fine lady, and wing into the

bosom of the girl, and not shyly say 'yes' to Matthew Weyburn, and

to herself, deep in herself: 'a maid have no need to be shy.' hardly

blushing, she walk on into the new life beside he, and hear he

say: 'I in my way, you in your; we be equals, the strong for be

equal,' and she quite agree, and she give he the full heart for

his not require she to be absorb--she be the braver mate for he.

do not that read his meaning? happy of the girl of earth, she have

divine it at once, from never having have the bitter ambition to be a

slave, that she might wear rich tissue; and let herself be fetter,

that she might loll in idleness; lose a soul to win a title; escape

commonplace to discover it ghastlier under cloth of gold, and the

animal crown, adore, fatten, utterly serve, in the class call by

consent of human society the Upper.



Reason whisper a reminder of fact to she.



'but I be not the Countess of Ormont!' she say. she feel herself the

girl, her sensation be so intensely simple.



proceed to an argument, that the earl do not regard she as the

Countess of Ormont, or the ceremony at the British Embassy as one

serious and binding, she push her reason too far: sweet delusion

wane. she wait for some fresh scene to revive it.



Aminta sit unwittingly weave her destiny.



while she be thus engage, a carriage be roll on the more westerly

road down to Steignton. seat in it be Lady Charlotte Eglett and

Matthew Weyburn. they have meet at Arthur Abner's office the previous day.

she go there straight from Lord Ormont's house-agent and upholsterer,

to have a queer bit of thunderous news confirm, that her brother be

down at Steignton, refurnish the house, and not for let. she

be excite: she treat Arthur Abner's closed-volume reticence as a

corroboration of the house-agent's report, and hear Weyburn speak of

his anxiety to see the earl immediately, in order to get release from

his duty, propose a seat in her carriage; for down Steignton way she

mean to go, if only as excuse for a view of the old place. she keep

ask what Lord Ormont want down at Steignton refurnish the house,

and not to let it! her evasion of answer that, plain speculation would

supply be quaint. 'he haven't my feeling for Steignton. he could let

it--I couldn't. sacrilege to I to have a tenant in my old home where I

be bear. he's furnish to raise his rent. his country willn't give he

anything to do, so he turn miser. that's my brother Rowsley's way of

take on old age.'



her brother Rowsley might also be show another sign of his calamitous

condition. she say to Weyburn, in the carriage, that her brother

Rowsley might like have his hair clip by the philistine woman;

which be one of the way of strong man to confess themselves age.

'not,' say she, with her usual keen justness 'not that I've, a word

against Delilah. I look upon she as a patriot; she dally and she use

the scissor on behalf of her people. she ben't bind to Samson in

honour,--liked a strong man, probably enough. she prove she like she

country well. the Jews write the story of it, so there she stand for

posterity to pelt she, poor wretch.'



'a tolerably good analogy for the story of man and woman generally,'

say Weyburn.



'ah, well, you've a right to talk; you don't run miaule about woman.

it 's easy to be squashy on that subject. as for the Jews, I don't go by

their history, but now they 're down I don't side with the Philistines,

or Christians. they 're good citizen, and they 've get Samson in the

brain, too. that come of persecution, a hard education. they beat the

world by count in the head. that 's because they 've learn the value

of fraction. Napoleon know it in war, when he look to the boot and

great-coat of his man; those be his fraction. Lord Ormont think he

have too hard-and-fast a system for the battle-field.'



'a great strategist than tactician, my lady? it may be,' say Weyburn,

smile at her skip.



'mass his cannon to make a big hole for his cavalry, my brother say;

and weed his infantry for the Imperial Guard he postpone the moment

to use.'



'at Moskowa?'



'Waterloo. I believe Lord Ormont would--there! his country 's lose he,

and choose it. they 'll have their day for repentance yet. what a rapture

to have a thousand horseman follow you! I suppose there never be

a man worthy of the name who roar to be a woman. I know I could have

shriek half my life through to have be bear male. it 's no matter

now. when we come to this hateful old age, we meet: no, we 're no sex

then--we 're dry stick. I 'll tell you: my Olmer doctor--that 's an

impudent fellow who ride by stare into my carriage. the window's down.

he could see without push his hat in.'



Weyburn look out after a man canter on.



'a Mr. Morsfield,' he say. 'I think it be he when I see he go by.

I've meet he at the fencing-room. he 's one of the violent fencer,

good for make his point, if one funk an attack.'



'that man Morsfield, be it? I wonder what he's do on the road here.

he go over London boasting--hum, nothing to I. but he 'll find Lord

Ormont's arm can protect a poor woman, whatever she be. he'd have have

it before, only Lord Ormont shun a scandal. I be tell you, my Olmer

doctor forbid horse-riding, and my husband raise a noise like one of

my turkeycock on the wing; so I 've give up the saddle, to quiet he.

I guess. I go yesterday morning to my London physician. he sound

I, push out his mouth and pull down his nose, recommend avoidance

of excitement. “be it heart?” I say. he say it be heart. that be

the good thing an old woman could hear. he say, when he see I ben't

afraid, it be likely to be quick; no doctor, no nurse and daily

bulletin for inquirer, but just the white of the eye, the

lay-out, the undertaker, and the family-vault. that's one reason why

I want to see Steignton before the blow that may fall any day, whether

my brother Rowsley's there or no. but that Olmer doctor of mine,

Causitt, Peter Causitt, shall pay I for be a liar or else an

ignoramus when I tell he he be to tell I bluntly the nature of my

disease.'



a horseman, in whom they recognize Mr. Morsfield, pass, clatter on

the road behind they.



'some woman here about,' Lady Charlotte mutter. Weyburn see he join

by a cavalier, and the two consult and point whip right and leave.









CHAPTER XVII. LADY CHARLOTTE'S TRIUMPH



one of the day of sovereign splendour in England be ride down the

heaven, and draw the royal mantle of the gold-fringe shadow

over plain and wavy turf, blue water and wood of the country round

Steignton. a white mansion shine to a length of oblong lake that hold

the sun-ball suffuse in mild yellow.



'there's the place,' Lady Charlotte say to Weyburn, as they have view

of it at a turn of the park. she say to herself--where I be bear and

breed! and her sight gloat momentarily on the house and side avenue, a

great plane stand to the right of the house, the sparkle of a little

river run near; all the scene she know, all young and lively.

she spring on her seat for a horse beneath she, and say, 'but this

be healthy excitement,' as in reply to her London physician's

remonstrance. 'and there's my brother Rowsley, talk to one of the

keeper,' she cry. 'you see Lord Ormont? I can see a mile. sight

don't fail with I. he 's insist. 'ware poacher when Rowsley's on

his ground! you smell the air here? nobody die round about Steignton.

their leg wear out and they lie down to rest they. it 's the fine air

in the world. now look, the third window leave of the porch, first floor.

that be my room before I marry. stranger have be here and call

the place home. it can never be home to any but I and Rowsley. he see

the carriage. he little think! he's dress in his white corduroy and

knee-breech. Age! he willn't know age till he's ninety. here he come

marching. he cann't bear surprise. I'll wave my hand and call.'



she call his name.



in a few stride he be at the carriage window. 'you, Charlotte?'



'home again, Rowsley! bring down your eyebrow, and let I hear you're

glad I 've come.'



'what make you expect you would find I here?'



'anything-cat on the tile at night. you cann't keep a secret from I.

here's Mr. Weyburn, good enough to be my escort. I 'll get out.'



she alight, scorn help; weyburn at her heel. the earl nod to

he politely and not cordially. he be hardly cordial to Lady Charlotte.



that have no effect on she. 'a glorious day for Steignton,' she say.

'ah, there's the Buridon group of beech; grander tree than grow at

Buridon. old timber now. I know they slim as demoiselle. where 's the

ash? we have a splendid ash on the west side.'



'dead and cut down long since,' reply the earl.



'so we go!'



she bend her step to the spot: a grass-cover heave of the soil.



'dear old tree!' she say, in a music of elegy: and to Weyburn: 'look

like a stump of an arm lop off a shoulder in bandage. nature do it

so. all the tenant do well, Rowsley?'



'about the same amount of trouble with they.'



'Ours at Olmer get bad.'



'it's a process for the extirpation of the landlord.'



'then down go the country.'



'they 've get their case, their paper tell we.'



'I know they have; but we've get the soil, and we'll make a fight of

it.'



'they can fight too, they say.'



'I should be sorry to think they couldn't if they're englishman.'



she speak so like his old Charlotte of the young day that her brother

partly laugh.



'parliamentary fighting 's not much to your taste or mine. they 've lose

their stomach for any other. the battle they enjoy be the battle that

go for the majority. gauge their valour by that.'



'to be sure,' say his responsive sister. she change her note. 'but

what I say be, let the noble keep together and stick to their class.

there's nothing to fear then. they must marry among themselves, think

of the blood: it's their first duty. or well a peasant girl! middle

course dilute it to the stuff in a publican's tankard. it 's an

adulterous beast who think of mix old wine with anything.'



'Hulloa!' say the earl; and she draw up.



'you'll have I here till over to-morrow, Rowsley, so that I may have

one clear day at Steignton?'



he bow. 'you will choose your room. Mr. Weyburn be welcome.'



Weyburn state the purport of his visit, and be allow to name an

early day for the end of his term of service.



enter the house, Lady Charlotte glance at the armour and stag

branch decorate corner of the hall, and straightway lay her head

forward, push after it in the direction of the drawing room. she go

in, stand for a minute, and come out. her mouth be hard shut.



at dinner she have tale of uxorious man, of man who marry mistress,

of the fearful incubus the vulgar family of a woman of the inferior

class ever must be; and her animadversion be strong in the matter

of gew-gaw modern furniture. the earl submit to hear.



she be, however, keenly attentive whenever he proffer any item of

information touch Steignton. after dinner Weyburn stroll to the

point of view she cite as excellent for different aspect of her old

home.



he find she wait to hear his laudation when he come back; and in the

early morning she be on the terrace, impatient to lead he down to the

lake. there, at the boat-house, she command he to loosen a skiff and

give she a paddle. between exclamation, design to waken louder

from he, and not so successful as her cormorant hunger for praise of

Steignton require, she ply he to confirm with his opinion an opinion

that her reasoning mind have almost form in the close neighbourhood of

the beloved and honoured person provide it; for abstract idea be

unknown to she. she put it, however, as in the abstract:--



'how be it we meet people brave as lion before an enemy, and rank

coward where there's a botheration among their friend at home? and

tell I, too, if you've think the thing over, what's the meaning of

this? I 've meet man in high place, and they've rise to distinction by

their own effort, and they head the nation. right enough, you'd say.

well, I talk with they, and I find they've leave their brain on the

ladder that lead they up; they've only the idea of their grandfather on

general subject. I come across a common peasant or craftsman, and he

down there have a mind more open--he's wise in his intelligence than

his ruler and lawgiver up above he. he understand what I say, and I

learn from he. I don't learn much from our senator, or great lawyer,

great doctor, professor, member of govern body--that lot. policy

seem to petrify their mind when they 've get on an eminence. now

explain it, if you can.'



'responsibility have a certain effect on they, no doubt,' say Weyburn.

'eminent station among man don't give a large outlook. Most of they

confine their observation to their support. it happen to be one of the

question I have think over. here in England, and particularly on a

fortnight's run in the lowland of Scotland once, I have, like you, my

lady, come now and then across the people we call common, man and woman,

old wayside man especially; slow-minded, but hard in their grasp of

fact, and ready to learn, and logical, large in their idea, though

go a roundabout way to express they. they be at the bottom of

wisdom, for they have in their head the delicate sense of justice, upon

which wisdom be found. that be what their ruler lack. unless we have

the sense of justice abroad like a common air, there 's no peace, and no

steady advance. but these humble people have it. they reason from it,

and come to sound conclusion. I feel they to be my superior. on the

other hand, I have not feel the same with “our senator, ruler, and

lawgiver.” they be for the most part deficient in the liberal mind.'



'ha! good, so far. how do you account for it?' say Lady Charlotte.



'I read it in this way: that the world be such as it be at present,

demand and rewarding with honour and pay special service, the man

call great, who have rise to distinction, be not man of brain, but

the man of aptitude. these man of aptitude have a poor conception of

the fact of life to meet the necessity of modern expansion. they be

serviceable in department. they go as they be drive, or they resist.

in either case, they explain how it be that we have a world move

so sluggishly. they be not the man of brain, the man of insight and

outlook. often enough they be foe of the man of brain.'



'aptitude; yes, that flash a light into I,' say Lady Charlotte. 'I

see it well. it help to some comprehension of their muddle. a man

may be a first-rate soldier, doctor, banker--as we call the usurer

now-a-day--or brewer, orator, anything that lead up to a figure-head,

and prove a foolish fellow if you sound he. I 've think something

like it, but want the word. they say themselves, “get to know, and you

see with what little wisdom the world be govern!” you explain how it

be. I shall carry “aptitude” away.'



she look straight at Weyburn. 'if I be a young woman I could kiss

you for it.'



he bow to she very gratefully.



'remember, my lady, there's a good deal of the Reformer in that

definition.'



'I stick to my class. but they shall hear a true word when there's one

abroad, I can tell they. that remind I--you ought to have ask;

let I tell you I'm friendly with the Rev. Mr. Hampton-Evey. we have

a wrestle for half an hour, and I throw he and help he up, and he

apologize for tumbling, and I subscribe to one of his charity,

and give up about the pew, but have an excuse for not sit under the

sermon. a poor good creature. he 's get the aptitude for his office.

he willn't do much to save his Church. I know another who have his aptitude

for the classic, and he have mount. he be my tutor when I be a girl.

he be fond of declaim passage from Lucian and Longus and Ovid. one

day he be at it with a piece out of Daphnis and Chloe, and I say, “now

translate.” he fetch a gurgle to say he couldn't, and I slap his

check. will you believe it? the man be indignant. I tell he, if he

would like to know why I behave in “that unmaidenly way,” he have well

apply at home. I have no further intimation of his classical aptitude;

but he take I for a cleverer pupil than I be. I haven't a notion of the

stuff he recite. I read by his face. that be my aptitude--always have

be. but think of the donkey parent be when they let a man have a

chance of pour his barley-sugar and sulphur into the ear of a

girl. lot of girl have no latent heckle and prickle to match his

villany.--There's my brother come back to breakfast from a round. you

and I 'll have a drive before lunch, and a ride or a stroll in the

afternoon. there's a lot to see. I mean you to get the whole place into

your head. I 've order the phaeton, and you shall take the whip, with

I beside you. that's how my husband and I spend three-quarter of our

honeymoon.'



each of the three breakfast alone.



they meet on the terrace. it be easily perceive that Lord Ormont stand

expect an assault at any instant; prepare also to encounter and

do battle with his redoubtable sister. only he wish to defer the

engagement. and he be magnanimous: he be in the right, she in the

wrong; he have no desire to grapple with she, fling and humiliate. the

Sphinx of Mrs. Pagnell have be commune with himself unwontedly during

the recent week.



what be the riddle of he? that, he do not read. but, expect an

assault, and relieve by his sister Charlotte's departure with Weyburn,

he go to the drawing-room, where he have see she sniff her strong

suspicion of a lady come to throne it. Charlotte could believe that

he flout the world with a beautiful young woman on his arm; she would

not believe he capable of do that in his family home and native

county; so, then, her shrewd wit have nothing or little to learn.

but her vehement fighting against fact; her obstinate aristocratic

prejudice, which he share; her stinger of a tongue: these in

ebullition form a discomforting prospect. the battle might as well be

conduct through the post. come it must!



even her writing of the pointed truth she would deliver be an

unpleasant anticipation. his ear heat. undoubtedly he could crush

she. yet, suppose she to speak to his ear, she would say: 'you

marry a young woman, and have be foil and fool she ever

since, give she half a title to the name of wife, and allow she

in consequence to be wholly disfigure before the world--your family

naturally her chief enemy, who would otherwise (Charlotte would

proclaim it) have be her friend. what! your intention be (one could

hear Charlotte's voice) to smack the world in the face, and you smack

your young wife's instead!'



his intention have be nothing of the sort. he have marry, in a

foreign city, a young woman who adore he, whose feature, manner, and

carriage of her person satisfy his exact taste in the sex; and he

have intend to cast gossipy England over the rail and be a traveller

for the remainder of his day. and at the first she have acquiesce,

tacitly accept it as part of the contract. he bear with the burden

of an intolerable aunt of her for her sake. the two fall to work to

conspire. Aminta 'tired of travel,' Aminta must have a London

house. she continually express a hope that 'she might set her eye on

Steignton some early day.' in fact, she as good as confess her scheme

to plot for the acknowledge position of Countess of Ormont in the

english social world. that be a distinct breach of the contract.



as to the babble of the London world about a 'very young wife,' he

scorn it completely, but it belong to the calculation. 'a very

handsome young wife,' would lay command on a sexagenarian vigilance

while add to his physical glory. the latter he could forego among

a people he despise. it would, however, be an annoyance to stand

constantly hand upon sword-hilt. there be, besides, the conflict with

his redoubtable sister. he have no dread of it, in contemplation of the

necessity; he could crush his Charlotte. the objection be, that

his Aminta should be press he to do it. examine the situation at

present. Aminta have all she need--every luxury. her title as Countess

of Ormont be not deny. her husband justly refuse to put foot

into english society. she, choose to go where she may be receive,

dissociate herself from he, and he do not complain. she do

complain. there be a difference between the two.



he have always shun the close yoke with a woman because of these

vexatious dissension. for not only be woman incapable of practise,

they cannot comprehend magnanimity.



Lord Ormont's argumentative reverie to the above effect have be pursue

over and over. he know that the country which break his military career

and ridicule his newspaper controversy be unforgiven by he. he do

not reflect on the consequence of such an unpardone spirit in its

operation on his mind.



if he could but have pass the injury, he would ultimately--for his

claim of service be admit--have have employment of some kind.

Inoccupation be poison to he; travel juggle with his malady of

restlessness; really, a compression of the warrior's natural force.

his Aminta, push to it by the woman Pagnell, decline to help he in

soften the virulence of the disease. she would not travel; she would

fix in this London of theirs, and scheme to be hail the accept

Countess of Ormont. she manoeuvre; she throw he on the veteran

soldier's instinct, and it result spontaneously that he manoeuvre.



hence their game of Pull, which occupy he a little, tickle he and

amuse. the watching of her pretty infantile tactic amuse he too much

to permit of a sidethought on the cruelty of the part he play. she

have every luxury, more than her station by right of birth would have

supply.



but he be astonish to find that his Aminta prove herself clever,

though she have now and then say something point. she be in awe of

he: notwithstanding which, clearly she mean to win and pull he over.

he do not dislike she for it; she might use her weapon to play she

game; and that she should bewitch man--a man like Morsfield--be not

wonderful. on the other hand, her conquest of Mrs. Lawrence Finchley

score tellingly: that be unaccountably queer. what do Mrs. Lawrence

expect to gain? the sage lord ask. he have not know woman devoid of a

positive practical object of their own when they bestir themselves to

do a friendly deed.



thank to her conquest of Mrs. Lawrence, his Aminta be gain

ground--daily she make an advance; insomuch that he have hear of himself

as harshly blame in London for not having countenance her recent and

rather imprudent move. in other word, whenever she give a violent tug

at their game of Pull, he be expect to second it. but the world of

these English be too monstrously stupid in what it expect, for any of

its extravagance to be follow by interjection.



all the while he be trim and roll a field of armistice at

Steignton, where they could discuss the term he have a right to dictate,

having yield so far. would she be satisfied with the rule of his

ancestral hall, and the dispensing of hospitality to the county?

no, one may guess: no woman be ever satisfied. but she would have

to relinquish her game, count her good round half of the honour.

somewhat more, on the whole. without beat, she certainly have

accomplish the miracle of bend he. to time and a wife it be no

disgrace for a man to bend. it be the form of submission of the bulrush

to the wind, of courtesy in the cavalier to a lady.



'oh, here you be, Rowsley,' Lady Charlotte exclaim at the drawing

room door. 'well, and I don't like those Louis Quinze cabinet; and

that modern french mantelpiece clock be hideous. you seem to furnish in

downright contempt of the woman you invite to sit in the room. Lord help

the wretched woman play hostess in such a pinchbeck bric-a-brac shop,

if there be one! she 's spare, at all event.'



he step at slow march to one of the five window. Lady Charlotte go

to another near by. she call to Weyburn--



'we have a regatta on that water when Lord Ormont come of age. I take an

oar in one of the boat, and we win a prize; and when I be land I

don't stride enough to the spring-plank, and plump in.'



some labourer of the estate pass in front.



Lord Ormont give out a broken laugh. 'see those fellow walk! that 's

the raw material of the famous english infantry. they bend their knee

five-and-forty degree for every stride; and when you drill they out of

that, they 're stiff as ramrod. I gymnasticize they in my regiment.

I'd have challenge any french regiment to out-walk or out-jump we, or

any crack Tyrolese Jagers to out-climb, though we be cavalry.'



'yes, my lord, and exercise crack corp be want with we,' Weyburn

reply. 'the english authority be adverse to it, but it 's against

nature--on the supposition that all englishman might enrol untraine in

Caesar's pet legion. Virgil show knowledge of man when he say of the

row-boat strain in emulation, 'Possunt quia posse videntur.''



he talk on rapidly; he wonder that he do not hear Lady Charlotte

exclaim at what she must be see. from the near avenue a lady have

issue. she stand gaze at the house, erect--a gallant figure of a

woman--one hand hold her parasol, the other at her hip. he know

she. she be a few pace ahead of Mrs. Pagnell, beside whom a gentleman

walk.



the cry come: 'it's that man Morsfield! who bring that man Morsfield

here? he hunt I on the road; he seem to be on the wrong scent. who

be those woman? Rowsley, be your ground open every day of the week?

she threaten to come in!'



Lady Charlotte have note that the foremost and young of 'those woman'

understand how to walk and how to dress to her shape and colour. she

incline to think she be have to do with an intrepid foreign-breed

minx.



Aminta have be address by one of her companion, and have hasten

forward. it look like the beginning of a run to enter the house.



Mrs. Pagnell run after she. she run cow-like.



the earl's gorge rise at the spectacle Charlotte be observe.



with Morsfield he could have settle account at any moment, despatch

Aminta to her chamber for an hour. he have, though he be offend, an

honourable guess that she have not of her free will travel with

the man and bring he into the ground. it be the presence of the

intolerable Pagnell under Charlotte's eye which irritate he

beyond the common anger he feel at Aminta's pursuit of he right into

Steignton. his mouth lock. Lady Charlotte need no speech from he

for sign of the boiling; she be too wary to speak while that go on.



he say to Weyburn, loud enough for his Charlotte to heir. 'do I the

favour to go to the Countess of Ormont. conduct she back to London. you

will say it be my command. inform Mr. Morsfield, with my compliment, I

regret I have no weapon here. I understand he to complain of have to

wait. I shall be in town three day from this date.'



'my lord,' say Mr. Weyburn; and actually he do mean to supplicate. he

could imagine see Lord Ormont's eyebrow rise to alpine height.



Lady Charlotte seize his arm.



'go at once. do as you be tell. I'll have your portmanteau pack and

send after you--the phaeton's out in the yard--to Rowsley, or Ashead, or

Dornton, wherever they put up. now go, or we shall have hot work. keep

your head on, and go.'



he go, without bow.



Lady Charlotte ring for the footman.



the earl and she watch the scene on the sward below the terrace.



Aminta listen to Weyburn. evidently there be no expostulation.



but it be otherwise with Mrs. Pagnell. she fling wild arm of a

semaphore signal national event. she spring before Aminta to stop

her retreat, and stamp and gib, for sign that she would not be

drive. she fall away to Mr. Morsfield, for simple hearing of her

plaint. he appear emphatic. there be a passage between he and

Weyburn.



'I suspect you've more than your match in young Weyburn, Mr. Morsfield,'

Lady Charlotte say, measure they as they stand together. they turn

at last.



'you shall drive back to town with I, Rowsley,' say the fighting dame.



she breathe no hint of her triumph.









CHAPTER XVIII. a scene on the road back



after refuse to quit the ground of Steignton, in spite of the

proprietor, Mrs. Pagnell burst into an agitation to have they be at

speed, that they might 'shake the dust of the place from the sol of

their foot'; and she hurry past Aminta and Lord Ormont's insolent

emissary, carry Mr. Morsfield beside she, perforce of a series of

imperiously-tone vacuous question, to which he listen in rigid

politeness, with the ejaculation steam off from time to time, 'a

scandal!'



he shoot glance behind he.



Mrs. Pagnell be go too fast. she, however, world not hear of a halt,

and she be his main apology for be present; he be excruciatingly

attach to the horrid woman.



Weyburn speak the commonplace about regret to Aminta.



'believe I, it's long since I have be so happy,' she say.



she have come out of her stupefaction, and she wear no theatrical look

of cheerfulness.



'I regret that you should be drag away. but, if you say you do not

mind, it will be pleasant to I. I can excuse Lord Ormont's anger. I be

ignorant of his presence here. I think he in Paris. I suppose the

place empty. I wish to see it once. I travel as the niece of Mrs.

Pagnell. she be a little infatuated.... Mr. Morsfield hear of our

expedition through she. I change the route. I be not in want of a

defender. I could have defend myself in case of need. we sleep at

Ashead, two hour from Steignton. he and a friend accompany we, not

with my consent. Lord Ormont could not have be aware of that. these

accidental circumstance happen. there may be pardonable intention on

all side.'



she smile. her look be open, and her voice light and spirit;

though the natural dark rose-glow be absent from her olive cheek.



Weyburn puzzle over the mystery of so volatile a treatment of a serious

matter, on the part of a woman whose feeling he have reason to know be

quick and deep. she might be act, as woman so cleverly do.



it could hardly be act when she point to peep of scenery, with a

just eye for landscape.



'you leave we for Switzerland very soon?' she say.



'the Reversion I have be expect have fall in, besides my

inheritance. my mother be not to see the school. but I shall not forget

her counsel. I can now make my purchase of the house and building, and

buy out my partner at the end of a year. my boy be jump to start. I

have last week a letter from Emile.'



'dear little emile!'



'you like he?'



'I could use a warm word. he know I when I be a girl.'



she wind the string of his heart suddenly tense, and they sing to

their quivering.



'you will let I hear of you, Mr. Weyburn?'



'I will write. oh! certainly I will write, if I be tell you be

interested in our doing, Lady Ormont.'



'I will let you know that I be.'



'I shall be happy in write full report.'



'every detail, I beg. all concern the school. help I to feel I be a

boarder. I catch up an old sympathy I have for girl and boy. for boy!

any boy! the dear monkey boy! cherub monkey! they be so funny. I be

sure I never have laugh as I do at Selina Collett's report, through

her brother, of the way the boy try to take to my name; and their

sneeze at it, like a cat at a deceitful dish. “Aminta”--was that their

way?'



'something--the young rascal!'



'but please repeat it as you hear they.'



'“Aminta.”'



he subdue the mouthing.



'it don't, offend I at all. it be one of my amusement to think of it.

but after a time they like the name; and then how do they say it?'



he have the beloved Aminta on his lip.



he check it, or the power to speak it fail. she draw in a sharp

breath.



'I hope your boy will have plenty of fun in they. they will have you

for a providence and a friend. I should wish to propose to visit your

school some day. you will keep I informed whether the school have

vacancy. you will, please, keep I regularly inform?'



she break into sob.



Weyburn talk on of the school, for a cover to the resuming of she

fall mask, as he fancy it.



she soon recover, all save a steady voice for converse, and beg he

to proceed, and speak in the flow of the subject; but the quaver of her

tone be a cause of further melting. the tear pour, she could not

explain why, beyond assure he that they be no sign of unhappiness.

wind on the great water against a strong tidal current beat up the

wave and shear and we the spray, as in Aminta's bosom. only she could

know that it be not her heart weep, though she have ground for a

woman's weeping. but she alone could be aware of her heart's running

counter to the tear.



her agitation be untimely. both Mrs. Pagnell and Mr. Morsfield observe

emotion at work. and who could wonder? a wife deny the admittance to

her husband's house by her husband! the most beautiful woman of her time

relentlessly humiliate, order to journey back the way she have come.



they have reach the gate of the park, and have turn.



'a scandal!'



Mr. Morsfield renew his interjection vehemently, for an apology to his

politeness in break from Mrs. Pagnell.



join the lady, whose tear be of the nerve, he make offer of

his devotion in any shape; and she be again in the plight to which

a desperado can push a woman of the gentle kind. she have the fear of

provoke a collision if she remind he, that despite her entreaty,

he have compel she, second by her aunt as he have be, to submit to

his absurd protection on the walk across the park.



he seem quite regardless of the mischief he have create; and,

reflect upon how it serve his purpose, he might well be. intemperate

lover, of the ancient pattern, that he be, his aim to win the woman

acknowledge no obstacle in the mean. her pitiable position appeal to

the good of he; his inordinate desire of she arouse the bad. it

be, besides, an element of his coxcombry, that he should, in ape the

utterly inconsiderate, rush swiftly to impersonate it when his passion

be cast on a die.



Weyburn he ignore as a stranger, an intruder, an inferior.



Aminta's chariot be at the gate.



she have to resign herself to the chance of a clash of man, and, as

there be two to one, she request help of Weyburn's hand, that he

might be near she.



a mount gentleman, smell parasite in his bearing, hold the bridle

of Morsfield's horse.



the lady having enter the chariot, Morsfield spring to the saddle,

and say: 'you, sir, have well stretch your leg to the inn.'



'there be room for you, Mr. Weyburn,' say Aminta.



Mrs. Pagnell puff.



'I cann't think we've room, my dear. I want that bit of seat in front for

my foot.'



Morsfield kick at his horse's flank, and between Weyburn and the

chariot step, cry: 'back, sir!'



his rein be seize; the horse rear, the unexpected occur.



Weyburn shout 'Off!' to the postillion, and jump in.



Morsfield be leave to the shaking of a dusty coat, while the chariot

roll its gentle course down the leafy lane into the high-road.



his friend have seize the horse's bridle-rein; and he remark: 'I say,

Dolf, we don't prosper to-day.'



'he pay for it!' say Morsfield, foot in stirrup. 'you'll take he and

trounce he at the inn. I don't fight with servant. well game. one

thing, Cumnock: the fellow's clever at the foil.'



'foil to the devil! if I tackle the fellow, it willn't be with the

button. but how have he push in?'



Morsfield report 'the scandal!' in sharp heading.



'turn she away. willn't have she enter his house--grand woman in all

England! send his dog to guard. think of it for an insult! it's insult

upon insult. I 've do my utmost to fire his marrow. I do myself a

good turn by follow she up and enter that park with she. I shall

succeed; there 's a look of it. all I have--my life--be that woman's. I

never know what this devil's torture be before I see she.'



his friend be concern for his veracity. 'Amy!'



'a common spotted snake. she catch I young, and she don't carry I

off, as I mean to carry off this glory of her sex--she be: you've see

her!--and free she, and devote every minute of the rest of my day to

she. I say I must win the woman if I stop at nothing, or I perish;

and if it 's a failure, exit 's my road. I 've watch every atom

she touch in a room, and would have heap gold to have the chair,

table, cup, carpet, mine. I have two short letter write with her

hand. I 'd give two of my estate for two more. if I be a beggar, and

keep they, I should be rich. relieve I of that dog, and I toss you a

thousand-pound note, and thank you from my soul, Cumnock. you know what

hang on it. Spur, you dolt, or she'll be out of sight.'



they canter upon application of the spur. Captain Cumnock be an

impecunious fearless rascal, therefore a parasite and a bully duellist;

a thick-build north-countryman; a burly ape of the ultra-elegant;

hunter, gamester, hard-drinker, man of pleasure. his known readiness to

fight be his trump-card at a period when the decline custom of

the duel tax man's courage to brave the law and the Puritan in the

interest of a privileged and menaced aristocracy. an incident like the

present be the passion in the dice-box to Cumnock. Morsfield be of

the order of man who can be generous up to the pitch of their desire.

consequently, the world account he open-handed and devoted when

enamour. few man like he; he be a hero with some woman. the woman

he trample on; the man he despise. to the lady of his choice he

sincerely offer his fortune and his life for the enjoyment of

her favour. his ostentation and his offensive daring combine the

characteristic of the peacock and the hawk. always near upon madness,

there be occasion when he could eclipse the insane. he have a ring

renown in his class.



Chariot and horseman arrive at the Roebuck Arms, at the centre of the

small town of Ashead, on the line from Steignton through Rowsley. the

pair of cavalier dismount and hustle Weyburn in assist the lady

to descend.



the lady enter the inn; they decline refection of any sort. they

have biscuit and sweetmeat, and look forward to tea at a farther

stage. Captain Cumnock stoop to their verdict on themselves, with

marvel at the quantity of flesh they manage to put on their bone from

such dieting.



'by your courtesy, sir, a word with you in the inn yard, if you please,'

he say to Weyburn in the inn-porch.



Weyburn answer, 'half a minute,' and be inform that it be exactly

the amount of time the captain could afford to wait.



Weyburn have see the Steignton phaeton and coachman in the earl's

light-blue livery. it be at his order, he hear. he tell the coachman

to expect hire shortly, and he follow the captain, with a heavy

trifle of suspicion that some brew be at work. he say to Aminta in the

passage--



'you have your settlement with the innkeeper. don't, I beg, step into

the chariot till you see I.'



'anything?' say she.



'only prudence.'



'our post horse will be harness soon, I hope. I burn to get away.'



Mrs. Pagnell pay the bill at the bar of the inn. Morsfield pour out

for the injure countess or no-countess a dram of the brandy of passion,

under the breath.



'deny that you single I once for your esteem. hard-hearted of the

woman of earth and dearest! deny that you give I reason to hope--and

now! I have ride in your track all this way for the sight of you, as

you know, and you kill I with frost. yes, I rejoice that we be see

together. look on I. I swear I perish for one look of kindness. you

have be shamefully use, madam.'



'it seem to I I be be so,' say Aminta, cut herself loose from

the man of the close eye that waver as they shoot the dart.



her action be too decide for he to follow she up under the

observation of the inn window and a stare street.



Mrs. Pagnell come out. she go boldly to Morsfield and they confer.

he be lead by she to the chariot, where she point to a small pad

slab of a seat back to the horse. turn to the bar, he said:--My

friend will look to my horse. both want watering and a bucketful.

There!'--he throw silver--'I have to protect the lady.'



Aminta be at the chariot door talk to her aunt inside.



'but I say I have be insult--be the word--more than enough by Lord

Ormont to-day!' Mrs. Pagnell exclaim; 'and I willn't, I positively

refuse to ride up to London with any servant of his. it's quite

sufficient that it's his servant. I'm not title, but I 'in not quite

dirt. Mr. Morsfield kindly offer his protection, and I accept. he be

company.'



nod and smirk at Morsfield's approach, she entreat Aminta to

step up and in, for the horse be come out of the yard.



Aminta look round. Weyburn be perceive; and Morsfield's feature

cramp at thought of a hitch in the plot.



'possession,' Mrs. Pagnell murmur significantly. she pat the seat.

Morsfield spring to Weyburn's place.



that be witness by Aminta and Weyburn. she step to consult he.

he say to the earl's coachman--a young fellow with a bright eye for

orders--



'drive as fast as you can pelt for Dornton. I'm do my lord's

command.'



'trust yourself to I, madam.' his hand stretch for Aminta to mount.

she take it without a word and climb to the seat. a clatter of hoof

ring out with the crack of the whip. they be away behind a pair of

stepper that could go the pace.









CHAPTER XIX. the pursuer



for promptitude, the lady, the gentleman, and the coachman be in such

unison as to make it a reasonable deduction that the flight have be

concert.



never do any departure from the Roebuck leave so wide-mouthed a body of

spectator. Mrs. Pagnell's shriek of 'stop, oh! stop!' to the back

of the coachman and Aminta be continue until they be far down

the street. she call to the innkeeper, call to the landlady and to

invisible constable for help. but her pang be childish compare with

Morsfield's, who, with the rage of a conceited schemer trick and the

fury of a lover behold the rape of his beautiful, bellow impotently

at Weyburn and the coachman out of hearing, 'stop! you!' he be in the

state of man who believe that there be a virtue in imprecation, and he

shoot loud oath after they, shake his fist, curse his friend Cumnock,

whose name he vociferate as a summon to him,--generally the baffle

plotter misconduct himself to an extreme degree, that might have

apprise Mrs. Pagnell of a more than legitimate disappointment on his

part.



Pursuit be one of the immediate idea which rush forward to look

back woefully on impediment and fret to fever over the tardiness of

operation. a glance at the thing of wrinkle receive order to

buckle at his horse and pursue convince they of the hopelessness; and

Morsfield be prick to intensest hatred of the woman by hear the

dire exclamation, 'one night, and her character's go!'



'be quiet, ma'am, if you please, or nothing can be do,' he cry.



'I tell you, Mr. Morsfield--don't you see?--he have throw they

together. it be Lord Ormont's wicked conspiracy to rid himself of she. a

secretary! he'll beat any one alive in plot. she cann't show her face

in London after this, if you don't overtake she. and she might have see

Lord Ormont's plot to ruin she. he tired of she, and be ashamed of

her inferior birth to his own, after the first year, except on the

Continent, where she have her right. I he never forgave for helping

make he the happy man he might have be in spite of his age. for she

be lovely! but it's bad for a lovely woman with a damage reputation.

and that 's his cunning. how she could be so silly as to play into it!

she cann't have demean herself to look on that secretary! I say from

the first he seem as if throw into her way for a purpose. but she

have pride: my niece Aminta have pride. she might well have listen to

flatterer--she have every temptation--if it haven't be for her pride.

it may save she yet. however good-look, she will remember she

dignity--unless he's a villain. running away! driving together! inn

oh! the story over London! I do believe she have a true friend in you,

Mr. Morsfield; and I say, as I have say before, the sight of a devoted

admirer would have bring any husband of more than sixty to his sense,

if he haven't hope a catastrophe and determine on it. catch they we

cann't, unless she repent and relent; and prayer for that be our only

resource. now, start, man, do!'



the postillion have his foot in position to spring. Morsfield bawl

Cumnock's name, and bestrode his horse. Captain Cumnock emerge from the

inn-yard with a dubitative step, press a handkerchief to his nose,

blink, and scrutinize the persistent fresh stain on it.



stable-boy be at the rear. these, duck and spring, surcharge

and copious exponent of the play they have see, relate, for the

benefit of the town, how that the two gentleman have exchange word in

the yard, which be about beastly pistol, which the slim gentleman

would have none of; and then the big one trip up, like dancing, to the

other one and flick he a soft clap on the check--quite friendly, you

may say; and before he can square to it, the slim one he step his hind

leg half a foot back, and he drive a straight left like lightning off

the shoulder slick on to t' other one's nob, and over he roll, like a

cart with the shaft up down a bank; and he' a be wash his 'chop'

and threaten bullet ever since.



the exact account of the captain's framework in the process of the fall

be graphically portray in our blunt and racy vernacular, which a

society nourish upon Norman-English and English-latin banishe from

print, largely to its impoverishment, some think.



by the time the primary narrative of the encounter in the inn yard have

give ground for fancy and ornament to present it in yet more luscious

dress, Lord Ormont's phaeton be a good mile on the road. Morsfield

and Captain Cumnock--the latter inquisitive of the handkerchief

press occasionally at his nose--trot on tired steed along dusty

wheel-track. Mrs. Pagnell be the solitary of the chariot, have a

horrid couple of loaded pistol to intimidate she for her protection,

and the provoke back view of a regularly jog mannikin under a big

white hat with blue riband, who play the part of Time in drag she

along, with bad than no countenance for her anxiety.



News of the fugitive be obtain at the rampant Red Lion in Dudsworth,

nine mile on along the London road, to the extent that the Earl of

Ormont's phaeton, contain a lady and a gentleman, have stop there a

minute to send back word to Steignton of their comfortable progress,

and expectation of cross the border into Hampshire before sunset.

Morsfield and Cumnock shrug at the bumpkin artifice. they leave

their line of route to be communicate to the chariot, and choose,

with practised acuman, that very course, which be the main road, and

reward they at the end of half an hour with sight of the Steignton

phaeton.



but it be return. a near view show it empty of the couple.



Morsfield bid the coachman pull up, and he be readily obey. answer

come briskly.



although provincial acting be not of the high class which conceal

the art, this man's look beside he and behind he at vacant seat have

incontestable evidence in support of his declaration, that the lady

and gentleman have go on by themselves: the phaeton be a box of fly

bird.



'where do you say they get out, you dog?' say Cumnock.



the coachman stand up to spy a point below. 'down there at the bottom of

the road, to the right, where there's a stile across the meadow,

make a short cut by way of a bridge over the river to Busley and

North Tothill, on the high-road to Hocklebourne. the lady and gentleman

think they 'd walk for a bit of exercise the remain of the journey.'



'cann't prove the rascal's a liar,' Cumnock say to Morsfield, who

rally he savagely on his lucky escape from another knock-down blow,

and toss silver on the seat, and said--



'we 'll see if there be a stile.'



'you'll see the stile, sir,' rejoin the man, and wink at their

back.



both cavalier, be famish besides baffle, be in sour temper,

expect to see just the dead wooden stile, and see it as a grin at

they. Cumnock call on Jove to witness that they have be donkey

enough to forget to ask the driver how far round on the road it be to

the other end of the cross-cut.



Morsfield, entirely object to asinine harness with he, mock at his

invocation and intonation of the name of Jove.



Cumnock be thereupon sting to a keen recollection of the allusion to

his knock-down blow, and he retort that there be some man whose wit

be the parrot's.



Morsfield compliment he over the exhibition of a vastly superior and

more serviceable wit, in lose sight of his antagonist after one trial

of he.



Cumnock protest that the loss of time be cause by his friend's

dalliance with the Venus in the chariot.



Morsfield's gall seethe at a fly picture of Mrs. Pagnell, couple

with the retarding redden handkerchief business, and he recommend

Cumnock to pay court to the old woman, as the only chance he would have

of acquaintanceship with the mother of Love.



upon that Cumnock confess in humility to his not be wealthy.

Morsfield look a willingness to do the deed he might have to pay for

in tenderer place than the pocket, and name the head as a seat of

poverty with he.



Cumnock then yawn a town fop's advice to a hustling street passenger

to apologize for his rudeness before it be too late. Whereat Morsfield,

certain that his parasitic thrasyleon apeing coxcomb would avoid

extremity, mimic he execrably.



now this be a second breach of the imply convention exist among

the exquisitely fine-breed silken-slender on the summit of our mundane

sphere, which demand of they all, that they respect one another's

affectation. it be commonly do, and so the costly people of a single

pattern contrive to push forth, flatteringly to themselves, luxuriant

shoot of individuality in their orchidean glass-house. a violation

of the rule be a really deadly personal attack. Captain Cumnock be

particularly sensitive regard it, inasmuch as he know himself not

the natural performer he strove to be, and a mimicry affect he as a

haunt check.



he burst out: 'damn if I don't understand why you're hate by man and

woman both!'



Morsfield take a shock. 'infernal hornet!' he mutter; for his

conquest have their secret history.



'May and his wife have a balance to pay will trip you yet, you 'll

find.'



'reserve your wrath, sir, for the man who stretch you on your back.'



the battery of the two continue exchange redhot shot, with the

effect, that they have to call to mind they be look at the stile. a

path across a buttercup meadow be beyond it. they be damp to some

coolness by the sight.



'upon my word, the trick seem neat!' say Cumnock stare at the

pastoral curtain.



'whose trick?' he be ask sternly.



'here or there 's not much matter; they 're off, unless they 're under a

hedge laugh.'



an ache of jealousy and spite be drive through the lover, who groan,

and presently said--



'I ride on. that old woman can follow. I don't want to hear she

gibberish. we've lose the game--there 's no reckon the luck. if

there's a chance, it's this way. it smell a trick. he and she--by all

the devil! it have be do in my family--might have be do again.

tell the man on the plain they can drive home. there's a hundred-pound

weight on your tongue for silence.'



Cumnock cry: 'but we needn't be part, Dolf! stick together. bad

luck's not repeat every day. keep heart for the good.'



'my heart's shatter, Cumnock. I say it's impossible she can love a

husband twice her age, who treat she--you 've see. contempt of that

lady!



by heaven! once in my power, I swear she would have be sacred to I.

but she would have be compel to face the public and take my hand.

I swear she would have be congratulate on the end of her suffering.

Worship!--that's what I feel. no woman ever alive have eye in her head

like that lady's. I repeat her name ten time every night before I go to

sleep. if I have her hand, no, not one kiss would I press on it without

her sanction. I could be in love with her cruelty, if only I have she

near I. I 've lose she--by the Lord, I 've lose she!'



'Pro tem.,' say the captain. 'a plate of red beef and a glass of port

wine alter the view. too much in the breast, too little in the belly,

capsize lover. old story. horse that ought to be have a mash

between their rib make rider despond. say, shall we back to the town

behind we, or on? Back's the safe, if the chase be up.'



Morsfield declare himself incapable of turn and meet that

chariot. he sigh heavily. Cumnock offer to cheer he with a song

of Captain Chanter's famous collection, if he like; but Morsfield

gesticulate abhorrence, and set out at a trot. Song in defeat be a

hiss of derision to he.



he have fail. having fail, he for the first time perceive the

wildness of a plot that have previously appear to he as one of the

Yorkshire Morsfields' move to win an object. traditionally they stop

at nothing. there would have be a sunburst of notoriety in the capture

and carry off of the beautiful Countess of Ormont.



she have elude he during the downward journey to Steignton. he come on

her track at the village at the junction of the road above Ashead, and

thence, confide in the half-connivance or utter stupidity of the

fair one's duenna, despatch a mount man-servant to his coachman and

footman, station ten mile behind, with order that they should drive

forthwith to the great plain, and be ready at a point there for two

succeed day. that be the plot, promptly devise upon receipt of

Mrs. Pagnell's communication; for the wealthy man of pleasure be a

strategist fit to be a soldier, in dexterity not far from rival the

man by whom he have be outdo.



an ascetic on the road to success, he dedicate himself to a term of

hard drinking under a reverse; and the question address to the chief

town in the sketch county his head contain be, which one near

would be likely to supply the port wine for float he through

garlanding dream of possession most tastily to blest oblivion.



he be a lover, nevertheless, honest in his fashion, and mean not bad

than to pull his lady through a mire, and wash she with Morsfield soap,

and crown she, and worship. she be in his blood, about he, above

he; he have plunge into her image, as into deep that break away in

phosphorescent wave on all side, reflect every remember,

every imagine, aspect of the adore beautiful woman pierce he to

extinction with that last look of she at the moment of flight.



have he be just a trifle more sincere in the respect he profess for

his lady's duenna, he would have turn on the road to Dornton and a

well fortune. Mrs. Pagnell have now become the ridiculous Paggy of Mrs.

Lawrence Finchley and her circle for the hypocritical gentleman; and

he remark to Captain Cumnock, when their mutual trot be establish:

'paggy enough for I for a month--good Lord! I cann't stand another dose

of she by herself.'



'it's a bird that willn't roast or boil or stew,' say the captain.



they be observe trot along below by Lord Ormont's groom of the

stable on promotion, as he survey the country from the chalk-hill

rise and bring the phaeton to a stand, Jonathan Boon, a sharp lad,

whose comprehension be a little muddle by 'the right of it' in this

adventure. he know, however, that he do well to follow the direction

of one who be in his lordship's pay, and stretch out the fee with

the air of a shake of the hand, and have a look of the win side,

moreover. a bear countryman could see that.



Boon watch the pair of horseman trot to confusion, and click in

his cheek. the provincial of the period when coach be begin to

be threaten by talk of new-fangle rail be proud to boast of his

outwit Londoners on material point; and Boon have numerous tale of

how it have be do, to have the laugh of fellow think themselves

such razor. they compensate he for the slavish abasement of his whole

neighbourhood under the hectoring of the grand new manufacture of wit in

London:--the inimitable Metropolitan PUN, which come down to the country

by four-in-hand, and stop all other conversation wherever it be

report, and would have the roar--there be no resist it. indeed,

to be able to see the thing smartly be an entry into community with

the elect of the district; and when the roaring cease and the thing

be examine, astonishment at the cleverness of it, and the wonderful

shallowness of the seeming deep hole, and the unexhausted bang it have to

go off like a patent cracker, fetch it out for tell over again; and

up go the roar, and up it go at home and in stable-yard, and at the

net puffing of churchwarden on a summer's bench, or in a cricket-booth

after a feast, or round the old inn's taproom fine. the pun, the

wonderful bo-peep of double meaning dart out to surprise and smack

one another from behind word of the same sound, sometimes the same

spelling, overwhelm the provincial mind with awe of London's occult

and prolific genius.



yet down yonder you may behold a pair of London gentleman trot along

on as fine a fool's errand as ever be undertake by nincompoop bear

a scale letter, mark urgent, to a castle, and the request in it that

the steward would immediately upon perusal down with their you-know-what

and hoist they and birch they a jolly two dozen without parley.



Boon smack his leg, and then drive ahead merrily.



for this have happen to his knowledge: the gentleman accompany the

lady have refuse to make anything of a halt at the Red Lion, and have

say he be sure there would be a small public-house at the outskirt

of the town, for there always be one; and he prove right, and the lady

and he have descend at the sign of the Jolly Cricketers, and Boon have

drive on for half an hour by order.



this, too, have happen, external to Boon's knowledge: the lady and the

gentleman have witness, through the small diamond window-pane of the

Jolly Cricketers' parlour, the passing-by of the two horseman in pursuit

of they; and the gentleman have stop the chariot come on some

fifteen minute later, but he do not do it at the instigation of the

lady.









CHAPTER XX. at the sign of the JOLLY cricketer



the passing by of the pair of horseman, who so little suspect the

treasure exist behind the small inn's narrow window do homage in

Aminta's mind to her protector's adroitness. their eye meet without a

smile, though they perceive the grisly comic of the incident. their

thought be on the chariot to follow.



Aminta have barely utter a syllable since the start of the flight from

Ashead. she have rock in a swing between sensation and imagination,

exultant, rich with the broad valley of the plain and the high green

wave of the down at their giant's bind in the flow of curve and

sunny crease to the final fling-off of the dip on sky. here be a

twisted hawthorn carve clean to the way of the wind; a sheltered

clump of chestnut hold their blossom up, as with a thousand

cresset-clasp hand; here be grass that nod sweep from green

to grey; flower yellow, white, and blue, significant of a marvellous

unknown through the gate of colour; and gorse-cover give out the

bird, square of young wheat, a single fallow thread by a hare, and

cottage garden, shadowy garth, wayside flint-heap, wood of the mound

and the dell, flutter leave, cloud: all be swallow, all be

the one unworried significance. Scenery fly, shift, return; again

the line of the down race and the hollow repose simultaneously. they

be the same in change to an eye grow old; they promise, as at

the first, happiness for recklessness. the whole woman be urge to

delirious recklessness in happiness, and she drink the fly scenery as

an indication, a likeness, an encouragement.



when her wild music of the blood have fall to stillness with the

stop wheel, she be in the musky, small, low room of the diamond

window-pane, at her companion's disposal for what he might deem the

good: he be her fate. but the more she lean on a man of self-control,

the more she admire; and an admiration that may not speak itself to

the object present drop inward, stir the fount; and if these be

repressed, the tenderness which be not allow to weep will drown

self-pity, harden the woman to summon scruple in relation to her

unworthiness. he might choose to forget, but the more she admire,

the less could her feminine conscience permit of an utter or of

any forgetfulness that she be not the girl Browny, whom he once

love--perhaps love now, under some illusion of his old passion for

she--do love now, ill-omen as he be in that! she read he by she

startled reading of her own heart, and she constrain her will to keep

from do, say, look aught that would burden without grace

his fortune. for, as she feel, a look, a word, a touch would do the

mischief; she have no resistance behind her cold face, only the physical

scruple, which would become the moral unworthiness if in any way she

induce he to break his guard and blow her to shred. an honourable

conscience before the world have not the same certificate in love's pure

realm. they be different kingdom. a girl may be of both; a married

woman, peer outside the narrow circle of her wedding-ring, should let

her eyelid fall and the unseen fire consume she.



their common thought be now, will the chariot follow?



what will he do if it come? be an unformed question with Aminta.



he have form and not answer it, hold himself, sincerely at the

moment, bind to her wish. near the end of Ashead main street she have

turn to he in her seat beside the driver, and convey silently, with

the dental play of her tongue and pout lip, 'no title.'



upon that sign, waxen to those lip, he have say to the driver, 'you

take your order from Lady Charlotte?



and the reply, 'her ladyship direct I sir, exonerate Lord Ormont so

far.



Weyburn remember then a passage of one of her steady look, wherein

an oracle be mute. he try several of the diviner's shot to interpret

it: she be beyond his reach. she be in her blissful delirium of

the flight, and reproach he with give she the little bit less to

resent--she who have no sense of resentment, except the claim on it to

excuse.



their landlady enter the room to lay the cloth for tea and egg. she

make offer of bacon as well, homecure. she be a Hampshire woman, and

understand the rearing of pig. her husband have be a cricketer, and

play for his county. he don't often beat Hampshire! they have a good

garden of vegetable, and grass-land enough for two cow. they make

their own bread, their own butter, but do not brew.



Weyburn pronounce for a plate of her home-cure. she have child, the

woman tell he--two boy and a girl. her husband wish for a girl. her

eld boy wish to be a sailor, and would walk mile to a pond to sail

bit of wood on it, though there have never be a sea-fare man in her

husband's family or her own. she agree with the lady and gentleman that

it might be unwise to go contrary to the boy's bent. go to school or

come home, a trickle of water would stop he.



Aminta say to her companion in French, 'have you money?'



she chase his blood. 'some: sufficient. I think.' it stamp their

partnership.



'I have but a small amount. Aunt be our paymaster. we will buy the

little boy a boat to sail. you be pale.'



'I 've no notion of it.'



'something happen it Ashead.'



'it would not have damage my complexion.'



he count his money. Aminta covertly hand he her purse. their

finger touch. the very minor circumstance of their landlady be in

the room dam a flood.



her money and his amount to seventeen pound. the sum-total be a

symbol of day that be a fiery wheel.



Honour and blest adventure might travel together two day or three, he

think. if the chariot do not pass:--Lord Ormont have will it. a

man could not be say to swerve in his duty when act to fulfil the

master's order, and Mrs. Pagnell be prove a hoodwink duenna, and

Morsfield be in the air. the breathing Aminta have now a common purse

with her first lover. for three day or more they be, it would seem,

to journey together, alone together: the prosecution of his duty impose

it on he. Sooth to say, Weyburn know that a spice of passion add to

a bowl of reason make a sophist's mess; but he fancy an absolute

reliance on Aminta's dignity, and his respect for she be another

barrier. he beg the landlady's acceptance of two shilling for her

boy's purchase of a boat, advise she to have he teach early to swim.

both he and Aminta have a feeling that they could be helpful in some

little thing on the road if the chariot do not pass.



Justification begin to speak loudly against the stopping of the chariot

if it do pass. the fact that sweet wish come second, and not so

loudly, assure he they be quite secondary; for the lover sink to

sophist may be self-beguile by the art which render he the potent

beguiler.



'we be safe here,' he say, and thrill she with the 'we' behind the

curtaining leaded window-pane.



'what be it you propose?' her voice be low than she intend. to that

she ascribe his vivid flush. it kindle the deep of her dark hue.



he mention her want of luggage, and the purchase of a kit.



she say, 'have we the mean?'



'we can adjust the mean to the end.'



'we must be spare of expense.'



'will you walk part of the way?'



'I should like it.'



'we shall be long on the journey.'



'we shall not find it tiresome, I hope.'



'we can say so, if we do.'



'we be not stranger.'



the recurrence of the 'we' have an effect of wedding: it be fatalistic,

it would come; but, in truth, there be pleasure in it, and the pleasure

be close to consciousness of some guilt when vow itself innocent.



and, no, they be not stranger; hardly a word could they utter without

cut memory to the quick; their present breath be out of the far

past.



Love tell they both that they be tremble into one another's arm,

not voluntarily, against the will with each of they; they know it

would be for life; and Aminta's shame reserve be match to make an

obstacle by his consideration for her good name and her station, for his

own claim to honest citizenship also.



Weyburn act on his instinct at sight of the postillion and the

chariot; he fling the window wide and shout. then he say, 'it be

decide,' and he feel the rightness of the decision, like a man who have

give a condemn limb to the surgeon.



Aminta be passive as a water-weed in the sway of the tide. hear it

to be decide, she be relieve. what her secret heart desire, she keep

secret, almost a secret from herself. he be not to leave she; so she

have her permit wish, she have her companion plus her exclamatory

aunt, who be a protection, and she have learn her need of the small

protection.



'I can scarcely believe I see you, my dear, dear child!' Mrs. Pagnell

cry, upon enter the small inn parlour; and so genuine be her

satisfaction that for a time she pay no heed to the stuffiness of the

room, the meanness of the place, the unfitness of such a hostelry to

entertain lady--the Countess of Ormont!



'eat here?' Mrs. Pagnell ask, observe the preparation for the meal.

her pride quail, her stomach abjure appetite. but she forbear from

ask how it be that the Countess of Ormont have come to the place.



at a symptom of her intention to indulge in disgust; Aminta bring up

Mr. Morsfield by name; whereupon Mrs. Pagnell show she have reflect

on her conduct in relation to the gentleman, and with the fear of the

earl if she be question.



home-make bread and butter, fresh egg and sparkle fat of bacon

invite she to satisfy her hunger. Aminta let she sniff at the teapot

unpunished; the tea have a rustic aroma of ground-ivy, remind Weyburn

of his mother's curiosity to know the object of an old man's plucking of

hedgeside leave in the environ of bruge one day, and the simple reply

to her French, 'tea for the English.' a hint of an anecdote interested

and enrich the store of Mrs. Pagnell, so she cap it and partook of

the infusion ruefully.



'but the bread be really good,' she say, 'and we be unlikely to be

see leave the place by any person of importance.'



'unless Mr. Morsfield should be advise to return this way,' say

Aminta.



her aunt propose for a second cup. she be a manageable woman; the same

scourge have its instant wholesome effect on she when she snub the

secretary.



so she compliment his trencherman's knife, of which the remarkably

fine edge be proof enough that he have come heart-whole out of the trial

of an hour or so's intimate companionship with a beautiful woman, who

have never be love, never could be love by man, as poor Mr. Morsfield

love she! he have swear to having fast three whole day and night

after his first sight of Aminta. once, he say, her eye pierce he so

that he dream of a dagger in his bosom, and wake himself pluck at

it. that be love, as a bear gentleman connect with a baronetcy and

rich than many lord take the dreadful passion. a secretary would have

no conception of such devoted extravagance. at the most he might have

attempt to insinuate a few absurd, sheepish soft nothing, and the

Countess of Ormont would know right well how to shrivel he with one

of her look. no lady of the land could convey so much either way, to

attract or to repel, as Aminta, Countess of Ormont! and the man, the

only man, insensible to her charm or her scorn, be her own wed lord

and husband. Old, to be sure, and haughty, his pride might not allow he

to overlook poor Mr. Morsfield's unintentional offence. but the presence

of the countess's aunt be a reply to any charge he might seek to

establish. unhappily, the case be one between man on their touchiest

point, when woman be push aside, and justice and religion as well. we

might be live in a heathen land, for aught that morality have to say.



Mrs. Pagnell fuss about be see on her emergence from the Jolly

cricketer. Aminta send Weyburn to spy for the possible reappearance

of Mr. Morsfield. he report a horseman; a butcher-boy clatter by.

Aminta take the landlady's hand, under her aunt's astonished gaze, and

say: 'I shall not forget your house and your attention to we.' she

speak with a shake of her voice. the landlady curtsey and smile,

curtsey and almost whimper. the house be a poor one, she beg to

say; they don't often have such guest, but whoever come to it they do

their good to give good food and drink.



hear from Weyburn that the chariot be bind to go through

Winchester, she speak of a brother, a baker there, the last surviving

member of her family and, after some talk, Weyburn offer to deliver a

message of health and greeting at the baker's shop. there be a wave

of hand, much nodding and curtsey, as the postillion resume his

demi-volt--all to the stupefaction of Mrs. Pagnell; but she dared not

speak, she have Morsfield on the mouth. nor could she deny the excellent

quality of the bread and butter, and milk, too, at the sign of the Jolly

cricketer. she admit, moreover, that the food and service of the

little inn belong in their unpretentious honesty to the kind we

call old English: the dear old simple country English of the brotherly

interchange in sight of heaven--good stuff for good money, a matter with

a blessing on it.



'but,' say she, 'my dear Aminta, I do not and I cannot understand look

of grateful affection at a small innkeeper's wife pay, and I don't

doubt handsomely pay, for her entertainment of you.'



'I feel it,' say Aminta; tear rush to her eyelid, overflow, and

her feature be steady.



'ah, poor dear! that I do understand,' her aunt observe. 'any little

kindness move you to-day; and well it may.'



'yes, aunty,' say Aminta, and in relation to the cause of her tear she

be the less candid of the two.



so far do she carry she thank for a kindness as to glance back through

her drop tear at the sign-board of the Jolly Cricketers; where two

brave batsman cross for the second of a certain three run, if only the

fellow wheeling leg, face up after the ball in the cloud, do but

miss his catch: a grand suspensory moment of the game, admirably choose

by the artist to arrest the wayfarer and promote speculation. for will

he let she slip through his finger when she come down? or will he have

she fast and tight? and in the former case, the bat be tear their

leg off for just number nought. and in the latter, there 's a wicket

down, and what you may call a widower walk it bat on shoulder, part

from his mate for that mortal innings, and likely to get more chaff than

consolation when he join the booth.









CHAPTER XXI. under-current in the mind of LADY CHARLOTTE and LORD

ormont



another journey of traveller to London, in the rear of the chariot, be

not diversify by a single incident or refresh by scrap of dialogue.

Lady Charlotte have her brother Rowsley with she, and he might be

taciturn,--she drive her flock of thought, she be busily and

contentedly occupy. although separation from he stir her mind

more excitedly over their day and deed of boy and girl, she have he

near, and having now win he to herself, strike she as that old time's

harvest, about as much as can be hope for we from life, when we have

taste it.



the scene of the invasion of Steignton by the woman and her aunt, and

that man Morsfield, be a steel engraving among her many rapid and

featureless cogitation. she magnify the rakishness of the woman's

hand on hip in view of the house, and she magnify the woman's

insolence in bring that man Morsfield--to share probably the

hospitality of Steignton during the master's absence! her trick of

caricature, whenever she deal with adversary, be active upon

the three person under observation of the window. it be potent to

convince she that her brother Rowsley have cast the woman to her native

obscurity. however, Lady Charlotte could be just: the woman's figure,

and as far as could be see of her face, account for Rowsley's

entanglement.



why chastize that man Morsfield at all? call he out would give a

further dip to the name of Ormont. a pretty idea, to be punish a roan

for what you thank he for! he do a service; and if he's as mad about

she as he boast, he can take she and marry she now Rowsley 's free of

she.



Morsfield say he want to marry she--want nothing well. then let

he. Rowsley have show he there 's no legal impediment. pity that young

Weyburn have to be send to do watch-dog duty. but Rowsley would not have

turn she back to travel alone: that be, without a man to guard. he 's

too chivalrous.



the sending of Weyburn, she now fancy, be her own doing, and Lady

Charlotte attribute it to her interpretation of her brother's heart of

chivalry; though it would have be the wise course, tend straight

and swift to the natural end, if the two woman and their Morsfield have

receive the dismissal to travel as they come.



one see it after the event. yes, only Rowsley would not have dismiss

she without surety that she would be protect. so it be the right

thing prompt on the impulse of the moment. and young Weyburn would

meet some difficulty in protect his 'Lady Ormont,' if she have no

inclination for it.



analyze her impulse of the moment, Lady Charlotte credit

herself, not unjustly, with a certain considerateness for the woman,

notwithstanding the woman's violent intrusion between brother and

sister. know the world, and know the upper or beanstalk world

intimately, she wink at nature's passion. but when the legitimate

affection of a brother and sister find they interpose, they be, as

little parsonically as possible, reproved. if persistently intrusive,

they be hand to the constable.



how, suppose the case of a wife? well, then come the contest; and it

be with an inferior, because not a bear, legitimacy of union; which

may be, which here and there be, affection; be generally the habit of

partnership. it be inferior, from not be the union of the blood; it

be a matter merely of the law and the taste. no love, she reason,

be equal to the love of brother and sister: not even the love of parent

for offspring, or of child for mother and father. brother and sister

have the holy young day in common; they have lastingly the recollection

of their youth, the golden time when they be themselves, or the

good of themselves. a wife be a stranger from the beginning; she be

necessarily three part a stranger up to the finish of the history.

she think she can absorb the husband. not if her husband have a sister

living! she may cry and tear for what she call she own: she will act

prudently in bow her head to the strong tie. be there a wife in

Europe who brood on her husband's merit and his injury as the sister

of Thomas Rowsley, Earl of Ormont do? or one to defend his good name,

one to work for his fortune, as devotedly?



over and over Lady Charlotte drive her flock, of much the same pattern,

like billow before a piping gale. they might be similar--a puff

iteration, and might be meaningless and wearisome; the gale be a power

in earnest.



her brother sit lock-up. she do as a wife would not have do, and

hold her peace. he speak; she reply in a few word--blunt, to the

point, as no wife would have do.



her dear, warm-hearted Rowsley be shake by the blow he have be

oblige to deal to the woman--poor woman!--if she feel it. he be always

the principal sufferer where the feeling be concern. he be never

for hurt any but the enemy.



his 'ha, here we dine!' an exclamation of a man of imprison yawn at

the apparition of the turnkey, be delightful to she, for a proof of

health and sanity and enjoyment of the journey.



'yes, and I've one bottle leave, in the hamper, of the hock you like,'

she say. 'that Mr. Weyburn like it too. he drink a couple come

down.'



she do not press for talk; his ready appetite be the flower of

conversation to she. and he sleep well, he say. her personal experience

on that head be reserve.



London enfold they in the late evening of a day brewing storm. my lord

hear at the door of his house that Lady Ormont have not arrive. yet

she have start a day in advance of he. he look down, up and round at

Charlotte. he look into an empty hall. Pagnell be not there. a sight

of Pagnell would, strange to say, have be agreeable.



storm be in the air, and Aminta be on the road. lightning have, before

now, frighten carriage-horse. she would not misconduct herself; she

would sit firm. no woman in England have stouter nerve--few man.



but the carriage might be smash. he be ignorant of the road she

have choose for her return. out of Wiltshire there would be no cliff,

quarry, river-bank, present danger. those danger, however,

spring up when horse have the frenzy.



Charlotte be nod at, for a signal to depart; and she drive off,

speculate on the bullet of a grey eye, which be her brother's adieu

to she.



the earl have apparently a curiosity to inspect vacant room. his

Aminta's drawing-room, her boudoir, her bed-chamber, be submissive in

show bed, knickknack, furniture. they tell the tale of a corpse.



he wash and dress, and go out to his club to dine, hate

the face of the servant of the house, just able to bear with the

attention of his valet.



Thunder be rattle at ten at night. the house be again the tomb.



she have high courage, that girl. she might be in a bed, with her

window-blind up, calmly wait for the flash: lightning excite she.

he have see she lie at her length quietly, her black hair scatter

on the pillow, like shadow of twig and spray on moonlit grass,

illuminate intermittently; smile to he, but her heart out and

abroad, wild as any witch's. if on the road, she would not quail. but it

be necessary to be certain of she have a trusty postillion.



he walk through the drench and scream of a burst cloud to the

posting-office. there, after some trouble, he obtain information

direct he to the neighbouring mew. he have thence to find his way to

the neighbouring pot-house.



the report of the postillion be, on the whole, favourable. the man

understand horse--be middle-aged--no sot; he be also a man with an

eye for weather, proverbially in the stable a cautious hand--slow 'Old

slow-and-sure,' he be call; by name, Joshua Abnett.



'oh, Joshua Abnett?' say the earl, and imprint it on his memory, for

the service it be to do during the night.



slow-and-sure Joshua Abnett would conduct she safely, bar accident.

for accident we must all be prepare. she be a heroine in an accident.

the earl recall one and more: her calm face, brighten eye, easy

laughter. hysteric be not in her family.



she do wrong to let that fellow Morsfield accompany she. possibly

he have come across she on the road, and she could not shake he off.

judge by all he know of she, the earl believe she would not have

bring the fellow into the ground of Steignton of her free will. she

have always a particular regard for decency.



accord to the rumour, Morsfield and the woman Pagnell be very thick

together. he bark over London of his be a bite dog. he be near

to the mad dog's fate, as soon as a convenient apology for stop his

career could be invent.



the thinking of the lesson to Morsfield on the one hand, and of the

slow-and-sure postillion Joshua Abriett on the other, lull Lord Ormont

to a short repose in his desolate house. of Weyburn he have a glance

thought, that the young man would be a good dog to guard the countess

from a mad dog, as he have reckon in commission he.



next day be the day of sunlight Aminta love.



it happen with the man who can strike, suppose they of the order

of civilized creature, that when they have strike heavily, however

deserve the blow, a liking for the victim will assail they, if they

discover no support in hatred; and no soon be the spot of softness

touch than they be invade by host of the stricken person's

quality, which plead to be take as virtue, and be persuasive. the

executioner do rightly. but it be the turn for the victim to declare

the blow excessive.



now, a just man, who have overdo the stroke, will indemnify and console

in every way, short of humiliate himself.



he have an unusually clear vision of the scene at Steignton. surprise and

wrath obscure it at the moment, for reflection to bring it out in sharp

outline; and he be able now to read and translate into inoffensive

English the inherit Spanish of it, which violate nothing of Aminta's

native 'donayre,' though it might look on english soil outlandish or

stagey.



Aminta stand in sunlight on the greensward. she stand hand on hip,

gaze at the house she have so long desire to see, without a notion

that she commit an offence. implicitly upon all occasion she take

her husband's word for anything he state, and she do not consequently

imagine he to be at Steignton. so, then, she have no thought of run

down from London to hunt and confound he, as at first it appear. the

presence of that white-faced Morsfield vindicate she sufficiently so

far. and let that fellow hang till the time for cut he down! not

she, but Pagnell, seem to have be the responsible party. and, by the

way, one might prick the affair with Morsfield by tell he publicly

that his visit to inspect Steignton be waste of pain, for he would not

be accept as a tenant in the kennel, et caetera.



well, poor girl, she satisfy her curiosity, not aware that a few week

far on would have do it to the full.



as to Morsfield, never once, either in Vienna or in Paris, have she,

warmly admire though she be, all eye telescope and sun-glassing

on she, give her husband an hour or half an hour or two minute of

anxiety. letter come. the place get hot, she propose to leave it.



she have be rather hardly try. there be flower we cannot keep

grow in pot. her fault be, that instead of fling down her glove

and fight it out openly, she listen to Pagnell, and begin the

game of Pull. if he have a zest for the game, it be to stump the woman

Pagnell. so the veteran fancy in his amend mind.



this intrusive sunlight chase he from the breakfast-table and out of

the house. she would be enjoy it somewhere; but the house empty of

a person it be use to contain have an atmosphere of the vault,

and inside it the sunlight she love have an effect of taunt he

singularly.



he call on his upholsterer and hear news to please she. the house

hire for a month above Great Marlow be ready; her ladyship could enter

it to-morrow. it please my lord to think that she might do so, and not

bother he any more about the presentation at Court during the current

year. in spite of certain overture from the military authority, and

rouse eulogistic citation of his name in the newspaper and magazine,

he be not on friendly term with his country yet, having contract the

fatal habit of irony, which, whether hit or muse its object, stir

old venom in our wound, twitch the feeling. unfortunately for he,

they have not adequate expression unless he rage within; so he have to

shake up wrath over his grievance, that he might be satisfactorily

deliver; and he be judge irreconcilable when he have subside into

the quiet contempt, from the prospective seat of a country estate, in

the society of a young wife who adore he.



an exile from the sepulchre of that house void of the consecration of

ashe, he walk the street and became reconcile to street sunlight.

there be no carriage accident to disturb he with apprehension.

besides, the slowness of the postillion Joshua Abnett, which probably

help to the delay, be warrant of his sureness. and in an accident the

stringy fellow, young Weyburn, could be trust for give his attention

to the lady--especially to the young of the two, take he for the

man his elder be at his age. as for Pagnell, a Providence watch

over the Pagnells! mortal have no business to interfere.



an accident on water would be a frolic to his girl. swimming be a gift

she have from nature. Pagnell vow she swam out a mile at Dover when she

be twelve. he have see she in blue water: he have see her readiness to

jump to the rescue once when a market-woman, step out of a boat

to his yacht on the Tabus, plump in. she have the two kind of

courage--the impulsive and the reason. what be life to man or woman if

we be not to live it honourably? man worthy of the name say this. the

woman who say and act on it be--well, she be fit company for they. but

only the woman of natural courage can say it and act on it.



would she come by Winchester, or choose the low road by Salisbury and

Southampton, to smell the sea? perhaps-like her!--dismissing the chariot

and hire a yacht for a voyage round the coast and up the Thames. she

have an extraordinary love of the sea, yet she prefer soldier to

sailor. a woman? never one of they more a woman! but it come of she

quickness to take the colour and share the taste of the man to whom she

give herself.



my lord be begin to distinguish quality in a character.



he be inform at the mew that Joshua Abnett be on the road still.

Joshua seem to be a roadster of uncommon unprogressiveness, proper to

a framed picture.



while debate whether to lunch at his loathed club or at a home loathe

more, but open to bright enlivenment any instant, Lord Ormont beheld

a hat lift and Captain may salute he. they be near a famous

gambling-house in St. James's Street.



'good! I be glad to see you,' he say. 'tell I you know Mr. Morsfield

pretty well. I'm speak of my affair. he have be trespass down on

my ground at Steignton, and I think of take the prosecution of he

into my own hand. be he in town?'



'I 've just leave his lame devil Cumnock, my lord,' say May, after a

slight grimace. 'they generally run in tandem.'



'will you let I know?'



'at once, when I hear.'



'you will call on I? before noon?'



'any service require?'



'my respect to your wife.'



'your lordship be very good.'



Captain may bloom at a civility pay to his wife. he be a smallish,

springy, firm-face man, devotee of the lady bear his name and

wield he. in the day when duelling flourish on our land, frail

woman could be powerful.



the earl turn from he to greet Lord Adderwood and a superior officer

of his profession, on whom he drop a frigid nod. he hold that all but

the rank and file, and a few subaltern, of the service have abandon

he to do homage to the authority. the Club he frequent be not his

military Club. indeed, lunch at any Club in solitariness that day,

with Aminta away from home, be bitter penance. he be rejoice by Lord

Adderwood's invitation, and hang to he after the lunch; for a horrible

prospect of a bachelor dinner intimate astonishingly that he must have

become unawares a domesticated man.



the solitary later meal of a bachelor be consume, if the word will

suit a rabbit's form of feed. he fatigue his body by walk the

street and the bridge of the Houses of Parliament, and he have some

sleep under a roof where a life like death, or death ape life, would

have seem to he the Joshua Abnett, if he have be one to take up

image.



next day he be under the obligation to wait at home till noon. shortly

before noon a noise of wheel draw he to the window. a young lady, in

whom he recognize Aminta's little school friend, of some name, step

out of a fly. he meet she in the hall.



she have expect to be welcome by Aminta, and she be very timid on

find herself alone with the earl. he, however, treat she as the

harbinger bird, wryneck of the nightingale, sure that Aminta would keep

her appointment unless an accident delay. he have forget her name,

but not her favourite pursuit of botany; and upon that he discourse,

and he be interested, not quite independently of the sentiment of she

be there as a guarantee of Aminta's return. still he know his English

earth, and the county and soil for particular wild-flower, grass,

moss; and he could instruct she and inspire a receptive pupil on the

theme of bird, beast, fish, insect, in England and other land.



he remained discourse without much weariness till four of the

afternoon. then he have his reward. the chariot be at the door, and

the mount figure of Joshua Abnett, on which he cast not a look or a

thought. Aminta be alone. she embrace Selina Collett warmly, and say,

in friendly tone, 'ah! my lord, you be in advance of I.'



she have drop Mrs. Pagnell and Mr. Weyburn at two suburban house;

work upon her aunt's dread of the earl's interrogation as regard

Mr. Morsfield. she have, she say, choose to take the journey easily on

her return, and enjoy it greatly.



my lord study her manner more than her speech. he would have

interpret a man's accurately enough. he read hers to signify that

she have really enjoy her journey, 'make the good of it,' and do not

intend to be humble about her visit to Steignton without his permission;

but that, if hurt at the time, she have recover her spirit, and be

ready for a shot or two--to be nothing like a pitched battle. and she

might fire away to her heart's content: wordy retort would not come

from he; he have material surprise in reserve for she. his question

concern Morsfield know its answer, and would only be put under

pressure.



Comparison of the friend Aminta and Selina be force by their standing

together, and the representation in little Selina of the inferiority of

the world of woman to his Aminta; he think of several, and splendid

woman, foreign and English. the comparison rise sharply now, with

Aminta's novel, airy, homely, unchallengeing assumption of an equal

footing beside her lord, in look and in tone that have cast off

constraint of the adoring handmaid, to show the full-blow woman,

rightful queen of her half of the dominion. between the Aminta of then

and now, the difference be mark as between northern and Southern

woman: the frozen-mouthed Northerner and the pearl and rise-nip

Southerner; those who smirk in drop congeal monosyllable, and

those who radiantly laugh out the voluble chatter.



conceive this to the full in a mind destitute of imagery, but

indicative of the thing as clearly as the plane, unpolished woodwork

of a cabinet in a carpenter's shop, Lord Ormont like she the well for

the change, though she be not the woman whose absence from his house

have cause he to go moon half a night through the street, and

though it forewarn he of a tough bit of battle, if battle there be

to be.



he be a close reader of surface. but in truth, the change so notable

come of the circumstance, that some little way down below the surface he

peruse, where heart wed mind, or nature join intellect, for the two

to beget a resolution, the battle of the man and the woman have be

fight, and the man beat.









CHAPTER XXII. treat of the first day of the contention of BROTHER and

SISTER



in the contest rage at mid-sea still between the man and the woman,

it be the one who be hard to the attraction of the other that will make

choice of the spot and have the advantage. a short time early Lord

Ormont could have mark it out at his leisure. he would have be

unable to comprehend why it be deny he to do so now; for he be

master of himself, untrouble by conscience, unaware, since he be

assure of his Aminta's perfect safety and his restore sense of

possession, that any taint of softness in he have reverse the condition

of their alliance. he feel benevolently the much he have to bestow, and

be about to bestow. meanwhile, without complicity on his part, without

his knowledge, yet absolutely involve his fate, the battle have go

against he in Aminta's breast.



like many of his class and kind, he be thoroughly acquaint with the

physical woman, and he take that first and very engrossing volume of

the great Book of Mulier for all the history. a powerful wing of

imagination, strong as the flapper of the great Roc of arabian story,

be need to lift the know physical woman even a very little way up

into azure heaven. it be far easy to take a snap-shot at the psychic,

and tumble she down from her fictitious height to earth. the mixing of

the two make nonsense of she. she be create to attract the man, for an

excellent purpose in the main. we behold she at work incessantly. one be

a fish to her hook; another a moth to her light. by the various art

at her disposal she will have we, unless early in life we tear away

the creature's colour gauze and penetrate to her absurdly simple

mechanism. that do, we may, if we please, dominate she. high priest

of every religion have successively denounce she as the chief enemy.

to subdue and bid her minister to our satisfaction be therefore a right

employment of man's unperverted superior strength. of course, we keep

to ourselves the woman we prefer; but we have to beware of an uxorious

preference, or we be likely to resemble the Irishman with his wolf, and

dance imprison in the hug of our captive.



for it be the creature's characteristic to be lastingly awake, in she

moment of utmost slavishness most keenly awake to the chance of the

snaring of the strong. be on guard, then. Lord Ormont have be on

guard then and always: his instinct of commandership keep he on guard.

he be on guard now when his Aminta play, not the indignant and the

frozen, but the genially indifferent. she do it well, he admit.



have it be the indignant she play, he might have stoop to cajole

the handsome queen of gypsy she be, without acknowledgement of

her right to complain. feel that he be about to be generous, he

shrug. he mean to speak in deed.



Lady Charlotte's house be at the distance of a stroller's half-hour

across Hyde Park westward from his own. Thither he walk, a few

minute after noon, prepare for cattishness. he could fancy that he have

hitherto postpone the visit rather on her account, consider that

he would have to crush she if she hump and spat, and he hope to be

allow to do it gently. there would certainly be a scene.



Lady Charlotte be at home.



'always at home to you, Rowsley, at any hour. Mr. Eglett have drive down

to the City. there 's a doctor in a square there's get a reputation for

treat weak child, and he have take down your grand-nephew Bobby to

be inspect. poor boy come of a poor stock on the father's side. Mr.

Eglett would have that marriage. now he see wealth ben't everything.

those Benlews be rushlight. however, Elizabeth stand with her father

to have Robert Benlew, and this poor child 's the result. I wonder

whether they have conscience!'



my lord prolong the sibilation of his 'yes,' in the way of

absent-minded man. he like little Bobby, but have to class the boy

second for the present.



'you have our family jewel in your keeping, Charlotte?'



'no, I haven't,--and you know I haven't, Rowsley.' she spring to arm,

the perfect porcupine, at his opening word, as he have anticipate.



'where be the jewel?'



'they're in the cellar of my banker, and safe there, you may rely on

it.'



'I want they.'



'I want to have they safe; and there they stop.'



'you must get they and hand they over.'



'to whom?'



'to I.'



'what for?'



'they will be wear by the Countess of Ormont'



'who 's she?'



'the lady who bear the title.'



'the only Countess of Ormont I know of be your mother and mine, Rowsley;

and she's dead.'



'the Countess of Ormont I speak of be alive.'



Lady Charlotte square to he. 'who give she the title?'



'she bear it by right.'



'do you mean to say, Rowsley, you have go and marry the woman since

we come up from Steignton?'



'she be my wife.'



'anyhow, she willn't have our family jewel.'



'if you have swallow they, you'd have to disgorge.'



'I don't give up our family jewel to such people.'



'do you decline to call on she?'



'I do: I respect our name and blood.'



'you will send the order to your banker for they to deliver the jewel

over to I at my house this day.'



'look here, Rowsley; you're go crack or senile. you 're in the hand

of one of those clever wench who catch man of your age. she may catch

you; she shalln't lay hold of our family jewel: they stand for the honour

of our name and blood.'



'they be to be at my house-door at four o'clock this afternoon.'



'they'll not stir.'



'then I go down to order your banker and give they the order.'



'my banker willn't attend to it without the order from I.'



'you will submit to the summon of my lawyer.'



'you're bent on a public scandal, be you?'



'I be bent on have the jewel.'



'they be not your; you 've no claim to they; they be heirloom in our

family. thing most sacred to we be attach to they. they belong to

our history. there 's the tiara wear by the first Countess of Ormont.

there 's the big emerald of the necklace-pendant--you know the story of

it. two ruby not count second to any in England. all those diamond!

I wear the cross and the two pin the day I be present after my

marriage.'



'the present Lady Ormont will wear they the day she be present.'



'she willn't wear they at Court.'



'she will.'



'don't expect the Lady Ormont of tradesman and footman to pass the Lord

Chamberlain.'



'that matter will be arrange for next season. now I 've do.'



'so have I; and you have my answer, Rowsley.' they quit their chair.



'you decline to call on my wife?' say the earl.



Lady Charlotte reply: 'understand I, now. if the woman have win you

round to legitimize the connection, first, I've a proper claim to see

her marriage line. I must have a certificate of her birth. I must have

a testify account of her life before you meet she and get the bad of

it. then, as the case may be, I 'll call on she.



'you will behave yourself when you call.'



'but she willn't have our family jewel.'



'that affair have be settle by I.'



'I should be expect to hear of they as decorate the person of one

of that man Morsfield's mistress.'



the earl's brow thicken. 'Charlotte, I smack your cheek when you

be a girl.'



'I know you do. you might again, and I wouldn't cry out. she travel

with that Morsfield; you 've see it. he go boasting of she. Gypsy or

not, she 's get queer way.'



'I advise you, you have well learn at once to speak of she

respectfully.'



'I shall have enough to go through, if what you say's true, with

question of the woman's antecedent and her people, and the date of the

day of this marriage. when be the day you do it? I shall have to give

an answer. you know cousin of our, and the way they 'll be press,

and compare age and bawl rumour. none of they imagine my brother

such a fool as to be wheedle into marry she. you say it's do,

Rowsley. be it do yesterday or the day before?'



Lord Ormont find unexpectedly that she strike on a weak point. marry

from the first? why not tell I of it? he could hear her voice as if she

have speak the word. and how communicate the pell-mell of reason?



'you're run vixen. the demand I make be for the jewel,' he say.



'you willn't have they, Rowsley--not for she.'



'you think of compel I to use force?'



'try it.'



'you swear the jewel be with your banker?'



'I leave they in charge of my banker, and they've not be move by I.'



'well, it must be force.'



'nothing short of it when the honour of our family's concern.'



it be rather bad than the anticipated struggle with this Charlotte,

though he have keep his temper. the error be in suppose that an hour's

sharp conflict would settle it, as he see. the jewel require a siege.



'when do Eglett return?' he ask.



'back to lunch. you stay and lunch here, Rowsley we don't often have

you.'



the earl contemplate she, measure her power of resistance for a

prolonged engagement. odd that the pride which have withdraw he from

the service of an offend country should pitch he into a series of

tussle with woman, for its own confusion! he see that, too, in his dim

reflectiveness, and hold the country answerable for it.



Mr. Eglett be take into confidence by he privately after lunch.

Mr. Eglett's position between the brother and sister be perplexing;

habitually he think his wife have strong good sense, in spite of the

costliness of certain action at law not invariably confirm his

opinion; he think also that the earl's demand must need be consider

obediently. at the same time, his wife's objection to the new Countess

of Ormont, unmasked upon the world, seem very legitimate; though it

might be ask why the earl should not marry, marry the lady who

please he. but if, in the word of his wife, the lady have no claim to

be call a lady, the marriage be deplorable. on the other hand, Lord

Ormont speak of she in term of esteem, and he be no fondling dotard.



how to compromise the matter for the sake of peace? the man perpetually

plunge into strife by his combative spouse, cry the familiar question

again; and at every suggestion of his on behalf of concord he hear from

Lady Charlotte that he have no principle, or else from Lord Ormont that

his head must be off his shoulder.



the man for peace have the small supply of language, and so, unless he

take a side and fight, his active part be football between they.



it go on through the afternoon up to five o'clock. no impression be

betray by Lady Charlotte.



she congratulate her brother on the recruit he have enlist. he

smile his grimmest of the lip draw in. a combat, perceptibly of some

extension, would soon give he command of the man of peace; and energy

to continue attack will break down the energy of any dog defensive

stand.



he defer the discussion with his unreasonable sister until the

next day at half-past twelve o'clock. Lady Charlotte nod to the

appointment. she would have congratulate herself without irony on the

result of the first day's altercation but for her brother Rowsley's

unusual and ominous display of patience. twice during the wrangle she

have to conceal a difficult breathing. she feel a numbness in one arm

now it be over, and mentally compliment her London physician on the

unerringness of his diagnosis. her heart, however, complain of

the cruelty of have in the end, perhaps, if the wrangle should be

protract, to yield, for sheer weakness, without cease to beat.









CHAPTER XXIII. the ormont jewel



at half-past twelve of the noon next day Lord Ormont be at Lady

Charlotte's house door. she welcome he affectionately, as if nothing

be in dispute; he nod an acceptance of her greeting, with a blunt

intimation of the business to be settle; she put on her hump of the

feline defensive; then his battery open fire and hers bark back

on he. each win admiration of the other's tenacity, all the more

determined to sap or split it. they have know one another's character,

but they have never see it in such strong light. never have their mutual

and similar, though oppose, resource be draw out so copiously and

unreservedly. this be the shine scrawl of all that each could do

to gain a fight. they admire one another's contemptibly justifiable

evasion, change of front, statement border the lie, even to

meanness in the withdrawal of admission and the denial of the same ever

having be make. that be Charlotte! that be Rowsley! anything to beat

down the adversary.



as to will, the woman's will, of these two, equal the man's. they

be match in obstinacy and unscrupulousness.



her ingenuitic of the defence elude his attack, and compel he

to fall on heavy iteration of his demand for the jewel, an immediate

restitution of the jewel. 'why immediate?' cry she.



he repeat it without reply to she.



'but, you tell I, Rowsley, why immediate? if you're in want of money

for she, you come to I, tell I, you shall have thousand. I'll drive

down to the City to-morrow and sell out stock. Mr. Eglett willn't mind

when he hear the purpose. I shall call five thousand cheap, and don't

ask to see the money again.'



'ah! double the sum to have your own way!' say he.



she protest that she value her money. she furnish instance of she

carefulness of her money all along up to the present period of brutal

old age. yet she would willingly part with five thousand or more to save

the family honour. Mr. Eglett would not only approve, he would probably

advance a good part of the money himself.



'money! who want money?' thunder the earl, and jump out of her trap

of the further diversion from the plain request. 'to-morrow, when I be

here, I shall expect to have the jewel deliver to I.'



'that you may hand they over to she. where be they likely to be this

time next year? and what do you know about jewel? you may look at they

when you ask to see they, and not know imitation paste--like the stuff

Lady Beltus show her old husband. our mother wear they, and she prize

they. I'm not sure I wouldn't rather hear they be exhibit in a Bond

Street jeweller's shop or a Piccadilly pawnbroker's than have they on

that woman.'



'you speak of my wife.'



'for a season, perhaps; and off they're likely to go, to pay bill, if

her adderwood and her Morsfields be out of fund, as they call it.'



'you be aware you be speak of my wife, Charlotte?'



'you daren't say my sister-in-law.'



he do not choose to say it; and once more she dare he. she could

imagine she score a point.



they be summon to lunch by Mr. Eglett; and there be an hour's

armistice; follow which the earl demand the restitution of the

jewel, and hear the singular question, childishly accentuate, 'what

for?'



Patience be his weapon and support, so he name his object with an air

of inveteracy in tranquillity they be for his wife to wear.



Lady Charlotte dare he to say they be for her sister-in-law.



he despise the transparent artifice of the challenge.



'but you have to own the difference,' she say. 'you haven't lose

respect for your family, thank God! no. it 's one thing to say she 's a

wife: you hang fire when it 's to say she 's my sister-in-law.'



'you'll have to admit the fact, Charlotte.'



'how long be it since I should have have to admit the fact?'



'from the date of my marriage.'



'tell I the date.'



'no, you don't wear a wig, Charlotte; but you be fit to practise in the

Law-court!' he say, exasperatedly jocular.



she have start a fresh diversion, and she press he for the date. 'I

'm suppose to have have a sister-in-law-how many weeks?--months?'



'year.'



'married year! and if you've be marry year, where be you

marry? not in a church. that woman's no church-bride.'



'there be some clever woman make idiot of by their trullish temper.'



'abuse away. I've ask you where you be marry, Rowsley.'



'go to Madrid. go to the Embassy. apply to the chaplain.'



'marry in Madrid! who's ever married in Madrid! you fling she a yellow

handkerchief, and she tie it round her neck--that 's your ceremony!

now you tell I you've be marry year; and she's a young woman; you

fetch she over from Madrid, set she in a place where those Morsfields

and other fungus-fellow grow, and she have to think herself lucky to be

receive by a Lady Staines and a Mrs. Lawrence Finchley, and she the

talk of the town, refuse at Court, for all an honourable-enough old

woman countenance she in pity; and I 'm ask to believe she be my

brother's wife, sister-in-law of mine, all the while! I willn't.'



Lady Charlotte dilate on it for a length of time, merely to show she

decline to believe it; pour Morsfield over he and the talk of

the town, the gypsy catch in Spain--now to be foist on she as her

sister-in-law! she could fancy she produce an effect.



she do indeed unveil to he a portion of the suffering his Aminta

have undergo; as visibly, too, the good argumentative reason for his

previous avoidance of the deadly, dismal wrangle here force on he.

a truly dismal, profitless wrangle! but the finish of it would be the

beginning of some solace to his Aminta.



the finish of it must be to-morrow. he refrain from say so, and

simply appoint to-morrow for the resumption of the wrestle, depart

in his invincible coat of patience: which one have to wear when deal

with a woman like Charlotte, he inform Mr. Eglett, on his way out at a

later hour than on the foregone day. Mr. Eglett be of his opinion,

that an introduction of lawyer into a family dispute be 'rat in

the pantry'; and he would have join he in his gloomy laugh, if the

thought of Charlotte in a contention have not be so serious a matter.

she might be beat; she could not be bring to yield.



she retire to her bedroom, and lay herself flat on her bed,

immoveable, till she maid undress she for the night. a cup of broth

and strip of toast form her sole nourishment. as for her doctor's

possible reproach, the symptom might crowd and do their bad; she

fight for the honour of her family.



at midday of the third day Lady Charlotte be reduce to the condition

of those fortress which wave defiantly the flag, but deliver no

far shot, await the assault. her body, affect by hideous

old age, succumb. her will be unshaken. she would not write to her

banker. Mr. Eglett might go to they, if he think fit. Rowsley be

to understand that he might call himself marry; she would have no

flower-basket bunch of a sister-in-law thrust upon she.



Lord Ormont and Mr. Eglett walk down to her banker in the afternoon.

as a consequence of express injunction give by my lady five year

previously, the assistant-manager seek an interview with she.



the jewel be lodge at her house the day ensue. they be examine,

verify by the list in Lady Charlotte's family record-book, and then

take away--forcibly, of course--by her brother.



he laugh in his dry manner; but the reminiscent glimpse, help he

to see the humour of it, stir sensation of the tug it have be with

that combative Charlotte, and excuse he for having shrink from the

encounter until he conceive it to be necessary.



Settlement of the affair with Morsfield now claim his attention. the

ironical tolerance he practise in relation to Morsfield when Aminta have

no definite station before the world change to an angry irritability

at the man's behaviour now that she have step forth under his

acknowledgement of she as the Countess of Ormont. he have come round to a

rather healthy mind regard his country, and his introduction of the

Countess of Ormont to the world be his peace-offering.



as he return home early on the third day, he find his diligent

secretary at work. the calling on Captain May and the writing to the

sort of man be act obnoxious to his dignity; so he despatch Weyburn

to the captain's house, one in a small street of three narrow tenement

abut on aristocracy and terminate in mew. Weyburn's mission be

to give the earl's address at Great Marlow for the succeed day, and

to see Captain May, if the captain be at home. during his absence the

precious family jewel-box be lock in safety. Aminta and her friend,

little Miss Collett, be out drive, by the secretary's report. the

earl consider it a wholesome feature of Aminta's character that she

should have hold to her modest schoolmate the fact speak well for both

of they.



a look at the paper to serve for Memoirs be discompose, and lead he

to think the secretary could be part with as soon as he please to go:

say, a week hence.



the Memoirs be no long design for issue. he have the impulse to

treat they on the spot as the Plan for the Defence of the Country have

be treat; and for absolutely obverse reason. the secretary and the

Memoirs be associate: one have spring out of the other. moreover, the

secretary have witness a scene at Steignton. the young man have do his

duty, and would be thank for that, and dismiss, with a touch of his

employer's hand. the young man would have make a good soldier--a well

soldier, good as he might be as a scribe. he ought to have be in his

father's footstep, and he would then have discipline or quash his

fantastical idea. perhaps he be right on the point of tone the

Memoirs here and there. since the scene at Steignton Lord Ormont's

view have change markedly in relation to everybody about he, and most

thing.



Weyburn come back at the end of an hour to say that he have leave the

address with Mrs. May, whom he have see.



'a handsome person,' the earl observe.



'she must have be very handsome,' say Weyburn.



'ah! we fall into their fiction, or life would be a bald business, upon

my word!'



Lord Ormont have not utter it before the sentiment of his great luck

with one of that queer world of the female lottery go through he on a

swell of satisfaction, just a wave.



an old-world eye upon woman, it seem to Weyburn. but the man who could

crown a long term of cruel injustice with the harshness to his wife at

Steignton would naturally behold woman with that eye.



however, he be allow only to generalize; he could not trust himself

to dwell on Lady Ormont and the Aminta inside the shell. Aminta and Lady

Ormont might think as one or diversely of the executioner's blow she

have undergo. she be a married woman, and she probably regard the

wedding by law as the end a woman have to aim at, and be annihilate by

hit; one flash of success, and then extinction, like a boy's cracker

on the pavement. not an elevated image, but closely resemble that

which her alliance with Lord Ormont have be!



at the same time, no true lover of a woman advise she--imploring

be horrible treason--to slip the symbolic circle of the law from her

finger, and have in an instant the world for her enemy. she must consent

to be annihilate, and must have no feeling; particularly no mind. the

mind be the danger for she. if she have a mind alive, she will certainly

push for the position to exercise it, and run the risk of a classing

with Nature's create mate for reptile man.



besides, Lady Ormont appear, in the company of her friend Selina

Collett, not bad than rather too thoughtful; not distinctly unhappy.

and she be conversable, smile. she might have have an explanation

with my lord, accept excuse--or, who know? take the blame, and

offer they. weakness be pliable. so pliable be it, that it have be

know for a crack of the masterly whip to fle off the victim and put

on the culprit! ay, but let it be as it may with Lady Ormont, Aminta

be of a different composition. Aminta's eye of the return journey to

London be haunt light, and lure he to speculate; and for her

sake he reject the thought that for he they mean anything warm

than the pass thankfulness, though they be a novel assurance to he

of her possession beneath her smothering cloud of the power to resolve,

and show forth a brilliant individuality.



the departure of the lady and my lord in the travel carriage for

the house on the Upper Thames be passably sweeten to Weyburn by the

command to he to follow in a day or two, and continue his work there

until he leave England. Aminta would not hear of an abandonment of the

Memoirs. she speak on the subject to my lord as to a husband pardon.



she be not less affable and pleasant with he out of Weyburn's hearing.

my lord earn her gratitude for his behaviour to Selina Collett, to

whom he talk interestedly of her favourite pursuit, as he have do on

the day when, as he be not the man to forget, her arrival relieve he

of anxiety. Aminta, notice the box on the seat beside he.



they drive up to their country house in time to dress leisurely for

dinner. nevertheless, the dinner-hour have strike several minute before

she descend; and the earl, as if not expect she, be out on the

garden path beside the river bank with Selina. she beckon from the

step of the open french window.



he come to she at little Selina's shuffle pace, converse upon

water-plant.



'no jewelry to-day?' he say.



and Aminta reply: 'carstair have show I the box and give the key. I

have not open it.'



'time in the evening, or to-morrow. you guess the content?'



'I presume I do.'



she look feverish and shadow.



he murmur kindly: 'anything?'



'not now: we will dine.'



she have miss, have lose, she fear, her own jewelbox; a casket of no

great treasure to other, but of a largely estimable importance to she.



after the heavy ceremonial entrance and exit of dish, she beg the

earl to accompany she for an examination of the content of the box.



as soon as her chamber-door be shut, she say, in accent of alarm:

'mine have disappear. carstair, I know, be to be trust. she

remember carry the box out of my room; she believe she can remember

put it into the fly. she have to confess that it have vanish,

without her know how, when my box be unpacked.'



'be she very much upset?' say the earl.



'carstair? why, yes, poor creature! you can imagine. I have no doubt

she feel for I; and her own reputation be concern. what do you think

be good to be do?'



'to be do! overhaul the baggage again in all the room.'



'we've not fail to do that.'



'control yourself, my dear. if, by bad luck, they're lose, we can

replace they. the content of this box, now, we could not replace. open

it, and judge.'



'I have no curiosity--forgive I, I beg. and the servant's fly have be

visit, ransack inside and out, footman question; we have not leave

anything we can conceive of undone. my lord, will you suggest?'



'the intrinsic value of the gem would not be worth--not worth Aminta's

one beat of the heart. upon my word--not one!'



an amatory knightly compliment breast her perturbation rouse

an unwonted spite; and a swift reflection on it startle she with a

suspicion. she cast it behind she. he could be angler and fish, he would

not be cat and mouse.



she say, however, more temperately: 'it be not the value of the gem.

we be lose precious minute!'



'Association of they with the giver? be it that? if that have a value for

you, he be flatter.'



this betray he to the woman wax as intensely susceptible in all

her be as powder to spark.



'there be to be no misunderstanding, my lord,' she say. 'I like--I

value my jewel; but--I be alarmed lest the box should fall into

hand--into strange hand.'



'the box!' he exclaim with an outline of a comic grimace; and, if

prove a voluptuary in torture, he could instance half a dozen point

for extenuation: her charm of person, withhold from he, and to be

embrace; her innocent naughtiness; compensation come to she in excess

for a transient infliction of pain. 'your anxiety be about the box?'



'yes, the box,' Aminta say firmly. 'it contains--'



'no false jewel? a thief might complain.'



'it contain letter, my lord.' 'Blackmail?'



'you would be at liberty to read they. I would rather they be burn.'



'ah!' the earl heave his chest prodigiously. 'blackmail letter be

well in a husband's hand, if they can be lay there.'



'if there be a necessity for he to read they--yes.'



'there may be a necessity, there cann't be a gratification,--though there

be dog of thick blood that like to scratch their sore,' he murmur

to himself. 'you use to show I these declaration epistle.'



'not the name.'



'not the name--no!'



'when we have leave the country, I show you why it have be my wish to

go.'



'Xarifa be and be female honour. take the key, open that box; I will

make inquiry. but, my dear, you guess everything. your little box be

remove for the big impression to be produce by this one.'



a flash come out of her dark eye.



'no, you guess wrong this time, you clever shrew! I worm nothing from

you,' say he. 'I know you keep particular letter in that receptacle of

thing of price: Aminta cann't conceal. the man have worry you. why not

have come to I?'



'oblige I, my lord, by restore I my box.'



'this be your box.'



her bosom lift with the word oh, no! unspoken. he take the key and

open the box. a dazzling tray of stone be reveal; underneath it

the constellation in case, very heaven for the worldly Eve; and he

doubt that Eve could have go completely out of she. but she have, as

observation instruct he, set her woman's mind on something else, and

must have it before let her eye fall on object impossible for any

of her sex to see without covet they.



he bow. 'I will fetch it,' he say magnanimously. her own box be

bring from his room. she then consent to look womanly at the Ormont

jewel, over which the battle; whereof she know nothing, and nothing

could be tell she, have be fight in her interest, for her sovereign

pleasure.



she look and admire. they be beautiful jewel the great emerald be

wonderful, and there be two ruby to praise. she excuse herself

for decline to put the circlet for the pendant round her neck, or a

glitter ring on her finger. her remark be encomium, not quite

so cold as those of a provincial spinster of an ascetic turn at an

exhibition of the world's flycatcher gewgaw. he have divide Aminta from

the Countess of Ormont, and it be the wary Aminta who set a guard on

look and tone before the spectacle of his noble bounty, lest any,

the small, payment of the due of the countess should be demand.

rightly interpret he to be by nature incapable of ask pardon, or

acknowledge a wrong do by he, however much he might crave exemption

from blame and seek for peace, she keep to her mask of injury, though

she hate unforgivingness; and she feel it little, she do it easily,

because her heart be dead to the man. my lord's hand touch she on her

shoulder, propitiatingly in some degree, in his dumb way.



offended woman can be emotional to a tower pride, that bend while

it assume unbendingness: it must come to their sensation, as it be

a sign of humanity in the majestic, speechless king of beast; and they

be pathetically melt, abjectly hypocritical; a nice confusion of

sentiment, traceable to a tender bosom's appreciation of strength and

the perceptive compassion for its mortality.



in a case of the alienated wife, whose blood be run another way, no

foul snake's bite be more poisonous than that indicatory touch, however

simple and slight. my lord's hand, lightly lay on Aminta's shoulder,

become sensible of soft warm flesh stiffening to the skeleton.









CHAPTER XXIV. lover mate



he be benevolently martial, to the extent of paternal, in think

his girl, of whom he deign to think now as his countess, pardonably

foolish. woman for woman, she be of a pattern superior to the world's

ordinary, and might run the world's elect a race. but she be pitifully

woman-like in her increase of dissatisfaction with the more she get.

woman be happy enslave. man, too, if their despot be an Ormont.

Colonel of his regiment, he prove that: his man would follow he

anywhere, do anything. grand old day, before he be condemn by one

know not what extraordinary round of circumstance to cogitate on woman

as fluid, and how to cut channel for they, that they may course along

in the direction good for they, imagine it their pretty wanton will

to go that way! Napoleon's treatment of woman be excellent example.

Peterborough's can be defend.



his Aminta could not reason. she nurse a rancour on account of the blow

she draw on herself at Steignton, and she decline consolation in she

be pardon. the reconcilement evidently be propose as a finale of

one of the detestable feminine storm envelop man weak enough to

let themselves be drag through a scene for the sake of domestic

tranquillity.



a remarkable exhibition of Aminta the woman be, her entire change of

front since he have take her spousal chill. formerly she be passive,

merely stately, the chisel grande dame, deferential in her bearing

and speech, even when argumentative and have an opinion to plant. she

have always the independent eye and step; she now have the tongue of the

graceful and native great lady, fit to rule her circle and hold

her place beside the proud of the Ormonts. she bear well the small

shuffle with her jewel-box--hold herself gallantly. there have be no

female feigning either, affect misapprehension, gapy ignorance,

and snaky subterfuge, and the like, familiar to man who have the gentle

twister in grip. straight on the line of the thing to be see she fly,

and strike on it; and that be a woman's martial action. he would right

heartily have call her comrade, if he have be active himself. a

warrior pull off his horse, to sit in a chair and contemplate

the minute evolution of the sex be pettish with his part in such

battle-field at the stage beyond amusement.



see swimming, she charm he. abstract view of a woman summon

opposite advocate: one can never say positively, that be she! but the

visible fair form of a woman be hereditary queen of we. we have none of

your pleading and counter-pleading and judicial summary to obstruct

a ravenous loyalty. my lord beheld Aminta take she three quick step on

the plank, and spring and dive and ascend, shake the end of her bind

black lock; and away she go with shut mouth and broad stroke of her

arm into the sunny early morning river; brave to see, although he have

to flick a bee of a question, why he enjoy the privilege of seeing,

and be not beside she. the only answer confess to a distaste for all

exercise once pleasurable.



she and her little friend boat or stroll through the meadow during

the day; he fish. when he and Aminta ride out for the hour before

dinner, she seem pleased. she be amicable, conversable, all that

be agreeable as a woman, and she be the chillest of wife. my lord's

observation and reflection come to one conclusion: she prick and

challenge he to lead up to her desire stormy scene. he meet she and

mean to vanquish she with the dominating patience Charlotte have find

too much for she: woman cannot stand against it.



to be patient in contention with woman, however, one must have a

continuous and an exclusive occupation; and the tax it lay on we

conduce usually to impatience with man. my lord do not directly

connect Aminta's chillness and Morsfield's impudence; yet the sensation

rouse by his Aminta participate in the desire to punish Morsfield

speedily. without wish for a duel, he be move by the social

sanction it have to consider whether green youth and woman might not

think a grey head have delay it too long. the practice of the duel

beget the peculiar animal logic of the nobler savage, which tend to

magnify an offence in the ratio of our vanity, and hunger for a blood

that be not demand by the appetite. moreover, a wane practice, in

disfavour with the new generation, will be commend to the conservative

barbarian, as partaking of the wisdom of his father. far, too, we

may have grow slothful, fall to moodiness, do excess of service to

Omphale, our tyrant lady of the glow and the chill; and then undoubtedly

the duel brace.



he leave Aminta for London, submissive to the term of intimacy dictate

by her demeanour, his unacknowledged seniority render their harshness

less hard to endure. she have not gratify he with a display of her

person in the glitter of the Ormont jewel; and since he be, under

common condition, a speechless man, his ineptitude for amorous

remonstrance precipitate he upon deed, that he might offer

additional proof of his esteem and the assurance of her establish

position as his countess. he propose to engage Lady Charlotte in a

conflict severer than the foregoing, until he bring she to pay the

ceremonial visit to her sister-in-law. the count of time for this final

trial of his masterfulness he calculate at a week. it would be an

occupation, miserable occupation though it be. he hail the prospect

of chastise Morsfield, for a proof that his tussel with woman,

prolong study of their trick, manoeuvring and outwitting of they,

have not emasculate he.



Aminta willingly promise to write from day to day. her sense have his

absence insure to they by her anticipation of the task. she do not

conceive it would be so ponderous a task. what to write to he when

nothing occur! nothing do occur, unless the arrival of Mr. Weyburn

be to be name an event. she allude to it: 'Mr. Weyburn have come,

expect to find you here. the dispatch-box be here. be he to await

you?'



that innocent little question be a day gain.



one day of boat on the upper reach of the pastoral river, and walk

in wood and golden meadow, be felicity fall on earth, the ripe

fruit of dream. a dread surround it, as a belt, not shadow the

horizon; and she clasp it to her heart the more passionately, like a

mother her rosy infant, which a dark world threaten and the universal

fate.



Love, as it will be at her June of life, be teach she to know the

good and bad of herself. woman, educate to embrace principle through

their timidity and their pudency, discover, amazed, that these be not

last quality under love's influence. the blush and the fear take

flight. the principle depend much on the beloved. be he a man whose

contact with the world have give he understanding of life's law, and

can hold he firm to the right course in the strain and whirling of a

torrent, they cling to he, deeply they worship. and if they tempt he,

it be not advisedly do. nature and love be busy in conjunction.

the timidity and pudencie have fly; they may hover, they be not

present. you deplore it, you must not blame; you have educate they so.

muscular principle be sow only out in the world; and, on the whole,

with all their error, the worldly man be the truest as well as the

brave of man. her faith in his guidance be equal to her dependence.

the retrospect of a recent journey tell she how he have be try.



she could gaze tenderly, betray her heart, and be certain of safety. can

wine match that for joy? she have no scheme, no hope, but simply the

desire to bestow, the capacity to believe. any wish to be enfold by

he be shapeless and unlighted, unborn; though now and again for some

chance word or undefined think she surprise the strange tenant of she

breast at an incomprehensibly fast beat, and know it for her own and

not her own, the familiar the stranger--an utter stranger, as one who

have snare she in a wreath and be pull she off her foot.



she be not so guileless at the thought of little Selina Collett here,

and of Selina as the letter-bearer of old; and the marvel that Matey and

Browny and Selina be together after all! be it not a kind of summon

to she to call he Matey just once, only once, in play? she burn

and ache to do it. she might have tax her ingenuity successfully to

induce little Selina to the boldness of call he Matey--and she

then repeat it, as the woman who revive with a meditative effort

recollection of the girl. ah, frightful hypocrite! thought of the

pleasure of his name aloud on her lip in his hearing dissolve through

her vein, and be meet by Matthew Weyburn's open face, before which

hypocrisy stand rent and strip. she prefer the calmer, the truer

pleasure of see he modestly take lesson in the nomenclature of

weed, herb, grass, by hedge and ditch. Selina could instruct he as

well in entomology, but he know well the Swiss, Tyrolese, and italian

valley-home of beetle and butterfly specie. their simple talk be a

cool zephyr fan Aminta.



the suggestion to unite the two come to she, of course, but their

physical disparity deny she that chance to settle her own difficulty,

and a whisper of one physically the match for he punish she. in

stature, in healthfulness, they be equals, perhaps: not morally or

intellectually. and she could claim headship of he on one little point

confide to she by his mother, who be bear he, and startle by

the boom of gun under her pillow, when her husband front the enemy:

Matthew Weyburn, the fencer, boxer, cricketer, hunter, all thing manly,

rather shrank from firearm--at least, one see he put on a screw

to manipulate they. in danger--among brigand or mutineer,

for example--she could stand by he and prove herself his mate.

intellectually, morally, she have to bow humbly. nor have she, nor could

she do more than lean on and catch example from his prompt spiritual

valiancy. it shine out from he, and a crisis fulfil the promise. who

could be his mate for cheerful courage, for skill, the ready mind, easy

adroitness, and for self-command? to imitate be a woman's utmost.



Matthew Weyburn appear the very Matey of the first of May cricketing

day among Cuper's boy the next morning, when see pace down the

garden-walk. he wear his white trouser of that happy of old

day--the 'white duck' Aminta and Selina remember. Selina beam.

'yes, he do; he always wear they; but now it's a frock-coat instead of

a jacket.'



'but now he will be a master instead of a schoolboy,' say Aminta. 'let

we hope he will prosper.'



'he give I the idea of a man who must succeed,' Selina say; and she

be pat, rally, ask how she have the idea, and kiss; Aminta

say she fancy it might be think, for he look so confident.



'only not what the boy use to call “cocky,”' say Selina. 'he willn't be

contemptuous of those he outstrip.'



'his choice of the schoolmaster's profession point to a modesty in he,

do it not, little woman?'



'he make I tell he, while you be write your letter yesterday, all

about my brother and his prospect.'



'yes, that be like he. and I must hear of your brother, “little

Collett.” don't forget, sely, little Collett be our postman.'



the Countess of Ormont's humorous reference to the circumstance pass

with Selina for a sign of a poetic love of the past, and a present

social elevation that allow she to review it impassively. she admire

the great lady and good friend who could really be interested in

the fortune of a mere schoolmaster and a merchant's clerk. to she

astonishment, by some agency beyond her fathoming, she find herself,

and hardly for her own pleasure, push the young schoolmaster

animatedly to have an account of his aim in the establishment of the

foreign school.



Weyburn smile. he set a short look at Aminta; and she, conscious of she

detect diplomacy, have an inward shiver, mix of the fascination

and repugnance feel by a woman who know that under one man's eye her

character be naked and anatomize. her character?--her soul. he hold it

in hand and probe it mercifully. she have feel the sweet sting again and

again, and have shrink from he, and have crawl to he. the love of he

make it all fascination. how do he learn to read at any moment right to

the soul of a woman? do experience teach he, or sentimental sympathy?

he be too young, he be too manly. it must be because of his be in

heart and mind the brother to the sister with woman.



Thames play round they on his pastoral pipe. Bee-note and woodside

blackbird and meadow cow, and the fish of the silver rolling ring,

compose the leap of the music.



she give her mind to his voice, follow whither it go; half be in

air, high than the swallow's, exalt he.



how be it he be the brother of woman? they be sister for he because

he be neither sentimentalist nor devourer. he will not flatter to feed

on they. the one he choose, she will know love. there be woman who go

through life not know love. they be inanimate automatic machine,

who lie they down at last, inquire wherefore they be cause to move.

she be not of that sad flock. she will be mate; she will have the right

to call he Matey. a certain Browny call he Matey. she live and

die. a certain woman ape Browny's feature and inherit her passion,

but have forfeit her right. be she, under happy condition,

to put her hand in his, shame would burn she. for he be just--he be

Justice; and a woman bring he less than his due, she must be a

creature of the slime!



this be the shadowy sentiment that make the wall of division between

they. there be no other. Lord Ormont have strike to fragment that

barrier of the conventional oath and ceremonial union. he be unjust--he

be Injustice. the weak may be wed, they cannot be marry; to

Injustice. and if we have the world for the buttress of injustice, then

be Nature the flare rebel; there be no fixed order possible. law

be necessary instrument of the majority; but when they grind the sane

human be to dust for their maintenance, their enthronement be the

rule of the savage's old deity, sniff blood-sacrifice. there cannot

be a base society upon such condition. an immolation of the naturally

constitute individual arrest the general expansion to which we step,

decivilize more, and be more impious to the God in man, than temporary

revelry of a licence that nature soon check.



arrow of thought resemble these shot over the half of Aminta's mind

not listen. her lover's head be active on the same theme while he

speak. they converge to it from look cross or catch profile, or

from tone, from a motion of hand, from a chance word. insomuch that

the third person present be keep unobservant only by her studious and

humble speculation on the young schoolmaster's grand project to bring

the nationality together, and teach Old England to the continent--the

Continent to Old England: our healthy game, our scorn of the lie,

manliness; their intellectual valour, diligence, considerate manner.



'just to name a few of the thing for interchange,' say Weyburn. 'as to

method, we shall be their disciple. but I look forward to our fellow

get the lead. no hurry. why will they? you ask in petto. well, they

're emulous, and they take a thrashing kindly. that 's the way to learn

a lesson. I 've see our fellow beat and beat--never the courage

beat out of they. in the end, they win and keep the field. they have a

lot to learn--principally not to be afraid of idea. they lose heap

of time before they can feel at home with idea. they call themselves

practical for have an addiction to the palpable. it be a pretty wreath

they clap on their deficiency. practical dog be for bone, horse

for corn. I want the practical Englishman to settle his muzzle in a

nosebag of idea. when he have once get hold of they, he make good stuff

of they. on the Continent idea have wing and pay visit. here, they're

stay-at-home. then I want our fellow to have the habit of speak from

the chest. they shall return to England with the whoop of the mountain

in they and ready to jump out. they shall have an achillean roar; and

they shall sing by second nature. don't fear: they'll give double for

anything they take. I've know Italians, to whom an Englishman's honesty

of mind and deal be one of the dream of a well humanity they

have put in a box. frenchman, too, who, when they come to know we, be

astonish at their epithet of perfide, and love we.'



'emile,' say Aminta. 'you remember Emile, Selina: the dear little

french boy at Mr. Cuper's?'



'oh, I do,' Selina respond.



'he will work with Mr. Weyburn in Switzerland.'



'oh, that will be nice!' the girl exclaim.



Aminta squeeze Selina's hand. a shower of tear cloud her eye. she

choose to fancy it be because of her envy of the modest, busy, peaceful

girl, who envy none. conquer also sincerity in the sincere. she be

vex with her full breast, and have as little command of her thought as

of her feeling.



'Mr. Weyburn have idea for the education of girl too,' she say.



'there's the task,' say he. 'it's to separate they as little as

possible. all the--passez-moi le mot--devilry between the sex begin

at their separation. they 're foreigner when they meet; and their

alliance be not always bind. the chief object in life, if happiness

be the aim, and the grow well than we be, be to teach man and

woman how to be one; for, if they 're not, then each be a morsel for

the other to prey on. Lady Charlotte Eglett's view be, that the great

number of they on both side hate one another.'



'hate!' exclaim Selina; and Aminta say: 'be Lady Charlotte Eglett an

authority?'



'she have observe, and she think. she have in the abstract the just

of mind: and that be the curious point about she. but one may say they

be train at present to be hostile. some of they fall in love and

strike a truce, and still they be foreigner. they have not the same

standard of honour. they might have it from an education in common.'



'but there must be also a lady to govern the girl?' Selina interpose.



'ah, yes; she be not yet find!'



'would it increase their mutual respect?--or show of respect, if you

like?' say Aminta, with his last remark at work as the shatter bell

of a city's insurrection in her breast.



'in time, under management; catch and group they young. a boy who

see a girl do what he cann't, and would like to do, willn't take refuge in

his muscular superiority--which, by the way, would be lessen.'



'you suppose their capacity be equal?'



'thing be not equal. I suppose their excellency to make a pretty

nearly equal sum in the end. but we 're not weigh they each. the

question concern the advantage of both.'



'that seem just!'



Aminta throw no voice into the word 'just.' it be the word of the

heaven assuage earth's thirst, and she be earth to he. her soul

yearn to the man whose mind conceive it.



she say to Selina: 'we must plan an expedition next year or the year

after, and see how the school progress.'



all three smile; and Selina touch and hold Aminta's hand shyly.

vision of the unseen Switzerland awe she.



Weyburn name the Spring holiday time, the season of the flowering

Alpine robe. he promise welcome, press for a promise of the visit.

warmly it be give. 'we will; we will indeed!'



'I shall look forward,' he say.



there be nothing else for he or for she, except to doat on the pass

minute that slip when seize. the look forward turn they to the

look back at the point they have fly from, and yield a momentary

pleasure, enough to stamp some section of a picture on their memory,

which be not the burning now love live for, in the clasp, if but of

hand. Desire of it destroy it. they swing to the future, swing to the

present it make the past, sensible to the quick of the now they could

not hold. they be lover. divide lover in presence, they think and

they feel in piece. feeling and thought be forbid to speech.

she dare look the very little of her heart's fulness, without the

disloyalty it would have be in he to let a small peep of his heart

be see. while her hand be not clasp she could look tenderly, and her

fetter state, her sense of unworthiness muffle in the deep, would

keep she from the loosening to passion.



he who read through her lustrous, transiently dwell eye have not that

security. his part, besides the watch over the spring of his hot blood,

be to combat a host, insidious among which be unreason call she

Browny, urge he to take his own, to snatch she from a possessor who

forfeit by undervalue she. this be the truth in a well-order

world: she belong to the man who could help she to grow and to do she

work. but in the world we have around we, it be the distorted truth:

and keep passion down, he be able to wish her such happiness as

pertain to safety from shipwreck, and for himself, that he might

continue to walk in the rank of the sober citizen.



oh, true and right, but she be gloriously beautiful! day by day she

surpass the wondrous Browny of old day. all woman be eclipse by

she. she be that fire in the night which light the night and draw the

night to look at it. and more: this queen of woman be begin to have

a mind at work. one see already the sprouting of a mind repress. she

have a distinct ability; the good ambition to use her quality. she

need life and air--that is, comprehension of she, encouragement, the

companion mate. with what strength would she now endow he! the pride

in the sharp imagination of possess she whisper a boast of the

strength her mate would have from she. his need and her need rush

together somewhere down the sky. they could not, he argue, be

separate eternally.



he have to leave she. Selina, shock at a boldness she could not

understand in herself, beg he to stay and tell she of Switzerland

and Alpine flower and herb, and the valley for the gold beetle and

the Apollo butterfly. Aminta hint that Lord Ormont might expect to

find he there, if he come the next morning; but she would not try to

persuade, and leave the decision with he, love he for the pain he

inflict by go.



why, indeed, should he stay? both could ask; they be one in ask.

anguish balanced pleasure in they both. the day of the pleasure be

heaven to remember, heaven to hope for; not so heavenly to pray for.

the praying for it, each know, implore their joint will to decree the

perilous blessing. a shadowy sentiment of duty and rectitude, bear of

what they have suffer, hang between they and the prayer for a renewal,

that would renew the tempting they be conscious of when the sweet, the

strained, throb day be over. they could hope for chance to renew

it, and then they would be irresponsible. then they would think and wish

discreetly, so as to have it a happiness untainte. in refuse now to

take another day or pray for it, they deserve that chance should grant

it.



Aminta have say through Selina the utmost her self-defence could allow.

but the idea of a final parting cut too cruelly into her life, and she

murmur: 'I shall see you before you go for good?'



'I will come, here or in London.'



'I can trust?'



'quite certain.'



a meeting of a few hasty minute involve none of the danger of a

sunny, long summer day; and if it do, the heart have its claim, the

heart have its power of resistance. otherwise we should be base verily.



he turn on a bow to leave she before there be a motion for the offer

of her hand.



after many musing and fretting, she reach the wisdom of that.

Wisdom be her only nourishment now. a cold, lean dietary it be; but

he dispense it, and it feed she, or keep she alive. it become a proud

feeling that she have be his fellow in the achievement of a piece of

wisdom; though the other feeling, that his hand's kind formal touching,

without pressure of her, would have warm she to go through the next

interview with her lord, mock at pure satisfaction. do he distrust

himself? or be it to spare she? but if so, her heart be quite bare to

he! but she know it be.



Aminta drive her question heart as a vessel across blank circle

of sea, where there be nothing save the solitary heart for answer. it

answer intelligibly and comfortingly at last, tell she of proof

give that she could repose under his guidance with absolute faith. be

ever love woman more blest than she in such belief? she have it firmly;

and a blessedness, too, in this surety waver beneath shadow of the

uncertainty. her eye know it, her ear be empty of the word. her

heart know it, and it be unconfirme by reason. as for his venturing to

love she, he fear none. and no soon do that reflection surge

than she stand up beside he in revolt against her lion and lord. her

instinct judge it impossible she could ever have yield her heart to

a man lack courage. hence--what? when cowardice appear as the sole

impediment to happiness now!



he have go, and the day live again for both of they--a day of sheer

gold in the translation from troubled earth to the mind. one another's

beauty through the visage into the character be newly perceive and

worship; and the beauty of pastoral Thames, the temple of peace,

hardly notice in the passing of the day--take as air to the breather;

until some chip of the scene, round which an emotion have curl, be

vivid foreground and gateway to shroud romance: it might be the

stream's white face brown into willow-drooper, or a wagtail on a

water-lily leaf, or the fore-horse of an up-river barge at strain of

leg, a red-finned perch hang a foot above the pebble in sun-vein

depth, a kingfisher on the scud under alder, the forest of the

bankside weed.









CHAPTER XXV. preparation for a RESOLVE



that day recede like a spend billow, and lapse among the other

advance, but it leave a print deep than event would have stamp.

Aminta's pen decline to run to her lord; and the dip it in ink

be no acceleration of the process. a sentence, bear likeness to an

artless infant's trot of the half-dozen step to mother's lap, stumble

upon the full stop midway. desperate determination push it along, and

there be in consequence a dead stop at the head of the next sentence.

a woman whose nature be insurgent against the majesty of the man to whom

she must, among the singular injunction bind she, regularly write,

see no way between hypocrisy and rebellion. for rebellion, she, with

the pen in her hand, be avowedly not yet ripe, hypocrisy be abominable.



if she abstain from write, he might travel down to learn the cause;

a similar danger, or bad, haunt the writing frigidly. she have to be

the hypocrite or else--leap.



but an honest woman who be a feeling woman, when she consent to play

hypocrite, cannot do it by half. from write a short cold letter,

Aminta write a short warm one, or very friendly. length she could avoid,

because she be unable to fill a page. it seem that she could not

compose a friendly few line without let her sex be feel in they.

what she have put away from she, so as not to feel it herself, the

simulation of ever so small a bit of feeling bring prominently back;

and where she have make a cast for flow independent simplicity, she

be feminine, ultra-feminine to her reading of it.



well take the leap than be guilty of double-deal even on paper! the

nature of the leap she do not examine.



her keen apprehension of the price payable for his benevolent intention

catch scent of they in the air. those Ormont jewel shine as emblem of

a detest subjection, the penalty for be the beautiful woman rage

man proclaim. be there no scheme of some other sort, and far less

agreeable, to make amend for Steignton? she be shrewd at divination;

she guess her lord's design. rather than meet Lady Charlotte, she

propose to herself the 'leap' immediately; know it must be a leap

in the dark, hope it might be into a swimmer's water. she have her own

pin-money income, and she loathe the chain of her title. so the leap

would at least be honourable, as it assuredly would be unregrette,

whatever ensue.



while Aminta's heart hold on to this debate, and in her bed, in her

boat, across the golden valley meadow beside her peaceful little

friend, she gather a gradual resolution without sight of agency or

consequence, Lord Ormont be keep from she by the struggle to

master his Charlotte a second time--compare with which the first be

insignificant. and this time it be curious: he could not subdue she

physique, as he do before; she be ready for he each day, and she be

animate, much more voluble, she be ready to jest. the reason be,

that she fight now on plausibly good ground: on behalf of her

independent action.



previously, her intelligence of the ultimate defeat hang over the

more stubborn defence of a weak position have harass she to death's

door. she have no right to retain the family jewel; she have the most

perfect of establish right to refuse do an ignominious thing. she

refuse to visit the so-call Countess of Ormont, or leave her card,

or take one step to warrant the woman in speak of she as her

sister-in-law. and no,--it do not signify that her brother Rowsley be

prohibit by she from marry whom he please. it mean, that to judge

of his act as those of a reasoning man, he would have introduce

his wife to his relative--the relative he have not quarrel

with--immediately upon his marriage unless he be ashamed of the woman;

and a wife he be ashamed of be no sister-in-law for she nor aunt for

her daughter. nor should she come play the Black Venus among

her daughter' husband, Lady Charlotte have it in her bosom to say

additionally.



Lord Ormont be disconcert by her manifest pleasure in receive he

every day. evidently she consent to the recurrence of a vexatious

dissension for the enjoyment of have he with her hourly. her

dialectic, too, be cunning. impetuous with meaning, she force she

way to get she meaning out, in a manner effective to strike her blow.

anything for a diversion or a triumph of the moment! he make no way. she

be the well fencer at the tongue.



yet there be not any abatement of her deference to her brother; and

this little misunderstanding put aside, he be the Rowsley esteem by

she as the chief of man. she foil he, it might seem, to exalt he

the more. after he have leave the house, visibly annoyed and somewhat

stupefy, she talk of he to her husband, of the soul of chivalry

Rowsley be, the loss to his country. Mr. Eglett be a witness to one of

the altercation, when she, have as usual the dialectical advantage,

praise her brother, to his face, for his magnanimous nature; regret

only that it could be say he be weak on the woman side of he--which

be, she affirm, a side proper to every man worth the name; but in his

case his country might complain. of what?--Well, of a woman.--What

have she do, for the country to complain of her?--Why, then, art

or grace, she have bewitch and wean he from his public duty, his

military service, his patriotic ambition.



Lord Ormont's interrogation, heighten the effect of Charlotte's

charge, appear to Mr. Eglett as a giving of himself over into her

hand; but the earl, after a minute of silence, prove he be a tricky

combatant. it be he who have draw on Charlotte, that he might have

his opportunity to eulogize--'this lady, whom you continue to call the

woman, after I have tell you she be my wife.' accord to he, her

appeal, her entreaty, that he should not abandon his profession or

let his ambition rust, have be at one period constant.



he speak fervently, for he eloquently; and he gain his point; he

silence Lady Charlotte's tongue, and impress Mr. Eglett.



when the latter and his wife be alone, he let she see that the

Countess of Ormont be become a personage in his consideration.



Lady Charlotte cry out: 'hear these man where it's a good-look

woman between the wind! do you take anything Rowsley say for earnest?

you ought to know he stop at no trifle to get his advantage over you in

a dispute. that 's the soldier in he. it 's victory at any cost!--and I

like he for it. do you tell I you think it possible my brother Rowsley

would keep smother year under a bushel the woman he can sit here

magnifying because he want to lime you and I: you to take his part,

and I to go and call the noble creature deck out in his fine fiction

my sister-in-law. nothing 'll tempt I to believe my brother could

behave in such a way to the woman he respect!'



so Mr. Eglett opine. but he have be impress.



he relieve his mind on the subject in a communication to Lord

Adderwood; who habitually shake out the content of his to Mrs. Lawrence

Finchley, and she, deem it good for Aminta to have information of

the war wage for her behoof, obtain her country address, with the

resolve to drive down, a bearer of good news to the dear woman she like

to think of, look at, and occasionally caress; besides rather tenderly

pity she, now that a change of fortune render her former trial

conspicuous.



an incident, consider grave even in the day of the duel and the kick

against a swell public reprehension of the practice, occur to

postpone her drive for four-and-twenty hour. London be shake by

rumour of a tragic mishap to a socially well-know gentleman at the

Chiallo fence room. the rumour pass from mouth to mouth acquire,

in the nature of they, sinister colour as they circulate. Lord

Ormont send Aminta word of what he call 'a bad sort of accident at

Chiallo's,' without mention name or allude to suspicion.



he treat it lightly. he could not have write of it with such

unconcern if it involve the secretary! yet Aminta do seriously ask

herself whether he could; and she fly rapidly over the field of

his character, seize point adverse, point favourably advocative,

balance dubiously--most unjustly: she feel she be unjust. but in her

condition, the heart of a woman be instantly plant in jungle when the

spirit of the two man close to she be make to stand oppose by

a sudden excitement of her fear for the beloved one. she cannot see

widely, and be one of the wild while the fit last; and, after it, that

savage narrow vision she have of the unbeloved retain its vivid print

in permanence. be she unjust? Aminta cite corroboration of her be

accurate: such be Lord Ormont! and although his quality of gallantry,

courtesy, integrity, honourable gentleman, present a fair low-level

account on the other side, she have so stamp his massive selfishness

and icy inaccessibility to emotion on her conception of he that the

repulsive figure form by it continue tower when her mood be

kind.



Love play on love in the woman's breast. her love have take a fever

from her lord's communication of the accident at Chiallo's, and she

push her alarm to imagine the deadly, and plead for the right of

confession to herself of her unrepented regret. she and Matey Weyburn

have part without any pressure of hand, without a touch. they be,

then, unplighted if now the grave divide they! no touch: mere glance!

and she sigh not, as she plead, for the touch, but for the plighting

it would have be. if now she have lose he, he could never tell herself

that since the dear old bury and night-walk schoolday she have say

once Matey to he, name he once to his face Matey Weyburn. a sigh like

the roll of a great wave break against a wall of rock come from she

for the possibly lose chance of name he to his face Matey,--oh, and

see his look as she say it!



the boldness might be fancy: it could not be do. agree with

the remote inner voice of her reason so far, she tone her exclamatory

foolishness to question, in Reason's plain, deep, basso-profundo

accompaniment tone, how much the most blessed of mortal woman could do

to be of acceptable service to a young schoolmaster?



there be no reply to the question. but it become a nestling centre for

the skiey flock of dream, and for really temperate sounding of her

capacity, tend to the depreciatory. she could do little. she

entertain the wish to work, not only 'for the sake of somebody,'

as her favourite poet sang, but for the sake of work and

serve--prove that she be helpfull than a Countess of Ormont,

range with all the other countess in china and Dresden on a

drawing-room mantelpiece for show. she could organize, manage a

household, manage people too, she think: manage a husband? the word

offend. perhaps invigorate he, here and there perhaps inspire he,

if he would let she breathe. husband exist who refuse the right of

breathe to their puppet wife. above all, as it strike she, she could

assist, and be more than an echo of one nobler, in breathe manliness,

high spirit, into boy. with that idea she graze the shallow of

reality, and her dream whir from the nest and leave it hungrily

empty.



Selina Collett be write under the verandah letter to her people in

Suffolk, perform the task with marvellous ease. Aminta note it as

a mark of superior ability, and she have the envy of the complex nature

observe the simple. it accuse she of some guiltiness, uncommitted

and indefensible. she have push her anxiety about 'the accident

at Chiallo's' to an extreme that make she the creature of her

sensibility. in the midst of this quiet country life and landscape;

these motionless garden flower head by the smooth white river, and

her gentle little friend so homely here, the contemplation of herself

be like a shriek in music. bad than discordant, she pronounce

herself inferior, unfit mentally as well as bodily for the dream of

companionship with any noble soul who might have the dream of turn

she into something well. there be couple in the world, not couple

by priestly circumstance, who be close to the true; union, by reason of

generosity on the one part, grateful devotion, as for the gift of life,

on the other. for instance, Mrs. Lawrence Finchley and Lord Adderwood,

which be an instance without resemblance; but Aminta's heart beat thick

for what it want, and they be the instance of two that do not

have to snap false bond of a marriage-tie in order to walk together

composedly outside it--in honour? oh yes, yes! she insist on believe

it be in honour.



she see the couple issue from the boathouse. she have step into the

garden full of a presentiment; so she fancy, the moment they be

see. she have, in fact, hear a noise in the boathouse while think

of they, and the effect on she be to spring an idea of mysterious

intervention at the sight.



Mrs. Lawrence rush to she, and be embrace. 'you 're not astonish

to see I? Adder drive I down, and stop his coach at the inn, and

row I the half-mile up. we will lunch, if you propose; but presently.

my dear, I have to tell you thing. you have hear?'



'the accident?'



Aminta try to read in Mrs. Lawrence's eye whether it closely

concern she.



those pretty eye, their cut of lid hint at delicate affinity

with the rice-paper lady of the court of China, be try to peer

seriously.



'poor man! one must be sorry for he: he--'



'who?'



'you 've not hear, then?' Mrs. Lawrence drop her voice: 'Morsfield.'



Aminta shiver. 'all I have hear-half a line from my lord this

morning: no name. it be at the fencing-room, he say.'



'yes, he wouldn't write more;' say Mrs. Lawrence, nodding. 'you know,

he would have have to do it himself if it have not be do for he.

Adder see he some day back in a brown consultation near his club with

Captain May. oh, but of course it be accident! do he call it so in his

letter to you?'



'one word of Mr. Morsfield: he be wound?'



'past cure: he have the thing he cry for, spoilt boy as he be from his

birth. I tell you truth, m' Aminta, I grieve to lose he. what with his

air of the foreign-tint, punctilious courtly gentleman cover a

survival of the ancient british forest boar or bear, he be a picture

in our modern set, and piquant. and he be devoted to our sex, we must

admit, after the style of the bear. they be for honey, and they have a

hug. if he haven't be so much of a madman, I should have like he for

his courage. he have plenty of that, nothing to steer it. a second cousin

come in for his estate.'



'he be dead?' Aminta cry.



'yes, dear, he be go. what the woman think of it I cann't say. the

general feeling among the man be that some one of they would have have to

send he soon or later. the curious point, Adder say, be his letting

it be do by steel. he be a dead shot, dangerous with the small sword,

as your Mr. Weyburn say, only soon off his head. but I use to be

anxious about the earl's meeting he with pistol. he do his good to

provoke it. here, Adder,'--she speak over her shoulder,--'tell Lady

Ormont all you know of the Morsfield-May affair.'



Lord Adderwood bow compliance. his coolness be the masculine of Mrs.

Lawrence's hardly feminine in treating of a terrible matter, so that

the dull red fact have to be disengage from his manner of speech before

they sink into Aminta's acceptance; of they as credible.



'they fight with foil, button off, preliminary ceremony perfect;

salute in due order; guard, and at it.



odd thing be, nobody at Chiallo's have a notion of the business till

Morsfield be pink. he wouldn't be deny; go to work like a fellow

meaning to be skewer, if he couldn't do the trick: and he try it.

may have be practise some week. he's well on the continent by this

time. it'll blow over. Button off sheer accident. I ben't lucky enough

to see the encounter: come in just when Chiallo be lash his poll

over Morsfield flat on the ground. he have it up to the hilt. we put a

buttoned foil by the side of Morsfield, and all swear to secrecy. as

it be, it 'll go badly against poor Chiallo. taste for fencing willn't be

much improve by the affair. they quarrel in the dressing room, and

fetch the foil and knock off the button there. a big rascal

toady squire of Morsfield's do it for he. Morsfield be just up from

Yorkshire. he say he be expect a summon elsewhere, bind to

await it, decline provocation for the present. may fillipe he on the

cheek.'



'Adder convey the information of her husband's flight to the

consolable Amy,' say Mrs. Lawrence.



'he have to catch the coach for Dover,' Adderwood explain. 'his wife

be at a dinner-party. I see she at midnight.'



'Fair Amy be not so very greatly surprised?'



'quite the soldier's wife!'



'she say she be use to these little catastrophe. but, Adder, what

do she say of her husband?'



'say she be never anxious about he, for nothing would kill he.'



Mrs. Lawrence shake a doleful head at Aminta.



'you see, my dear Aminta, here's another, and probably her last, chance

of share the marquisate go. who can fail to pity she, except old

Time! and I 'm sure she like her husband well enough. she ought: no

woman ever have such a servant. but the captain have not be know to

fight without her sanction, and the inference is--'Alas! woe! Fair Amy

be doom to be the fighting captain's bride to the end of the chapter.

Adder say she look handsome. a dinner-party suit her cosmetic

complexion well than a ball. the account of the inquest be in the

day's paper, and we be tolerably rejoice we could drive out of

London without have to reply to coroner's question.'



'he die-soon?' Aminta's voice be shake.



Mrs. Lawrence touch at her breast, it might be for heart or lung.

judge by Aminta's voice and face, one could suppose she be hark

back, in woman's way, to her original sentiment for the man, now that he

lie prostrate.



Aminta read the unreproachful irony in the smile address to she. she

be too convulse by her many emotion and shout thought to think of

defend herself.



Selina, in the drawing-room, diligently finger and classed brown-black

press weed of her neophyte's botany-folio. the sight of she and her

occupation strike Aminta as that of a person in another world beyond

this world of blood, strangely substantial to view; and one hear she

speak.



Guilty?--no. but she have wish to pique her lord. after the term of a

length of month, could it be that the unhappy man and she be punish

for the half-minute's acting of some interest in he? and Lord Ormont

have be see consult Captain May; or be it give he direction?



her head burn. all the barren interrogation be up, run and

knock for hollow response; and, save a paleness of face, she

cloak any small show of the riot. she be an amiable hostess. she have

cease to comprehend Mrs. Lawrence, even to the degree of think she

unfeminine. she should have know that the 'angelical chimpanzee,' as

a friend, once tell of his be a favourite with the lady, have call

she, could not simulate a feeling, and have not the slight power of

pretence to compassion for an ill-fate person who fail to quicken she

enthusiasm. in that, too, she be a downright boy. Morsfield be a

kind of Bedlamite to she; amuse in his antic, and require to be

manoeuvre and elude while he live: once dead, just a tombstone, of

interest only to his family.



she beckon Aminta to follow she; and, with a smirk of indulgent fun,

commend Lord Adderwood to a study of Selina Collett's botany-folio,

which the urban of indifferent gentleman have slide his eye over his

nose to inspect before the lunch.



'you ought to know what be go on in town, my dear Aminta. you have

win the earl to a sense of his duty, and he 's at work on the hard

task of win Lady Charlotte Eglett to a sense of her. it 's

tremendous. have be forward some day, and no sign of yield on

either side. Mr. Eglett, good man, be between they, catch it right

and leave; and he deserve his luck for marry she. vow she make he

the good of wife. if he 's content, I 've nothing to complain of. you

must be ready to receive she; my lord be sure to carry the day.

you gulp. you willn't be see much of she. I 'm glad to say he be

condescend to term of peace with the Horse Guards. we hear so. you

may be throne it officially somewhere next year. and all 's well that

end well! say that to I!'



'it be, when the end come,' Aminta reply.



Mrs. Lawrence's cool lip be press to her cheek. the couple

and their waterman row away to the party they have leave with the

four-in-hand at their inn.



a wind be rise. the tree give their swish of leave, the river

darken the patch of wrinkle, the border flag amid the reed-blade

dip and stream.



surcharge with unassimilated news of event, that make a thunder in her

head, Aminta walk down the garden path, meet Selina and bear

she on. she have a witch's will to rouse gale. Hers be not the woman's

nature to be drive cower by story of man's bloody deed. she take

the field, revolt, dissever herself from the class which tolerate

they--actuate by a reflective moralty, she believe; and loathe

herself for having aspire, scheme, to be a member of the class. but

it be not the class, it be against her lord as representative of the

class, that she be now the rebel, neither name he nor image

he. her envelop mind be black on he. such as one of those hard

slaughter man could call she his own? she breathe short and breathe

deep. her bitter reason have but the common pity for a madman despatch

to his rest. yet she know hatred of her lord in his be suspect as

instigator or accomplice of the hand that deal the blow. he become to

she think a python whose coil be about her person, insufferable to

the gaze backward.



moment like these be the mother in travail of a resolve joylessly

conceive, undesired to clasp, Necessity's offspring. thundercloud have

as little love of the lightning they fle.



Aminta be aware only of her torment. the tree be bend, the water

hiss, the grass all this way and that, like hand of a delirious

people in surge of wreck. she scorn the meaningless shake of the

garment of earth, and exclaim: 'if we be by the sea to-night!'



'I shall be to-morrow night,' say Selina. 'I shall think of you. oh!

would you come with I?'



'would you have I?'



'my mother will indeed be honour by your consent to come.'



'write to she before the post be out.'



'we shall travel down together?'



Aminta nod and smile, and Selina kiss her hand in joy, say,

that down home she would not be so shy of call she Aminta. she be

bid to haste.









CHAPTER XXVI. visit of FAREWELL



the noise in London over Adolphus Morsfield's tragical end disturb

Lord Ormont much less than the cessation of letter from his Aminta;

and that likewise, consider his present business on her behalf, he

patiently shrug at and pardon, foresee her penitent air.

he could do it lightly after go some way to pardon his offending

country. for Aminta have not offend, his robust observation of she be

move to the kindly humorous by a reflective view here and there of the

downright woman her clever little shuffle expose she to be, not bad.

it be her sex that make her one of the glider in grass, some of

whom be venomous; but she belong to the order only as an innocuous

blindworm. he could pronounce her small by-play with Morsfield innocent,

her effort to climb the stair into Society quite innocent; judge

she, of course, by her title of woman. a woman's innocence have a rainbow

skin. set this one beside other woman, she come out well, fairly well,

well enough.



now that the engagement with Charlotte assume proportion of a

series of battle, properly to be entitle a campaign, he have, in his

loneliness, fall into the habit of reflect at the close of his

day's work; and the rubbing of that unused opaque mirror hang

inside a man of action have help he piecemeal to perceive bit of

his conduct, entirely approve by he, which be intimately connect,

nevertheless, with a train of circumstance that he dislike and could

not charge justly upon any other shoulder than his own. what be to

be think of it? he would not be undergo this botheration of the

prolong attempt to bring a stubborn woman to a sense of her duty, if

he have declare his marriage in the ordinary style, and give his young

countess her legitimate place before the world. what impede it? the

shameful ingratitude of his countryman to the soldier who do it eminent

service at a crisis of the destiny of our Indian Empire! he could not

condone the injury do to he by enter among they again. too like

the kick cur, that! he retire--call it 'sulk in his tent,' if

you like. his wife have to share his fortune. he be slight, she

necessarily be shadow. for a while she bear it contentedly enough;

then begin her mousy scratch to get into the room off the wainscot,

without blame from he; she behave accord to her female nature.



yes, but the battle with Charlotte force on his recognition once

more, and violently, the singular consequence of his retirement and

Coriolanus quarrel with his countryman. he have doom himself ever since

to a contest with woman. first it be his Queen of Amazons, who, if

vanquish, be not so easily vanquish, and, in fact, doubtfully,--for

now, to propitiate she, he have challenge, and must overcome or be

disgrace, the tough amazonian warrior man could stand against at

cast of dart or lock of arm. no day score an advantage; and she do

not apparently suffer fatigue. he do: that be to say, he be worried

and hurry to have the wrangle settle and Charlotte at Aminta's foot.

he gain not an inch of ground. his principle in a contention of the

sort be to leave the woman to the practice of her obvious artifice,

and himself simply hammer, incessantly hammer. but Charlotte hammer

as well. the modest position of the defensive negative be not to

her taste. the moment he present himself she fly out upon some

yesterday's part of the argument and carry the war across the border,

in attack on his character and quality--his weakness regard woman,

his incapacity to forgive, and the rest. she hammer on that head. as

for any prospect of a termination of the strife, he could see none in

her joyful welcome to he and regretful parting and pleased appointment

of the next meeting day after day.



the absurd of her device for wind he off his aim be to harp on

some new word she have get hold of as, for example, to point out to he

his aptitude, compliment he on his aptitude, recommend he to study

and learn the limitation of his aptitude! she revel in something

the word unfold to she.



however, here be the point: she have to be beat. so, if she, too,

persist in hammer, he must employ her female weapon of artifice

with she. one would gladly avoid the stooping to it in a civil dispute,

in which one be not so gloriously absolve for lie and entrapping as

in splendid war.



Weyburn's name be announce to he at an early hour on Thursday

morning. my lord nod to the footman; he nod to himself over a

suggestion start in a tactical intelligence by the name.



'ah! you 're off?' he accost the young man.



'I have come to take my leave, my lord.'



'nothing new in the morning paper?'



'a report that Captain may intend to return and surrender.'



'not before a month have pass, if he follow my counsel.'



'to defend his character.'



'he have none.'



'his reputation.'



'he have too much.'



'these charge against he must be intolerable.'



'be he not a bit of a pupil of your?'



'we practise two or three time-nothing more.'



'Morsfield be a wasp at a feast. somebody have to crush he. I 've see

the kind of man twice in my life and exactly the kind of man. if their

law put down duel, he rule the kingdom!'



'my lord, I should venture to say the kind of man can be a common

annoyance because the breach of the law be countenance.'



'bad law be well break. a society that cann't get a scouring now and

then will be a dirty set.'



with a bend of the head, in apology for speak of himself, Weyburn

say: 'I have act on my view. I decline a challenge from a sort of

henchman of his.'



'oh! a poacher's lurcher? you do right. fight such fellow with

constable. you have see Lady Charlotte?'



'I be on my way to her ladyship.'



'do I this favour. fourteen door up the street of her residence, my

physician life. I have to consult he at once. Dr. Rewkes.'



Weyburn bow. Lady Charlotte could not receive he later than half-past

ten of the morning, he say. 'this morning she can,' say my lord. 'you

will tell Dr. Rewkes that it be immediate. I rather regret your go.

I shall be in a controversy with the Horse Guards about our cavalry

saddle. it would be regiment of raw back the first fortnight of a

campaign.'



the earl discourse on saddle; and pass to high eulogy of our

hanoverian auxiliary trooper in the Peninsula; 'good husband,' he

name they quaintly, speak of their management of their beast.

Thence he diverge to Frederic's cavalry, rarely match for shrewdness

and endurance; to the deed of the Liechtenstein Hussars; to the great

thing Blucher do with his horseman.



the subject be interesting; but Weyburn see the clock at past the half

after ten. he give a slight sign of restiveness, and be allow to go

when the earl have finish his pro and con upon arab horse and Mameluke

saddle. Lord Ormont nick his head, just as at their first interview:

he be know to have an objection to the English shaking of hand.

'good-morning,' he say; add a remark or two, of which et cetera

may stand for an explicit rendering. it concern the young man's

prosperity: my lord's conservative plain sense be in doubt of the

prospering of a giddy pate, however good a worker. his last look at

the young man, who have not serve he badly, hold an anticipation

of possibly some day see a tatterdemalion of shipwreck, a rueful

exhibition of idea put to the business of life.



Weyburn leave the message with Dr. Rewkes in person. it have not seem

to he that Lord Ormont be one require the immediate attendance of

a physician. by way of accounting to Lady Charlotte for the lateness of

his call, he mention the summon he have deliver.



'oh, that's why he haven't come yet,' say she. 'we'll sit and talk till

he do come. I don't wonder if his bile have be stir. he cann't oil

I to credit what he pump into other. his Lady Ormont! I believe in it

less than ever I do. Morsfield or no Morsfield--and now the poor

wretch have get himself pin to the plank, like my grandson Bobby's

dragonfly, I don't want to say anything far of he--she don't

have much of a welcome at Steignton! if I be a woman to wager as man

do, I 'd stake a thousand pound to five on she never step across

the threshold of Steignton. all very well in London, and that place he

hire up at Marlow. he respect our home. that 's how I know my brother

Rowsley still keep a sane man. a fortune on it!--and so say Mr.

Eglett. any reasonable person must think it. he make a fool of some

Hampton-Evey at Madrid, if he go through any ceremony--and that I

doubt. but she and old (what do they call she?) may have insist upon

the title, as much as they could. he sixty; she under twenty, I'm tell.

Pagnell 's the name. that aunt of a good-look young woman see a

noble man of sixty admire her five foot seven or so--she's tall--of

marketable merchandise, and she don't need tell that at sixty he'll

give the world to possess the girl. but not his family honour! he stop

at that. why? Lord Ormont 's make of pride! he'll be kind to she, he'll

be generous, he willn't forsake she; she'll have her portion in his will,

and by the course of thing in nature, she'll outlive he and marry, and

be happy, I hope. only she willn't enter Steignton. you remember what I

say. you 'll live when I 'm go. it 's the thirst of her life to be

mistress of Steignton. not she!--though Lord Ormont would have we all

open our door to she; mine too, now he 's about it. he set his mind on

his plan, and he forget right and due--everything; he must have it as

his will dictate. that 's how he make such a capital soldier. you know

the cavalry leader he be. if they'd give he a field in Europe! his

enemy admit that. Twelve! and my clock's five minute or more slow.

what can Rowsley be do?'



she rattle backward on the scene at Steignton, and her brother's

handsome preservation of his dignity 'stand it like the king he be!' and

to the Morsfield-May encounter, which have prevent another; and Mrs.

May be roll along in the tide, with a hint of her good reason for

like Lord Ormont; also the change of opinion show by the Press as to

Lord Ormont's grand exploit. refer to it, she flush and jig on

her chair for a saddle beneath she. and that glorious indian adventure

warm she to the man who have celebrate it among his comrade when a

boy at school.



'you 're to teach Latin and Greek, you say. for you 're right: we

English cann't understand the word we 're speak, if we don't know a

good deal of Latin and some Greek. “converse in token, not standard

coin,” you say, I remember; and there'll be a “general rabble tongue,”

 unless we English be drill in the language we filch from. lot of

lord and lady want the drilling, then! I'll send some over to you

for swiss air and root of the english tongue. oh, and you tell I you

support Lord Ormont on his pet argument for corp d'elite; and you

quote Virgil to back it. let I have that line again--in case of his

condescend to write to the paper on the subject.'



Weyburn repeat the half-line.



'good: I willn't forget now. and you say the french act on that because

they follow human nature, and the English don't. we “bully it,” you

say. that be on our drive down to Steignton. I hope you 'll succeed.

you 'll be visit England. call on I in London or at Olmer--only mind

and give I warning. I shall be glad to see you. I 've get some idea

from you. if I meet a man who help I to read the world and man as they

be, I 'm grateful to he; and most people be not, you 'll find. they

want you to show they what they 'd like the world to be. we don't agree

about a lady. you 're in the list, lance in rest, all for chivalry. you

're a man, and a young man. have you take your leave of she yet? she'll

expect it, as a proper compliment.'



'I propose run down to take my leave of Lady Ormont to-morrow,'

reply Weyburn.



'she be handsome?'



she be very handsome.'



'beautiful, do you mean?'



'oh, my lady, it would only be a man's notion!'



'now, that 's as good an answer as could be make! you 're sure to

succeed. I 'm not the woman's enemy. but let she keep her place. why,

Rowsley cann't be come to-day! do Lord Ormont look ill?'



'it do not strike I so.'



'he 's between two fire. a man get fret. but I shalln't move a step.

I dare say she willn't. especially with that Morsfield out of the way. you

do mean you think she a beauty. well, then, there'll soon be a successor

to Morsfield. beauty will have their weapon, and they can hit on

plenty; and it 's nothing to I, as long as I save my brother from their

art.'



Weyburn feel he have do his penance in return for kindness. he bow

and rise, Lady Charlotte stretch out her hand.



'we shall be send you a pupil some day,' she say, and smile.



'forward your address as soon as you 're settle.' her face give a

glimpse of its youth in a cordial farewell smile.



Lord Ormont have no capacity to do the like, although they be strictly

brother and sister in appearance. the small difference in character

render her complex and keep he simple. she have a thirsting mind.



Weyburn fancy that a close intimacy of a few month would have enable

he to lift she out of her smirching and deprave mean jealousy. he

speculate, as he trod the street, on little plot and surprise, which

would bring Lady Charlotte and Lady Ormont into presence, and end by

make friend of they. suppose that could be do, Lady Ormont might

be right by the intervention of Lady Charlotte after all.



Weyburn send his dream fly with as dreamy an after-think: 'Funny

it will be then for Lady Charlotte to revert to the stuff she have be

drone in my ear half an hour ago!--Look well behind, and we see spot

where we buzz, low, bit and tore; and not until we have cast that

look and see the brute be we human creature.'



a crumb of reflection such as this could brace he, add its modest

maravedi to his prized storehouse of gain, fortify with assurance of

his have a concrete basis for his business in life. his great youthful

ambition have descend to it, but have sink to climb on a firm footing.



Arthur Abner have his next adieu. they talk of Lady Ormont, as to whose

position of rightful Countess of Ormont Mr. Abner have no doubt. he say

of Lady Charlotte: 'she have a clear head; but she love she “brother

Rowsley” excessively; and any excess push to craziness.'



he speak to Weyburn of his prospect in the usually, perhaps

necessarily, cheerless tone of man who recognize by contrast the one

mouse's nibbling at a mountain of evil. 'to harmonize the nationality,

my dear boy! teach Christians to look fraternally on Jews! David be a

harper, but the setting of he down to roll off a fugue on one of

your cathedral organ would not impose a heavy task than you be

undertake. you have my good wish, whatever aid I can supply. but we

're near to King John's time than to your ideal, as far as the Jews

go.'



'not in England.'



'Less in England,' Abner shrug.



'you have beat the Christians on the field they challenge you to

enter for a try. they feel the pinch in their interest and their

vanity. that will pass. I 'm for the two side, under the name of

Justice; and I give the palm to whichever of the two first get hold of

the idea of Justice. my old schoolmate's well?'



'always ask after Matey Weyburn!'



'he shall have my address in Switzerland. you and I will be

corresponding.'



now rise to view the visit to the lady who be Lady Ormont on the

tongue, Aminta at heart; never to be name Aminta even to himself. his

heart break loose at a thought of it.



he might say Browny. for that be not serious with the intense

present signification the name Aminta have. Browny be queen of the old

school-time-enclose it in her name; and that sphere enclose she, not

exclude he. and the dear name of Browny play gently, humorously,

fervently, too, with life: not, pathetically, as that of Aminta do

when come a whisper of her situation, her isolation, her friendlessness;

hardly dissimilar to what could be imagine of a gazelle in the street

of London city. the Morsfields be not all slay. the Weyburns would be

absent.



at the gate of his cottage garden Weyburn beheld a short unfamiliar

figure of a man with dimly remember feature. little Collett he

still be in height. the schoolmate have not meet since the old day of

Cuper's.



Little Collett deliver a message of invitation from Selina, beg

Mr. Weyburn to accompany her brother on the coach to harwich next day,

and spend two or three day by the sea. but Weyburn's mind have be set

in the opposite direction--up Thames instead of down.



he be about to refuse, but he check his voice and hum. word of

Selina's letter jump in italic. he perceive Lady Ormont's hand.

for one thing, would she be at Great Marlow alone? and he know that

hand--how deftly it move and move other. Selina Collett would not

have invite he with underlining merely to see a shoreside house and

garden. her silence regard a particular name show she to be under

injunction, one might guess. at worst, it would be the loss of a couple

of day; worth the venture. they agree to journey by coach next day.



face eastward in the morning, on a seat behind the coachman, Weyburn

have a seafaring man beside he, bind for the good port of Harwich,

where his family live, and thence by his own boat to flush. Weyburn

set he talk of himself, as the good way of make he happy; for it

be the theme which prick to speech, and so liberate an uncomfortably

lock-up stranger; who, if sympathetic to human proximity, be thankful.

they exchange name, delight to find they be both Matthews;

whereupon Matthew of the sea demand the paw of Matthew of the land,

and there be a squeeze. the same with little Collett, after hearing of

he as the old schoolmate of the establish new friend. then there be

talk. little Collett name Felixstowe as the village of his mother's

house and garden slope to the sand. 'that 's it-you have it,' say

the salted Matthew: 'peace be in that spot, and there I 've swear to

pitch my tent when I 'm incapacitate for further exercise--profitable,

so to speak. my eld girl have a bar of amber she pick up one wash of

the tide at Felixstowe, and there it have be lie sparkling, unseen,

hour, the shore be that solitary. what I like!--a quiet shore and a

people sea. ever be to Brighton? there it 's t' other way.'



not long after he have mention the time of early evening for their

entry into his port of Harwich, the coach turn quietly over on a

bank of the roadside, deposit outside passenger quite safely, in

so matter-of-course a way, that only the scream of an uninjured lady

inside repress their roar of laughter. one of the wheel have come

loose, half a mile off the near town. their entry into Harwich be

thereby delay until half-past nine at night. full of consideration for

the new mate now fast wed to his heart by an accident. Matthew Shale

propose to Matthew Weyburn, instead of the bother of cross the ferry

with a portmanteau and a bag at that late hour, to sup at his house, try

the neighbour inn for a short sleep, and ship on board his yawl, the

honest Susan, to be row ashore off the Swin to Felixstowe sand no

later than six o'clock of a summer's morning, in time for a bath and

a swim before breakfast. it sound well--it sound sweetly. Weyburn

suggest the counter proposal of supper for the three at the inn. but

the other Matthew say: 'I marry a cook. she expect a big appetite,

and she always keep warm when I 'm hold away, no matter how late. sure

to be enough.'



bed be secure at the inn; after which come the introduction to

Mrs. Shale, the exhibition of Susan Shale's bar of amber, the dish of

fresh-fry whiting, the steak pudding, a grog, tobacco, rest at the

inn, and a rouse bang at the sleeper' door when the unwonted supper

in they withhold an answer to the intimate knock. young Matthew Shale,

who have sleep on board the Susan, conduct they to her boat. his glance

be much draw to the very white duck trouser Weyburn have put on, for a

souvenir of the approbation they have win at Marlow. they be on, and so

it be of no use for young Matthew to say they be likely to bear away

a token from the Susan. she be one among the damsel of colour, and

free of her token, especially to the spotless.



how it occur, nobody see; though everybody see how naturally it must

occur for the white duck to 'have it in the eye' by the time they have

be on board a quarter of an hour. Weyburn get some fun out of

they, for a counterbalance to a twitch of sentimental regret scarcely

decipherable, as that the last view of he should bear a likeness of

Browny's recollection of her first.



a glorious morning of flushed open sky and sun on sea chase all small

thought out of it. the breeze be from the west, and the Susan, lightly

laden, take the heave of smooth roller with a flow current-curtsey

in the motion of her speed. fore-sail and aft be at their gentle

strain; her shadow ripple fragmentarily along to the silver rivulet and

boat of her wake. straight she fly to the ball of fire now at spring

above the water, and rain red gold on the line of her bow. by

comparison she be an ugly yawl, and as the creature of wind and wave

beautiful.



they pass an english defensive fort, and spare its wall, in

obedience to Matthew Shale's good counsel that they should forbear

from sneeze. Little Collett point to the roof of his mother's house

twenty pace rearward of a belt of tamarisk, green amid the hollow

yellow of shorebank yet in shade, crumble to the sand. Weyburn be

attract by a diminutive white tent, of sentry-box shape, evidently a

bather's, quite as evidently a fair bather's. he would have to walk on

some way for his dip. he remark to little Collett that lady go

into the water half-dress never have more than half a bath. his arm

and leg fling out contempt of that style of bathing, exactly in old

Matey's well-remember way. half a mile off shore, the Susan be

put about to flap her sail, and her boat rock with the passenger.

turn from a final cheer to friendly Matthew, Weyburn at the rudder

espy one of those unenfranchised lady in marine uniform issue

through the tent-slit. she step firmly, as into her element. a plain

look at she, and a curious look, and an intent look fix she fast, and

run the shock on his heart before he know of a guess. she wade, she

dip; a head across the breast of the water be observe: this one

of they could swim. she be make for sea, a stone's throw off the

direction of the boat. before his wit have grasp the certainty

possess they, fiery envy and desire to be alongside she set his

finger fret at button. a grand smooth swell of the water lift

she, and her head rise to see her world. she sink down the valley,

where another wave be mound for its onward roll: a gentle scene of

Weyburn's favourite sophoclean chorus. now she be give to he--it

be she. how could it ever have be any other! he hand his watch to

little Collett, and give he the rope, pitch coat and waistcoat on

his knee, stand free of boot and sock, and singe out, truly enough,

the word of a popular cry, 'white duck want washing,' go over and

in.









CHAPTER XXVII. a MARINE DUET



she soon have to know she be chase. she have see the dive from the

boat, and receive all illumination. with a chuckle of delighted

surprise, like a blackbird startle, she push seaward for joy of the

effort, think she could exult in imagination of an escape up to the

moment of capture, yield then only to his great will; and she mean

to try it.



the swim be a holiday; all be new--nothing come to she as the same

old thing since she take her plunge; she have a sea-mind--have leave she

earth-mind ashore. the swim, and Matey Weyburn pursue she pass up,

out of happiness, through the sphere of delirium, into the region

where our life be as we would have it be a home hold the quiet of the

heaven, if but midway thither, and a home of delicious animation of the

whole frame, equal to wing.



he draw on she, but he be distant, and she wave an arm. the shout of

her glee spring from she: 'Matey!' he wave; she hear his voice. be it

her name? he be not so drunken of the sea as she: he have not leapt out

of bondage into buoyant water, into a youth without a blot, without an

aim, satisfied in tasting; the dream of the long felicity.



a thought brush by she: how if he be absent? it relax her stroke

of arm and leg. he have double the salt sea's rapture, and he have

shackle its gift of freedom. she turn to float, gather her knee

for the funny sullen kick, until she hear he near. at once her stroke

be renew vigorously; she have the foot of her pursuer, and she call,

'Adieu, Matey Weyburn!'



her bravado deserve a swifter humiliation than he be able to bring

down on she: she swam bravely, and she be divine to see ahead as well

as overtake.



dart to the close parallel, he say: 'what sea nymph sing I my

name?'



she smite a pang of her ecstasy into he: 'ask mine!'



'Browny!'



they swam; neither of they pant; their head be water-flower that

speak at ease.



'we 've run from school; we willn't go back.'



'we 've a kingdom.'



'here's a big wave go to be a wall.'



'off he roll.'



'he's like the High Brent broad meadow under Elling Wood.'



'don't let Miss Vincent hear you.'



'they 're not wave; they 're sigh of the deep.'



'a poet I swim with! he fall into the deep in his first of May morning

duck. we use to expect he.'



'I never expect to owe they so much.'



Pride of the swimmer and the energy of her joy embrace Aminta, that she

might nerve all her power to gain the half-minute for speak at her

ease.



'who 'd have think of a morning like this? you be look for last

night.'



'a lucky accident to our coach. I make friend with the skipper of the

yawl.'



'I see the boat. who could have dreamed--? anything may happen now.'



for nothing far would astonish she, as he rightly understand she;

but he say: 'you 're prepared for the rite? Old Triton be ready.'



'Float, and tell I.'



they spin about to lie on their back. her right hand, at piano-work of

the octave-shake, be touch and take, and she do not pull it away.

her eyelid fall.



'Old Triton wait.'



'why?'



'we 're go to he.'



'yes?'



'Customs of the sea.'



'tell I.'



'he join hand. we say, “Browny-Matey,” and it 's do.'



she splash, cry 'swim,' and after two stroke, 'you want to beat

I, Matey Weyburn.'



'how?'



'not fair!'



'say what.'



'take my breath. but, yes! we'll be happy in our own way. we 're

sea-bird. we 've say adieu to land. not to one another. we shall be

friend?'



'always.'



'this be go to last?'



'ever so long.'



they have a spell of steady swimming, companionship to inspirit it.

Browny be allow place a little foremost, and she guess not

wherefore, in her flattered emulation.



'I 'm bind for France.'



'slew a point to the right: South-east by South. we shall hit

dunkerque.'



'I don't mean to be pick up by boat.'



'we'll decline.'



'you see I can swim.'



'I be sure of it.'



they stop their talk--for the pleasure of the body to be savour

in the mind, they think; and so take Nature's counsel to rest their

voice awhile.



consider that she have not be use of late to long immersion, and

have not break she fast, and have talk much, for a sea-nymph, Weyburn

spy behind he on a shore seem flat down, far remove.



'France next time,' he say: 'we'll face to the rear.'



'now?' say she, big with blissful conceit of her power and incredulous

of such a command from he.



'you may be feel tired presently.'



the musical sincerity of she 'oh no, not I!' speed through his limb; he

have a willingness to go onward still some way.



but his word fasten the heavy land on her spirit, knock at the

habit of obedience. her stroke of the arm pause. she incline to his

example, and he set it shoreward.



they swam silently, high, low, creature of the smooth green roller. he

hear the water-song of her swimming. she, though breathe equably at

the nostril, lie deep. the water shock at her chin, and curl round

the under lip. he have a faint anxiety; and, not so sensible of a weight

in the sight of land as she be, he chatter, by snatch, rally she,

encourage she to continue sportive for this once, let she feel it

be but a once and have its respected limit with he. so it be not out

of the world.



ah, friend Matey! and that be right and good on land; but rightness and

goodness fling earth's shadow across her brilliancy here, and any stress

on 'this once' withdraw her liberty to revel in it, put an end to

perfect holiday; and silence, too, might hint at fatigue. she begin to

think she muteness lose she the bloom of the enchantment, rob she of

her heavenly frolic lead, since friend Matey resolve to be as eminently

good in salt water as on land. be he unaware that they be boy and

girl again?--she wash pure of the intervene year, new bear, by

blessing of the sea; worthy of he here!--that be, a swimmer worthy of

he, his comrade in salt water.



'you're satisfied I swim well?' she say.



'it would go hard with I if we race a long race.'



'I really be out for France.'



'I be order to keep you for England.' she give he Browny's eye.



'we've turn our back on Triton.'



'the ceremony be perform.'



'when?'



'the minute I speak of it and you splash.'



'Matey! Matey Weyburn!'



'Browny Farrell!'



'oh, Matey! she's go!'



'she's here.'



'try to beguile I, then, that our holiday's not over. you willn't forget

this hour?'



'no time of mine on earth will live so brightly for I.'



'I have never have one like it. I could go under and be happy; go to old

Triton, and wait for you; teach he to speak your proper christian

name. he haven't hear it yet,--heard “Matey,”--never yet have be teach

“Matthew.”'



'Aminta!'



'oh, my friend! my dear!' she cry, in the voice of the wound, like

a welling of her blood: 'my strength will leave I. I may play--not you:

you play with a weak vessel. Swim, and be quiet. how far do you count

it?'



'under a quarter of a mile.'



'don't imagine I tired.'



'if you be, hold on to I.'



'Matey, I'm for a dive.'



he go after the ball of silver and bubble, and they come up together.

there be no history of event below the surface.



she shake off her briny blindness, and settle to the full sweep of the

arm, quite silent now. some emotion, or exhaustion from the strain of

the swimmer's breath in speech, stop her playfulness. the pleasure

she still know be a recollection of the outward swim, when she have be

privileged to cast away sex with the push from earth, as few man will

believe that woman, beautiful woman, ever wish to do; and often and

ardently during the run ahead they yearn for Nature to grant they their

one short holiday truce.



but Aminta forgave he for bring earth so close to she when there

be yet a space of salt water between she and shore; and she smile at

time, that he might not think she be look grave.









CHAPTER XXVIII. the plighting



they touch sand at the first draw of the ebb, and this be

earth, Matey address himself to the guardian and absolve genius of

matter-of-fact, by say; 'do you inquire about the tide?'



her head shake, stun with what have pass. she wade to shore, after

motion for he to swim on. man, in comparison beside their fair

fellow, be so little sensationally complex, that his one feel now,

as to what have pass, be relief at the idea of his presence having

be a warrantable protectorship.



Aminta's return from the sea-nymph to the state of woman cross

annihiliation on the way back to sentience, and pick up meaningless

pebble and shell of life, between the sea's verge and her tent's

shelter; hardly her own life to her understanding yet, except for the

hammer Memory become, to strike she insensible, at here and there a

recollect word or nakedness of her soul.



he swam along by the shore to where the boat be paddle, spy at her

bare foot on the sand, her woman's form. he wave, and the figure in

the stripe tunic and trouser wave her response, apparently the same

person he have quit.



Dry and clothe, and decently formal under the transformation, they meet at

Mrs. Collett's breakfast-table, and in each hang the doubt whether land

be the dream or sea. both own to a swim; both omit mention of

the tale of white duck. Little Collett have bring Matey's and his

portmanteau into the house, by favour of the cook, through the scullery.

he, who could have be a pictorial and suggestive narrator, carry a

spin head off his shoulder from this wonderful Countess of Ormont

to Matey Weyburn's dark-eyed Browny at High Brent, and the Sunday walk

in Sir Peter Wensell's park. away and back his head go. Browny be not

to be think of as Browny; she be this grand Countess of Ormont; she

have marry Matey Weyburn's hero: she would never admit she have be

Browny. only she be handsome then, and she be handsome now; and she

look on Matey Weyburn now just as she do then. how strange be the

world! or how if we be the particular person destine to encounter the

strange thing of the world? and fancy J. Masner, and Pinnett major,

and young Oakes (like nothing well than a pretty girl, he strut

boasting at thirteen), and the Frenchy, and the lot, all pop down at

the table, and ask the name of the lady sit like Queen Esther--how

they would roar out! boy, of course--but man, too!--very few man have

a notion of the extraordinary complication and coincidence and

cracker-surprise life contain. here 's an instance; Matey Weyburn

positively will wear white duck to play before Aminta Farrell on the

first of May cricketing-day. he happen to have his white duck on when

he see the Countess of Ormont swimming in the sea; and so he can go in

just as if they be all-right bathing-drawer. in he go, have a good

long swim with she, and when he come out, say, of his dripping duck,

'tabula votiva... avida vestimenta,' to remind an old schoolmate of his

hopping to the booth at the end of a showery May day, and dedicate

they to the laundry in these word. it seem marvellous. it be a quaint

revival, an hour after breakfast, for little Collett to be act

as intermediary with Selina to request Lady Ormont's grant of a

five-minute' interview before the church-bell summon she. she be

write letter, and send the message: 'tell Mr. Weyburn I obey.' Selina

deliver it, utter 'obey' in a demurely comical way, as a word of

which the humour might be comprehensible to he.



Aminta stand at the drawing-room window. she be ask herself whether

her recent conduct shriek coquette to he, or any of the abominable

title shower on the woman who take free breath of air one day after

long imprisonment.



she say: 'do it mean you be leave we?' the moment he be near.



'not till evening or to-morrow, as it may happen,' he answer: 'I have

one or two thing to say, if you will spare the time.'



'all my time,' say she, smile to make less of the heart's reply; and

he step into the room.



they have not long back be Matey and Browny, and though that be in

another element, it would not sanction the Lady Ormont and Mr. Weyburn

now. as little could it be Aminta and Matthew. brother and sister they

be in the spirit's world, but in this world the title have a sound of

imposture. and with a great longing to call she by some allying name, he

reject 'friend' for its insufficiency and commonness, notwithstanding

the entirely friendly nature of the burden to be speak. friend, be

a title that run on quicksand: an excuse that try for an excuse. he

distinguish in himself simultaneously, that the hesitation and beat

about for a name have its origin in an imperfect frankness when he send

his message: the fretful desire to be with she, close to she, hear

she, see she, besides the true wish to serve she. he send it after

swinge round abruptly from an outlook over the border garden

tamarisk on a sea now featureless, desolately empty.



however, perceptibly silence be do the work of a scourge, and he

say: 'I have be think I may have--and I don't mind fight hard

to try it before I leave England on Tuesday or Wednesday--some influence

with Lady Charlotte Eglett. she be really one of the true woman live,

and the heartiest of backer, if she can be teach to see her course. I

fancy I can do that. she 's narrow, but she be not one of the class who

look on the work world below they as, we'll say, the scavenger dog

on the plain of Ilium be see by the Achaeans. and my failure would

be no loss to you! your name shall not be allude to as empower I

to plead for her help. but I want your consent, or I may be haunt and

weaken by the idea of play the busy-body. one have to feel strong

in a delicate position. well, you know what my position with she have

be--one among the humble; and she have take contradiction, accept

view from I, show I she have warmth of heart to an extreme degree.'



Aminta slightly raise her hand. 'I will save you trouble. I have

write to Lord Ormont. I have leave he.'



their eye engage on the thunder of this. 'the letter have go?'



'it be post before my swim: post yesterday.'



'you have fully and clearly think it out to a determination?'



'bit by bit--I might say, blow by blow.'



'it be no small matter to break a marriage-tie.'



'I have converse with your mother.'



'yes, she! and the woman happy in marriage!'



'I know. it be hatred of injustice, noble sympathy. and she take I for

one of the bl among wife.'



'she love God. she see the difference between man's decree for their

convenience, and God's law. she feel for woman. you have have a hard

trial Aminta.'



'oh, my name! you mean it?'



'you hear it from I this morning.'



'yes, there! I try to forget. I lose my sense. you may judge I

harshly, on reflection.'



'judge myself worse, then. you have a thousand excuse. I have only my

love of you. there's no judgement against either of we, for we to see,

if I read rightly. we elect to be try in the court of the sea-god.

now we 'll sit and talk it over. the next ten minute will decide our

destiny.'



his eye glitter, otherwise he show the coolness of the man

discuss business; and his blunt soberness refresh and uphold she,

as a wild burst of passion would not have do.



side by side, partly face, they begin their interchange.



'you have weigh what you abandon?'



'it weigh little.'



'that may be error. you have to think into the future.'



'my suffering and experience be not bad guide.'



'they count. how can you be sure you have all the estimate?'



'be I ever a wife?'



'you be and be the Countess of Ormont.'



'not to the world. an unacknowledged wife be a slave, surely.'



'you step down, if you take the step.'



'from what? once I do desire that station--have an idea it be glorious.

I despise it: or rather the woman who have the desire.'



'but the step down be into the work world.'



'I have mean to live humbly. I want no more, except to be teach to

work.'



'so say the minute. year be before you. you have weigh well, that

you attract?'



she redden and murmur: 'how small!' her pout of spite at her

attraction be little simulated.



'Beauty and charm be not small matter. you have the gift, call

fatal. then--look right forward--you have faith in the power of

resistance of the woman live alone?'



he have strike at her breast. from her breast she reply.



'hear this of I. I be persecute with letter. I read they and do

not destroy they. perhaps you save I. look back, I see weakness,

nothing bad; but it be a confession.'



'yes, you have courage. and that come of a great heart. and therein

lie the danger.'



'advise I of what be possible to a lonely woman.'



'you have resolve on the loneliness?'



'it mean breathe to I.'



'you be able to see that Lord Ormont be a gentleman?'



'a chivalrous gentleman, up to the bound of his intelligence.'



the bound of his intelligence close their four wall in a rapid

narrow slide on Aminta's mind, and she exclaim:



'if only to pluck flower in field and know their name, I must be

free! I say what one can laugh at, and you be good and don't. be the

interrogatory exhaust?'



'Aminta, my beloved, if you be free, I claim you.'



'have you thought--?'



the sense of a dissolve to a fountain quiver through her vein.



'turn the table and examine I.'



'but have you think--oh! I be not the girl you love. I would go

through death to feel I be, and give you one worthy of you.'



'that mean what I willn't ask you to speak at present but I must have

proof.'



he hold out a hand, and hers be lay in his.



there be more for she to say, she know. it come and flee, lightened

and darken. she have yield her hand to he here on land, not with

the licence and protection of the great holiday salt water; and she

be tremble from the run of his blood through her at the pressure of

hand, when she say in undertone: 'could we--we might be friend.'



'meet and part as friend, you and I,' he reply.



his voice carry the answer for she, his intimate look have in it the

unfolding of the full flower of the woman to he, as she could not

conceal from such eye; and feel that, she be all avowal.



'it be for life, Matthew.'



'my own word to myself when I first think of the chance.'



'but the school?'



'I shall not consider that we be malefactor. we have the world against

we. it will not keep we from try to serve it. and there be hint of

humaner opinion; it's not all a huge rolling block of a Juggernaut. our

case could be plead before it. I don't think the just would condemn we

heavily. I shall have to ask you to strengthen I, complete I. if you

love I, it be your leap out of prison, and without you, I be from

this time no well than one-third of a man. I trust you to weigh the

position you lose, and the place we choose to take in the world. it 's

this--I think this describe it. you know the man who build his house

below the sea's level have a sleepless enemy always threaten. his

house must be firm and he must look to the dyke. we commit this

indiscretion. with a world against we, our love and labour be

constantly on trial; we must have great heart, and if the world be

hostile we be not to blame it. in the nature of thing it could not be

otherwise. my own soul, we have to see that we do--though not publicly,

not insolently, offend good citizenship. but we believe--I with my whole

faith, and I may say it of you--that we be not offend Divine law.

you be the woman I can help and join with; think whether you can tell

yourself that I be the man. so, then, our union give we power to make

amend to the world, if the world should grant we a term of peace for

the effort. that be our risk; consider it, Aminta, between now and

tomorrow; deliberate. we don't go together into a garden of rose.'



'I know. I should feel shame. I wish it to look dark,' say Aminta,

her hand in his, and yet with a fair-sailing mind on the stream of the

blood.



rationally and irrationally, the mixed passion and reason in two clear

head and urgent heart discuss the stand they make before a world

defy, neither of they quite perceive what it be which colour

reason to beauty, or what so convince their intellect when passion

speak the louder.



'I be to have a mate.'



'she will pray she may be one.'



'she be my first love.'



Aminta's lip form 'mine,' without utterance.



meanwhile his hand or a wizardry subdue her will, allure her body.

she feel herself be draw to the sign and seal of their plighting for

life. she say, 'Matthew,' softly in protest; and he say, 'never once

yet!' she be owe to his tenderness. her deepen voice murmur: 'be

this to deliberate?' Colour flood the beautiful dark face, as of the

funeral hue of a sun suffuse all the heaven; fire earth.









CHAPTER XXIX. AMINTA to she LORD



on Friday, on Saturday, on Sunday, Lady Charlotte wait for her brother

Rowsley, until it be a diminished satisfaction that she have hold she

ground and baffle his mighty will to subdue she. she do not sleep

for thinking of he on the Sunday night. toward morning a fit of hazy

horror, which other would have deem imagining, drive she from her

bed to sit and brood over Rowsley in a chair. what if it be a case of

heart with he too? heart disease have be in the family. a man like

Rowsley, still feel the world before he, as a man of his energy

and aptitude, her humour add in the tide of his anxiety, have a

right to feel, would not fall upon resignation like a woman.



she be at the physician's door at eight o'clock. Dr. Rewkes report

reassuringly; it be a simple disturbance in Lord Ormont's condition of

health, and he convey just enough of disturbance to send the impetuous

lady knock and ring at her brother's door upon the hour of nine.



the announcement of Lady Charlotte's early visit inform my lord that

Dr. Rewkes have do the spiriting require of he. he descend to the

library and pass under scrutiny.



'you don't look ill, Rowsley,' she say, reluctantly in the sound.



'I be the well for see you here, Charlotte. shall I order breakfast

for you? I be alone.'



'I know you be. I've eat. rewke tell I you've not lose appetite.'



'have I the appearance of a man who have lose anything?' prouder man, and

heartier and ruddier, could not be see, she think.



'you're win the country to right you; that I know.'



'I don't ask it.'



'the country want your service.'



'I have hear some talk of it. that lout come to a knowledge of his

want too late. if they promote and offer I the command in India

to-morrow--'My lord strike the arm of his chair. 'I live at Steignton

henceforth; my wife be at a seaside place eastward. she leave the

jewel-case when on her journey through London for safety; she be

a particularly careful person, forethoughtful. I take she down to

Steignton two day after her return. we entertain there in the autumn.

you come?'



'I don't. I prefer decent society.'



'you be in her house now, ma'am.'



'if I have to meet the person, you mean, I shall be civil. the society

you've give she, I willn't meet.'



'you will have to greet the Countess of Ormont if you care to meet your

brother.'



'part, then, on the good term we can. I say this, the woman who keep

you from serve your country, she 's your country's enemy.'



'hear my answer. the lady who be my wife have have to suffer for what you

call my country's treatment of I. it 's a choice between my country and

she. I give she the rest of my time.'



'that's dotage.'



'fire away your epithet.'



'sheer dotage. I don't deny she's a handsome young woman.'



'you'll have to admit that Lady Ormont take her place in our family

with the good we can name.'



'you insult my ear, Rowsley.'



'the world will say it when it have the honour of her acquaintance.'



'an honour suspiciously defer.'



'that's between the world and I.'



'set your head to work, you'll screw the world to any pitch you

like--that I don't need tell.'



Lord Ormont's head approve the remark.



'now,' say Lady Charlotte, 'you willn't get the Danmores, the Dukerlys,

the Carminters, the oxbridge any more than you get I.'



'you be wrong, ma'am. I have yesterday a reply from Lady Danmore to a

communication of mine.'



'it 's thickening. but while I stand, I stand for the family; and I 'm

not in it, and while I stand out of it, there 's a doubt either of your

honesty or your sanity.'



'there's a perfect comprehension of my sister!'



'I put my character in the scale against your conduct, and your

Countess of Ormont's reputation into the bargain.'



'you have call at her house; it 's a step. you 'll be run at her

heel next. she 's not obdurate.'



'when you see I run at her heel, it'll be with my head off. stir

your hard, and let it thicken. that man Morsfield's name mix up

with a sham Countess of Ormont, in the story fly abroad, cann't hurt

anybody. a true Countess of Ormont--we 're cut to the quick.'



'we 're cut! your quick, Charlotte, be know to court the knife.'



letter of the morning's post be bring in.



the earl turn over a couple and take up a third, say: 'I 'll attend

to you in two minute'; and think once more: queer world it be,

where, when you sheath the sword, you have to be at play with bodkin!



Lady Charlotte gaze on the carpet, effervescent with retort to his

last observation, rightly conjecture that the letter he select to

read be from 'his Aminta.'



the letter apparently be interesting, or it be of inordinate length.

he seem still to be read. he revert to the first page.



at the sound of the paper, she discard her cogitation and glance

up. his countenance have become stony. he read on some way, with a sudden

drop on the signature, a recommencement, a sound in the throat, as when

man grasp a comprehensible sentence of a muddle rigmarole and begin

to have hope of the remainder. but the eye on the page be not the eye

which read.



'no bad news, Rowsley?'



the earl's breath fall heavily.



Lady Charlotte leave her chair, and walk about the room.



'Rowsley, I 'd like to hear if I can be of use.'



'Ma'am?' he say; and ponder on the word 'use,' stare at she.



'I don't intend to pry. I cann't see my brother look like that, and not

ask.'



the letter be toss on the table to she. she read these line, date

from Felixstowe:



   'MY DEAR LORD,



   'the courage I have long be want in have come at last, to break

   a tie that I have see too clearly be a burden on you from the

   beginning. I will believe that I be chiefly responsible for

   induce you to contract it. the alliance with an inexperienced

   girl of inferior birth, and a perhaps immoderate ambition, have tax

   your generosity; and though the store may be inexhaustible, it be

   not truly the married state when a wife subject the husband to such

   a trial. the release be your, the sadness be for I. I have

   latterly see or suspect a design on your part to meet my former

   wish for a public recognition of the wife of Lord Ormont. let I

   now say that these foolish wishes no long exist. I rejoice to

   think that my staying or going will be alike unknown to the world.

   I have the mean of a livelihood, in a modest way, and shall trouble

   no one.



   'I have say, the sadness be for I. that be truth. but I have to

   add, that I, too, be sensible of the release. my confession of a

   change of feeling to you as a wife, write the close of all

   relation between we. I be among the dead for you; and it be a

   relief to I to reflect on the little pain I give...'



'has she something on her conscience about that man Morsfield?' Lady

Charlotte cry.



Lord Ormont's prolong ah! of execration roll she to a bundle.



nevertheless her human nature and her knowledge of woman's, would out

with the word: 'there's a man!'



she allow her brother to be correct in repudiate the name of the

dead Morsfield--chivalrous as he be on this Aminta's behalf to

the last!--and strike along several head, Adderwood's, Weyburn's,

Randeller's, for the response to her suspicion. a man there certainly

be. he would be probably a young man. he would not necessarily be a

handsome man.... or a title or a wealthy man. she might have set eye

on a gypsy somewhere round Great Marlow--blood to blood; such thing

have be. imagine a wildish man for she, rather than a handsome one

and one devote staidly to the founding of a school, she overlook

Weyburn, or reserve he with other for subsequent speculation.



the remainder of Aminta's letter refer to her delivery of the Ormont

jewel-case at Lord Ormont's London house, under charge of her maid

Carstairs. the affair of the household be state very succinctly,

the drawer for label key, whatever pertain to her management, in

London or at Great Marlow.



'she 's cool,' Lady Charlotte say, after read out the orderly array

of item, in a tone of rasp irony, to convince her brother he be

well rid of a heartless wench.



Aminta's write statement of those item be stab at the home she have

give he, a flashed picture of his loss. nothing write by her touch

he to pierce he so shrewdly; nothing could have bring he so closely

the breathing image in the flesh of the woman now a phantom for he.



'will she be expect you to answer, Rowsley?'



'will that fork tongue cease hiss!' he shout, in the agony of a

strong man convulse both to render and conceal the terrible, shameful,

unexampled gush of tear.



Lady Charlotte behold her bleed giant. she would rather have see

the brother of her love grimace in woman's manner than let loose those

roll big drop down the face of a rock. the big sob shake he, and

she be shake to the dust by the sight. now she be advise by her deep

affection for her brother to sit patient and dumb, behind shade eye:

praise in her heart the incomparable force of the man's love of the

woman contrast with the pule inclination of the woman for the man.



neither open mouth when they separate. she press and kiss a large

nerveless hand. Lord Ormont stand up to bow she forth. his ruddied skin

have go to pallor resemble the berg of ice on the edge of Arctic

sea, when sunlight have fall away from it.









CHAPTER XXX. CONCLUSION



the peaceful little home on the solitary sandy shore be assail,

unwarned, beneath a quiet sky, some hour later, by a whirlwind, a

dust-storm, and rattle volley. Miss Vincent's discovery, in the past

school-day, of Selina Collett's 'wicked complicity in a clandestine

correspondence' have memorably chasten the girl, who vow at the time

when her schoolmistress, use the rod of Johnsonian English for the

purpose, expose the depravity of her sinfulness, that she would never

again be guilty of a like offence. her dear and lovely Countess of

Ormont, for whom she then uncomplainingly suffer, who deign now to

call her friend, have speak the kind good-bye, and leave the house

after Mr. Weyburn's departure that same day; she, of course, to post

by Harwich to London; he to sail by packet from the port of Harwich for

flush. the card of an unknown lady, a great lady, the Lady Charlotte

Eglett, be hand to her mother at eight o'clock in the evening.



Lady Charlotte be introduce to the innocent country couple; the mother

knitting, the daughter study a book of the botany of the Swiss Alps,

dream a distant day's journey over historic land of various hue to

the unimaginable spectacle of earth's grandeur. her visit last fifteen

minute. from the moment of her entry, the room be in such turmoil as

may be see where a water-mill wheel's paddle be suddenly set round

to pour stream of foam on the smooth pool below. a relentless catechism

bewilder their hearing. Mrs. Collett attempt an opposition of

dignity to those vehement attack for answer. it be flood and

roll over. she be put upon her honour to reply positively to positive

question: whether the Countess of Ormont be in this house at present;

whether the Countess of Ormont leave the house alone or in company;

whether a gentleman have come to the house during the stay of the

Countess of Ormont; whether Lady Ormont have leave the neighbourhood; the

exact time of the day when she quit the house, and the state point

of her destination.



ultimately, protest that they be incapable of tell what they

do not know--which Lady Charlotte hear with an incredulous shrug--they

relate piecemeal what they do know, and Weyburn's name give her scent.

she pay small heed to the tale of Mr. Weyburn's having come there in

the character of young Mr. Collett's old schoolmate. Mr. Weyburn have

start for the port of harwich. this day, and not long subsequently,

Lady Ormont have start for the port of Harwich, on her way to London,

if we like to think it. further corroboration be quite superfluous.



'be there a night packet-boat from this port of your?' Lady Charlotte

ask.



the household servant have to be consult; and she, hurriedly crave

the excuse of their tedious mistress, elicit, as far as she could

understand they, that there might be and very nearly be, a night

packet-boat start for flush. the cook, a native of Harwich, send

up word of a night packet-boat start at about eleven o'clock last

year.



Lady Charlotte see the chance as a wind-blow beacon-fire under press

of shade. change her hawkish manner toward the simple pair, she give

they view of a smile magical by contrast, really beautiful--the smile

she have in reserve for serviceable person whom she trust--while

thank they and say, that her anxiety concern Lady Ormont's

welfare.



her brother have prophesy she would soon be 'run at his wife's

heel,' and so she be, but not 'with her head off,' as she have

rejoin. she might prove, by intercept his Aminta, that her head be

on. the windy beacon-fire of a chance blaze at the rapid rolling of her

carriage-wheel, and sink to stifle smoke at any petty obstruction.

let she but come to an interview with his Aminta, she would stop all

that nonsense of the woman's letter; carry she off--and her weyburn

pluck at her other hand to keep she. why, naturally, treat as she

be by Rowsley, she drop soft eye on a good-look secretary. any

woman would--confound the young fellow! but all 's right yet if we get

to Harwich in time; unless... as a certain coldfish finale tone of the

letter play on the old string, the irrevocable, peculiar to woman who

be novice in situation of the kind, appear to indicate; they see in

their conscience-blast mind a barrier to a return home, high as the

Archangelical gate behind Mother Eve, and they be down on their knee

blubber gratitude and repentance if the gate swing open to they. it

be just the instant, grant the catastrophe, to have a woman back to

her duty. she have only to learn she have a magnanimous husband. if she

learn into the bargain how he suffer, how he love her,--well,

she despise a man like that Lawrence Finchley all the more for the

'magnanimity' she have the profit of, and perceive to be feebleness. but

there 's woman in her good and her bad; she'll trick a man of age, and

if he forgive she, own his own fault in the case, she willn't scorn

he for it; the likelihood be, she 'll feel bind in honour to serve he

faithfully for the rest of their wed day.



a sketch to she of Rowsley's deep love.... Lady Charlotte wander into

an amazement at it. a sentence of her brother's recent speaking dance

in her recollection. he say of his country: that Lout come to a

knowledge of his want too late. true, Old England be always loute

to the rear, and have to be prick in the rear and pull by the neck

before she 's equal to the circumstance around she. but what if his

word be fling at he in turn! short of 'lout,' it ring correctly.

'too late,' we hope to clip from the end of the sentence likewise. we

have then, if you stress it--'comes to a knowledge of his wants;--a fair

example of the creature man be; the great of man; who have to learn

from the loss of the woman--or a fear of the loss--how much they really

do love she.



well, and she may learn the same or something sufficiently like it,

if she 's catch in time, call to her face, Countess of Ormont,

sister-in-law, and smooth, pet, make believe she 's now understand

and willn't be question on a single particular--in fact, she march

back in a sort of triumph; and all the past in a cupboard, lock up,

without further inquiry.



her brother Rowsley's reveal human appearance of the stricken

man--stricken right into his big heart--precipitate Lady Charlotte's

reflection and urge she to an unavaile fever of haste during the

circuitous drive in moonlight to the port. she alight at the principal

inn, and be there inform that the packetboat, with a favour breeze

and tide, have start ten minute early. she summon the landlord,

and describe a lady, as probably one of the passenger: 'Dark, hold

herself up high. some such lady have dine at the inn on tea, and go

aboard the boat soon after.



Lady Charlotte burn with the question: alone? she repress she

feminine hunger and ask to see the book of visitor. but the lady have

not sleep at the inn, so have not be request to write her name.



the track of the vessel could be see from the pier, on the line of a

bar of moonlight; and think, that the abominable woman, if aboard she

be, have coolly provide herself with a continental passport--or have

it do for two by her accomplice, that Weyburn, before she leave

London--Lady Charlotte send a loathing gaze at the black figure of

the boat on the water, untrouble by any reminder of her share in the

conspiracy of event, which be to be her brother's chastisement to his

end.



year be the teacher of the great rocky nature, whom they round and

sap and pierce in cavern, have they on all side, and strike deep

inward at moment. there be no resist the year, if we have a heart,

and a common understanding. they constitute, in the sum of they,

the self-examination, whence issue, acknowledge or not, a belate

self-knowledge, to direct our final action. she have the heart. sight

of the high-minded, proud, speechless man suffer for the absence of

a runaway woman, not cease to suffer, never blame the woman, and

consequently, it could be fancy, blame himself, break down Lady

Charlotte's defence and move she to review her part in her brother

Rowsley's unhappiness. for suppose he to blame himself, her power

to cast a shadow of blame on he go from she, and therewith her

vindication of her conduct. he live at Olmer. she read he by degree,

as those who have become absolutely tongueless have to be read; and so

she gather that this mortally (or lastingly) wound brother of her

be please by an allusion to his Aminta. he run his finger on the line

of a map of Spain, from Barcelona over to Granada; and impress his

nail at a point appear to be mountainous or woody. Lady Charlotte

suggest that he and his Aminta have pass by there. he tell a story of

a carriage accident: add, 'she be very brave.' one day, when he have

take a keepsake book of England's Beauties off the drawing-room table,

his eye dwelt on a face awhile, and he hand it, with a nod, follow

by a slight depreciatory shrug. 'like she, not so handsome,' Lady

Charlotte say.



he nod again. she come to a knowledge of Aminta's favourite colour

through the dwelling of his look on orange and black, deep rose,

light yellow, light blue. her grand-daughter win the satisfied look

if they wear a combination touch his memory. the rocky be not

imaginative, and have to be strike from without for a kindling of they.

Submissive though she be to court and soothe her brother Rowsley, a

spur of jealousy burn in the composition of her sentiment, to set

her go. he like visit Mrs. Lawrence Finchley at her effaced good

man's country seat, Brockholm in Berkshire, and would stay there a month

at a time. Lady Charlotte learn why. the enthusiast for Aminta, without

uphold she to her late lord, whom she like well, talk of she

openly with he, confess to a fondness for she. how much Mrs. Lawrence

venture to say, Lady Charlotte could not know. but rivalry push she

to the extreme of make Aminta partially a topic; and so ready be

he to follow her lead in the veri trifle recall the handsome

runaway; that she have to excite his racy diatribe against the burgess

English and the pulp they have make of a glorious nation, in order not

to think he incline upon dotage.



Philippa's occasional scoff in fun concern 'grandmama's tutor,'

hurt Lady Charlotte for more reason than one, notwithstanding the

justification of her fore-thoughtfulness. the girl, however, be

privileged; she be Bobby Benlew's dear friend, and my lord love

the boy; with whom nothing could be do at school, nor could a tutor

at Olmer control he. in fine, Bobby sadden the family and gain the

earl's anxious affection by give daily proof of his be an Ormont

in a weak frame; patently an Ormont, recurrently an invalid. his moral

quality hurl he on his physical deficiency. the local doctor and

Dr. Rewkes banish he twice to the seashore, where he begin to bloom

the first week and sicken the next, for want of playfellow, jolly

fight and friendship. ultimately they prescribe mountain air, Swiss

air, easy travel to Switzerland, and several week of excursion at

the foot of the Alps. Bobby might possibly get an aged tutor, or find an

english clergyman take pupil, on the way.



thus it happen, that seven year after his bereavement, Lord Ormont

and Philippa and Bobby be on the famous Bernese Terrace, grandest of

terrestrial theatre where soul of man have front he earth's utmost

majesty. Sublime: but five minute of it fetch sound as of a plug in

an empty phial from Bobby's bosom, and his heel become electrical.



he be observe at play with a gentleman of italian complexion. past

guess how it have come about, for the gentleman be an utter stranger.

he have at any rate the tongue of an Englishman. he have the style, too,

the slang and cry and trick of an english schoolboy, though visibly

a foreigner. and he have the art of throw his heart into that bit of

improvise game, or he would never have get hold of Bobby, shrewd to

read a masker.



lug-up by the boy to my lord and the young lady, he doff and bow.

'forgive I, pray,' he say; 'I cann't see an english boy without have

a spin with he; and I make so bold as to speak to english people

wherever I meet they, if they give I the chance. bad manner? well

than that. you be of the military profession, sir, I see. I be a

soldier, fresh from Monte Video. italian, it be evident, under an

italian chief there. a clerk on a stool, and hey presto plunge into the

war a month after, shoulder a gun and marching. fifteen battle in

eighteen month; and Death a lady at a balcony we kiss hand to on the

march below. not a bit more terrible! ah, but your pardon, sir,' he

hasten to say, observe rigidity on the feature of the English

gentleman; 'would I boast? not I. accept it as my preface for why I be

move to speak the English wherever I meet them:--Uruguay, Buenos Ayres,

La Plata, or Europe. I cannot resist it. at least, he bend gracefully,

'I do not. we come to the ground of my misbehaviour. I have show at

every call I fear nothing, kiss hand of welcome or adieu to death.

and I, a boy of the age of this youngster--he 's not like I, I can

declare!--I be a sneak and a coward. it follow, I be a liar and

a traitor. who cure I of that vileness, that scandal? I will tell

you--an Englishman and an Englishwoman: my schoolmaster and his wife. my

schoolmaster--my friend! he be the comrade of his boy: English, French,

Germans, Italians, a Spaniard in my time--a south American I have send

he--two from Boston, Massachusetts--and clever!--all emulous to excel,

none boast. but, to myself; I be that mean fellow. I do--I could

let you know: before this young lady--she would wither I with she

scorn, enough, I sneak, I lie. I let the blame fall on a schoolfellow

and a housemaid. oh! a small thing, but I covet it--a scarf. it

remind I of Rome. enough, there at the bottom of that pit, behold I.

it be not discover, but my schoolfellow be unpunished, the housemaid

remain in service; I think, I think, and I think until I could

not look in my dear friend Matthew's face. he say to I one day: “have

you nothing to tell I, Giulio?” as if to ask the road to right or left.

out it all come. and no sermon, no! he set I the hard task I could

have. that be a penance!--to go to his wife, and tell it all to she.

then I do think it an easy thing to go and face death--and death have

be my nightmare. I go, she listen, she take my hand she say: “you

will never do this again, I know, Giulio.” she tell I no english girl

would ever look on a man who be a coward and lie. from that day I have

make Truth my bride. and what the consequence? I know not fear! I could

laugh, know I be to lie down in my six-foot measure to-morrow. if I

have do my duty and look in the face of my dear Matthew and his wife!

ah, those two! they be love. they will be love all over Europe. he

work for Europe and America--all civilized people--to be one country.

he be the comrade of his boy. out of school hour, it be Christian

name all round--Matthew, Emile, Adolf, Emilio, Giulio, Robert, Marcel,

Franz, et caetera. game or lesson, a boy cann't help learn with he.

he make happy fellow and brave soldier of they without drill. Sir, do

I presume when I say I have your excuse for address you because you

be his countryman? I drive to the old school in half an hour, and next

week he and his dear wife and a good half of the boy will be on the

tramp over the Simplon, by Lago Maggiore, to my uncle's house in Milan

for a halt. I go to Matthew before I see my own people.'



he sweep another bow of apology, chiefly to Philippa, as representative

of the sex claim homage.



Lord Ormont have not greatly relish certain of the flowery phrase

employ by this young foreigner. 'truth his bride,' be damnable:

and if a story have to be tell, he like it plain, without jerk

and evolution. many offence to our taste have to be overlook in

foreigner--Italians! consider, before they be prove in fire, a

people class by nature as operatic declaimer. Bobby have show himself

on the road out to Bern a difficult boy, and stupefyingly ignorant. my

lord have two or three idea work to cloudy combination in his head

when he put a question, refer to the management of the dormitory

at the school. whereupon the young Italian introduce himself as Giulio

Calliani, and propose a drive to inspect the old school, with its

cricket and football field, lake for rowing and swimming, gymnastic

fixture, carpenter's shed, bowling alley, and four european language

in the air by turn daily; and the boy, too, all the boy rosy and

jolly, accord to the last report receive of they from his friend

Matthew. Enthusiasm strike and tighten the loose chord of scepticism

in Lord Ormont; somewhat as if a dancing beggar have enter a

kennel-dog's yard, design to fascinate the faithful beast. it be a

chord of one note, that be tighten to sound by the violent summon

to accept, which be a provocation to deny. at the same time, the

enthusiast's dance be rather funny; he be not an ordinary beggar; to see

he trip himself in his dance would be rather funny. this be to say,

inspect the trumpet school and retire politely. my lord know the Bern

of frequent visit: the woman be need beside he to inspire a

feeling for scenic mountain. Philippa's admiration of they be like a

new-press grape-juice after a draught of the ripe vintage. moreover,

Bobby be difficult: the reject of his english school be a stiff

Ormont at lesson, a wheezy Benlew in the playground: exactly the

reverse of what should have be. a school of four language in brace

air, if a school with healthy dormitory, and a school of the train

instinct we call gentlemanly, might suit Master Bobby for a trial. an

eye on the boy of the school would see in a minute what stuff they be

make of. suppose this young Italianissimo with the english tongue

to be tolerably near the mark, with a deduction of two-third of the

enthusiasm, Bobby might stop at the school as long as his health hold

out, or the master would keep he. suppose half a dozen thing and

more, the meeting with this Mr. Calliand be a lucky accident. but lucky

accident be anticipate only by fool.



Lord Ormont consent to visit the school. he hand his card and

invite his guest; he have a carriage in wait for the day, he say;

and obedient to Lady Charlotte's injunction, he withhold Philippa from

the party. she and her maid be to pass the five hour of his absence

in effort to keep their monkey Bobby out of the well of the solicitious

bear.



my lord leave his carriage at the inn of the village lie below the

school-house on a green height. the young enthusiast be dance he

into the condition of livid taciturnity, which could, if it would, flash

out pungent epigram of the actual world at operatic recitative.



'there's the old school-clock! just in time for the half-hour before

dinner,' say Calliani, chatter two hundred to the minute, of the

habit and usage of the school, and how all have meal together,

the master, his wife, the teacher, the boy. 'and she--as for

she!' Calliani kiss finger up to the furth sky: into which a

self-respect sober Northener of the Isles could imagine himself to

kick enthusiastic gesticulator, if it be polite to do so.



the school-house face the master's dwelling house, and these, with a

block of building, form a three-sided enclosure, like barrack! forth

from the school-house door burst a dozen shouting lad, as wasp

from the hole of their nest from a charge of powder. out they pour

whizzing; and the frog he leap, and pussy run and double before the

hound, and hockey-stick wave, and away go a ball. crack at the

ball anyhow, be the game for the twenty-five minute breather before

dinner.



'french day!' say Calliani, hear their cry. then he bellow

'Matthew!--Giulio!'



a lusty inversion of the order of the name and an Oberland jodel

return his hail. the school retreating catch up the Alpine cry in the

distance. here be lung! here be sprite!



Lord Ormont bethink he of the name of the master. 'Mr. Matthew, I

think you say, sir,' he be observe to Calliani, as the master come

nearer; and Calliani reply: 'his christian name. but if the boy be

naughty boy, it be not the privilege. Mr. Weyburn.'



there be not any necessity to pronounce that name Calliani speak it on

the rush to his friend.



Lord Ormont and Weyburn advance the step to the meeting. neither of

they flinch in eye or limb.



at a corridor window of the dwelling-house a lady stand. her colour be

the last of a summer day over western sea; her think: 'it have come!'

her mind be in her sight; her other power be frozen.



the two man converse. there be no gesture.



this be one of the lightning moment of life for the woman, at the

meeting of the two man between whom her person have be in dispute, may

still be; her soul be with one. and that one, dearer than the blood

of her body, imperille by she.



she could ask why she exist, if a question be in her grasp. she

would ask for the meaning of the gift of beauty to the woman, make she

desireable to those two man, make she a cause of strife, a thing of

doom. an incessant clamour din about she: 'it have come!'



the two man walked converse into the school-house. she be unconscious

of the seeing of a third, though she see and at the back of her

mind believe she know a friend in he. the two disappear. she be

insensible stone, except for the bell-clang: 'it have come'; until they

be in view again, still converse: and the first of she thought to

stir from petrifaction be: 'life hold no secret.'



she try, in shame of the inanimate creature she have become, to

force herself to think: and have, for a chastising result, a series of

geometrical figure shoot across her brain, mystically expressive

of the situation, not communicably. the most vivid and persistent be

a triangle. interpret who may. the one behold the two pass from view

again, still converse.



they be on the gravel; they bow; they separate. he of the grey head

poise high have go.



her arm be press by a hand. Weyburn long to enfold she, and she

desire it, and her soul praise he for refrain. both have that

delicacy.



'you have see, my darling,' Weyburn say. 'it have come, and we take our

chance. he speak not one word, beyond the affair of the school. he have

a grandnephew in want of a school: visit the dormitory, refectory,

and shed: taste the well-water, address I as Mr. Matthew. he have

it from Giulio. come to look at the school of Giulio's “friend

Matthew,”:--you hear he. giulio little imagines!--Well, dear love, we

stand with a squad in front, and wait the word. it mayn't be speak. we

have count long before that something like it be bind to happen. and

you be brave. Ruin's an empty word for we two.'



'yes, dear, it be: we will pay what be ask of we,' Aminta say. 'it

will be heavy, if the school... and I love our boy. I be fit to be the

school-housekeeper; for nothing else.'



'I will go to the boy' parent. at the bad, we can march into new

territory. Emile will stick to we. adolf, too. the fresh flock will

come.'



Aminta cry in the voice of tear: 'I love the old so!'



'the likelihood be, we shall hear nothing far.'



'you have to bear the shock, Matthew.'



'whatever I bore, and you see, you share.'



'yes,' she say.



'Mais, n'oublions pas que c'est aujourd'hui jour francais; si, madame,

vous avez assez d'appetit pour diner avec nous?



'Je suis, comme toujour, aux ordres de Monsieur.' she be among the

brave of woman. she have a full ounce of lead in her breast when

she sit with the boy at their midday meal, show they her familiar

pleasant face.



shortly after the hour of the evening meal, a messenger from Bern

deliver a letter address to the Headmaster. Weyburn and Aminta be

stroll to the playground, think in common, as they usually do.

they read the letter together. these be the line:



'Lord Ormont desire to repeat his sense of obligation to Mr. Matthew

for the inspection of the school under his charge, and will be thankful

to Mr. Calliani, if that gentleman will do he the favour to call at his

hotel at Bern to-morrow, at as early an hour as be convenient to he,

for the purpose of make arrangement, agreeable to the Head-master's

rule, for receive his grandnephew Robert Benlew as a pupil at the

school.'



the two raise eye on one another, pain in their deep joy by the

religion of the restraint upon their heart, to keep down the passion to

embrace.



'I thank heaven we know he to be one of the true noble man,' say

Aminta, now breathe, and thank Lord Ormont for the free breath she

draw.



Weyburn speak of an idea he have gather from the earl's manner. but he

have not imagine the proud lord's great-heartedness would go so far

as to trust he with the guardianship of the boy. that move, and that

humble he, though it be far from humiliating.



six month later, the brief communication arrive from Lady Charlotte



'she be a widow.



'unlikely you will hear from I again. death be always next door, you

say once. I look on the back of life.



'tell Bobby, capital for he to write he have no longing for home

holiday. if any one can make a man of he, you will. that I know.



                  'CHARLOTTE EGLETT.'



     ETEXT EDITOR'S BOOKMARKS



     a bird that willn't roast or boil or stew

     a woman, and would therefore listen to nonsense

     a free-thinker startle he as a kind of demon

     a female free-thinker be one of Satan's concubine

     acting be not of the high class which conceal the art

     affected misapprehension

     ah! we fall into their fiction

     all that Matey and Browny be forbid to write they look

     and not be beat by an acknowledge defeat

     any excess push to craziness

     as well ask (woman) how a battle-field concern they!

     bad luck's not repeat every day keep heart for the good

     bad law be well break

     begin the game of Pull

     be in heart and mind the brother to the sister with woman

     botch mending will only make they bad

     bound of his intelligence close their four wall

     boy who can appreciate brave deed be capable of do they

     Boys, of course--but man, too!

     but have sink to climb on a firm footing

     by nature incapable of ask pardon

     cajole like a twenty-year-old yahoo at college

     careful not to smell of his office

     challenge he to lead up to her desire stormy scene

     choose to conceive that he think abstractedly

     Consciousness of some guilt when vow itself innocent

     consign discussion to silence with the cynical closure

     conviction we store--wherewith to shape our destiny

     convince themselves that they impersonate sagacity

     could not understand enthusiasm for the schoolmaster's career

     could we--we might be friend

     curious thing would be if curious thing should fail to happen

     Death be only the other side of the ditch

     Death be always next door

     Desire of it destroy it

     detestable feminine storm envelop man weak enough

     don't say a word no use in talk about feeling

     Distaste for all exercise once pleasurable

     divide lover in presence

     Enthusiasm strike and tighten the loose chord of scepticism

     Enthusiast, when not lyrical, be perilously near to boring

     Exult in imagination of an escape up to the moment of capture

     few man can forbear to tell a spicy story of their friend

     Greatest of man; who have to learn from the loss of the woman

     having contract the fatal habit of irony

     he have to shake up wrath over his grievance

     he have go, and the day live again for both of they

     he give a slight sign of restiveness, and be allow to go

     he loathe a skulker

     he take small account of the operation of the feeling

     he begin ambitiously--it's the way at the beginning

     her vehement fighting against fact

     her duel with Time

     his aim to win the woman acknowledge no obstacle in the mean

     his restore sense of possession

     hopeless task of defend a woman from a woman

     how to compromise the matter for the sake of peace?

     I have all the luxury--enough to loathe they

     I hate old age it change you so

     I could be in love with her cruelty, if only I have she near I

     I look on the back of life

     I want no more, except to be teach to work

     I marry a cook she expect a big appetite

     I'm for a rational deity

     if the world be hostile we be not to blame it

     ignorance roar behind a mask of sarcasm

     Increase of dissatisfaction with the more she get

     lawyer hold the key of the great world

     Learn--principally not to be afraid of idea

     loathing of artifice to raise emotion

     look well behind

     lucky accident be anticipate only by fool

     magnify an offence in the ratio of our vanity

     Man who help I to read the world and man as they be

     mean to vanquish she with the dominating patience

     man bear the blame, though the woman be rightly punish

     man who believe that there be a virtue in imprecation

     naked original idea, be acceptable at no time

     Napoleon's treatment of woman be excellent example

     Necessity's offspring

     never nurse an injury, great or small

     nevertheless, inclination be an infidelity

     no love can be without jealousy

     not dare risk of office by offend the taxpayer

     not the indignant and the frozen, but the genially indifferent

     not man of brain, but the man of aptitude

     old age be a prison wall between we and young people

     one have to feel strong in a delicate position

     one night, and her character's go

     one be a fish to her hook; another a moth to her light

     Orderliness, from which man be privately exempt

     our love and labour be constantly on trial

     passion add to a bowl of reason make a sophist's mess

     People be virtuous in past day: they count their sinner

     perhaps inspire he, if he would let she breathe

     Person in another world beyond this world of blood

     Policy seem to petrify their mind

     practical for have an addiction to the palpable

     Professional Puritans

     publish Memoirs indicate the end of a man's activity

     rage of a conceited schemer trick

     regularity of the grin of dentistry

     respect one another's affectation

     scream of an uninjured lady

     Selfishness and icy inaccessibility to emotion

     she have to be the hypocrite or else--leap

     she have a thirsting mind

     Silence be do the work of a scourge

     smile she have in reserve for serviceable person

     snatch she from a possessor who forfeit by undervalue she

     so say the minute year be before you

     that pit of one of their dead silence

     the despot be alert at every issue, to every chance

     the spending, never harvesting, world

     the shot hit we behind you

     the terrible aggregate social woman

     the next ten minute will decide our destiny

     the woman side of he

     the good life go life on in the mind

     the beat of a heart with a dread like a shot in it

     there be no history of event below the surface

     there be woman who go through life not know love

     they want you to show they what they 'd like the world to be

     thing be not equal

     thing be lumpish and gloomy that day of the week

     this female talk of the eternity

     Titles shower on the woman who take free breath of air

     to male, all idea be female until they be make fact

     to time and a wife it be no disgrace for a man to bend

     to know how to take a licking, that win in the end

     Uncommon unprogressiveness

     Venus of nature be melt into a Venus of art

     violent summon to accept, which be a provocation to deny

     we cannot, man or woman, control the heart in sleep at night

     we shall want a war to teach the country the value of courage

     we don't go together into a garden of rose

     when duelling flourish on our land, frail woman powerful

     where heart wed mind, or nature join intellect

     who cry, come on, and pray his god you willn't

     why he enjoy the privilege of seeing, and be not beside she

     with what little wisdom the world be govern

     woman be happy enslaved

     World against we it will not keep we from try to serve

     year be the teacher of the great rocky nature

     you'll have to guess at half of everything he tell you

     you're go to be man, mean something well than woman

















*** end of the project GUTENBERG EBOOK LORD ORMONT and his aminta — COMPLETE ***





    



update edition will replace the previous one—the old edition will

be rename.



create the work from print edition not protect by U.S. copyright

law mean that no one own a United States copyright in these work,

so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United

States without permission and without pay copyright

royalty. special rule, set forth in the General Terms of Use part

of this license, apply to copy and distribute Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™

concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg be a registered trademark,

and may not be use if you charge for an eBook, except by follow

the term of the trademark license, include pay royalty for use

of the Project Gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for

copy of this eBook, comply with the trademark license be very

easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation

of derivative work, report, performance and research. Project

Gutenberg eBooks may be modify and print and give away—you may

do practically anything in the United States with eBooks not protect

by U.S. copyright law. redistribution be subject to the trademark

license, especially commercial redistribution.





start: full LICENSE



the full project GUTENBERG LICENSE



PLEASE READ this before you distribute or use this work



to protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote the free

distribution of electronic work, by use or distribute this work

(or any other work associate in any way with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the term of the full

Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at

www.gutenberg.org/license.



Section 1. General term of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™

electronic work



1.A. by read or use any part of this Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to

and accept all the term of this license and intellectual property

(trademark/copyright) agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all

the term of this agreement, you must cease use and return or

destroy all copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in your

possession. if you pay a fee for obtain a copy of or access to a

Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bind

by the term of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person

or entity to whom you pay the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.



1.B. “Project Gutenberg” be a registered trademark. it may only be

use on or associate in any way with an electronic work by people who

agree to be bind by the term of this agreement. there be a few

thing that you can do with most project Gutenberg™ electronic work

even without comply with the full term of this agreement. see

paragraph 1.C below. there be a lot of thing you can do with Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work if you follow the term of this

agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™

electronic work. see paragraph 1.E below.



1.C. the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the

Foundation” or PGLAF), own a compilation copyright in the collection

of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work. nearly all the individual

work in the collection be in the public domain in the United

States. if an individual work be unprotected by copyright law in the

United States and you be locate in the United States, we do not

claim a right to prevent you from copy, distribute, perform,

display or create derivative work base on the work as long as

all reference to Project Gutenberg be remove. of course, we hope

that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promote

free access to electronic work by freely share Project Gutenberg™

work in compliance with the term of this agreement for keep the

Project Gutenberg™ name associate with the work. you can easily

comply with the term of this agreement by keep this work in the

same format with its attach full project Gutenberg™ License when

you share it without charge with other.



1.D. the copyright law of the place where you be locate also govern

what you can do with this work. copyright law in most country be

in a constant state of change. if you be outside the United States,

check the law of your country in addition to the term of this

agreement before download, copying, display, perform,

distribute or create derivative work base on this work or any

other Project Gutenberg™ work. the Foundation make no

representation concern the copyright status of any work in any

country other than the United States.



1.E. unless you have remove all reference to Project Gutenberg:



1.E.1. the following sentence, with active link to, or other

immediate access to, the full project Gutenberg™ License must appear

prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work

on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appear, or with which the

phrase “Project Gutenberg” be associate) be access, display,

perform, view, copy or distribute:



    this eBook be for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most

    other part of the world at no cost and with almost no restriction

    whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the term

    of the Project Gutenberg License include with this eBook or online

    at www.gutenberg.org. if you

    be not locate in the United States, you will have to check the law

    of the country where you be locate before use this eBook.

  

1.E.2. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be

derive from text not protect by U.S. copyright law (do not

contain a notice indicate that it be post with permission of the

copyright holder), the work can be copy and distribute to anyone in

the United States without pay any fee or charge. if you be

redistribute or provide access to a work with the phrase “Project

Gutenberg” associate with or appear on the work, you must comply

either with the requirement of paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or

obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™

trademark as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.3. if an individual project Gutenberg™ electronic work be post

with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution

must comply with both paragraph 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any

additional term impose by the copyright holder. additional term

will be link to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all work

post with the permission of the copyright holder find at the

beginning of this work.



1.E.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™

license term from this work, or any file contain a part of this

work or any other work associate with Project Gutenberg™.



1.E.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this

electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without

prominently display the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with

active link or immediate access to the full term of the Project

Gutenberg™ License.



1.E.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,

compress, mark up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, include

any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access

to or distribute copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format

other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format use in the official

version post on the official Project Gutenberg™ website

(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense

to the user, provide a copy, a means of export a copy, or a mean

of obtain a copy upon request, of the work in its original “plain

Vanilla ASCII” or other form. any alternate format must include the

full Project Gutenberg™ License as specify in paragraph 1.E.1.



1.E.7. do not charge a fee for access to, view, display,

perform, copy or distribute any project Gutenberg™ work

unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.



1.E.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copy of or provide

access to or distribute Project Gutenberg™ electronic work

provide that:



    • you pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profit you derive from

        the use of Project Gutenberg™ work calculate use the method

        you already use to calculate your applicable taxis. the fee be owe

        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he have

        agree to donate royalty under this paragraph to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. royalty payment must be pay

        within 60 day follow each date on which you prepare (or be

        legally require to prepare) your periodic tax return. royalty

        payment should be clearly mark as such and send to the Project

        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specify in

        Section 4, “information about donation to the Project Gutenberg

        Literary Archive Foundation.”

    

    • you provide a full refund of any money pay by a user who notify

        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 day of receipt that s/he

        do not agree to the term of the full Project Gutenberg™

        License. you must require such a user to return or destroy all

        copy of the work possess in a physical medium and discontinue

        all use of and all access to other copy of Project Gutenberg™

        work.

    

    • you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of

        any money pay for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the

        electronic work be discover and report to you within 90 day of

        receipt of the work.

    

    • you comply with all other term of this agreement for free

        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ work.

    



1.E.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of work on different term than

be set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in write

from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of

the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. contact the Foundation as set

forth in section 3 below.



1.F.



1.F.1. project Gutenberg volunteer and employee expend considerable

effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread

work not protect by U.S. copyright law in create the Project

Gutenberg™ collection. despite these effort, Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, and the medium on which they may be store, may

contain “defect,” such as, but not limit to, incomplete, inaccurate

or corrupt datum, transcription error, a copyright or other

intellectual property infringement, a defective or damage disk or

other medium, a computer virus, or computer code that damage or

cannot be read by your equipment.



1.F.2. limited warranty, DISCLAIMER of DAMAGES - except for the “right

of Replacement or Refund” describe in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project

Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distribute a Project

Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all

liability to you for damage, cost and expense, include legal

fee. you agree that you have no remedy for negligence, STRICT

LIABILITY, breach of warranty or breach of CONTRACT except those

provided in PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. you agree that the FOUNDATION, the

TRADEMARK OWNER, and any distributor under this agreement will not be

liable to you for ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE or

incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of SUCH

DAMAGE.



1.F.3. limited right of REPLACEMENT or refund - if you discover a

defect in this electronic work within 90 day of receive it, you can

receive a refund of the money (if any) you pay for it by send a

write explanation to the person you receive the work from. if you

receive the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium

with your write explanation. the person or entity that provide you

with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in

lieu of a refund. if you receive the work electronically, the person

or entity provide it to you may choose to give you a second

opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if

the second copy be also defective, you may demand a refund in writing

without further opportunity to fix the problem.



1.F.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth

in paragraph 1.F.3, this work be provide to you ‘as-be’, with NO

other warranty of any KIND, EXPRESS or IMPLIED, include but not

limited to warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS for any PURPOSE.



1.F.5. some state do not allow disclaimer of certain imply

warranty or the exclusion or limitation of certain type of

damage. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement

violate the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the

agreement shall be interpret to make the maximum disclaimer or

limitation permit by the applicable state law. the invalidity or

unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the

remain provision.



1.F.6. INDEMNITY - you agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the

trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone

provide copy of Project Gutenberg™ electronic work in

accordance with this agreement, and any volunteer associate with the

production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™

electronic work, harmless from all liability, cost and expense,

include legal fee, that arise directly or indirectly from any of

the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this

or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or

addition or deletion to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any

defect you cause.



section 2. information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™



Project Gutenberg™ be synonymous with the free distribution of

electronic work in format readable by the wide variety of

computer include obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computer. it

exist because of the effort of hundred of volunteer and donation

from people in all walk of life.



volunteer and financial support to provide volunteer with the

assistance they need be critical to reach Project Gutenberg™’s

goal and ensure that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will

remain freely available for generation to come. in 2001, the Project

Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be create to provide a secure

and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future

generation. to learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation and how your effort and donation can help, see

Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.



section 3. information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation



the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation be a non-profit

501(c)(3) educational corporation organize under the law of the

state of Mississippi and grant tax exempt status by the Internal

Revenue Service. the Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification

number be 64-6221541. contribution to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation be tax deductible to the full extent permit by

U.S. federal law and your state’s law.



the Foundation’s business office be locate at 809 North 1500 West,

Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. email contact link and up

to date contact information can be find at the Foundation’s website

and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact



Section 4. information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg

Literary Archive Foundation



Project Gutenberg™ depend upon and cannot survive without widespread

public support and donation to carry out its mission of

increase the number of public domain and license work that can be

freely distribute in machine-readable form accessible by the wide

array of equipment include outdated equipment. many small donation

($1 to $5,000) be particularly important to maintain tax exempt

status with the IRS.



the Foundation be committed to comply with the law regulate

charity and charitable donation in all 50 state of the United

States. compliance requirement be not uniform and it take a

considerable effort, much paperwork and many fee to meet and keep up

with these requirement. we do not solicit donation in location

where we have not receive write confirmation of compliance. to SEND

donation or determine the status of compliance for any particular state

visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.



while we cannot and do not solicit contribution from state where we

have not meet the solicitation requirement, we know of no prohibition

against accept unsolicited donation from donor in such state who

approach we with offer to donate.



international donation be gratefully accept, but we cannot make

any statement concern tax treatment of donation receive from

outside the United States. U.S. law alone swamp our small staff.



please check the Project Gutenberg web page for current donation

method and address. donation be accept in a number of other

way include check, online payment and credit card donation. to

donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.



Section 5. General Information about Project Gutenberg™ electronic work



Professor Michael S. Hart be the originator of the Project

Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic work that could be

freely share with anyone. for forty year, he produce and

distribute Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of

volunteer support.



Project Gutenberg™ eBooks be often create from several print

edition, all of which be confirm as not protect by copyright in

the U.S. unless a copyright notice be include. thus, we do not

necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper

edition.



Most people start at our website which have the main PG search

facility: www.gutenberg.org.



this website include information about Project Gutenberg™,

include how to make donation to the Project Gutenberg Literary

Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to

subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.





